BMJ -2019-048737
Thank you for the opportunity to review this excellent paper.
The authors address an important and impactful question for physical activity and public
health – that is, what is the association between accelerometer-measured physical activity
and sedentary behavior and mortality. The literature to date has been unable to address
this question because device-based assessments of physical activity in prospective cohort
studies were unavailable. This manuscript provides a harmonized meta-analysis combining
aggregate data from 8 cohort studies of over 36,000 older adults (average age 63) of
which about 70% were women.
The findings are quite impressive showing a stronger association between physical activity
and sedentary behavior and mortality than previously observed with self-report methods.
In addition, the authors propose daily thresholds at which mortality risk increases for total
physical activity (300 counts per minute) and sedentary behavior (9.5 hours/day). In
addition to the reported dose-response associations, these data are quite important for
public health as they provide health-related thresholds for consideration in public health
guidelines.
Below are major and minor suggestions for the authors to consider:

Major
1.
Thresholds/cutpoints
a.
How were these determined for total PA and sedentary behavior? Suggest the
description be more explicit as this is an important finding. Were the thresholds simply the
point at which the most risk reduction was achieved for total PA and the point of highest
risk for sedentary? Is there a way to put a confidence interval around these thresholds?
b.
With regard to the 300 CPM threshold for total PA – it would be very helpful if the
authors will translate this for the reader. What does this mean for prescribing total PA for
population health? What will public health professionals be able to say about this number?
More specifically, is this an average per day?
c.
In the conclusion of the abstract and the paper, the authors did not mention the
thresholds proposed for total PA and for sedentary behavior. I’m curious as to why these
data were not mentioned.
2.
Validity of the intensity categories
a.
The Discussion does a nice job pointing out the challenges of using current
accelerometer intensity cutpoints for older adults and for women. Since this issue is
pervasive in physical activity research, particularly among these demographic groups,
could you suggest calibration studies of devices for relative intensity?
3.
10-minute bouts
a.
Perhaps I missed it, were 10-minute bouts a criterion for all data? Are you able to
analyze without the 10-minute bout rule? In the most recent Physical Activity Guidelines
for Americans, the 10-minute bout criterion was removed. It would be important, for total
PA, to know the data included bouts of less than 10 minutes.
4.
Quality score
a.
Were there different findings by quality score?
5.
BMI
a.
Did you test for interaction with BMI?
6.
Public health efforts to improve physical activity
a.
Completely understand this is a research paper, but it will have significant impact
for physical activity and public health. For the broader public health audience, mentioning
efforts such as WHO’s recent Global Action Plan on Physical Activity 2018–2030: More
Active People for a Healthier World
(https://www.who.int/ncds/prevention/physical-activity/global-action-plan-2018-2030/en/)
and the recent US initiative (Active People, Healthy Nation,
https://www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/activepeoplehealthynation/index.html) may help
inform BMJ readers about population-based strategies to improve physical activity.
Minor (Please note these comments were in Table format prior to posting on BMJ site:))
Page
Line
Comment
6
35
Change ”Expert’ to ”Advisory”.
7
6
Suggest to describe the intensities examined.
13
44
“Crucial” – is this the most accurate word here? Consider using important
or vital or something else.
Throughout
Prefer to NOT use the qualifier “objective” when referring to PA measured
with a device. Devices are not always the most objective methodology to address physical
activity research questions.
14
34
Change “times” to “time”
15
12
Insert “intensity” after “moderate”
Table 2 and throughout Suggest to use either “total” or “overall” throughout for
consistency.
Forest plots
Spell out study names. Readers may not be familiar with the acronyms.
Define “% weight” in footnote.
Supplementary Table 4 and throughout Define “bouted” in footnote.
Funnel plots
Consider describing how to interpret the plots as these are a somewhat
uncommon presentation of data.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Janet Fulton
Job Title: Chief, Physical Activity and Health Branch
Institution: US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here: No

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
