I have reviewed the revised manuscript “Physician Spending and Subsequent Risk of Malpractice Claims:
An Observational Study.” I found it to be interesting, insightful, and important. The article explores a
fundamental question in medical malpractice that, to my knowledge, has never been investigated: Does
“defensive medicine” by physicians actually “defend” against malpractice claims? Much research has
assumed that precautionary tests and procedures – dubbed as defensive medicine by some – ward off
lawsuits, but I do not believe this basic assumption has ever been tested. The test of this assumption is
important, because it is not obviously true. It could well be the case that malpractice liability stems
primarily from issues of trust and communication between patient and physician – e.g., some have found
that simply apologizing for errors reduces claims rates. In this case, healthcare utilization and clinical
decision making actually has less to do with malpractice.
The authors find that healthcare utilization does in fact reduce malpractice liability. In other words, they
report the first rigorous empirical evidence that defensive medicine actually works. This is a first-in-class
finding likely to be widely cited in the voluminous literature on medical malpractice.
I do have a few relatively modest comments for improving the paper further.
1. BMJ has an international readership. As such, some context for defensive medicine in the U.S., as well
as the U.S. malpractice system, would be useful. A short ‘background’ section would suffice. I would also
encourage the authors to cite examples of defensive medicine outside of the U.S., although though I do not
believe the issue has been extensively studied elsewhere.
2. The C-section example is very interesting. C-section rates are higher in the U.S. than in many countries

and have grown considerably, which many attribute to defensive medical behavior. I would recommend
spending more time on the motivation and implications of the C-section example in order to provide this
context for international readers.
3. One possible explanation for the findings is that greater healthcare spending is associated with better
patient health outcomes; it could be these improvements in outcomes that reduce malpractice claims, since
patients who get better have less reason to sue their physicians. There are a number of studies that now
suggest this positive spending-outcomes association in the U.S. at the hospital-level, though none exist at
the individual physician-level. For example, papers in the last several years in JAMA and Annals of Internal
Medicine have shown that greater hospital spending is associated with better outcomes. The authors should
discuss this as a possibility for why they find their estimated association between spending and malpractice
claims, and what it means for clinical practice and public policy.