1. The strengths of the study include its size, which enables the estimation of efficacy at each gestational
week with precision, and also the detailed examination of mortality/morbidity. It is helpful to see severe
morbidity outcomes as composites combined with death and also separately.
2. The first sentence of the Introduction states that
“In meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials of antenatal corticosteroids, death and major
morbidities are decreased in preterm infants born at 30 to 34 weeks’ gestation but not in those born before
30 weeks’ gestation in part because of the small sample size [1,2].”
This is accurate with regard to death. However, the cited meta-analysis by Roberts and Dalziel states that
“RDS was significantly reduced in corticosteroid treated infants born before 30 weeks (RR 0.67, 95% CI
0.52 to 0.87, four studies, 218 infants),……Cerebroventricular haemorrhage was significantly reduced in
corticosteroid treated infants born before 28 weeks (RR 0.34, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.86, one study, 62 infants),
……..but not in those born before 30 weeks (RR 0.56, 95% CI 0.29 to 1.10, one study, 150 infants), …….”.
3. In discussing current recommendations for administration of antenatal corticosteroids to women at risk
of preterm delivery from 24 0/7 to 34 6/7 weeks’ gestation, the authors state that “the extension of the
recommendations below 30 weeks is based on consensus [3-6] and recent observational studies in
selective populations [7-10].”
The authors appear to be conflating 2 issues, namely, the analysis of antenatal corticosteroid efficacy by
gestational age at administration of steroids vs the analysis of antenatal corticosteroid efficacy by
gestational age at delivery following administration of steroids. Recommendations regarding antenatal
corticosteroids prophylaxis must necessarily be based on analyses of efficacy of corticosteroids by
gestational age at entry into the trial when the steroids are administered. In this connection, the Roberts
and Dalziel meta-analysis states
“Neonatal death was significantly reduced in corticosteroid treated infants entering a trial from 26 to 29 + 6
weeks (RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.45 to 0.99, one study, 227 infants),….….RDS was significantly reduced in
corticosteroid-treated infants entering a trial from 26 to 29 + 6 weeks (RR 0.49, 95% CI 0.34 to 0.72, two
studies, 242 infants),…… Cerebroventricular haemorrhage was significantly reduced in corticosteroidtreated infants entering a trial from 26 to 29 + 6 weeks (RR 0.45, 95% CI 0.21 to 0.95, one study, 227
infants),……”
3. The preceding 2 points do not necessarily compromise this study’s purpose. The authors' point about
small study sizes at lower gestational ages is valid. Also, gestational-age specific analyses presented in
meta-analyses of RCTs are subgroup analyses (not necessarily by intention to treat). On the other hand,
the distinction between analysis by gestational age at antenatal corticosteroid administration and analysis
according to gestational age at delivery (without consideration of when corticosteroids were administered)
is important. In this study the authors provide an analysis of corticosteroid efficiacy by gestational age at
delivery. As the authors acknowledge, they did not have access to information on when steroids were
administered (whether within the optimal window 24 hours to 7 days before delivery or not) and if the
course was complete or partial. However, one could argue that these limitations bias the estimated efficacy
towards the null.
4. Ultimately, an assessment of the validity of this study’s findings will rest on how well one believes this
non-experimental context mimics the experimental situation. Was the group who received antenatal
steroids comparable to the group that did not receive steroids in terms of known and unknown risk factors
for the outcomes at issue? Table 1 shows significant differences with regard to race/ethnicity, obstetric
complications, SGA, mode of delivery and other factors. Although the analysis did address the most
powerful determinant of mortality and morbidity, namely, gestational age at delivery, it may be worth
examining the quality of gestational age information in the 2 groups. In what proportion of subjects in each
group was the gestational age estimate based on early ultrasound vs last menstrual period only vs neonatal
exam only? This may be important as the study included small and large centres, academic and nonacademic institutions, etc.