Thank you for the opportunity to review the work entitled "Prospective Registration and
Reporting of Trial Number in
Randomized Clinical Trials: Adoption of the ICMJE and the
Declaration of Helsinki Recommendations"

This paper once again looks at the situation with respect to the compliance with trial
registration. The investigators have taken a big data approach to this question. However, as
always big data relies on the accuracy of the data that has been entered by others and does
not always give a more accurate account of the scope of the problem. In this case, for the
following reasons this report is just one more accounting of trail registration to add to the
documented 25 studies already done and I am not sure it adds anything original to the
existing evidence.
The key problem with this paper is that as the authors acknowledge they cannot actually
give us the number of registered trials, as they did not try to find the registration record for
the trials that did not give their TRN in the text or abstract. Our research has shown that
around 16% of trials not recording a TRN were also registered. As these registrations were
not implicitly stated, the assumption would be they weren't registered to benefit the
acceptance of publication which may suggest they are more likely to be prospectively
registered.
The strength of this paper is that they have looked at research from across the board rather
than in a specific subject area. However, there is no analysis looking at prospective
publication by discipline and so this point of difference has been lost. The reasons that
different studies have found different rates of registration and prospective registration
maybe influenced by discipline and this needs to be investigated.
The discussion is littered with results and in many cases is just reiterating the result section.
Your suggestion that a grace period should be given for prospective registration is not new
and has been suggested previously.
Lack of registration is still a major issue within in the world of clinical trials and this work
confirms country differences that again has been noted previously and I think would benefit
a call for a wider discussion of this issue. Reasons as to why authors retrospectively register
or choose not to register is an area that also requires further research as the authors note
their sample is limited to comments recorded and would benefit with more work to gather
evidence looking at this rather than rely on existing documentation.
Overall though adding to the existing evidence base I am not sure this work offers any
unique insights and differences than those studies already published.
