The present review and meta-analysis of observational studies of low versus high intakes of industrially produced
and ruminant trans-fat and saturated fats for all-cause mortality, cardio-vascular disease and type 2 diabetes is
an excellent collection of meta-analyses for various end-points of importance. The search strategy, selection,
evaluation, data analysis, statistical analyses, and interpretation of the results are absolutely state of the art, and
the researchers have done an excellent job. My only reservation is the lack of novelty, not least for the readers of

BMJ and its associated journals. Several systematic reviews and meta-analyses have been published over the last
2 years that have shown the same, and I am sorry to say that this reviewer struggles to find the new evidence in
this paper that could justify publication in BMJ.
Major recommendations
1. Currently, the need is for more scientific knowledge about what are the comparison fats and foods when high
versus low saturated fat is compared. The authors consider the issue of “replacement” in a section in the
discussion section, but do not provide any data (might be difficult from the included studies). The crucial question
is: what do those individuals consuming very little saturated fat consume instead? We know that the variability is
quite important for the outcome in question (e.g. olive oil or white bread), and this information is needed to bring
science ahead, and not least for consumer advice.
2. All saturated fats are treated as one entity, which is not the case. The different saturated fatty acids are
biologically very different, and need to be assessed individually. Moreover, the interaction with other nutrients in
the matrix of the different foods seems to be even more important (“people are eating foods, not nutrients”).
3. While the findings pertinent to industrially produced trans-fat and ruminant trans-fat are not novel, and one
must acknowledge that it is hard to come up with any new findings here, the case for saturated fat is different
(see above).
4. The literature search for studies to include was conducted 8 months ago, which is too long ago for metaanalytical research in this area. It needs to be updated.
5. I wonder why the Ramsden et al Sydney Heart Study and meta-analysis of RCT’s published in BMJ
2013;346:e8707 doi: 10.1136/bmj.e8707 is not cited and related to the current work? The same applies for the
Harcombe Z. et al meta-analysis published in BMJ Openheart February 9, 2015. One should remember that it is
the totality of evidence that is relevant, not an isolated assessment of the observational evidence.