This is a retrospective cohort study undertaken in a single, large population, in Israel, during the five years immediately prior
to the end of December 2014. Electronic Health Record (EHR) data is used to assess the performance of three tools in
comparison to observed fracture rates, FRAX, Garvan and QFracture, in the prediction of hip fractures, and QFracture and
FRAX in the prediction of major osteoporotic fractures.
A number of similar studies have been undertaken in various countries assessing fracture risk prediction tools. Those chosen
to be assessed in this study are those that have been studied more than any others. However, the authors claim the validity
of these three tools has previously been assessed inconsistently making comparison between the tools difficult. It is claimed to
be the first study to assess QFracture outside the UK, and that also previous studies have not shown clearly that the tools can
be used in conjunction with EHR data but it does not mention that QFracture was designed specifically for use with EHR.
From a patient's perspective brief, background information about the three tools would have been helpful.
Patients were not involved in the study because it only used historical data.
The study found that the majority of osteoporotic fractures can be predicted using relatively simple algorithms, incorporating
clinical risk factors, in conjunction with EHR data, without using bone mineral density results - although all three tools
underestimated the fracture risk. Each tool has its limitations which are not all highlighted in this study. It is pointed out that
all three tools define 'major osteoporotic' in a different way so that ‘direct comparison is impossible’, yet it is claimed that the
three tools were assessed consistently - to overcome the criticism levelled at earlier studies. This is confusing and it is not
clear how consistency was achieved. It is stated that for reasons of consistency Bone Mineral Density (BMD) data was not
used, but in any case this data was not available from the records of all the patients in this study.
Being assessed as high risk for osteoporotic fractures can have a devastating impact on a patient and it is important to them,
those involved in their care, as well as doctors, to know how the predicted fracture rates compare to observed fracture rates,
wherever the tools are used. However, a number of similar studies have been carried out in the past and all three tools were
found to predict the majority of osteoporotic fractures. In this study QFracture was found to be the most accurate for hip
fractures, FRAX performed nearly as well, while Garvan was found to perform only moderately well. Performance was lower
regarding major osteoporotic fractures but with little difference between the results of FRAX and QFracture.
This study involved the EHR of a large number of individuals, the final number involved being 989,291. Of these 25,480
suffered a hip fracture and 78,039 suffered a major osteoporotic fracture. The authors state ‘fractures are preventable’, but
fractures occurred in this study that would not have been predicted by any of the tools being assessed.
The use of FRAX is recommended by the World Health Organisation, while QFracture was developed using UK data to address
shortcomings identified in FRAX. As a patient it is felt that it would not matter which of these tools is used as they should only
be used as a general guide. However, QFracture has been developed using UK data and without the need for bone density
scans so it might be preferable for patients in the UK.
The paper is quite easy to understand although perhaps not all the technical data or terminology was fully understood. It was
of interest especially as the existence of the tools was previously unknown, and for the same reason it may be of interest to
other patients. It is important that the risk of osteoporotic fracture is identified and preventative measures taken. In the UK where as yet no national screening protocol for osteoporosis exists, and osteoporosis is often diagnosed only after a fracture
has already occurred, a patient’s knowledge of the existence and accuracy of FRAX, QFracture and Garvan - which is freely
available on-line for anyone to use (although the study does not mention this), would surely lead to better prediction and
prevention rates of osteoporotic fractures.
Patricia Doré
