Siemieniuk et al present a meta-analysis study aimed to examine the effect of transcatheter aortic
valve implantation (TAVI) versus surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in patients with severe
aortic stenosis at low and intermediate risk of perioperative death (mean STS score less than 8%).
They included 4 recent randomized trials with 3,179 patients with a median follow-up of 2 years
and present the results using the GRADE system to quantify absolute effects and quality of
evidence. After evaluation of relevant clinical endpoints (mortality, stroke, acute kidney injury, lifethreatening or disabling bleeding, aortic valve reinterventions, heart failure symptoms etc), they
concluded that many patients are likely to perceive net benefit with transfemoral TAVI versus
SAVR, and especially patients with lower life expectancy considering the very limited evidence
regarding valve durability and the higher necessity for a second procedure in TAVI group.
After the evidence of clinical superiority of TAVI vs. medical therapy in patients with critical aortic
stenosis deemed inoperable, the equivalence of TAVI vs SAVR in patients at high surgical risk, and
latest results of PARTNER 2B and NOTION trial, there remains an ongoing quest to evaluate the
TAVI approach in younger and lower surgical risk populations with aortic stenosis.
Although there are already two recent similar meta-analysis which have evaluated randomized
data available including lower risk patients (European Heart Journal
doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehw225, Ann Intern Med. doi:10.7326/M16-0060) the importance of the
topic certainly justifies another meta-analysis particularly if this would be complementary to the
previous reports.
In particular this study investigates the endpoint of “aortic reinterventions”, and reports absolute
risk in addition to relative risk or each outcome, and provides a grading of the quality of evidence.
In this sense the authors should be complimented for their work and for the attempt to answer
important questions, which may be useful for decision making and thus possibly patient’s outcome
in the context of symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.
However there some issue that the authors should address:

1- Of the included trials, the NOTION (with a mean STS score < 4) and the PARNTER 2A (with a
mean STS score 5.8) certainly could be considered as trials which included low-intermediate risk
patients. Alternatively, a part from a mean STS score <8, The U.S. CoreValve High Risk Study
included patients at “high risk” as defined by clinicians on the basis of STS score and other clinical
variables not included in the STS score algorithm. This should be mentioned at the beginning of the
results where Authors describe the 4 trials included.
2- The inclusion of the STACCATO trial (with a mean STS score, <4), may be questionable: this
trial was terminated prematurely after the inclusion of only 70 patients due to an unexpected
excess of adverse events in the transapical TAVI group compared to patients undergoing SAVR
(35.3% vs. 8.3%). Moreover the follow up was limited to only 3 months. Wisely the Authors
reported the sensitivity analyses without STACCATO trial and apparently this does not change the
statistical or clinical interpretation for any outcome. However the reasons of the inclusion of this
trial despite the above-mentioned limitations, should be provided.
3- The section entitled “Synthesis of results” appears to include the “statistical methods sections”.
I suggest to re-name this section and to also include here the “Statistical approach” section, which
is reported later in the text.
4- The “quality of evidence” reflects the extent to which confidence in an estimate of effect is
adequate to support recommendations, with the larger the magnitude of effect, the stronger the
evidence. However, looking at the result for stroke at 2 years (Table 2), the CI of RR overlaps
(0.63 to 1.01). Despite this the quality of this evidence was still judged by the Authors to be
moderate. Can a more detailed explanation for this decision be provided?
5- Many outcomes consistently favour transfemoral TAVI compared with SAVR.
However, interestingly, few outcomes still favour SVAR, namely Heart failure symptoms and the
need for aortic reintervention:
5a- Regarding Heart failure symptoms, patients who received TAVI had a higher RR for Heart
failure symptoms compared to SAVR. This is an important point. However the Authors have not
provided a rationale for this worse outcome. Notably, this meta-analysis did not evaluate
differences in terms of haemodynamic outcomes including differences in effective orifice area or
paravalvular regurgitation between both treatments. This is an important limitation which should
be reported in the limitations section and also considered in the discussion.
Moreover, was there any interaction between transfermoral and transapical procedures with
respect to heart failure symptoms?
5b- Regarding aortic reintervention: patients that received TAVI had higher RR for aortic
reintervention outcome. However, considering 1) the low difference “7 more per 1000” and 2) the
absence of “High quality” evidence, the need of aortic reintervention does not appear to be a
serious concern based upon the provided data. This reviewer suggests recalibrating the discussion
in light of this consideration.
Additionally, I don’t see in the Web appendix 4, subgroup and sensitivity analyses regarding the
need of aortic valve intervention. To this reviewer it is not completely clear what would be the
results for aortic reintervention, if only a comparison between Transfermoral TAVI and SAVR was
performed.
Minor: From the Web appendix 5 supplementary forest plots it seem that the NOTION trial was
excluded for this outcome. This appears to not be in line with the table 2c, in which it is mentioned
that all 3 trials were included.
6- Based upon this study, the main benefits for TAVI are a reduction in periprocedural
complications and a relatively lower rate of mortality, however this metanalysis signals a lower
clinical benefit in term of symptoms for TAVI compared to SAVR.
In the discussion the Authors should highlight how it remains crucial to identify subgroups of
patients in whom TAVI is likely to have lesser symptomatic efficacy. This is also critical in terms of
on-going scrutiny for the economic implications of TAVI. Identifying the non-cardiac and
cardiovascular factors leading to a poor clinical improvement post-TAVI remains a challenge and an
unresolved issue and we must resist the temptation of blindly offering novel therapies to all
patients. Thus, strict appropriate patient selection remains the priority, especially in younger
patients, where the clinical benefits of TAVI, must be carefully weighed up.
7- Self-expandable prostheses may have an increased risk of atrioventricular conductance
disturbances when compared with balloon-expandable devices. Apparently the Authors did not find
any interaction for Self-expandable vs balloon-expandable devices and permanent pacemaker
insertion. Could the authors comments on this in the light of previous data?
8- Of note, only early-generation transcatheter heart valve systems were used in the included
trials, and since then devices have undergone substantial improvements, therefore the outcomes
with newer generation valves may challenge the results. The authors should comment to this
prospective.
9- To calculate absolute effect estimates, the Authors “applied the relative effects from this
review to the best estimates of baseline risk. Baseline risk estimates were primarily
derived from a systematic review of observational studies of SAVR conducted in
parallel with this review.13” However this reviewer was not provided with access to this cited but

as yet unpublished review of observational studies (13 reference of the manuscript).
Enrico Fabris, MD,
Interventional Cardiologist
Cardiovascular Department, “Ospedali Riuniti” and University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy
e-mail: enrico.fabris@hotmail.it