This retrospective cohort study suggests an increased risk of in-hospital death following oral haloperidol
treatment compared to oral atypical antipsychotic treatment among patients hospitalized for myocardial
infarction.
The study is well conducted, the statistical analysis is sound, and the results are intriguing, however the
immediate clinical significance for delirium treatment in clinical practice may be limited, due to the
following considerations.
1. The relevance for delirium treatment is implicated indirectly only. No formal clinical diagnosis of
delirium was recorded in about 80% of patients. This group may include patients in whom antipsychotic
treatment was deemed indicated because of acute psychosis, aggression or agitation, without delirium.
Although the authors are probably correct in assuming that the large majority of subjects in their study
indeed suffered from delirium, reference to this specific clinical diagnosis in the title of their paper and in
their last, concluding sentence suggesting a specific treatment guideline (page 17, lines 3-5) seems not
warranted.
The authors could consider adding a sensitivity analysis in the 20% of patients in whom a diagnosis of
delirium according to ICD-9 codes was recorded (page 16, lines 3-5). Although the authors specify
several proxies for global disease severity, the direct influence of delirium severity and delirium sub-type
could not be assessed.

2. While most choices concerning in- and exclusion criteria seems straightforward, it is not clear why
exactly two days were required without antipsychotic treatment following admission, while a single, first
day may be sufficient to exclude any effects of antipsychotic use before admission. This ‘two day’
criterion appears to contribute to exclusion of a substantial number of subjects according to figure S1.
The authors could consider adding a sensitivity analysis including those patients initially excluded based
on this ‘two days free from antipsychotic treatment’ criterion, restricting this exclusion critrion to the
first day of admission only.
3. The authors are to be commended for their efforts to address the various sources of confounding,
however, residual confounding can not be excluded due to the intrinsic limitations of the study methods.
The processes that played a role in choosing for either haloperidol or an atypical antipsychotic drug
remains obscure as well as the effect these mechanisms may have had on the care and survival rates of
patients. There is no information on physician characteristics with respect to specialties involved
(general internists, neurologists, psychiatrists, or geriatricians?), nor on the characteristics of the ICU or
medical wards involved, whereas these may all have had important influence on the clinical care both
with respect to the indication and specific choice of antipsychotic medication as well as the care from a
more general perspective. This is illustrated by the important difference reported for the HR’s for ICU’s
and medical wards (page 12, line 42).
Moreover, potentially important clinical information is missing with respect to presence of (subtle)
extrapyramidal features or movement disorders other than Parkinson’s disease (included in table S1 and
S2), presence of problems with swallowing, or use of cholinesterase inhibitors.
4. Table S3 highlights an important difference between the study groups with respect to the duration of
exposure, which was only one day in 60% of haloperidol treated patients vs 38% of patients treated with
atypical antipsychotic drugs. This large difference is difficult to interpret: does it indicate that delirium
was less severe in the haloperidol group or that haloperidol treatment was more effective?
5. Attrition was large according to the numbers in figure 1 (page 28) and there appears to be a
substantial and unexplained difference between the haloperidol and atypical group of about 4 to 6% of
patients at risk at the 7 day time point. The modest absolute difference in mortality of 2.3% (page 12,
lines 3-5) is insufficient to explain this difference.
6. The authors seem to dismiss too easily important information from RCTs as analyzed by Neufeld et al
and two large observational studies. If ‘an acute harmful effect of haloperidol’ (page 13, line 30) would
indeed be operative, the heterogeneity of study groups in RCTs and a limited number events may not
be sufficient to explain the discrepancy with their current findings.