The Research article "Collection of Comparable Cigarette Consumption Estimates in 71
Countries from 1970-2015 to Facilitate Quasi-Experimental Evaluations of National and
Global Tobacco Control Interventions" was submitted for publication by lead author Steven
J Hoffman (conceived the study, led its design as principal investigator and with Mathieu JP
Poirier corresponding author supervised implementation) and eighteen other co-authors.
The study has ethical approval and the lead author declares not having any financial
relationships with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work no
other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.
This is very important in particular when the research is related to the tobacco industry
and it' recent attempts to finance "independent" research on tobacco use and tobacco
control interventions.
The forty-two pages long article includes a description of the methods employed, data
collection and appraisal and analysis and detailed results description, principal findings and
policy implications.
The potential policy implications of this important study are of utmost importance what
makes this article relevant contribution to the global, regional and national policy
interventions and further scientific studies.
The strongest element of the study was its systematic data-collection and data collection
procedures exclusively designed for the study purpose effort via using national statistical
websites and government ministries, as well as national statistical websites, ministries of
finance, trade publications on tobacco consumption, data from NGOs and involvement of
tobacco control experts at the country level and as a potential consequence, offer a
possibility to compare the results with the data from population-based surveillance of

behaviors related to tobacco use. (The team of researchers that I am leading is recently
conducting a cross-national study that will also involve population-based surveillance of
behavior of smokers aged 15 years and older in several countries. We will use the data
from the "Collection of Comparable Cigarette Consumption Estimates in 71 Countries..." to
match/compare with the results of the behavioral study for every country involved in our
study).
Comments to the authors:
1) The text in the manuscript stated that the "information about Data sharing: The full
dataset can be accessed at: [insert link]. Please contact the corresponding author for all
inquiries regarding the dataset." However, the link was not inserted and it was not possible
to access the dataset! I would appreciate receiving the link for the revision purpose and for
the potential use of our own studies as mentioned above.
2) In table 1. Description of data collected for the top 20 cigarette-consuming countries
country information includes information on the population in 2014. However, when
examined in order to determine its accuracy we found the data are not representing the
total population but the number of people aged 15 years and older. Although it is a
standard practice in tobacco research studies to involve the population group aged 15
years and older it should be stated that the data are related to the population aged 15
years and older and not total population.
Recommendation to the editor:
The authors have developed an open-access dataset of internationally comparable
cigarette consumption estimates accounting for over 95% of the world’s cigarette
consumption that represents in a more precise and accurate way year-over-year changes
in cigarette consumption as compared to existing methods and databases.
I highly recommend the research paper "Collection of Comparable Cigarette Consumption
Estimates in 71 Countries from 1970-2015 to Facilitate Quasi-Experimental Evaluations of
National and Global Tobacco Control Interventions" for publication in the BMJ.