Reviewer Johann Bauersachs
Ziff et al performed an extraordinarily careful review and meta-analysis of the effects of digoxin
on mortality and hospitalizations in several patient populations, especially in patients with heart
failure and/or atrial fibrillation.
The main message is that in the retrospective non-randomized studies claiming increased
mortality in patients treated with digoxin, major bias exists. Patients treated with digoxin are
much sicker than patients not treated with digoxin.
This is an eagerly awaited analysis, as recently published retrospective studies especially in
patients with atrial fibrillation led to considerable uncertainty in patients and treating physicians.
The current work confirms the suspicion that bias is the main cause for the mortality increase
claimed by several authors from retrospective, non-randomized studies.
The authors have to be congratulated for this excellent work and the very balanced presentation.
They elegantly worked out that the mortality increase observed in unadjusted, non-randomized
studies is most likely due to bias. They clearly show that in studies with better methodology and
less bias there remains no increased risk of mortality but a significantly reduced risk for
hospitalisations.
I have only a few suggestions:
The authors call urgently for randomized studies. In fact, in Germany the large DIGIT-HF study
has just included the first patients. The large pragmatic double-blind randomized DIGIT-HF trial
investigates the effect of digitoxin vs placebo in 2200 patients with moderate to severe heart
failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) on contemporary heart failure treatment (EudraCT
Nr. 2013-005326-38 Bavendiek & Bauersachs; www.digit-hf.de). This study should be included
in the discussion section.
The authors should mention that despite their reassuring data, the indication for digitalis
treatment should be strictly according to guidelines, i.e. only in patients with moderate to severe
symptomatic HFrEF already on contemporary drug and device treatment or in patients with atrial
fibrillation with uncontrolled heart rate despite betablocker or calcium antagonist treatment.
In this context, the authors should also emphasize that digitalis treatment should be performed
with digitalis serum concentrations in the lower part of the former therapeutic range based on
the data from the DIG-trial, which indicate an increased overall-mortality with digoxin serum
concentrations > 1.0 ng/ml (former therapeutic range 0.5 - 2.0 ng/ml).

The paper may be highlighted by an editorial to put these important meta-analysis into a clinical
perspective. I am happy to volunteer.