Reviewer’s Comments
Please find the comments on the manuscript listed below:
Page
Section Paragraph (P), Line (L) Remark(s)
3 of 10 Introduction
L9 - L21Suggestion: It would be useful to define self-care or what
self-care waste products would include. It is noted that some reference is made to it
indirectly in lines 28-29. However, defining self-care in the introduction would make it clear
to the less well informed reader the context in which the discussion is made and distinguish
it from other aspects of solid waste.
4 of 10 Implications for self- care products
L12
Disposal is a component of waste
management. Waste management includes generation, disposal, collection, treatment and
final disposal of waste.
Suggestion: ‘Safe management of self-care waste products’ or ‘Safe disposal and treatment
of self-care waste products’
5 of 10 Facilitating Holistic self-care through Cross-Sectoral Partnerships
L17
Title: “Facilitating Holistic self-care through Cross-Sectoral Partnerships”
Suggested title: “Facilitating Holistic self-care waste management through Cross-Sectoral
Partnerships”
6 of 10 Facilitating Holistic self-care through Cross-Sectoral Partnerships
Sub-section on Consumers
L12
“...........needed shift in consumers’ mindsets.”
What was the consumers’ mindsets? A few statements about this would be helpful to the
reader, before addressing where it is desirable to shift their mindset to.
Important areas to consider are:
Differential understanding of potential harm from self-care waste products by consumers.
The perception of harm may vary across levels of education, occupation and personal
experiences of harm.

Accepting individual roles in minimizing potential harm from self-care waste products.
Awareness of available options for waste management of self-care waste products at source
or externally.
Willingness to pay for improved waste management technology, especially those related to
collection and treatment.
These are some of the considerations that are pertinent to the consumer; other issues
discussed in the section are external to the consumer but contingent on some of the above
listed, especially in transitional economies/developing countries.
6 of 10 Facilitating Holistic self-care through Cross-Sectoral Partnerships
Sub-section on Donors and Development Partners L25
Suggestion: ‘solid waste’ could be
changed to ‘health care and related self-care waste’ to suit the context.
Solid waste has a broader meaning and comes from several other sources, not solely from
the healthcare industry.

6 of 10 Facilitating Holistic self-care through Cross-Sectoral Partnerships
Sub-section on Researchers
L34-37 The socio-economic impacts of the regulation of
self-care waste management on the livelihoods of manual scavengers would be useful in
understanding how this might affect these marginalized occupational groups. What is even
more important is
(i)
the implications for the survival and health of the manual waste scavengers and
their dependents before and after regulations have taken place. We can then understand
why efforts to sustain regulation might be sabotaged or thwarted by those affected.
(ii)
Alternative opportunities for integrating manual scavengers into similarly ‘lucrative’
jobs based on their skills or transforming their skill base into those required for the
management of more environmental friendly solutions for the management of self-care
waste. This is a subject for interventional research.
(iii)
Partnership between the academic/research-based institutions and communities,
counties or districts through stakeholder groups is essential to ensure that consumers
understand research findings and how these can be applied to promote planetary health. For
the most part, this partnership is often weak with research findings ‘trapped’ in journals and
conference presentations where the majority of the populace are unable to reach them to
influence personal or communal decision making. This emphasizes the need for research
findings to communicated in ways the public can relate to and motivate support for
planetary health.
6 of 10 Conclusion
L50 - L56
This sentence is too long. Breaking it into shorter
sentences might enhance understanding.
Suggestions: The first sentence should end at L52 after “….positive changes.” The next
sentence can begin with “Countries should be supported to develop……….”
In L54, it should read: “…….tools for sustainable self-care waste management…”
