In this manuscript the protective effect of PPIs on gastrointestinal bleeding was evaluated in patients treated with a
selective or traditional NSAID combined with mono or dual antiplatelet therapy after an acute myocardial infarction.
PPIs lowered the risk for GI bleeding in these patients. The result appeared to be robust after several sensitivity
analyses.
Originality - The work adds to what is already in the published literature. The work quantifies the protective effect of
PPIs in patients treated with NSAIDS and (dual) antiplatelet therapy concomitantly. A missed opportunity is that the
authors did not stratify the patient group in GI bleeding risk groups (see later)
* Importance of work to general readers - I think the paper is potentially relevant to clinicians, pharmacists and
patients as it supports the use of PPI in patients combining antiplatelet drugs and NSAIDs. However, it is not clear
from the study whether the PPIs should be restricted to patients with high GI bleeding risk (as the guidelines
recommend) or also prescribed to patients with lower risk.
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - The research question is clearly defined. I have some remarks on whether the research
question is appropriately answered.
Overall design of study - The overall design is adequate. Obviously a randomized trial (PPI versus no PPI) would
lead to higher internal validity, however I think the authors took the right measures (time varying Cox regression)
to counteract confounding bias as much as possible.
A serious omission in the study is the following: the authors state "The American College of Cardiology Foundation
(ACCF)/ the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG)/ the American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines
recommend that in patients judged to be at high risk of gastrointestinal bleeding, PPIs should be used with
antithrombotic treatment and NSAID treatment." However, the authors did not attempt to stratify the patient group
in GI bleeding risk groups. Such stratification would allow to study whether it is indeed relevant to only treat high
risk patients with PPIs or that also low risk patients might benefit from PPIs.
Participants studied - The patients were adequately described and their conditions
defined.
Methods - Several aspects of the methods can be more clear.
-I understand that PPIs and NSAIDS are treated as time varying variables in the Cox model, but it is not clear how
this was done for other potential confounders.
-How was the use of misoprostol (also stomach protector)?
-How was the use of coumarins? Patients with atrial fibrillation and acute myocardial infarction are temporarily
treated with a coumarin and mono or dual antiplatelet therapy.
-During the study period: was there use of ticagrelor, prasugrel or dipirydamol?
-The way the authors adjusted for confounding is not clear. I already mentioned the unclarity about yes or no time
varying analyses. The authors state "We adjusted all
models for age, sex, year of index hospitalization, concomitant medication, comorbidity and percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI) status". However some medication and comorbidities have very low prevalence, how was this
handled in the confounder analyses. It is not clear which are the independent "evidence based" risk factors for GI
bleeding. The factors contributing to the HAS-BLED score can be helpful in this respect.
- "Unspecified GI bleeding" was also selected as outcome? This should be motivated.
- I am amazed about the relatively low use of drugs which are indicated after an acute MI next to platelet inhibitors
like beta-blockers and statins.
Results - The results are well presented
Interpretation and conclusions - These are warranted by and sufficiently
derived from/focused on the data. Since the authors did not stratify the patient group in GI bleeding risk groups the
interpretation of the results is not clear
References - they are up to date and relevant. No major omissions.
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - No comments
