1. The authors need to be more specific about exposure assessment process: how to
determine the ozone exposure level for each city, by averaging records from all monitors?
Or there is a more sophisticated exposure assignment procedure for each city if there are
more than one monitor. And what is the intra-city ozone variability? Ozone is an oxidative
gas, which exhibits high spatial and temporal variation. If using city-wide averaged ozone
level, the measurement error would be profound in several large cities, since the distance
from people’s residential addresses to the nearest monitor could be far. This may partially
explain the null results in some countries. Maybe, the authors could conduct an analysis
study on the association between standard deviation of beta coefficient from GLM and
density of ozone monitors in each city. If a city has more ozone monitors, then the
exposure measurement is lower, so the standard deviation is smaller in the GLM, OR, it is
more likely to obtain positive results.
Specific comments:
1. Existing studies used ppb as the unit; this paper should include information on how to
convert from ppb to microgram/m3.

2. Line 14, Page 7: our study found humidity/dew point temperature and PM2.5 are
important confounders of ozone-mortality association. The authors should include them if
humidity and PM2.5 variables are available.
3. Line 46, Page 7: the degree of freedom of time and seasonal trend should be chosen
based on AIC value. Setting it to be 7 seems to be an over-adjustment.
4. Line 31, Page 8: our study and many previous studies found an attenuated effect of
ozone on mortality at high concentrations. It would be interesting to explore such
non-linearity at high concentrations.
5. Line 35, Page 8: the authors need to be more specific about how to aggregate
city-specific lag-response associations.
6. Page 21: the null results in China and Spain should be treated with caution and
discussed. The number in Figure 3 is an under-estimation for both countries, probably due
to exposure assessment errors. The authors need to explore reasons for the null results in
the Discussion Section.
7. eTable 1, Page 30: it would be informative to include city-specific results as well.
