
Drs Focks et al report on a sub-analysis of the Artistole trial with special reference in reference tot he
polypharmacy used in older patient groups. This is a relevant topic with increasing importance with ageing
of population. To get an objective information access tot he original patient charts/documentation is
required.
Major comments:
1. Dividing of medication in quartiles is one possibility to assess the topic of the paper. However,
interaction of medication between themselves and – more importantly – with Apixaban or Warfarin is not
respected. This is a major drawback of the study and the results of the present4ed analysis are week if not
misleading.
2. The decrease of the benefit of Apixaban over Warfarin by increase of medications. The contrary would
have been expected because of the larger number of interaction of drugs with Warfarin compared to
Apixaban. The conclusion does not take in account this results by just repeating the result and without
giving an interpretation or hypothesis (see second to last sentence in Abstract) .
3. Tables 1 and 2 pool the data of the groups A and W. This is incorrect and all texts and tables and
interpretations should be eliminated.
4. Table 3 and related text passages: the statement “that with increasing number of medications the effect
of A over S reduces on bleeding event does not hold for all bleedings analysed: is holds for “major being”
with p 0.0173 and for “major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding” with p 0.0475. For the other events
this statement does not hold. Moreover, it is unclear, if “major bleeding” were counted twice for the two
groups of bleeding. It would be clearer, if the second “major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding”
would refer only to “clinically relevant non-major bleeding” (which is also in accordance with the
literature).
5. What is the outcome on mortality?
Minor comments:
1. Figure 1 for supplementary
2. Many non-significant results. Shorten or add to supplementary
3. Table 1 A and 1 B: same as for Tables 1 and 2. Information misleading because treatment groups are
pooled