Dear editor and author,
This is an interesting manuscript describing nutrition approaches to support healthy cognitive ageing
and reduce dementia risk. To me it read more like a book chapter, but maybe this was also intended
for this special BMJ edition.
Below I have some suggestions for the manuscript and some questions on choices that have been
made.
KEY MESSAGES
- 4th bullet point “Therefore dietary patterns and foods (rather than single dietary components), holds
the most promise to meaningfully improve cognition in the medium term (months to five years)”:
o comma after Therefore; > I miss these comma’s after this and similar words (however,
furthermore, etc) throughout the paper
o patterns and foods ….’hold’ instead of ‘holds’;
o Why only medium term and is months medium or could it be considered short term given the slow
process of cognitive decline and dementia process? And why to five years? Lifestyle during midlife (so
many years earlier) is already important so it (also) should be long-term.
- 5th bullet point: in my opinion this is not the only way. Even though RCTs are still considered the
gold standard, they mostly fail to replicate observational results. Furthermore, they often are too
short of duration and it is still hard to identify the right target group, dose and keep sufficient
adherence. Therefore, prospective cohort studies are also of good value (even though we they cannot
imply a causal relation).
Page 3 lines 8-14: if this is mentioned, it would be interesting (and I as a reader would expect that)
to get back to this point: are gender-specific results found for nutritional interventions?
Page 4, line 7: should it read antioxidants, vitamins or antioxidant vitamins?
Page 4, line 8/9 and table 1: on which basis/ based on which criteria is the selection of studies in
table 1 made? It seems rather arbitrary now and it therefore hard to judge if the overview is
complete. Although the manuscript is not a systematic review, it should be clear whether it gives a
balanced overview of the current evidence. For omega-3 for example trials from van de Rest et al
(2008), Freund-Levi et al (2006), Dangour et al (2010), Yurko-Mauro et al (2010) are missing or else
a systematic review or Cochrane review could be used, there are some available.
Why are B-vitamins, antioxidants vitamins and selenium, vitamin D as mentioned on page 4 line 7 not
discussed in the text?
Same page lines 8-10: any effects …. please summarize what the studies showed: were they overall
positive, negative or??? And what is considered ‘long term exposure’?
Page 5/6: there is quite some text on the mechanisms for ketones, much more than about the other
nutritional factors, which makes the manuscript overall a bit out of balance. Furthermore, the
evidence in humans is really limited as compared to the other nutritional factors, with only 3 trials
which are relatively short and in small study populations.
Page 7, line 35 and onwards: there are more observational papers on the MIND diet, with cognitive
decline as outcome and with dementia/AD as outcome. This may also slightly change what is said at
the end of this page, that the Mediterranean diet might be most effective. This could in the future also
change as the MIND diet is brain targeted and could give more protection. Or is MIND also meant to
be covered by saying in ‘Mediterranean-style diets’?
CONCLUSIONS
- Line 57 (1st sentence of conclusions): ‘optimised eating behaviour’: this is quite vague and global, in
contrast to what is written in the manuscript. That gives more guidance and would also be relevant to
add to the conclusion.

- Line 3: Please quantify ‘long-term’. Furthermore, long-term is unnecessarily repeated in the
subsequent sentence (line 3 on page 9).