This is an important manuscript addressing an important topic (scale up and spread of health
interventions). It brings clarity to the field adding a framework for understanding and designing
initiatives that makes a substantial contribution to a small but emerging literature.
The clarity offered by such frameworks comes at a small cost as the shoehorning of different
approaches into discrete categories inevitably means areas of overlap are cut. Some may take issue
with this, but the authors acknowledge the issue and navigate it sensibly and sensitively. They also
point to the lack of agreed definitions of the two main terms but pin both down with descriptions of
their own, which I suspect will come to define the field in the future.
The aim of this piece is to generate discussion and debate and I will be sorely disappointed if it fails to
do this. From my perspective, I see four issues that warrant such scrutiny. The first is the distinction
between spread and scale up. How much of what sorts of attention has to be paid to infrastructure
before the former becomes the latter. Second, is the issue of overlap among the three approaches. It
strikes me, for example that the systems approach is accommodating of both individual and social
theories of change, while the reverse is more problematic. Third, is whether one of these approaches
is more generally likely to be successful than the others in all circumstances, or whether the relative
performance of each approach varies according to specific circumstances (and if so what are these
circumstances and how would we know whether or not they apply). Finally, I'd like to see some
discussion on how one assesses the quality of each approach. Mechanistic approaches often have
strict but at least clearly defined ideas of fidelity. In comparison, systems approaches have some way
to go in this respect.
In summary, the paper is brief, well-written, well-founded, timely and important. It is tempting to
take issue with some aspects of the paper, but to do so would be to step beyond what is required of
the reviewer and into the discussion that the paper is designed to generate. It will make an important
contribution to a very important field of public health, health services, and clinical (health
improvement) research.