General comments
This is another meta-analysis in the long series of meta-analyses of sodium reduction RCTs
In 1986 Groebee and Hofman published the first, which included 7 hypertensive and
normotensive studies in one analysis. In 1991 Graudal et al. and Cutler et al. separately
published the first meta-analyses to separate hypertensive and normotensive studies. In
1996 Midgley et al published the first dose-response analysis. In 1998 Graudal published the
first analysis to include potential side-effects and also a sodium-BP dose-response analysis,
updated as Cochrane review in 2003, 2011 and 2017, increasing the number of included
studies from 88 to 195. In 2002 He and MacGregor published a similar analysis with the
same outcomes but only including longer term studies, updated as Cochrane review in 2004
and 2013 increasing the number of included studies from 28 to 35.
In 2015 Graudal et al published the first analysis of 15 longitudinal studies and 8
dose-response studies with the title “The significance of duration and amount of sodium
reduction intervention in normotensive and hypertensive individuals: a metaanalysis” and
this year a meta-regression multivariate dose response-analysis with the title:
“Dose-response relation between dietary sodium and blood pressure: a meta-regression
analysis of 133 randomized controlled trials.”
The title of the present study is: “Impact of Dose and Duration of Dietary Sodium Reduction
on Blood Pressure Levels: Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of Randomised Trials”,
which also includes 133 studies, most of which are the same as in the above recently publish
study.

The present study is not a significant update and does not reveal new findings, but just
verifies what is already known, which is not surprising as most of the studies were included
in previous analyses.
The authors 4 conclusions are 1) Sodium reduction resulted in lower blood pressure among a
broad group of participants with a strong dose response relationship between the magnitude
of the sodium reduction achieved and the magnitude of the fall in blood pressure.
But the study shows that individuals with an SBP of 130 mmHg or less (75% of the
population) has a dose-response relationship of 1.2/0.5 mmHg750 mmol sodium or less.
This may be statistically significant, but it is not strong. Furthermore, it is a confirmation of
previous analyses, not a new finding. 2)“The effects of sodium reduction were more evident
at higher blood pressure levels, older ages and amongst non-white populations”. This was
shown already in 1998 (JAMA 1998; 279: 1383-1391), 2004 (Cochrane Database Syst Rev.
2004;(1):CD004022) and 2016 (Am J Hypertens. 2016 May;29(5):543-8). 3) Although in
trials of more than two weeks’ duration the dose response relationship between sodium
reduction and blood pressure fall was greater than that in trials of shorter duration, there
was limited evidence that the effects of sodium reduction on blood pressure increased with
intervention duration. The authors have divided the material in two groups according to
duration above or below 2 weeks “because short-term studies are usually done using very
restricted diets and may result in sudden large reductions in sodium intake that do not
reflect medium- or long-term effects of sodium reduction on blood pressure.”1 However,
normotensive studies are overrepresented in the short-term group and hypertensive studies
in the long-term group; which makes it very difficult to make such an evaluation, especially
because there are very few long-term normotensive studies and very few short-term
hypertensive studies. 4) Longer-term trials that achieve sustained sodium reduction and
make multiple assessments of blood pressure are required to properly assess this issue. In
this context the authors ignore that this already has been done in a meta-analysis of 15 such
studies (ref 20).

Specific Comments
Page 3, Lines 2-3: A higher level of dietary sodium intake is associated with a higher level of
blood pressure in animals and humans.
This statement gives the reader a false impression. As far as I know there is only one study
in Chimpanzees and it is not randomized. Are the authors aware of randomized sodium
reduction studies in chimpanzees or other animals? If not, they should avoid the argument
about animals. Concerning humans, it would be more correct to state that the level of
dietary sodium intake is significantly associated with the level of blood pressure, but that this
association quantitatively is small, especially in individuals with normal blood pressure.
Page 3, Lines 4-6: “The human physiological requirement for sodium is less than 1 g a day
but currently most populations consume a much higher level.”
This is not an argument. For instance, the human physiological requirement for potassium is
less than 2 g a day, but still there are studies to indicate that higher levels of intake have
beneficial effects, indicating that the optimal potassium intake is bigger than the
physiological requirement. The same may be true for sodium, which in several population
studies has been shown to be optimal in the range of 2.5 to 5 g.
Page 3, Lines 6-9: “The recommended maximum daily dietary sodium intake by the World
Health Organization (WHO) is 2 g (5 g salt) for adults and most countries recommend
reducing the intake to less than 2.4 g/day as part of a dietary approach to prevent high
blood pressure and cardiovascular disease.”
However, several of the present authors have been advisors for these organisations and
therefore the present authors have a significant impact on these recommendations.
Furthermore, these organisations do not ask sceptical scientist for advice. Thus, the use of

this circular argument is authoritarian and not scientific. Instead the authors should cite
independent studies, which show that a sodium intake below 2-2.4 g in healthy individuals
improves health and survival, if there are any.
Page 3, Lines 10-16: The effect of sodium reduction on blood pressure and the risk of
cardiovascular disease has been examined in numerous studies over the past few decades.
Although there is a consensus among health and scientific organizations to reduce dietary
sodium intake in the general population ,7-9 a few scientists have claimed that the benefit of
sodium restriction for
populations with normal blood pressure is slight10 11 and could increase blood lipid levels
and
the risk of mortality.11-13 Others suggest that a higher risk of mortality at low sodium
intake
levels is an artefact attributable to reverse causation.14
This section is also questionable.
1) As indicated above, the so-called “consensus” among health institutions is a political
position, which is based on selected advice from a relatively small group of scientists
(including the present authors)
2) A large series of studies in normotensives have shown no significant effect of sodium
reduction on BP but a significant effect of sodium reduction on hormones and lipids, and
none of about 30 population studies have shown a statistically significant beneficial effect of
low sodium intake on mortality. It is likely that the majority of the authors behind these
studies are sceptical about a low sodium intake and therefore the word “few” is not
appropriate.
3) The above-mentioned results are based on data from randomized studies and therefore it
is not reasonable to use the word “claimed”. “Shown” would be appropriate
4) Here “suggest” is the right word, as there are no data directly to support this suggestion,
on the contrary there are data to show that reverse causation is not a problem.
Page 3, lines 17-18. The nature of the association between change in sodium intake and
blood pressure is key to understanding the potential for health interventions based upon
sodium reduction.
A change in sodium intake have other effects than BP effects. A more appropriate statement
would be “The nature of the association between change in sodium intake and all
physiological consequences of this change is key to understanding the potential for health
interventions based upon sodium reduction.”
Page3, Lines 18-20: Prior overviews of the data were limited because a definitive
dose-response relationship could not be determined, especially for participants with normal
blood pressure.11 15-17.
This is incorrect. Reference 20 of 8 individual randomized dose-response studies shows that
there is no dose-response relationship in normotensive studies within the range of the usual
sodium intake, but a slight dose-response intake at very high sodium intake levels.
Furthermore, it shows a significant dose response relationship in studies with a baseline BP
above 130/80 mmHg in the whole range of sodium intake. Reference 10, which is a
statistically stronger meta-regression analysis of 133 studies (most of which are the same
studies, which are included in the present analysis) confirms that there is no dose-response
relationship between sodium intake and DBP in normotensives (simply because there is no
effect) and a statistically significant, but clinically very small effect on SBP. Furthermore, it
shows a statistically significant dose-response relationship in both SBP and DBP in
hypertensive studies.
Page3, Lines 20-22: A specific issue in previous meta-analyses was the inclusion of studies
with sodium intake estimated from fractional urine samples.10 11 17
This is incorrect. In 10 and 11 there was one study based on 8-hour urines. All other studies
were based on 24-hour urines. Estimates based on spot urines were not allowed in any of
the analyses.

Page3, Lines 22-24: Fractional urine samples can be problematic since they tend to produce
overestimates of sodium intake when true intake is low but underestimates when true intake
is high.18
As the argument in lines 20-22 is wrong, this argument is redundant in this context
Page3, Lines 24-26: Studies of short duration may also confound estimates of the average
effect of change in sodium intake on blood pressure because large, short-term reductions in
sodium may elicit a different type of blood pressure response.19
The question is, what is “short” ? Ref 19 claims that the limit between short-term and
long-term is 4 weeks, without data to support this claim. Ref 20 indicate that the limit is 1
week, based on randomized longitudinal studies with several measurements during the
observation period.
Page3, Lines 26-29: A prior analysis that included 15 studies with measurements made at
multiple time points was unable to determine whether effects of sodium reduction on blood
pressure were sustained, declined or increased with greater duration of intervention.
This summary of ref 20 is misleading. The study showed that the effect at one week was
similar to the effect at week 2, 4 and 6. Thus the maximal effect was reached at one week,
but the study could not determine if it happened before one week.
Page 4, Lines 36-37 The review was registered in PROSPERO.
Through the editor I have learned that the paper is not registered, but just submitted for
registration.
Therefore, it is not appropriate to write that the paper is registered. PROSPERO accepts
registrations provided the reviewers has not completed their data extraction
The paper was reported to Prospero about 2-3 weeks before submission to BMJ, i.e. at a
time where the paper more or less must have been finished and a long time after the
completion of the data extraction. Thus, obviously, the paper does not fulfill the criteria for
registration in PROSPERO and does not deserve to be, because the intention with
registration is that a specific protocol for statistical treatment of data is designed and
published, before the statistical treatment is started in order to reduce the risk of bias during
the process. Therefore, in this case, a registration in PROSPERO is under all circumstances
meaningless.
Page 7-9, results
Concerning Included studies
51. Staessen J, Bulpitt C, Fagard R, et al. Salt intake and blood pressure in the general
population: a controlled intervention trial in two towns. J Hypetens. 1988;6(12):965-73.
In this study individual participants were not randomized. It is a two-town controlled study
on the community level. In my opinion the study does not fulfill the inclusion criteria.
54. Dodson PM, Beevers M, Hallworth R, et al. Sodium restriction and blood pressure in
hypertensive type II diabetics: Randomised blind controlled and crossover studies of
moderate sodium restriction and sodium supplementation. BMJ. 1989;298(6668):227-30.
According to the inclusion criteria individuals with confounding chronic conditions such as
chronic kidney disease or heart failure were excluded. In my opinion DM is a chronic
confounding condition and therefore this study does not fulfil the inclusion criteria
151.Suckling RJ, He FJ, Markandu ND, et al. Modest salt reduction lowers blood pressure and
albumin excretion in impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes mellitus: A
randomized double-blind trial. Hypertension. 2016;67(6):1189-95.
According to the inclusion criteria individuals with confounding chronic conditions such as
chronic kidney disease or heart failure were excluded. In my opinion DM is a chronic
confounding condition and therefore this study does not fulfil the inclusion criteria

The results are generally in agreement with the results of reference 10. This is not strange
as most studies in the two analyses are identical. In the present analysis the authors
included 20 studies with a duration of 3-6 days, which were excluded in ref 10 because ref
20 previously had shown that in longitudinal studies the maximal effect was achieved at day
7. Thus, the inclusion of 3-6 day studies in the 7.day study group could explain the trend
towards a smaller effect in the ≤ 7-day group and the ≤14 day group (Table 2).
Furthermore, the duration of normotensive studies is generally smaller than the duration of
hypertensive studies, which also would lead to a false impression of a smaller effect in
short-term studies. In this context it is important to emphasize that ref 20 shows that in
longitudinal studies the maximal effect is achieved after one week in as well hypertensive as
normotensive studies.
Discussion
Page 10, lines 214-16: This meta-analysis demonstrates that sodium reduction leads to a
significant reduction in systolic blood pressure in adults, both female and male, all ethnic
groups and in both hypertensive and normotensive populations.
Correct, as shown in many previous analyses, but it would be appropriate to emphasize that
the effect is statistically significant, but clinically small (normotensives) to moderate
(hypertensives).
Page 10, lines 216-17: Diastolic blood pressure also decreased significantly in most
participant subgroups.
Again, this finding is not new, and still it would be appropriate to emphasize that the effect is
statistically significant, but clinically small, and to emphasize that in individuals with a DBP
below 70 mm Hg there was no effect at all, and this group constitutes about 50% of the
population.
Page 10, lines 218-21: Populations with older age and higher baseline blood pressure
achieved greater blood pressure lowering from the same amount of sodium reduction and so
did non-white compared to white populations.
Yes, another old finding, which was shown in 1998 (JAMA 1998; 279: 1383-1391), 2004
(Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2004;(1):CD004022) and 2016 (Am J Hypertens. 2016
May;29(5):543-8).
Page 10, lines 222-24: Overall, the duration of the sodium reduction intervention was not
associated with the size of the change in blood pressure, although short-term studies of less
than 15 days duration appear to underestimate the effect of sodium reduction on blood
pressure
The explanations are probably that 1) the authors included very short-term studies (3-6
days) and 2) normotensive studies are overrepresented in the ≤ 14 days group and
hypertensive studies are overrepresented in the > 14 days group
Page 10, lines 228-31: The overall effect of sodium reduction on blood pressure is consistent
with prior reports despite different trial selection criteria11 19 158 159 – for example, a
2013 overview19 based upon 30studies identified a 4.26/2.07 mm Hg reduction in blood
pressure compared to the current estimate of 4.18/2.06 mmHg based upon 136 studies.
It should be emphasized that this effect is not representative for the general population
because the BP of the investigated study populations are skewed towards a higher BP. For
instance, only about 10% of the investigated participants in the present analysis have a BP
below 120/70 mmHg, which is the median BP in many populations, for instance in the
American population and in the Intersalt study covering about 50 populations. Based on the
numbers in figure 4, a population representative effect would be about 1.2/0.5 mmHg/50
mmol sodium reduction.
Page 10, lines 234-37: The 2.2 mm Hg reduction in systolic blood pressure for each 100
mmol reduction in 24-hour urinary sodium observed in the current overview is substantially
less than 3.83 mmHg reduction reported in a previous overview.160 This may be due to the

inclusions of studies with sodium intake estimated from fractional urine collections in the
prior report.
This is incorrect. All data in the prior report (ref 160) were taken from Cochrane reviews
from 2011 and 2013, which both were based on 24-h urines. Most of the data were taken
from the 2011 review (without permission). In the 2011 review only one study (the
hypertension prevention trial (HPT) from1990) was based on 8-h urines, all other studies
were based on 24-h urines. The HPT trial was not included in ref 160. The reason why the
previous report found an effect of 3.82 mmHg is that they forced the regression line through
0. An appropriate analysis based on the data showed an effect of 2.27 mmHg (described in
Progress in Cardiovascular Diseases 2018; 61: 20-26). Consequently, these data are in
accordance with the present data, which is not strange as the majority of studies in the two
analyses are identical.

Page 10, lines 238-41: Compared to 24-hour urine collection, fractional urine collection
tends to overestimate sodium intake when the true intake is low and underestimate sodium
intake when the true intake is high,18 thus underestimating the difference in sodium intake
between groups and exaggerating the dose response relationship.
Considering that fractional urines were not used in the previous analysis this statement is
redundant.
Page 10, lines 241-45: Another overview that included only studies with at least 4 weeks’
intervention and only moderate 24-hour urinary sodium reduction identified a 5.8 mm Hg
reduction in SBP for each 100 mmol reduction in sodium further highlighting the sensitivity
of the estimated strength of the dose-response association to the type of studies included in
the analysis.19
The reason for the relatively high effect of 5.8 mmHg in this regression analysis was not the
longer duration, but the fact that 21 datapoints came from hypertensive studies, 9 datapoint
from prehypertensive studies and only 5 datapoints from normotensive studies.
Page 10, lines 250-53: The conclusion of no value in non-hypertensive individuals is
dependent upon the results from very short-term studies in which sodium reduction had a
limited effect on blood pressure and in which there were adverse effects on other markers of
cardiovascular risk.
Ref 20 shows that the maximal efficacy of sodium reduction on BP is obtained after 7 days.
In the meta-regression analysis of ref. 10, all studies with duration less than 7 days are
excluded. This study showed a dose-response relationship of -1.46/-0.07 mmHg/100 mmol
sodium adjusted for baseline BP, age, ethnicity, study duration and use of antihypertensive
treatment. Thus, the effect of sodium reduction on BP in normotensives is small, not because
the study duration is short, but simply because it is small.
Page 10-11, lines 253-57: Renin, sympathetic response and adverse metabolic effects
associated with acute large falls in dietary sodium do not, however, appear to be present in
longer term public health intervention19 161 and it is unlikely that short-term unfavourable
metabolic effects would
override the long-term benefits anticipated from sustained blood pressure lowering of
moderate
magnitude.
Only few participants in the two mentioned references reduce salt to below the
recommended level of 100 mmol and therefore these two references lack the power to
detect the side-effects, which typically appear at the very low intakes below 100 mmol. The
Yanamamo Indians in the Brazilian jungle, who chronically eat a low sodium diet have
chronically very high levels of renin and aldosterone.
Page 11, lines 257-59: Our review identifies an approximate doubling of the effect of sodium
reduction on blood pressure in studies of longer than 2 weeks duration versus shorter

studies, indicating that the full effects of dietary sodium reduction require several weeks to
become apparent.
But this is not due to the duration but to the fact that there are many normotensive and few
hypertensive studies lasing 14 days or less, and many hypertensive studies and few
normotensive studies lasting more than 14 days.
Page 11, lines 260-62: Very short-term studies of sodium reduction are not a sound basis for
drawing conclusions about the effects of sodium reduction on blood pressure and are not
helpful in formulating policy recommendations for public health.
Agree, studies lasting less than 7 days should not be used in in formulating policy
recommendations for public health.
Page 11, lines 263-72: Analyses that simply separate studies based upon those that included
hypertensive, non-hypertensive or mixed populations are weak because the definition of
hypertension is arbitrary and there is a rationale for expecting a graded interaction between
sodium reduction, blood pressure reduction, and starting blood pressure. In the present
analysis, meta-regressions based upon mean starting blood pressure levels for participants
in each study provided for a much more nuanced evaluation of the effects of starting blood
pressure on the size of the blood pressure fall achieved with sodium reduction. These
analyses showed that sodium reduction produced a progressively greater reduction in blood
pressure amongst those with higher starting blood pressure levels, but also that sodium
reduction significantly lowered blood pressure even amongst those with starting systolic
blood pressure levels as low as 120 mm Hg.
Agree, but there is nothing new in analyses of classes of increasing blood pressure. Similar
results were published in 2016 (Am J Hypertens. 2016 May;29(5):543-8). Furthermore,
although statistically significant, none of the effects are impressive and especially the effects
in the two lowest BP groups, which represents about 75% of most populations, are almost
negligible
Page 11, lines 272-74: These findings indicate important health benefits from sodium
reduction amongst normotensive as well as hypertensive participants.
According to the present results and previous results 75% of the population with an SBP less
than 130 mmHg can expect a fall in BP of sodium reduction of about 1.2/0.5 mmHg. Based
on such a minimal effect in the majority of the population I do not share the authors
optimism concerning “important health benefits”, especially as there are no studies in heathy
individuals to verify that salt reduction has beneficial health effects, whereas population
studies indicate that low salt intake is associated with increased mortality
Page 12, lines 275-78: The findings from this overview of randomised trials conflict directly
with findings from the Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology (PURE)162 study which
reported that associations between sodium intake and systolic blood pressure are observed
only among communities with very high sodium intake (>5.08 g or 221 mmol sodium/day).
We observed very clear effects of sodium reduction on both systolic and diastolic blood
pressure at levels of sodium intake far below this.
The overall association between sodium intake and SBP in PURE was about 2.5 mmHg/43
mmol sodium, which seems to be an even stronger association than the overall effect in the
present analysis. When divided into tertiles the association was strongest in those with a
high salt-intake. If salt has an influence on blood pressure, it is not strange that the effect is
stronger in those with a chronically high salt-intake and this is not in conflict with the
experimental changes due to intervention observed in RCTs. The meta-analyses of the RCTs
also show that although there is an overall effect of sodium reduction on BP this effect is
very small in those with a BP below 120/70 and then increases gradually with increasing
baseline BP, s shown previously (Am J Hypertens. 2016 May;29(5):543-8).
Page 12, lines 280-81: The discrepancy almost certainly reflects the limited capacity of
observational studies such as PURE to predict reliably the effects of interventions such as
sodium reduction

Observational studies do have a limited capacity to predict the effects of intervention. For
instance, the association between blood pressure and mortality stems from observational
studies, but does not prove that blood pressure reduction leads to a decrease in mortality.
However, we know that antihypertensive drugs given to hypertensive individuals decreases
mortality with the exception of beta blockers, which, although they reduce BP, do not
decrease mortality. We do not know if treatment of a normal BP in healthy individuals
decreases mortality, but we do know that BP reduction in normotensive DM patients
increases mortality.
Thus, discrepancies between observational studies and intervention studies have many
reasons. Consequently, it is wrong to conclude that the discrepancies here are due to the
“limited capacity” of PURE, especially as PURE overall detects an association comparable to
the overall association in the RCTs.
Page 12, lines 282-84: Measurement errors and uncontrolled confounding in the PURE study
have likely biased conclusions about the association of sodium intake and blood
pressure.163 164
Measurement error is a problem on the individual level, but has been shown to be
unimportant on the population level. As a matter of fact, the authors’own study shows that
measurement based on a single spot urine delivers almost the same outcomes as
measurement based on multiple 24-h urines (ref 163).
“Uncontrolled confounding” is a potential phenomenon in all observational studies. This
argument is being used by some when it is not possible to define a specific confounder which
may explain an “unexpected” finding.
Page 12, lines 285-299: Impact of intervention duration of sodium reduction
The optimal method to assess the impact of duration of sodium reduction on the magnitude
of
blood pressure reduction would be to collate data from studies that measure change of
sodium
and change of blood pressure at multiple time points. In practice, however, most studies
made
measurements only once at completion of follow up. The six studies that recorded multiple
measurements at different time points showed no apparent difference in the pattern of blood
pressure lowering over time (Appendix 3). Neither the univariable nor the multivariable
metaregressions identified an effect of intervention duration on the size of the blood pressure fall
achieved with sodium reduction. The power of the analyses was strengthened by the wide
range of intervention durations recorded (from 3 days to 5 years) but limited by the highly
skewed distribution of the studies with the great majority being of short or very short
duration.
Among the 133 studies included 77 were of <15 days duration and only 5 extended beyond
6
months. Prior reports have indicated that very short duration studies do not appear to
capture
the full effect of sodium reduction on blood pressure and this was confirmed in the current
analyses.
Why do the authors not mention ref 20, which in 15 longitudinal studies shows that the
effect of sodium reduction on BP is similar after one week of sodium reduction up to 6 weeks
of sodium reduction, indicating that the maximal effect is obtained after one week.
Page 12, lines 299-301: The DASH sodium trial that assessed effects at four time points over
one month showed with some rigour that blood pressure effects from sodium reduction were
clearly
greater at week 4 compared to earlier weeks.165
This interpretation of the DASH data is wrong.

In the DASH study (ref 165) the mean effect of high sodium vs. low sodium on SBP of the
two diets (control and DASH) were as follows: week 1: 3.69 mmHg; week 2: 4.73 mmHg;
week 3: 4.56 mm Hg; week 4: 4.93 mmHg. The numbers indicate that the maximal efficacy
is obtained no later than week 2, but none of these numbers differ statistically from each
other and therefore the results are in accordance with the hypothesis that the maximal
efficacy is obtained at week one. Consequently, the DASH study alone cannot change the
overall conclusion from ref 20 based on 15 studies, namely that the maximal efficacy is
obtained at week 1.
Page 12, lines 303-304: This meta-analysis represents a substantial update and
enhancement compared to prior overviews.
This is wrong. Ref 10 includes 133 references and ref 11 includes 195 references.
Page 12-13, lines 304-307: The selective inclusion of studies that used 24-hour urine
collections to estimate intervention effects on sodium intake reduced the risk of bias, while
the inclusion of studies with concomitant interventions applied in the same way to both
intervention and control arms maximised the available data and the statistical power of the
analyses.
Same principle used in refs 10 and 11.
Page 13, lines 307-309: Likewise, the inclusion of studies regardless of the length of the
duration of intervention enabled a robust and powerful examination of the effects of
intervention duration on outcomes.
Correct. This is the principle used in refs 10 and 11. This author group have previously
criticized the use of shorter-term studies in meta-analyses and avoided to do so. The authors
should therefore be congratulated with finally after 20 years to have accepted the value of
these studies.
Conclusion
This meta-analysis analyses studies, which all with a few exceptions have been included in
already published meta-analyses. The results presented, which are not really impressive,
confirms the results of previous analyses, but the interpretation of the data is overestimated
in favour of sodium reduction, which is unreasonable for many reasons: 1) the small effects
of sodium reduction on BP, even in hypertensives, 2) sodium reduction has side-effects,
which the present authors explain away 3) no sodium reduction study have shown beneficial
effects in healthy individuals and 4) population studies generally show that a low sodium
intake is associated with increased mortality (also explained away with undocumented claims
of measurement error, uncontrolled confounding and reverse causality).
Finally, the review is full of questionable statements of which some are directly wrong. For
instance, it is inappropriate to state that the paper is registered in PROSPERO, when it is not,
especially as it does not fulfil the criteria to be registered.
