Thank you very much for the opportunity to review the revised manuscript. However, the
authors could not fully address my concerns from the last round. To have an objective view
to study this

research question, which is a very important question to the general public, I really hope
the authors can address them well. Please see my rationales below.
1. About the selecting bias of primary and secondary outcomes, it is a common issue in
existing RCTs. Please see two recent papers on that among others, Wong et al. 2019;
https://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/9/9/e031138
and Chen et al. 2019;
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2738347. Please note that
RCTs published in high impact journals are not immune to this issue. Therefore, I
encourage the authors to identify the primary and secondary outcomes, and any expected
adverse events both in the registered protocols (or some don't have them? please list
these) and the published RCTs. This will help the readers to determine the rigor of the
RCTs included in the
meta-analysis, and also have a better understanding in the effectiveness of the diets on
various outcomes linked to CVD risk.
2. I am confused about the approach used to conduct the sensitivity analysis. In the
revision, the authors restricted to studies without diet company support. My concern for
this is that we don’t know whether there is any conflict of interest involved in the RCTs that
were supported by industry. Could you please restrict the studies to those with industry
financial ties to conduct sensitivity analysis?
Other issues: 1. I think the title needs to be more explicit about the outcomes. Weight is
fine. But none of the outcomes assessed are CVD events. They are biomarkers. Could you
please change the title to reflect that?
2. Some of the terms in the text are confusing to me. For example, what is the difference
between "dietary macronutrient patterns" and "individual popular named diets"? My
understanding is that the diets were grouped according to the composition of
macronutrients in this study. Also, can the authors elaborate how they harmonized the
"referenced diets" among the different RCTs. Currently, “usual diet,” “dietary advice,” and
“low fat diet” are grouped under this category as "referenced diets." If the referenced diet
isn't equivalent
across studies, would that affect the effectiveness of the tested diet?
3. In Table 2, is it possible to provide funding source and primary outcomes for each study
in additional columns? Also, it would be clearer to the readers to present the diets/trials by
brand-name vs. non brand-name.
4. “With respect to cardiovascular risk reduction, recent dietary guidelines from the US and
Canada, and the EAT Lancet commission have recommended plant-based diets.39-41 Our
findings do not support this conclusion: rather, they suggest that omnivorous-based diets
(e.g. Atkins, Zone) are similar in impact to diets that tend to be higher in plant-based
foods (e.g. Ornish, DASH,
Mediterranean).” About this statement, I would take a more cautious approach to
comment. In this study, the trial results have shown effects of various dietary patterns on
weight loss and other
biomarkers for CVD risk at a duration of 6 months and 12 months. I would consider these
studies have provided short-term effects of the diets in these risk factors for CVD.
However, in the guidelines and the EAT Lancet report, did the authors refer to the
evidence, which comments on risk of CVD events and mortality, which take a much longer
follow up time, or did they refer to reduction of the biomarkers? I would encourage the
authors to make an explicit statement when making such comparisons. Additionally, the
EAT lancet report also comments on diet that is beneficial to the environment.
