The CAD-Man trial is a well-performed and well-reported single center RCT of CT as a gatekeeper to ICA in patients with
intermediate probability of suspected CAD. The trialists hypothesized that a CT-first strategy would reduce the primary
outcome of major procedural complications within 48 hours. The primary outcome event rate was too low to distinguish
a difference between the two arms of the trial. However, superiority of the CT-first strategy was demonstrated in the
secondary outcomes of minor procedural complications, length of stay and diagnostic yield of ICA/normalcy rate, while
radiation dose was not different. In addition, although it was not a prespecified outcome, the need for ICA was reduced
by sevenfold.
Interestingly, PROMISE did not improve outcomes w a combined output of death + MI + major ICA complications,
however there were improved outcomes in death+MI similar to SCOT-Heart. The results of both this study and PROMISE
suggest that ICA complication rate is a poor outcome measure for imaging strategy trials.
The strengths of this study are in its straightforward and clinically relevant patient population and intervention. In
addition, the well-delineated protocol for follow-up testing after abnormal CCTA makes these results easier to interpret
than studies such as PROMISE and Scot-Heart.
The weaknesses of this study are primarily the short follow-up and, related to this, the lack of statistical power in the
primary endpoint and the anticipated effect size for the CT gatekeeper intervention. Additionally, the short follow-up
means that it is difficult to know if the reduction in need for ICA would decline over time.
Some important additions that need to be made in the trial reporting:
1) The single center nature of the study is noted in the discussion but should be explicitly stated in the methods.
2) The duration of follow-up for the secondary outcome should be described in methods and results.
3) The duration of follow-up for post-CCTA ICA and the interval between CCTA and ICA should be described in methods
and results, if different from #2.
Figure 2 and 3 are displaying very similar information; of the two, Figure 2 is more informative and Figure 3 can
probably be deleted.
Figure 4 and 5 are displaying very similar information; of the two, Figure 4 is more informative and could likely be
combined with Figure 6 as A and B figures.
Supplementary Table 2 could be deleted. Although relevant to the CRESCENT trial, it appears to be quite tangential to
the study hypothesis.
Minor editing:
Page 4 “CT did not to improve clinical outcomes” should be “CT did not improve clinical outcomes”
Page 11 “will allow estimating the relative” should be “will allow estimation of the relative”