Luangasanatip and colleagues performed a meta-analysis using rigorous methods to determine which hand
hygiene interventions improve compliance. Strengths of this meta-analysis include stratifying studies by study
design and using the best meta-analysis method for each design. The network meta-analysis is novel for this field
and overcame the problem of no head-to-head comparisons for hand hygiene interventions. However, this metaanalysis relied too strongly on a systematic literature review performed by someone else (Gould et al.) without
validating the results of that systematic literature review.
MAJOR
1. Abstract, please change the abstract to say that databases were searched from 2009-Feb 2014 then
supplemented with studies found by other meta-analyses.
2. Methods, search strategy: Did you search any of the literature from 1980-2009 or did you just trust that the
other reviews found all of the articles that you needed? I recommend validating the searches done before 2009
by running your search criteria during a portion of that time period (2 years or so) and determining if you would
have excluded all of the studies that they excluded.
3. Similarly, it is hard to believe that 31 studies met EPOC criteria in a 5 year period (2010-2014) but only 4
studies met EPOC criteria in a 29 year period (1980-2009). Did you validate your use of EPOC versus Gould’s
use? Please validate the use of EPOC by Gould et al by taking studies that the Gould study excluded and applying
the EPOC criteria to see if you would have excluded that study as well.
4. Methods, inclusion and exclusion: Include a sentence or two on what characteristics a study must have in order
to meet minimal quality criteria specified by EPOC.
5. Methods, data synthesis and statistical analysis: describe how you tested for heterogeneity between studies
(e.g. I2) and how you evaluated publication bias.
6. Results, RCTs: Why are there 3 studies included in Figure 3? The paragraph that describes it on page 11
mentions 4 studies and 2 studies. If the Fuller study is included twice here, ACE and ITU need to be spelled out
and there needs to be a description on why it is statistically valid to include the same study twice. Additionally, an
I2 of 81% means significant heterogeneity. Perhaps rather than pooling these studies, the manuscript can just
contain a description of the findings of each study. This would also cut a figure which would be useful since
having 8 figures is excessive. Also, why are the results of this analysis different in the abstract and the results
section of the manuscript?
7. Although I am not familiar with network meta-analyses, some of the odds ratios shown in Table 2 seem
extremely high with extremely wide credible intervals. Please mention this in the discussion and explain the
reliability of these results.

MINOR
1. Methods, search strategy: database of abstracts of review of effects (DARE) is listed twice. Also, please spell
out EPOC and ACP.
2. If space, consistently spell out CBA and CCT since these are not standard acronyms.
3. Appendix 8. The first 2 funnel plots do not have labeled axes (axis) and the labels on the third funnel plot look
incorrect (log odds ratios are never negative).
Reviewed by: Marin Schweizer, PhD, University of Iowa