<b> Is Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection forever? Comments for editor and author Jon Emery</b>
<b>Summary</b>
Overall this article presents a well framed, logical and clear argument as to whether and
to what extent self-sterilisation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection occurs.
Building on their discussion in [1], the authors use of pre-existing data on rates of active
tuberculosis (TB) disease among tuberculin sensitised and immunosuppressed patients is
both novel and appropriate to the research question. Their findings improve our
understanding of Mtb infection, stimulate further research and have important potential
consequences for preventive therapy at both the individual and population levels.
The article would be improved by addressing a number of specific and important
limitations regarding the principal methodology however, particularly since a discussion
detailing such limitations is currently absent. Given these limitations, the current
conclusions of the article seem overly definitive and would benefit from appropriate
qualifiers.
As such, I would recommend this paper for publication provided sufficient consideration is
given to the points detailed below.
<b>Major points for consideration</b>
<i>Title (Is Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection forever?)</i>
1. Given the brief discussion of alternative approaches to inferring sterilisation of Mtb
infection (see below), as well as the limitations of the principal methodology presented in
this article (see also below), the title should be made less definitive and more specific by
adding a qualifying clause. E.g. Is Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection forever? Evidence
from immunodeficiency studies.
<i>Abstract</i>
2. Similar to, and for the same reasons as the title, the phrase ‘...vast majority of these
individuals have eradicated infection’ (Page 2, Line 14) should be edited to better reflect
the limitations of the study. E.g. ‘...vast majority of these individuals may have eradicated
infection’.
<i>Does TB reactivity track with risk of active TB?</i>
3. Whilst the authors cite the results from a study in US Navy Sailors [2] as evidence
against a correlation between tuberculin skin test (TST) reversion and sterilisation of Mtb
infection (Page 6, Line 33), Figure 2A shows that all but the group with a greater than
12-month interval between initial TST conversion and the onset of INH treatment
exhibited significant reversion. This evidence does not wholly support the authors’
assertion therefore and should either be acknowledged in the main text or alternative
evidence presented.

4. Again as evidence against a correlation between TST reversion and sterilisation of Mtb
infection, the authors cite results from a study in Midgeville mental institution (Page 6,
Line 33), whereby rates of active TB disease were lower in a group given INH preventive
therapy compared to placebo and yet both groups showed similar low rates of TST
reversion (Figures 2C and 2B, respectively). Whilst INH is known to be highly effective
against actively replicating bacteria, INH alone should not necessarily be expected to
sterilise Mtb infection. This is a possible explanation for higher rates of active TB disease
following cessation of INH preventive therapy amongst HIV-positive, antiretroviral therapy
naive individuals in sub-Saharan Africa [3]. A discussion of this issue should be included
(potentially linked to Points 5 and 6 below).
5. Shortly thereafter, the authors make a similar argument to that discussed in Point 4,
instead considering persistence of TST positivity following treatment of active TB disease
with multi-drug regimens, as opposed to INH preventive therapy. Of the two citations
used as evidence to support this argument, the former [4] (Page 6, Line 49) is a review in
which the principal pertinent reference is to a study that commenced in 1953, treating
children for both latent infection and active TB disease with a combination of INH,
aminosalicylic acid and streptomycin. Amongst these, only streptomycin could be expected
to sterilise Mtb infection and was administered only to those in the subset of the group
with active TB disease. If this is the reference that the authors intended to use as
evidence, this limitation should be acknowledged explicitly. In either case, the specific
references within [4] that are pertinent to the authors’ argument should also be cited
explicitly.
6. Related to Points 4 and 5 above, the authors do address the issue of the mechanism of
action of anti-tubercular drugs, citing that in most cases they kill Mtb in vitro (Page 7, Line
9). It should be stated however that the in vitro model is a limited proxy for the complex
environment of an established tuberculous granuloma in an individual with active TB
disease.
7. Although the authors do refer to TST reversion in the specific studies regarding
treatment of latent infection and active disease, a wider discussion of the ongoing debate
regarding the nature and potential impact of TST reversion is absent. For example, [4–6]
highlight the existence of TST reversion, consider whether such reversions are due to
sterilisation of Mtb infection, immunosuppression or test instability and demonstrate the
impact reversions may have on estimates of the annual risk of infection calculated using
TST surveys. A reference to this debate should be made to more accurately reflect the
current state of the field, rather than appearing as settled.
8. Given Points 3-7, the statement ‘...taken together, it seems much more likely that TB
reactivity is not a marker for the presence of continued TB infection’ (Page 7, Line 9) is
overly definitive given the limited analysis and discussion of the topic. It is suggested
instead that the issue remains open as to whether and how much TB reactivity is a marker
for persistent TB infection and so is of limited utility in answering the question set out in
the title. This less emphatic conclusion does not alter the necessity of the methodology
used by the authors to infer sterilisation of Mtb infection in the remainder of the article but
does better represent important unresolved issues in the field.
<i>What is the risk of active TB from remote infection (reactivation TB) in
immunocompromised individuals?</i>
9. The methodology of using the fraction of TB sensitised individuals that do not progress
to active disease following immunosuppression to infer the rate of sterilisation of Mtb
infection in such individuals is both novel and well reasoned. It is not clear though
whether the authors intend that this is equally applicable to the general population.
Specifically, in 'Summary and implications', the authors state ‘Somewhere between 1 and
11% of TB reactive individuals continue to harbor viable bacteria, or at least bacteria

capable of causing disease’ (Page 11, Line 17) without qualifying whether this refers to
the study groups or the general population. Since the majority of the study groups
considered in the methodology are a very specific population, with comorbidities sufficient
to require immunosuppression, they are unlikely to accurately reflect the general
population. As such, any results can only provide an upper bound for the general
population and this limitation should be stated.
10. A further limitation of the methodology described in this section is the impact of
potential false-positive TST results caused by, for example, cross reactivity or BCG
vaccination. Inclusion of those with a false-positive TST could inflate the at-risk group with
individuals that will never progress to active disease in the absence of future infection and
thus lead to an overestimate of the rate of sterilisation of Mtb infection. This limitation
should also be acknowledged.
11. The 'Supplementary methods' describe how, in the majority of cases, the group at risk
of progression to active TB disease or sterilisation of Mbt infection are estimated through
local TST survey data (Page 30, Line 14). No reference to this is made in the main text
however, and so the reader may assume that detailed historical information on the TST
status of individuals within each study was available. Whilst the methodology detailed in
the 'Supplementary methods' seems appropriate, the article should briefly describe this
approach in the main text.
12. Although some effort has been made to ensure that the analysis in this section is
based on unbiased data, for example by finding the majority of the relevant studies using
existing systematic reviews (Page 30, Line 3), this article is not itself a systematic review
and again this should be stated in the main text and abstract.
13. Neither in this section, nor in any other section, are the principal limitations of the
study presented. Such limitations, including those raised in Points 9-12, should be clearly
stated.
<i>Summary and implications</i>
14. Given the limitations of the methodology described above, the summary ‘Our analysis
of the natural epidemiologic experiments where individuals who were once infected with
TB (as judged by being TB reactive) have been immunosuppressed provides an answer’
(Page 11, Line 14) is overly definitive. The article would therefore benefit from a less
emphatic conclusion, whereby the results are a significant improvement in our
understanding (e.g. providing an upper bound, as per Point 9 above) but further work still
remains to reach a more definitive conclusion.
<b>Minor points for consideration</b>
15. Page 4, Line 14: In addition to Guinea Pig inoculation, [7] used culture to identify
viable bacilli taken from autopsies of individuals with pathology consistent with, but died
of causes other than, TB.
16. Page 12, Line 55: Whilst, as stated, lifelong infection is an explicit premise in the
estimate of the global burden of Mtb infection in [8], the authors do conceive that this
may not be the case and cite a lack of sufficient evidence at the time of writing to make
any specific alternative assumptions.
<b>References</b>
1 Behr MA, Edelstein PH, Ramakrishnan L. Revisiting the timetable of tuberculosis. The
BMJ 2018;362. doi:10.1136/bmj.k2738

2 Houk VN, Kent DC, Sorensen K, et al. The eradication of tuberculosis infection by
isoniazid chemoprophylaxis. Arch Environ Health 1968;16:46–50.
3 Houben RMGJ, Sumner T, Grant AD, et al. Ability of preventive therapy to cure latent
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in HIV-infected individuals in high-burden settings.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2014;111:5325–30. doi:10.1073/pnas.1317660111
4 Menzies D. Interpretation of repeated tuberculin tests. Boosting, conversion, and
reversion. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;159:15–21.
doi:10.1164/ajrccm.159.1.9801120
5 Sutherland T. The effect of tuberculin reversion upon the estimate of the annual risk of
tuberculous infection. Sel Pap R Neth Tuberc Assoc 1971;14:115–8.
6 Fine PE, Bruce J, Ponnighaus JM, et al. Tuberculin sensitivity: conversions and
reversions in a rural African population. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis Off J Int Union Tuberc Lung
Dis 1999;3:962–75.
7 Feldman WH, Baggenstoss AH. The residual infectivity of the primary complex of
tuberculosis. Am J Pathol 1938;14:473-490.3.
8 Houben RMGJ, Dodd PJ. The Global Burden of Latent Tuberculosis Infection: A
Re-estimation Using Mathematical Modelling. PLoS Med 2016;13:e1002152.
doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1002152