General comment
The paper by Stevens et al was aimed at reviewing the studies assessing the prognostic utility of “long”,
“short” and “very short” term BP variability independent of mean BP, for CVD events and mortality. To
this aim, authors performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of 31 papers comprising 17
observational cohort studies and 12 clinical trials in adults with at least 2500 person-years follow-up.
Different methods were employed for calculation of indices of BPV in the studies included in the
metanalysis, namely ambulatory, home and clinic BP monitoring, which were included in fifteen, four and
twenty-one papers respectively (eight studied both clinic and ambulatory monitoring). The outcomes
considered in the present study included all-cause and CVD mortality and CVD events. Measures of
variability included standard deviation, coefficient of variation, variation independent of mean and
average real variability but not night dipping or day night variation. Main result of the study was the
finding of a significant association between increasing values of visit-to-visit variability in clinic systolic BP
with risk of all-cause mortality (HR=1.15, 95% CI [1.07 to 1.23]), coronary heart disease (HR=1.10,

95% CI [1.00 to 1.21]) and stroke (HR=1.15, 95% CI [1.02 to 1.30]). Increased day-by-day variability
in home systolic BP was significantly associated with all-cause mortality (HR=1.15, 95% CI [1.06 to
1.26]), as was increased variability in daytime ambulatory systolic BP (HR=1.10 95% CI [1.06 to 1.15]).
Based on these findings, authors concluded that visit-to-visit clinic BP variability is associated with
cardiovascular and mortality outcomes, over and above the effect of mean BP. Although based on a
smaller number of studies, a similar association of day by day and 24h BPV with all cause mortality is
reported in the results session, but is not mentioned in the conclusions..
Overall, this is a comprehensive meta-analysis of the available evidence addressing the prognostic
significance of BPV. However, as acknowledged by authors, formal meta-analyses methodology could not
be implemented for many outcomes with respect to short term, day-by-day BP variability due to a lack of
data from unique cohorts.
On the background of the active debate on the prognostic significance of BPV, and given the limited
standardization of the approach to BPV assessment in different studies, it seems that the issue being
addresses by this meta-analysis is somehow ambitious. In fact, while this study aims at evaluating the
effect of BP variability on outcomes by focusing on three different approaches to BPV assessment, it
includes papers in which the standardization of BPV assessment was very limited, thus limiting the
possibility of a meaningful meta-analysis. Moreover, while many of the analyses, despite of their
relevance, are only shown as supplementary material, it would have been interesting to perform
additional analyses investigating how the number of measures or the intervals among BP measures used
to estimate different indices of BPV, may influence the prognostic value of these indices. Please consider
that a major problem for implementing assessment of BPV in clinical practice is that we still don’t know
what is the optimal number of measures nor the ideal time interval among them that should be consider
in order to improve cardiovascular risk prediction. There is also no information, when focusing on day by
day or on 24h BPV analysis, on how to improve standardization of the conditions in which BP is
monitored, to make BP fluctuations between individuals comparable because less dependent on different
environmental conditions or on diversity in individual behaviors, and more related to differences in
individual pathophysiological mechanisms involved in cardiovascular regulation. Finally, as a result of the
ambitious aim of this study to explore the prognostic value of different measures of BPV over different
time windows, the resulting paper is far too long and sometimes difficult to follow.
These problems, together with some other methodological issues listed in my detailed comments to
authors, would require to be carefully addressed by the authors.
Specific Comments
1. An important issue that should have been considered in the present meta-analysis is how the
prognostic value of different indices of BPV are influenced by the basal cardiovascular risk of the different
study populations. Please consider that as reported by different studies in literature, while in subjects at
low-to-moderate cardiovascular risk the additive prognostic value of BPV beyond average BP levels may
be marginal, in study populations at high cardiovascular risk, the prognostic value of BPV may be even
stronger than that of average BP values.
2. Introduction, page 5: in relation to this sentence “We reviewed prospective studies that quantified the
longitudinal associations of (i) long term variability measured through clinic BP monitoring, (ii) short term
variability measured through home BP monitoring and (iii) very short term variability measured through
ambulatory BP monitoring)”: From a semantic perspective, authors should make a better use of the
terminology employed in current literature to refer to different types of BPV. Although no consensus on
standards for measuring BPV has still been reached, most available studies refer to 24h BPV as shortterm BPV, and to the day-by-day BPV determined on the basis of home BP measures as mid-term BP
variability. Very short term BP variability is a term more commonly used to refer BP variations occurring
in a beat to beat basis.
3. Data analysis and statistical methods, page 7: In relation to this sentence “ Where studies reported
results for multiple different variability measures, HRs were selected for inclusion according to the
following hierarchy (preferred to least preferred): standard deviation (SD), coefficient of variation (CV),
variation independent of mean (VIM), average real variability (ARV), standardized residual (SR), root
successive variance (RSV) and other” did authors take into account the mean frequency at which BP
measures were performed in order to calculate different indices of BPV? Please consider that the intervals
between measures as well as the number of measures taken into account to calculate BPV may
importantly influence the prognostic significance of BPV. Authors should provide the mean or median
interval and number of measures employed among different studies to calculate indices of BPV also
providing the respective ranges.
4. Data analysis and statistical methods, page 7: in relation to this sentence “Adjustment for mean BP is
required since patients with higher absolute BP (an established CVD risk factor) also have higher absolute
BP variability” it would be important to specify whether adjustment of different risk estimations
associated with systolic and diastolic BP variability was performed by respective values of average
systolic and diastolic BP.
5. Important methodological issues may have affected the assessment of the prognostic value of home
day by day and ambulatory 24h BPV: In particular, the variable number of measurements and of days
considered for home BPM should be acknowledged as a possible confounding factor. This is the case also
for the fact that ambulatory BPV was assessed by accepting also studies that had only fourteen daytime
readings available , which represents a severe undersampling of the BP variations occurring over a 24h
time. This is a limitation of this study that should be properly addressed by the authors.
6. This paper is excessively long and should be shortened. Some issues could be dealt with in the online
section or even in a separate paper. Indeed , the authors have addressed one of the most debated topic
in hypertension research, and have done a huge work including the literature search and data
management, and in considering the differences in study population, BPV indices, outcome, follow-up
duration, measurement intervals (for visit-to visit BPV), accompanying treatment. They have also tried to
consider the existing confounders including the statistical models and adjusted factors in the original
studies. Not mentioning the diversity in all the above-mentioned factors, dealing with all three kinds of

BPV (visit-to-visit, home and ambulatory) all together in one paper appears to be a too complex work. As
the results show, every study has many diversities with others and the pooled studies indicate significant
heterogeneity among them. All these considerations appear to indicate that meta-analysis for the pooled
hazard ratio might not be the best choice. Concentrating on one kind of BPV effect (Visit-to-Visit, home,
or Ambulatory BP) could be a simpler and more effective option.
7. Conclusions_ While the study offers a demonstration that also home and ambulatory BPV are
predictors of mortality, this is neglected in the conclusions, either of the abstract and of the paper, which
conversely only focuses on the association between visit-to-vist BPV and mortality. Conclusions should
thus be modified with a more balanced statement also underlying the importance of home and
ambulatory BPV, even if requiring additional