Referee report of revised manuscript on “Sugary drink consumption and cancer risk: results
from NutriNet-Sante prospective cohort”
I thank the authors for their consideration of my comments on their revised manuscript;
however, the following methodological issues previously raised have not been adequately
addressed.
Original comment 2: The analysis of dietary data is inherently complex due to the presence
of measurement error, within person variation in consumption, and high frequency of zero
consumption records arising from dietary components that are occasionally consumed, e.g.
artificially sweetened beverages (only 14.8% consumed in this study). None of these aspects
were adequately taken into account in the analyses. Unfortunately, ignoring these issues by
simply estimating individual consumption of a dietary component by taking the mean of
consumption in the analyses can bias the regression coefficients in a non-predictable
direction, and the problem does not go away even if the sample size is large. This often
leads to spurious associations.
Authors’ response: Indeed, diet is one of the most complex exposures to assess and its
evaluation is challenging (19). This challenge is not specific to our study but rather shared
by all major epidemiological studies conducted worldwide in this field (20,21). In our cohort,
we beneficiate from a detailed dietary assessment measured by repeated and validated
(versus biomarkers (22,23)) 24h dietary records (mean number=5.6/subject, and up to 15
records across the study period).
The prospective design of the cohort guaranteed that potential measurement errors in
dietary exposure (e.g.% of consumers and amounts of sugary drinks consumed) were
non-differential regarding the outcome. They could have led to a non-differential
classification bias (identically in future cases and other participants), most probably leading
to an under-estimation of the observed associations, although overestimation cannot be
entirely ruled out.
In this study, the proportion of non-consumers for sugary drinks was relatively low (25.4%).
Mean number of dietary records was even higher in non-consumers than in consumers of
sugary drinks (6.0 versus 4.6).

Thus, non-consumption in these participants is not likely to be explained by missed
consumption due to a low number of dietary records. Besides, even if some intakes were
missed in subjects who consumed sugary drinks very occasionally, such rare consumption
was not likely to strongly influence their cancer risk, thus potential related bias was probably
very limited.
In contrast the proportion of non-consumers was higher regarding artificially sweetened
beverages (85.1%). This proportion was in line with the one observed among women in the
European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition Cohort (81.0%) (24) and thus
reflects the reality of the consumption of this subgroup of beverages in France rather than a
misreporting issue. This relatively low proportion of consumers may have limited our ability
to detect an association with cancer risk in this study, due to reduced statistical power.
Last, in order to provide information regarding to Reviewer’s 3 request related to
intra-individual variation in dietary intakes, we have now performed a sensitivity analysis by
focusing on the participants for whom sugary dink consumption varied by less than │150
mL/d│ (corresponding to a mini-can) between the beginning and the end of their follow-up,
which provided similar results (HR for an increase of 100 mL/d of sugary drinks = 1.06 (1.01
to 1.12) P=0.02, 1844 cases/ 86462 non-cases for overall cancer risk, and HR=1.07 (1.02 to
1.18) P=0.04, 592 cases/ 69547non-cases for breast cancer risk).
In addition to toning down the conclusion messages in the abstract, conclusion and box (as
stated above in our response to the Editors), we have added these points in the methods
(page 10), results (page 12), and discussion (page 14) sections.
New comment: The authors’ approach based on sensitivity analyses falls short from dealing
with measurement error and the large number of zero observations of intake. There exists
advanced modern statistical methodology to deal with these issues, including use of two-part
mixed-effects models to separate within- and between-person variability and deal with
excess zeroes, and regression calibration to relate dietary intake with a health outcome. It is
evident, from Table 1 (and Appendix 6) that there is a large discrepancy between the mean
and median consumption for sugary drinks, 100% fruit juice intake and sugary drinks
(except 100% fruit juices), so that using the mean intake as a summary statistic is not
sensible. All the sensitivity analyses performed in the revised manuscript assume that the
mean is an adequate measure of location, which implies uniform dietary exposure over time
and across individuals. This assumption is not tenable as evidenced by the observed
distributions of intake and the high frequencies of zero observations. I recommend to exploit
the richness of the data which includes the collection of several observations of 24h records
of intake per individual over time by using modern statistical methodology to provide reliable
results.
Original comment 7: Please justify whether it is appropriate to censor patients who
experienced cancer at other locations. This would mean that these patients should be as
likely to suffer cancer as those patients who remain in the study. Standard methods for
survival may not be valid when there is informative censoring, particularly if the number of
patients censored is high.
Authors’ response: In this study, our objective was to model the incidence of “breast cancer
as a first cancer” (for instance). Thus, from the moment when a participant had a cancer
diagnosed at another location (e.g. colorectal cancer), she was no longer at risk of
developing breast cancer as a first cancer, i.e., she was not able to be registered as a “case”
for the studied outcome (=breast cancer as a first cancer). Thus, her follow-up ended at the
date of her cancer diagnosis and she contributed person-time to the model until this date, as
a non- case. This method is classically used in cancer epidemiological studies, such as the
large-scale European EPIC cohort (33) or the Nurse’s Health study (34).
Besides, as compared to the effective of the overall cohort, the number of cancer cases was
limited (2193 cases << 101257 subjects in the cohort). Thus, censoring or not the patients
who experienced cancer at other locations did not change the findings (e.g. for sugary drinks
and breast cancer, HR for an increase of 100 mL/d =1.12 (1.05 to 1.20) P=0.001, 809
cases/ 78915 non-cases).

We have added this result in the manuscript page 12 and some discussion and clarifications
in the methods page 9.
New comment: The risk of occurrence of a cancer diagnosis at a different location from the
site of interest is known as “competing risk” because it precludes the occurrence of the event
of interest (first cancer diagnosis at site of interest). In the case of non-informative
censoring, there is a direct correspondence between the effect of an explanatory variable on
the hazard of the primary event (i.e. the rate of the occurrence of the event in those still at
risk of the event) and the effect of the explanatory variable on the incidence (i.e. the
probability of the occurrence of the event). So that, if a change in the explanatory variable
increases the hazard of the occurrence of the event of interest, it also increases the
incidence of the event, although the magnitude of the two effects may not be the same.
Therefore, one can make inferences on the direction of the effect of an explanatory variable
on the incidence by looking at the direction of the effect of the explanatory variable on the
hazard of the event. However, this correspondence does not hold in the presence of
competing risks. It is therefore incorrect to make inferences on the incidence of the event
based on the Cox proportional hazards regression model in this context. The authors appear
to have modelled the “cause-specific” hazard function, which allows inferential statements on
the rate of the event of interest but not the incidence. I recommend that they clarify and
correct their approach.
Original comment 8: Finally a minor comment. STROBE guidelines for reporting
observational studies advise against presenting P-values in the Table of patient
characteristics.
Authors Response: As requested, p-values were removed from table 1.
New comment: I suggest to delete reference to the corresponding hypotheses tests in the
Statistical analysis section, specifically: “We analysed differences in participants’ baseline
characteristics across categories of sugary drinks consumption, using analysis of variance or
X^2 tests where appropriate”
Further comments:
1. The authors’ statement in the Statistical analysis: “Log-log (survival) vs log-time plots
were generated in order to confirm Cox’s risk proportionality assumption (appendix 5)” is
neither supported by the plot in Appendix 5 (curves cross) nor discussed in the Results
section.
2. There are repeated paragraphs in the “Data collection” and “Beverage consumption”
sections.
3. “drink” is misspelt (“dink”) several times in the manuscript
