
The authors conduct an extremely comprehensive evaluation of spending, utilization, and quality of care
– both in levels and in trends – in the UK NHS and nine other comparable health care systems. The data
presented are timely and the questions being asked are important. The study, as it stands, is framed as
an evaluation of the UK vs other countries with respect to a broad range of health care utilization and
spending metrics, motivated largely by concerns about quality of care changes in the NHS with recent
efforts to improve efficiency. Given how comprehensive the analysis is, it could easily have been framed
as a systematic assessment of costs and quality of care across 10 developed health care systems, many
of which are considered to be models of how health care can be delivered (or shouldn’t be delivered).
There is a lot of information in the manuscript, which I think serves two purposes. First, it paints a
comprehensive picture of a difficult question and the answers are mixed. The UK does have lower levels
of spending than other comparable countries but outcomes, in many instances, seem to be worse, at
least in recent years. That said, patient experience (and physician experience) are reported to be higher.
Second, I think that the study will be a useful resource for scholars and those in the public that are
interested in rigorous evaluations of costs of care and quality of care across international health
systems. From a methods perspective, I have nothing to add. The study is descriptive and it
encompasses a wide range of health care metrics, including spending, structure (doctors, nurses,
hospitals, long term care), utilization, and a host of quality and population health outcomes.
The paper is already lengthy and detailed but perhaps some discussion of why spending is lower in the
UK might be helpful. The authors have already studied the role of prices as a key driver of lower
spending in some of the health systems analyzed. Tying in the current work to that prior impactful work,
if even briefly, might be worth while.
A brief discussion of how risk adjustment is performed in these analyses might be helpful as well since
the populations are different across countries.
I was surprised that rates of doctor dissatisfaction with their income is so high – that probably merits
another investigation but it caught my eye! Related to this point, my outside observer view was that
there have been concerns raised by the UK physician work force on work hours, physician experience,
etc. but nonetheless those seem to be quite good in the UK, including lower levels of dissatisfaction with
income.
One modest recommendation given the large number of results in the paper would be to provide a single
schematic of exactly which areas the UK over-, under- or similarly performs with other countries. For
those readers who are interested in the top-line comparison, a single place to identify this information in
the manuscript would be helpful.
Lastly, the authors note that more resources by the NHS may be required to improve outcomes to those
of comparator nations. Any sense of what the cost effectiveness of that incremental spending would be?
I.e., how much more and how much better health outcomes and whether by standard cost effectiveness
estimates that would be worthwhile?