This well written paper summarizes reports to China’s National Notifiable Infectious Disease
Surveillance System (NNIDSS) on students, ages 6 to 22 years, for the decade 2008-2017.
The manuscript provides valuable information on trends of notifiable infectious diseases
among children and some adolescents, highlighting many successes and remaining

challenges. Extensive analyses were conducted on the few demographic factors routinely
collected (e.g., age, sex, region of residence, year). While infection-specific analyses,
particularly trends, are valuable, comparisons of different infections appears problematic
given the different probabilities of being reported. Validity of mortality data also appears
variable.
The manuscript provides access to comprehensive data on notifiable diseases for a seventh
of the world’s school-age children. The NNIDS was expanded and standardized prior to the
decade summarized, providing reasonable ability to monitor treads for some reported
diseases. It would help to add the date laboratory tests changed (in bold) to the laboratory
information. Similarly, if the other definitions changed (epidemiology or clinical), those dates
should appear in bold also. These dates will aid readers on changes in methods that might
impact trends over time.
While descriptive analyses of individual infections may be interesting, comparison of
incidence rates need to be done with caution and limited to those that make sense. For
example, comparison of measles and mumps incidence is interesting because underreporting
likely makes the true difference larger. Such a comparison provides insight into the
disadvantage of using measles-only or measles-rubella vaccines as compared to MMR
vaccines. If mumps has occurred among children vaccinated, then investigation of vaccine
failure may be initiated. As the authors noted, public health is working on improving mumps
vaccine coverage.
Comparison of some infections’ frequencies lack logic because of substantial differential
probabilities of reporting. The vast majority of gastrointestinal infections are not reported
because children infected are cared for at home. Higher rates in some areas may result for
more testing due to availability of laboratory support or academic interest. Reasons for
testing include disease severity, outbreak investigation, failed initial treatment, treated at a
sentinel site, research studies etc. Understanding trends of gastrointestinal infections over
time may be possible, comparing infection rates of gastrointestinal infections with other
types of infections may not be meaningful.
The validity of mortality data is unclear. Clearly the number of reported seasonal influenza
cases is grossly underestimated. This is not a problem unless the case numbers are treated
as a good estimate of actual incidence. The report that no deaths occurred among 6 to 22
year olds in 2008 or 2017 is unlikely. In the US, 378 (rate ~12/100,000py) children ages 5
to 17 years died from influenza-associated conditions during 2010-2016. Children die
annually from influenza in the US and Europe; it is unlikely the rate is zero in China. Thus, it
appears the NNIDS does not have valid data on mortality. It may be best to omit the
mortality data unless a supplemental source of mortality data is available to improve the
estimates.
In general, the manuscript would benefit from editing to provide insight into the realities of
passive disease surveillance. If surveillance methods are fairly consistent, the data provides
insights into trends over time – which are extremely interesting. The data may also provide
valuable insights into regional differences, however it should be carefully assessed for
differences in methods that may confound the comparisons.
Minor issues:
Some links to laboratory testing information resulted in pages that were not found.
Minor editing is needed for grammar.
Recommendations:
• Remove analyses that may be importantly confounded due to different probabilities of
reporting to NNIDS.

• When editing the text, use the more modest language used when discussing passive
surveillance data.
• Assess the validity of mortality data. For diseases where it is clearly a gross underestimate,
remove the zero and provide a footnote.
