Thanks for asking me to review this interesting paper. It belongs to the family of studies
using Medicare data to assess trends in hospitalisation patterns, trends and outcomes in
patients with heart failure, pneumonia and myocardial infarction after the introduction of
the CMS medical admissions reduction programme and/or before it. This is a highly topical,
if not polarised, area of research. As a health services / health policy research not
based/working in the US, and focusing on the healthcare epidemiology of cancer (as
opposed to that of heart failure, myocardial infarction or pneumonia) I feel I can offer a
dispassionate view. I have the following comments:
1. Contextualising the study, and its findings with regard to other research: This is key,
and currently very much missing. With regard to outcomes and study era, the authors look
essentially at 3 HRRP conditions X 4 outcomes for each one, post-discharge mortality,
readmission, ‘ED visit’, and ‘observation stay’. I note that the recently published BMJ paper
(post submission fo this paper) by Wadhera et al.
https://www.bmj.com/content/366/bmj.l4563.long also covered the 3 of these outcomes
(i.e. not including mortality) and reported similar findings – although it relates to study
period 2012-2015 (for some reason that is not clear in the published paper), whereas the
present study under review covers 2008-2016. Regarding post-discharge mortality for the
3 HRRP conditions, another study published in 2018 also first-authored by Wadhera,
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30575880 did look at 30-day mortality and reports
similar findings with those in the study under review with regard to heart failure
(increasing over time) and myocardial infarction (no increase) but also reports increased
trends in mortality for pneumonia, noting that that Wadhera study (unlike the recent BMJ
one) covered 2005-2015 (not 2008-2016). There are of course other studies (including by
the Group of authors of the study under review), but without doing a full systematic
review, this sample of 2 prior studies serves to illustrate that the objective dispassionate
reader has no means of establishing what is the state of play / evidence in the field, and in
what way this study is different in terms of design, and whether its findings
concordant/discordant to previous evidence, and if so why. I could not find a ‘what this
study adds’ section, at least in the files that were downloadable, which would have been
very useful, also the Discussion includes no explicit methodological or empirical findings
comparisons with prior literature, nor reflections in that vein. Basically, the objective
reader has no means of assessing the importance of this study and its findings (and also
any potential comparative strengths and weakness of this vs prior studies and vice versa).
One worries about selective of different study period (by this and other research groups) to
assess trends. PS: I wonder if the BMJ or policy fora could insist on a minimum
methodological consensus with regard to this and other features of research in this field,
including time period studied and data item definitions and analysis methods.
2. As typically the case for Medicare healthcare epidemiology studies (by many other US
health services research / policy groups; a lot of this research published in the BMJ) I find
the description of how outcomes and exposure defined very inadequate – as mentioned,
this is a problem with this ‘research sector’, not only with this paper (though the issue is
relevant to the paper under review), and one where Editorial policies, e.g. by BMJ and
JAMA, can have a great beneficial influence. Is there a published data source profile for the
data contained in Medicare Standard Analytic File – akin for example to profiles for HES

(e.g. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28338941 ) or CPRD (e.g.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26050254 and
https://academic.oup.com/ije/advance-article/doi/10.1093/ije/dyz034/5374844 ) in the UK
that can be cited? How the main exposures of interest (heart failure, myocardial infarction,
and pneumonia) were defined is not clear to the reader. Re outcomes of interest (‘revenue’
codes are mentioned, endorsed by the QF, which is good, but how these codes perform in
practice is unknown – is there any audit / independent validation of quality / consistency in
coding of such events? For ascertaining mortality, the authors used ‘Medical denominator
files’ – is there any primary literature specifying the fitness of this source for accurate/
complete mortality follow-up? Incidentally, related to transparency of methods, I think the
CONSORT file was very superficially engaged with, and I would have hoped for a much
more detailed and reflective completion.
3. Potential confounding due to secular changes in case-mix severity is a concern. This can
be both because the ‘index condition’ severity in the average patient (i.e. the average
patient with pneumonia, myocardial infarction, and heart failure) changes over time
(including changes in mean age of onset), or because of changes in (unrelated to the index
condition(s)) comorbidity burden. The authors state: “Given potential changes in coding of
risk adjustment over time, we present unadjusted rates of acute care use and patient
outcomes over time.” OK, so how bad are these artifactual secular changes in coding, do
we know? Even if they are terrible to the degree that makes adjustment impossible, this is
a very consequential statement / decision, and essentially assumes that there are no
secular trends in disease severity or comorbidity case-mix severity, both of which are
strong assumptions unlikely to be true. At a minimum, I would have expected some
descriptive statistics about the patient characteristics of admitted patients with these
conditions over time (surely age / race / income – if available, are fairly immune to secular
trends in reclassification / recoding bias); ideally with information on major comorbidities
too, acknowledging that coding practice changes may have occurred (but at least we have
the data to see).
4. Acknowledging the problem I have with understanding ‘priors’ (let’s pretend that there is
no prior literature, see 1 above), assuming that the data are valid (which indeed the may
well be, but we want more methodological transparency, see 2 above), and that there have
been no secular trends in disease / comorbidity severity (see 3 above) one can focus on
interpreting the findings at face value. They seem to:
a) overall giving us a picture of (measurable but subtle, when it comes to effect size)
changes in how post-acute admission care for patients with the 3 HRRP conditions is
organised, with emphasis on readmission reduction, which partly compensated by increase
in hospital use not resulting in admission.
b) 1 of 3 conditions is associated with progressively worse post-discharge mortality, 2/3
are not. I do however accept the authors assertion / interpretation that the trends of
deteriorating mortality for HF have started before HRRP implementation, though we are not
wise as to what the authors thing is going on. Relatedly, a recent BMJ study from UK
primary care electronic health records is of interest – shows progressive improvement
(though modest) in HF mortality outcomes during 2000-2017 (though, the studies are not
necessarily comparable, due to study design, follow-up being different, and also
case-finding is not post-hospital discharge but from primary care records). I think the
authors ought to come up with some, even speculative / postulating, hypotheses.
5. I found the following section of the results very pertinent and reassuring (as the authors’
also indicate) with regard to the the introduction of HRRP not being associated with
alarming changes in patterns / outcomes of healthcare management:
“The overall post-discharge 30-day mortality was 8.7% for heart failure, 7.3% for AMI, and
8.4% for pneumonia. Post-discharge 30-day mortality was higher in those with
readmissions (13.2% in heart failure, 12.7% for AMI, and 15.3% for pneumonia),
compared with patients with observation stays (4.5% in heart failure, 2.7% for AMI, and

4.6% for pneumonia), or ED visits (9.7% in heart failure, 8.8% for AMI, and 7.8% for
pneumonia), or no post-discharge acute care (7.2% in heart failure, 6.0% for AMI, and
6.9% for pneumonia).“ Also the paragraph subsequent to it. I agree with the authors
interpretation of these patterns.
6. I like the figures, particularly that all 4 outcomes of interest are included in the same
figure convention, and trends for all 4 are present on the same scale. Incidentally, this is a
problem I have had with some of the figures in the recently published Wadhera 2019 BMJ
paper.
7. I could not see any reflection on the issue of multiple readmissions / multiple ED visit,
etc. during the post-discharge period, i.e. my understanding is that what we see relates to
the 'first' such events. Also, what happens when a patient has more than 1 of the 4
outcomes of interest - e.g. at the limit there will be a small group of patients that will
experience an ED visit, a short stay, an admission and a death all within 30 days
post-discharge.
8. I found Tables 1-3 useful, and the continuation of follow-up to 31-90 days a useful
addition to the literature (from my understanding, which is imperfect) in this field.
9. Concluding my review, all in all I think this is a useful and potentially consequential
study, although improvements to accommodate context / comparison with literature,
methodological transparency (to make the study potentially replicable by independent
researchers) and description of the evolution of potential confounders over time would be
important. With regard to interpretation, my own is that the findings are consistent with
the introduction of HRRP being associated with reductions in the main outcome of interest
(readmissions), with some partial compensatory impact on non-inpatient hospital service
use (which may be a bad thing or a good thing, depending on view point, patient and payer
preferences and costs), and little in the way of impacting mortality trends. The latter seem
to be following their 'own' trajectory driven by disease factors which are not (at least given
these data) notably interfered by the HRRP introduction / implementation, either positively
or negatively.
