Statistical Peer Review 033419
The manuscript reports findings from the implementation of the RHD screening for anti-D immunoglobulin prophylaxis
in the Netherlands. The manuscript reports on both the accuracy of the test, and its uptake when used in the
screening programme.
1. The science of the study probably is sound, but its reporting is poor. Although the authors submitted the manuscript
accompanied by the STARD checklist, the check list is not completed and many aspects of it are not adhered to in the
report. I would suggest that the authors careful consider each point in the checklist, ensure that the manuscript is
revised to address it, and indicate on the resubmitted checklist where the point is made.
Some examples:
a. The title does not comply (item 1)
b. It is not stated whether this is a prospective or retrospective study and whether there was a protocol (item 5) (a
link to the protocol would be even better)
c. The eligibility criteria could be clearer as to how eligible women are identified (item 7)
d. Nowhere is the manuscript clear that serological cord blood typing is the reference standard, or justify this to be a
good choice (items 10b and 11).
e. There is no comment on the blinding of test results (item 13)
f. There is no explanation of how measures of accuracy and associated confidence intervals are calculated (item 14).
g. There is no justification for the sample size (item 18)
h. There is no cross-tabulation of the index and reference tests (item 23). The information to create this is presented
in Figure 1, but the numbers in the text are inadequate to recreate the data.
i. The authors do not report the positive predictive value when they do report the negative predictive value (item 24)
2. The biggest weakness in the study is the failure to obtain cord blood from 20% of participants, who are therefore
left out of the analysis. A full analysis and explanation of the impact of this missing data is warranted, particularly
seeing that there is a hint that it is related to status. Also Page 12 – paragraph 3 – the percentages receiving cord
blood by RHD group (37.8% and 40.6%) seem very different from the percentage providing cord blood overall (80%).
I suspect that these have been computed using the overall total rather than the totals in each group.
3. The abstract implies that the comparisons were made on 32,222 participants, rather than the 25,789 who provided
both index test and reference standard samples.
4. The abstract also presents figures and percentages for false negatives and false positives. It is not clear what these
percentage values are (what is the denominator?)
5. There is no comment on the observed prevalence of the condition. As predictive values depend on prevalence, it

would be helpful to know who this prevalence is known to vary between countries which may affect the performance of
the test.
6. I am not convinced that Table 1 will be of interest to BMJ readers and might sit better in the supplementary
information.
7. Tradition is that Table 1 in a study report gives basic descriptive information about the study participants to allow
readers to judge the applicability of the study to other settings. This is a good tradition! However, this is completely
absent in this report.