Thank you for inviting me to review this research article addressing a very important topic,
arrhythmogenic effects of fluoroquinolone antibiotics. The authors determined the occurrence of serious
arrhythmia (i.e., a diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia, ventricular flutter, cardiac arrest, or sudden
death, in an emergency ward or hospital, or recorded as a cause of death) in a propensity-score matched
sample of adult outpatient users of fluoroquinolones or penicillin V. The data sources were the national
health databases for Denmark (1997-2011) and Sweden (2006-2013). The authors properly focused on
the seven days following the prescription (defined as the period of current use). They found 144 events
among 1.8 million subjects, with a rate ratio of 0.85 (95% CI 0.61-1.18) for fluoroquinolones versus
penicillin V. For unclear reasons, the rate ratio in the younger subgroup of subjects showed a protective
effect of fluoroquinolones.
The article is well-written. I agree with the authors that this study has a number of strengths (including
large sample size, use of a comparator antibiotic lacking arrhythmogenicity, use of propensity score
matching to reduce confounding, and availability of comprehensive data from the Danish and Swedish
databases). However, I have some concerns about the design and the interpretation of the results that I
believe should be addressed to make the paper stronger.
Major comments:
1. The indication for the antibiotic was not accounted for in the analysis. The authors acknowledge this
limitation, but I am concerned that lack of similarity in indications between the two groups could have
affected the rate ratio. Specifically, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease has been associated with
ventricular arrhythmias (Konecny et al., Am J Cardiol 2014; 114:227e277), and pneumonia has been
associated with cardiac events (Corrales-Medina et al., Circulation 2012;125:773-81). So an imbalance in

the proportion of subjects with those indications in particular might influence the rate ratio.
2. The results reflect almost entirely a sample of ciprofloxacin users (82.6% of the fluoroquinolone
users), which the authors correctly acknowledge in the text. However, the authors have generalized their
findings to fluoroquinolones as a class. This limitation would be made more explicit by a subgroup
analysis showing results for specific fluoroquinolone compounds; one suspects the study is powered
adequately only for ciprofloxacin. In this regard, it is interesting to note that in two previous studies (Ray
et al., reference 24, and Chou et al., reference 11), ciprofloxacin was also not associated with
cardiovascular risks. One might even say that the null result in this study, rather than being in conflict
with previous studies, matches previous results regarding ciprofloxacin.
3. There was no examination of medical charts to validate the outcomes. The authors concede that the
specific outcome used in this study has never been validated, though other cardiovascular outcomes
apparently have been. Validity is less of a concern in a study showing a positive association, but more of
a concern when the study finds no association, because nondifferential misclassification of outcomes will
bias the risk estimate towards the null. To support a conclusion of an absence of risk, therefore, requires
a strong case for the validity of the outcome, or perhaps a simultaneous demonstration of an association
for a comparator known to have the effect (i.e., a positive control).
Additional comments:
1. There were differences in use between the two countries; the ratio of penicillin V courses to
fluoroquinolone courses was about 10:1 in Denmark but less than 3:1 in Sweden. I recommend that
country be added to Table 1 so the reader can see if there were imbalances that persisted despite the
propensity score matching.
2. On page 14, the authors state that there is no clear correlation between degree of QT prolongation
and risk of torsades de pointes. An example of such a correlation may be found in the US prescribing
information for sotalol (see
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2009/022306s000lbl.pdf, Table 1, which shows
the incidence of torsades de pointes by dose and QTc).
3. While the authors correctly state (page 13, line 42) that in the Ray study (reference 24), levofloxacin
did not show a statistically significant risk for cardiovascular death versus amoxicillin, the estimated
hazard ratio was 1.99 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.93-4.23, suggesting the issue could have been
statistical power rather than lack of an effect.
4. The authors note that in the Chou et al. study (reference 11), the persistence of an elevated risk with
moxifloxacin over 30 days undermines the validity of the risk found over 7 days; however, in that 30 day
follow-up analysis, the mean time to event for moxifloxacin was 9 days, suggesting the events were
concentrated towards the beginning of the 30 days.
