Is the article important?
Yes
Feed the Future has driven the global agenda on food security, leveraging investment from
country governments, the private sector and other donors. The Feed the Future (FTF)
initiative focuses on two priorities in the quest to promote food security: reducing poverty
among smallholder farmers and improving the nutritional status of women and children.
Feed the Future “aim[s] to strengthen the links between agriculture and improved nutrition
outcomes” and promote “nutrition-sensitive” agriculture.
The difference-in-differences design is a quasi-experimental method that relies on the
assumption that, in the absence of any intervention, countries receiving Feed the Future
funding would have identical nutritional trends in outcomes as non-recipient countries This
approach attempts to account for selection bias under the assumption that unobservable
factors determining selection are fixed over time (time invariant).
Will it help our readers to make better decisions and, if so, how?

Impact evaluation helps answer key questions for evidence-based policy making: what
works, what does not, where, why and for how much? Impact evaluation is being
increasingly applied to health programme assessment. This paper does not address the
individual practitioner, but on the value of an important global programme
Will the article add enough to existing knowledge?
Multiple systematic reviews have concluded that evidence to support a direct relationship
between agricultural interventions and improved nutritional status is weak. Little evidence
has been found of a positive effect on the prevalence of stunting, wasting, and underweight
among children aged under 5. However, the reviews indicate that this conclusion may be
the result of methodological weaknesses, including small sample sizes and absence of
counterfactual groups, rather than inherent weaknesses of programmes and their lack of
impact.
Information on the impacts of Feed the Future are limited, and there is noticeably little
independent analysis of the initiative.
Does the article read well and make sense? Does it have a clear message?
The article is difficult to read. It presents statistical concepts in a way that may challenge
the ordinary reader. While its message is clear, the implications of the message are
inadequately explored.
Originality.
This type of analysis for the issue under consideration has not been previously attempted.
Importance of the work to general readers
Moderate
Scientific reliability:
1. Critical detail of the Feed the Future programme needs to be provided in the
Methodology section including:
a) Its introduction and implementation (date, countries involved, components, etc.).
b) What country selection for FTF was based on, and how well these criteria explain
country selection (based on your analysis).
c) How control countries were selected, and why the choice was appropriate.
d) Exposure to FTF within countries, including the concept of “Zones of Influence”
2. Explain how anthropometric outcomes were measured in the original data sources (DHC
and MICS), including who collected primary data, how reliability was assessed and what
data quality management was done. “We calculated z-scores and excluded implausible
observations based on WHO criteria [22].” Also indicate what form the original data was in
(e.g. absolute weights, heights), what tool you used to calculate z-scores and why you
needed to further manage data quality.
3. The statistical analysis is presented in a complicated (statistical) manner that I believe
makes it difficult for the average journal reader to follow. I believe it can be improved by
removing the “statistical language” and explaining (simply):
a) In ordinary language (text) what was done without depending on presenting equations.
b) What each regression model included and/or added and controlled (when relevant).
(Describe this briefly in the Methods section and in detail in the appendix).
c) Why and how the “parallel trends” assumption was tested.
d) The different sensitivity analyses undertaken and the reason for doing each.
e) The need for “sample weights and estimated robust standard errors clustered at the
level of strata”.
f) Falsification tests
g) The qualitative review undertaken, including why it was necessary.
4. Information on non-primary database co-variates utilised in the analysis needs to be
provided. Provide a summary list. Include why each was used, the data source and
categorisation (if relevant). These include: ”GNI”, governance, life expectancy and “Nut. +

Ag. ODA p.c.”, domestic health expenditure per capita, total ODA. Some variates need
explanation, such as “rainy month”.
5. The results section is relatively short, and truncated, with the reader referred to the
appendix for data (tables and figures). I would have liked a clearer and longer description
of the various statistical techniques used and their contribution to the results to have been
offered. Similarly, some figures offered as eFigures (1 and 2) could be moved to the main
section, while Table 1 could be relegated to the supplementary appendix. Is there a reason
why a summary of post FTF trends are not demonstrated graphically?
6. “Our estimated effect sizes correspond to approximately one million fewer stunted,
wasted, and underweight children.” Where are the actual numbers on which this estimate
is based presented in the paper (or appendix)? Further you state “Notably, while USG’s
evaluation concludes that FTF has prevented 3.4 million children from becoming stunted,
our estimated impact of around 1 million fewer children stunted, while substantial, is much
smaller.” Is this not partly explained by the fact that the US government is referring to its
global programme while you only focussed on sub-Saharan African countries?
7. “We find compelling evidence that a multi-sectorial program focused predominantly on
agriculture is linked to significant improvements in child nutrition indicators within five to
six years after the full rollout of the program. This result has important implications for
country governments and global development partners in low- and middle-income
countries.” This statement raises various issues that are inadequately discussed:
a. How significant is a 2.4 percentage point stunting, 1.7 percentage point wasting and 2.4
percentage points underweight reduction, six years after introduction?
i. You do not answer this question. Most would consider this to be a small effect,
particularly if annualised to an annual absolute increase of about 0.4%. In your concluding
paragraph you offer a different and more realistic interpretation of your results indicating
“Based on our analysis, FTF may be helping to move the needle, but its impact alone will
not be enough to meet these (SDG) targets”. I would expect a significant amount of your
discussion contextualising this main finding, comparing it to, for instance, single country
experiences (such as Brazil) and the results of systematic reviews, and reflecting on just
how important the difference is.
ii. You did not consider programme cost in your analysis, but any data on this (which I
recognise is difficult to obtain) would also assist in assessing programme benefit.
iii. The relative percentage distribution of change is also worth some reflection. A previous
meta-analysis found relatively greater success of agricultural interventions in reducing the
prevalence of underweight and wasting compared with stunting. You found differently.
b. The implementation period(s) are not explicitly stated in the paper.
c. What are the implications of the findings for the FTF, individual countries and other
partners?
i. You offer hypothesis of why the programme was “effective”, but cannot relate any of
these to actual programme implementation, instead offering theoretical considerations. A
well-designed impact evaluation can answer questions about program design: which bits
work and which bits do not, and so provide policy-relevant information for redesign and the
design of future programs.
ii. Can you offer any insights about how the results achieved may have been attained? You
statement that “The specific pathways of FTF’s estimated impacts are challenging to isolate
both because its activities vary by country and because the pathways connecting
agriculture and nutrition are complex [40]” is valid, but ultimately unsatisfactory because it
does not offer the reader any new insights about the implications of your findings.
iii. It seems worthwhile to assess how Feed the Future performs against its stated objective
of offering a new approach to food security. It would be useful to examine how agriculture
and food security fit within the broader context of development policy.
8. “We find that stunting results lose significance at p<0.05 when total ODA or
country-level health expenditure are included as covariates in the regression”. This finding,
first presented in the Discussion, is important. Why was it not included in the results
section? How important is this finding?
9. You should summarise the strengths of your study and present these.
10. Regarding your described limitations:

a. While unable to characterise the “zone of influence” with any precision can you offer any
insights about what percentage of each country was covered (as a minimum)? Better still
would be some data on which areas were covered. In the absence of this, is it reasonable
to claim country effectiveness if, for instance, only 10 to 20% of a country was covered?
Attribution will always be difficult. I do not suggest that Feed the Future should not get
some credit for these results. But data that cannot be traced to Feed the Future’s activities
are inadequate for a robust assessment of the initiative.
b. You should also acknowledge the limitations of the difference in differences
methodology, particularly the influence of unexplored confounders such as government
effectiveness, political stability, corruption measures, commitment of a country’s own
resources or falling disease burden - from malaria prevention and treatment , for instance,
which has shown signicant benet in reducing stunting in regions with high malarial
burden).
c. The limited data availability of the FTF programme, reducing your ability to make
meaningful interpretation of your data.
11. Summary box
a. The messages need to be shorter and sharper.
b. The messages need to be more specific to the purpose and findings of the study.
c. Add detail of primary outcome and implication of findings.
12. The Introduction is too long. First two paragraphs are superfluous and can be
substantially reduced or removed completely.
13. Presentation of tables and figures needs to be improved. Include full headings, list of
abbreviations, data sources and notes.
Minor corrections
Page, line Text Edit
1,7 Impact of a Large U.S. Government Nutrition Program on
Under-5 Nutrition in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Difference-inDifferences Evaluation of Feed the Future Impact of Feed the Future, a Large U.S.
Government Nutrition Program, on Under-5 Nutrition in Sub-Saharan Africa: A
Difference-in-Differences Evaluation
3,35 Wasting (low weight-for-height) Wasting (weight-for-height < -2 z-score)
3,35 Underweight (low weight-for-age) underweight (weight-for-age < -2 z-score)
3,40 39% Thirty nine per cent
39% of children in our sample were stunted, 10% were wasted, and 23% were
underweight. At baseline? If yes, indicate this.
3,41 Indicate number of intervention and number of control countries
3,44 2.4 (0.6 to 4.2) Are these 95% confidence intervals? If yes, indicate this.
3,50 … after Feed the Future’s implementation Indicate period (years) over which this
decline occurred
These decreases translate to approximately one million fewer children stunted, wasted, and
underweight. Unsure how this statistic obtained, considering different reduction rates. Is
this an “and” or an “or” (i.e. were children with combinations counted twice/thrice?)
4,3 Conclusion Conclusion needs to be sharper, stronger and more specific
5,8 accounting for an estimated 5.6 million deaths (5,000 each day) in 2016 [2] This fact is
incorrect and cannot be found in the cited reference
5,21 The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations places its worldwide
economic cost at up to 2.1 trillion dollars annually [5] Cost of what?
5,26 direct causes of undernutrition Suggest include infection in this list
6,39 While FTF is in its eighth year, Indicate year (in 2018)
9,18 omission of some covariates that which could plausibly be affected by FT
9, 55 15 Stata Stata 15
18,32 We therefore reason that our analytical approach would threatened We therefore
reason that our analytical approach would be threatened
18,56 USG’s Unfamiliar abbreviation

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Haroon Saloojee
Job Title: Head, Division of Community Paediatrics
Institution: University of the Witwatersrand
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here: None

Reviewer: 4
Recommendation:
