This is a well written and informative meta-analysis, addressing an issue of global public
health importance regarding suicide prevention. The authors are world leaders in the field
and many have published extensively (and authored previous, less substantial, reviews) on
the association of media reporting of celebrity and other suicide deaths with subsequent
suicides. The authors comprehensively investigate factors contributing to the very marked
variations in effect sizes.
Arguably, given the heterogenous nature of the exposure (i.e. different volumes of reporting
/ different levels of popularity of the celebrity) and likely publication bias, a single
meta-analytic effect size is misleading, because such factors will influence the impact of
individual reports / likelihood of publishing. Systematic review methodologists may baulk at
this summary measure, but from a policy and communication perspective, giving a ball-park
estimates of effect is helpful (but see reservations about the basis for this estimate below).
The paper is likely to widely cited and make a key contribution to national and international
policy positions on this issue.
Major comments
1. In generating their summary effect estimates for the impact of reporting on total (all
method) suicides, it is unclear how the authors extrapolated effect estimates from studies of
method-specific suicide rates (e.g. from those studies reporting on suicides by burning
(Ashton), plastic bag asphyxiation (Marzuk), rail (Ladwig) and gassing (Chang / Chen and

others)) to total suicides. This is particularly important when some methods comprise a
small proportion of total suicides and so a large increase in method specific rates may
translate into a small increase in overall rates. The key issue addressed in the abstract / key
points is impact on TOTAL suicides, and this may be considerably less than the impact on
method-specific rates. I recommend the authors restrict their summary estimate of reporting
effects to studies at low risk of bias which present data on overall suicides, rather than
suicides by specific methods (the latter could be given as a secondary analysis).
2. I struggled to work out the basis for the statement that the number of deaths increase by
50-80% (see summary box / discussion) in the month following reporting. A figure of 49% is
given in the abstract. It would be helpful if the workings for this assessment were clarified.
My general feeling was that the overall summary effect estimate based on high quality
studies alone (1.09 (1.06,1.13) was most plausible.
3. The third quality criterion focuses on adjustment for time effects. Could the authors be
more explicit? As well as temporal (year on year) trends/variations in suicide rates, there are
seasonal variations in incidence. For this reason before/after studies may be confounded by
seasonal differences as well as secular trends. One approach for addressing this is to
compare rates at the same time of year in previous and subsequent years. Was this
assessed as part of the quality indicator? Use of a binary yes/no classification may
over-simplify quite complex analytic issues. It would be helpful to know how the indicator
was operationalised.
4. At least three mechanisms probably underlie rises in suicide associated with news
reporting…. – a) over-identification with the deceased; b) the death of a celebrity making
suicide seem a more acceptable option and c) the introduction into a “susceptible” population
of a novel method of suicide. The first two may lead to short term rises into suicide,
whereas the third may have a long-term influence (e.g. following reports of suicides by
burning barbecue charcoal in East Asia). A brief discussion about possible mechanisms in the
discussion might be informative for a general readership unfamiliar with the literature in this
area.
Minor comments:
1. I’d suggest re-phrasing the title of the paper to ensure the focus (reporting of celebrity
and other individual suicides) of the review is clear.
2. Some of the authors have previously written about the “Papageno effect” – whereby
reporting of some sorts of suicide, may lead to reductions in suicide. A brief comment on
findings in relation to this might strengthen the paper. It’s noteworthy such effects were not
included in the search strategy.
3. Summary box – the first bullet “Current suicide prevention plans…” feels a little vague –
the authors might re-phrase “National and international suicide prevention policies
recommend….”
4. Abstract, conclusions – please define “high profile” reporting.
5. Introduction -sentences 1-2 “news reporting on the topic of suicide” “media reports on
suicide” I wonder if this may confuse a general reader by conflating different types of
reporting. Some of the increase in suicide reporting is due to a rise in the number of
documentaries about suicide / general interest stories and my understanding is that
evidence for a harmful effect of these is limited.
6. Introduction: end of para 3 – suggest clarify the distinction between news and information
media. Search terms do not include some on-line media (e.g. “Internet” or “web”), so it’s
unclear whether this was a focus (although on-line media was included in the data
extraction).
7. Methods: please clarify why “film” and “movie” were included in the search strategy for a
study of real-life events.
8. Methods – please clarify whether a second reviewer was involved in data extraction / how
issues of non-agreement between reviewers were resolved.
9. Methods: study selection – “we also excluded publications that examined the effect of
introducing media guidelines…” please clarify why this exclusion was necessary; such
studies may be unlikely to report on specific suicides.

10. Methods: could the authors give a definition of a “non-celebrity” suicide and perhaps
describe the circumstances when these are widely reported (I guess largely in the context of
their use of unusual methods or in relation to political protest e.g. Ashton’s studies of suicide
by burning).
11. The terms “risk ratios” and “rate ratios” are used interchangeably in the text and figures,
I’d suggest using one or other term throughout
12. I was curious to know the effect estimates for reports of suicide attempts - is it possible
for the authors to provide this (albeit based on a small number of studies).
13. Discussion: I wonder whether the term ‘sensationalist’ sufficiently captures the nature of
reporting associated with adverse effects on suicide. Alternative terms might be
“romanticised” or “glamourised” depictions – sensationalised might cover negative or
positive aspects of the report. Stack’s (2005) review indicate that stories marked by strong
negative definitions of suicide were less likely to lead to imitative suicides.
14. Table 1 – please could the authors add the number (n=) of studies falling into each
category used in the meta-regression.
15. Ref 33 – year range in paper title should be 2007 to 2011 (not 2001)
