This is a well-written paper. However, the conclusion must be revised.
While no one would argue against the benefits of flexible insulin or the importance of adequate training in flexible insulin
management, your conclusion is compromised by the fact that the MDI subjects used the Accu-Chek Expert meter with
integrated automated bolus calculation feature. As demonstrated in the ABACUS study (Ziegler R, et al. 2013), use of a meter
with this feature in MDI patients is superior to use of a traditional meter. It is quite likely that your results would have shown a
significantly greater glycemic benefit among subjects who used the Medtronic insulin pump (with Bolus Wizard) compared with
MDI-treated subjects who used a traditional, more common, blood glucose meter without an automated bolus advice function.
Therefore, a more accurate conclusion is required, such as: “Structured training led to clinically relevant and long-lasting
improvements in glycaemic control, rates of severe hypoglycaemia and psychological measures in subjects treated with either
insulin pumps with automated bolus calculator functions or MDI therapy in conjunction with a blood glucose meter that
provides automatic bolus calculation.” Otherwise, your conclusion is incomplete and misleading.
Additionally, your conclusion fails to account for differences in features provided by the various insulin pumps. Many of these
features, such as display size/readability, wireless remote control, interface with glucose monitoring devices, water resistance
and others, can potentially affect insulin pump usability and, ultimately, patient adherence to treatment. Whereas, other
features, such as basal increments, bolus delivery options (e.g., square-wave), algorithms used for calculating active insulin
can directly impact glycemic control. Moreover, the complexity of the insulin pump can be a major factor in training time and
the safe use of these devices. A recent comparison of two insulin pumps (Schaeffer NE, 2015) found significant differences in
the training time required and, most importantly, user-related errors. In short, one size did not fit all. Thus, the potential
benefits of insulin pump management may have been blunted by limiting subjects to the Medtronic insulin pump.
Both use of the Expert meter (vs. traditional meter) and use of a single brand of insulin pump should be included as important

limitations in the Discussion section.