This study addresses the relationship between maternal prepregnancy and gestational diabetes with
cardiovascular outcomes of offspring extending to 40 years of age. The authors found that both
prepregnancy diabetes were associated with CVD outcomes, and performed various sensitivity analyses
to support the message that the association is due to exposure to glucose during pregnancy.
General comments
- The article was mostly well written, but I have to be honest that I found the text confusing in several
spots.
- Study design. I think I understood the methodology, but was uncertain of certain issues, especially the
use of Poisson regression for a survival outcome. Why not use a time-to-event design using proportional
hazards models or accelerated failure time? This would allow the authors to produce hazard ratios
(which was what I originally expected to see). They could also test the proportional hazards
assumption. Also, I was uncertain of what the authors meant by “age of offspring and calendar period
were treated as time-varying variables”? These variables (ie age) should be in the time axis, no?
- Other question in the methods pertaining to the sibling design “comparing the outcome of each sibling
exposed to maternal diabetes with that of the unexposed sibling born to the same mother”. I assume
this analysis was performed mainly for gestational diabetes (since type 1 diabetes would not change
between pregnancies)? And if it pertains to gestational diabetes, could the authors explain more clearly
that this most likely refers to exposure in the second pregnancy, since gestational diabetes (and even
type 2 diabetes) are more common in older women who have greater parity.
- Methods “We also evaluated the sensitivity to the timing of both type 1 and type 2 diagnoses”. Not
sure I understand the meaning of this sentence. Both these disorders would normally be diagnosed
before pregnancy, no?
- p 9 line 56 onward – please clarify
- I felt that a subanalysis of different types of cardiovascular outcomes would lend strength to the
analysis.
- Discussion. The discussion focuses on the notion that glucose exposure during pregnancy is responsible
for the association between maternal DM and offspring CVD. The argument being that the sibship design
minimizes genetic and behavioural confounders. However, the sibship design is only possible in women
who have more than 1 pregnancy (multiparous women are generally healthier and would be more likely
to pass on positive genes). Women who were only pregnant once would be excluded from the sibship
design, but these women would presumably be most at risk of passing on poor genes. (plus there is an
inherent design issue described a few points above). For this reason, I feel the study conclusion should
be tempered by the inability to fully account for a genetic contribution. Also, comorbidities are much
more frequent in subsequent pregnancies, and I am not sure that the sibship design does a good job
accounting for this. In short, it seems highly likely that genetic or other factors play an important role in
the association of DM and CVD. I recommend that the authors consider this possibility and revisit their
discussion in light of these issues.