Bello and colleagues report a cross-sectional purposive survey examining global capacity to deliver ESKD
care. This builds on the widely acclaimed 2017 Global Kidney Health Atlas, which has been extensively
expanded to include several unique elements including data on Conservative Kidney Management.
These data are important and of broad interest.
1. P11, L22: Given that the referenced table 1 lists the world population as 7501.3 million (at least of
those countries with a World Bank Income Classification), should not L22-L23 read “…,…representing
97.8% (7338.5 million of 7501.3 million) of the world’s population…”. The percentage given in the
abstract and referred to on L31 of P22 should also be updated.
2. The surveys were completed by a wide range of stakeholders including member of scientific societies,
policy makers and advocacy groups, each of which would have a potentially different perspective. Can
authors provide any data as to the composition of the ultimate group of respondents, globally or by
region?
3. The manuscript provides point estimates of the various parameters examined. The measures taken to
help establish the validity of the data are well described in the methods and in the discussion but the
success of these measures is likely to have been variable. Can the authors provide any indication of the
perceived success of these measures and of the robustness of the data overall or by region, particularly
where there was only 1 or 2 survey respondents?
4. Similarly can the authors provide any indication of the extent of ambiguities or inconsistencies arising
from the surveys that had to be subsequently clarified by the Regional Board.
5. The survey has not forwarded to 36 countries (Table 1,) interestingly these countries appear to be
relatively evenly spread over different World Bank income categories, can authors provide any insight
into how they believe the non inclusion of these countries may have influenced the provided estimates.

6. Although the survey includes questions regarding the provision of pediatric services there is no
comment on this in the manuscript, I think some comment on this issue would be appropriate.

On a purely personal note I found it harder to distinguish between the color pallet used in Figure 1 of the
manuscript than for any of the e-figures, although this may simply be an issue with my computer (or
my eyesight).
Prof. Joe Eustace,
Director HRB Clinical Research Facility - University College Cork
Cork, Ireland
