Review of:
N
Review of:
Neuenschwander M, et al. "The role of diet in the prevention of type 2 diabetes: An
umbrella review of meta-analysis of prospective studies”
Submitted to the British Medical Journal
MS # BMJ.2018.045372
In this manuscript, Neuenschwander M and colleagues conducted an umbrella
review of meta-analysis to summarise the evidence of associations between dietary
factors and risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D).
The paper has the following strengths:
1.
2.
3.

Focus on an interesting and relevant question.
Aimed to evaluate the validity and quality of previous evidence.
Potential clinical and policy implications.

However, several issues have emerged from this approach and a number of
considerations need to be made.
1. There are significant inconsistencies between original data reported in included
meta-analysis and extracted data (Supplementary Tables 3,4,5,6). For example,
Imamura F, et al. BMJ 2015 conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to
examine the prospective associations between consumption of sugar sweetened
beverages, artificially sweetened beverages, and fruit juice with T2D. The original
study included data extracted from 17 cohorts (38 253 cases/10 126 754 person
years). Higher consumption of sugar sweetened beverages was associated with a
greater incidence of T2D, by 18% per one serving/day (95%CI: 9- 28, I2 for
heterogeneity=89%). Supplementary Table 4 shows that 14 studies were included
and the RR per one s/d of sugar sweetened beverages was 1.28 (95%CI 1.12-1.46).
Similar inconsistences have been detected in Lee & Park, et al. 2017 Nutrients or
Saneei, et al. Public Health Nutrition 2017 (or 2016).
2. Literature search was conducted in Medline and Web of Science. Examining other
sources of information such as Embase or Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
would be relevant for this umbrella review. In addition, it seems that relevant
systematic reviews and meta-analysis have not been included in this manuscript and
are not listed as excluded studies. Hu EA, et al (BMJ 2012). White rice consumption
and risk of type 2 diabetes: meta-analysis and systematic review.
3. A better description of exposure variables in the methods section would be
desirable. I am wondering whether it makes sense to report estimated effect sizes
for exposures that only include data from one single meta-analysis. To my
understanding, umbrella meta-analyses are useful for aggregating findings from
several meta-analyses that address the same question. Regarding to this, if the
exposure of interest is overall dietary pattern quality, it would make more sense to
combine results from different meta-analysis despite these meta-analyses used
different methods to define dietary quality (i.e., HEI, AHEI, MedDiet, DASH). The
number of meta-analysis included for each exposure would be very informative as
well as the proportion of heterogeneity explained by study size.
4. Are included studies restricted to European descent individuals? In addition,
average age and sex of included studies should be presented to investigate whether
combined estimates are modified by demographic characteristics.
5. Given the relevance of alcohol intake on health outcomes, I would suggest to
provide evidence on the association between alcohol intake and T2D risk.
6. Patient involvement statement is missing.
