The paper is very relevant and useful to patients/carers and beyond. As it is beneficial health
outcomes to the family too. It is timely and addresses a key area that has a significant impact on the
progress and potential success in ending the vertical transmission of HIV. The questions addressed in
the paper are very relevant to patients and carers.
One of the topics that could be explored further is the issue of Health Care Provider attitudes being a
barrier to male partner involvement. It would be helpful to include recommendations as to how this
can be addressed, or share examples of good practice. This is because there is a really good focus on
enablers from the male point of view though not so much addressing the HCP angle.
It would also be helpful to have a recommendation on how to address the barrier of Government
policies that fail to prioritise or accommodate male involvement.
It would also be good to further highlight the importance of Community and Community Leaders'
meaningful involvement in suggesting or recommending enablers to address the barrier of prevention
of vertical transmission teachings which are in conflict with socio economical and cultural norms.
The interventions suggested and guidance given can be readily taken up by patients/carers,
particularly where there are robust structures in place to reach those patients/carers who may not be
so motivated or who have additional challenges/barriers that prevent them from being involved.
The outcome measures described/measured in the study are important to patients/carers.
The paper is timely and very relevant. The recommendations/interventions/guidance is clear and can
be incorporated into in-country systems.
Re: Further strengthening. The authors could consider using language that is less stigmatising
towards mothers living with HIV. So for instance, using terms such as Vertical Transmission of HIV
instead of Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission, as this term tends to place the onus, blame and
responsibility on the mother alone. Another term they might consider using is Ending... rather than
Elimination of… See a couple of suggested references below:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3499898/
http://www.unaids.org/sites/default/files/media_asset/2015_terminology_guidelines_en.pdf
The involvement of patients/carers in the study does not seem to be clearly mentioned. If there was,
it is not very explicit. And if they were involved, it is important to outline this, as well as how and at
what level/stage they were involved. A key way of improving this is meaningfully involving
patients/carers throughout the life-cyle of the study and in particular involving them as
co-authors-where this is possible. (It maybe well be that they were involved, however, this is not very
clear on reading the paper. It will be helpful to clarify or at least highlight this).
