Progression to type 2 diabetes in women with a known history of gestational diabetes: A
systematic review and meta-analysis
This systematic review and meta-analysis investigates progression to T2DM with the
following inclusion criteria: observational studies with both a GDM and a control group,
post-partum follow-up for at least 12 month, incident physician-based diabetes diagnosis,
T2D reported and studies. Meta-data from 18 studies representing a total of 1,126,959
individuals, were pooled using random effects models, and heterogeneity was assessed
using the I2 statistic. The authors concluded that women with a history of GDM have a
nearly tenfold higher risk of developing T2DM compared to those with a normo-glycemic
pregnancy, and that this large risk highlights the importance of intervening to prevent the
onset of T2DM, particularly in the early years post-pregnancy. The study was registered in
PROSPERO.
Overall comments
The issue is important and the rationale for the study is sound. The paper supplements
previous reviews, adding newer studies that were not included in the previous reviews 1-3
and excluding those with < 1 year of follow-up, and have several other strengths – such as
including papers from several continents, and a large number of women. As WHO changed
the definition of GDM in 2013, in accordance with the IADPSG criteria after the HPAO
study, a new update is important. The paper reads well, make sense and has a clear
message about the very high risk of women with previous GDM for developing T2D over a
relatively short and longer time, and that this risk is under-communicated to health care
and women. The paper therefor has the potential for readers of BMJ to increase awareness
and make better decisions. However, I have some comments to the methods, reporting of
results, and the discussion is very short, leaving out important issues.
Is the research question clearly defined and appropriately answered?
Overall - yes
Overall design of study - appropriate and adequate to answer the research question?
Yes
Participants - adequately described, their conditions defined, inclusion and exclusion
criteria described?
Overall – yes, but it is not specified what is meant by “doctor diagnosed GDM /T2D”, and
whether this refers to both diagnoses. In the flowchart – box for exclusion 8 studies with
self-reported diagnoses were excluded. In the study by Herath et al (ref 33) – there was a
2 step procedure with interviews and self-reported GDM in the first phase.

Several studies were from administrative data-bases – and the validity of these
“doctor-diagnosed” diagnoses may be questioned.
How representative were the authors of patients whom this evidence might affect?
No clear patient voice representing women with GDM could be identified (in the panel of
authors or otherwise), but this was not a primary study.
Methods - adequately described?
Mostly, see below
Main outcome measure clear?
Partly, see above and under study selection below
Is the study fully reported in line with the appropriate reporting statement or checklist
(these are all collected and regularly updated at http://www.equator-network.org)?
A PRISMA guideline is used and a PRISMA check list provided - which primary should be
used for meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials.
For systematic reviews and/or meta-analyses of observational studies in epidemiology,
MOOSE reporting guidelines and a completed MOOSE checklist is recommended 4.
Although these checklists contain many of the same items, there are some differences.
Study selection and study quality
The search strategy and study selection process is of course of utmost importance.
Some reviews also presents studies that are excluded, but that may lead to large tables
such as in this case where a large number of studies were excluded and reasons listed in
one box).
However, I wondered why the follow-up study from HAPO after 11 years (Lowe et al) was
not included, as it reports various measures of glucose metabolism, diabetes included, in
the mother, and seems to fulfil the inclusion criteria5. This may be because the search
strategy did not include “disorders of glucose metabolism” as used in the title.
If this study was not identified by the search, may other studies have been missed?
A core step when conducting a systematic review and meta-analysis is the evaluation of
quality of potentially eligible studies, as including studies with poor quality may result in
biased estimates and eventually lead to a wrong conclusion 6. In this paper, the
Newcastle-Ottawa scale is used, although the reference used to justify this, is actually very
critical6 – see conclusion: NOS “has unknown validity at best, or that includes quality items
that are even invalid”. Of the studies included in this meta-analyses, most were found to
have small risk of bias. Would the conclusion have been the same with another, validated
quality scale?
Was the study ethical (this may go beyond simply whether the study was approved by an
ethics committee or IRB)?
Not reported or discussed in the paper – but mentioned in the mandatory statements after
the references (no use of individual patient data - no need for formal ethical approval)
Results
Do the results answer the research question?
They report large differences in the cumulative incidence of T2D between the exposed and
non-exposed, and in the pooled RR for T2D. But table 2 does not present 95% intervals or
p values for the differences (in contrast to table 3). In the abstract (page 2, line 41-42) the
authors state that the cumulative incidence in GDM women was highest (implying a
significant subgroup difference?) in the first decade post-pregnancy. I did not find this
result clearly presented in the tables or figures. The major concern, though, relates to the
very high heterogeneity, that was not solved by meta-regression or sensitivity analyses,

which however, often may be the case in meta-analyses based on published and not on
individual patient data.
Discussion
The discussion is surprisingly short, in light of these and other issues. There were no
comments on study quality and type of measurement (NOS), nor to whether the high
heterogeneity might threaten the conclusion. What about the impact of different
diagnostics criteria, and screening procedures that might capture women with different
severity of GDM? The old WHO criteria represent glucose intolerant women, with a
documented high risk of T2D. The new WHO 2013 GDM criteria is based on the risk of
adverse short time outcomes for offspring and identifies a different group of women, with
potentially may imply a lower risk of diabetes for diabetes than the WHO 1999 criteria. I
miss a more throughout discussion of possible explanations for the heterogeneity, more
reflection about ethnicity, and about implications for clinicians and policymakers. The
underlying rationale seems to be that the high risk GDM women should be followed with
better screening and interventions (?) postpartum. It might therefor be relevant to mention
shortly if interventions in women with previous GDM are effective to prevent T2D. I
mention only one, review published in 2014 here3, and what are the best timing? Several
RCTs are ongoing. What do the authors see as the most important unanswered questions
and what is the direction for future research?
(in the introduction (page 3, line 49-51) the authors say the factors increasing the risk of
T2D in women with GDM are not well understood. Does this statement underestimate new
knowledge of the importance of beta-cell dysfunction, which seems to be increasingly
recognized – in addition to insulin resistance.
References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
Lowe et al5
Abstract
Prespecified subgroups analyses not mentioned in the abstract
Documents in the supplemental files
Supplements the paper, but seem to miss table number and figure titles with number at
least in my printed version. As mentioned, I would have preferred a MOOSE checklist.

1. Bellamy L, Casas J-P, Hingorani AD, Williams D. Type 2 diabetes mellitus after
gestational diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet 2009; 373(9677):
1773-9.
2. Kim C, Newton KM, Knopp RH. Gestational Diabetes and the Incidence of Type 2
Diabetes. Diabetes Care 2002; 25(10): 1862-8.
3. Morton S, Kirkwood S, Thangaratinam S. Interventions to modify the progression to type
2 diabetes mellitus in women with gestational diabetes: a systematic review of literature.
Current opinion in obstetrics & gynecology 2014; 26(6): 476-86.
4. Stroup DF, Berlin JA, Morton SC, et al. Meta-analysis of observational studies in
epidemiology: a proposal for reporting. Meta-analysis Of Observational Studies in
Epidemiology (MOOSE) group. Jama 2000; 283(15): 2008-12.
5. Lowe WL, Jr., Scholtens DM, Lowe LP, et al. Association of Gestational Diabetes With
Maternal Disorders of Glucose Metabolism and Childhood Adiposity. Jama 2018; 320(10):
1005-16.
6. Stang A. Critical evaluation of the Newcastle-Ottawa scale for the assessment of the
quality of nonrandomized studies in meta-analyses. Eur J Epidemiol 2010; 25(9): 603-5.
