The authors of this study performed a retrospective analysis of administrative data collected by Premier
Inc. with the goal to determine if the perioperative transfusion of blood was associated with adverse
outcome, specifically MI/stroke. They hypothesized that “transfusion of as little as 1 unit of pRBCs in the
operating room or the day following would be associated with measurably increased odds for
perioperative stroke and myocardial infarction (MI).” They concluded that indeed the transfusion of
blood in the perioeprative period was associated with increased odds for stroke and/or MI.
The topic is interesting and clinically relevant. The manuscript is well written and the methods are well
described. The abstract conveys the main message.
However, there are a number of issues that I would like to see addressed by the authors:
The major issue, as with all database studies is the inability to determine causality. The authors
rightfully speak of associations (and not causality), but nevertheless in the case of blood transfusions
the question has to remain if the transfusion of blood is just a surrogate marker for other variables
determining adverse outcome. In this context administrative databases such as Premier lack crucial
clinical detail such as the amount of blood loss, hematocrits, transfusion triggers used, invasiveness of
the procedure, the occurrence of intaroperative surgical complications, length of operation times,
hemodynamic details and level of patient comorbidity burden. Even if some information is available, it is
often presented in binary form (i.e. present or not via the ICD9 coding system), thus not allowing for
determination of the severity of the condition. This is not to say that because of this, all studies utilizing
databases are “not useful”. Quite the opposite is the case, especially when crucial observations have not
yet been reported in the literature and/or cannot be obtained from clinical trials, databases can present
a first look into a subject matter that can then lead to the formation of further hypotheses. In the case
of blood transfusions, however, much evidence has been published on the ill-effects of liberal transfusion
practices (although as the authors suggest data specifically for MI and stroke outcomes may be less
common). Thus, the ability of the results from this study to add significant knowledge is limited. For
example, without knowing which of these transfusions could be considered appropriate and which not
(which is impossible without knowing any laboratory values, hemodynamic parameters and other clinical
detail) conclusion that can be drawn are limited. The issue of using databases such as Premier for the
topic of perioperative blood transfusions is particularly challenging (see Blood transfusions in total hip

and knee arthroplasty: an analysis of outcomes.Danninger T, Rasul R, Poeran J, Stundner O, Mazumdar
M, Fleischut PM, Poultsides L, Memtsoudis SG ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 21;2014:623460. ) In
this publication, the same database was used to look into the particular problem of perioperative
transfusions and various outcomes, and encountered multiple problems/limitations. While insights were
gained into practice patterns, the inability to address the issue of cofounding had to be acknowledged
and limited interpretations.
Thus the authors should present a very convincing and strong argument regarding the novelty and
additional importance of their study to the field.
Other comments:
1) Having mentioned the issue regarding the lack of the ability to establish causal relationships, did the
authors consider that actual effect in their model would be the surgical intervention, stroke/MI the
outcome and that the transfusion would function as a moderator? Would it be feasible to employ
methodological methods to take this relationship into account?
2) The authors present a possible pathophysiologic process by which transfusions may lead to adverse
outcomes. This should be lauded and is important. In the case of MI/stroke and other cardiovascular
problems however, other mechanisms are equally plausible. Anemia and resulting hypotension may be
additional factors, which in this case may be the trigger for blood transfusions. This should be more
thoroughly discussed.
3) Did the authors consider evaluating the use of blood conservation methods, like cell saver, the use of
colloids, use of anticoagulants/platelet agents and the utilization of resources such as ICUs? All these
factors may affect the outcome or choice to transfuse PRBCs and are available in Premier.
4) The authors present in their methodology an attempt to control for hospital level variables, but it
remains unclear if they just include hospital type information or actually performed a multilevel analysis
accounting for each individual hospital, which may take into account differences in local practice
patterns.
5) While the attempt to control for present on admission comorbidities is laudable, from my experience
this variable has a high missingness in Premier. Can the authors comment on this and report
missingness and how this issue was handled in general?
6) What was the reason that the authors included stroke, MI and VF/VT in the composite variables.
There is no right or wrong, but I think an explanation of this rational would help the reader understand.
It is likely that by themselves these outcomes were to infrequent to allow for appropriate modeling, but
one could ask why not other cardiovascular complications were also included.
7) The authors should be lauded for using sophisticated methodological, including sensitivity analyses
and methods to reduce the chance of residual cofounding.
8) Looking at the tables, it becomes obvious that the presence of cardiovascular diseases are amongst
the variables with the highest OR for adverse outcomes (higher than that for blood transfusions). Again
this puts into question if it is not really the underlying disease that prompts clinicians to be more liberal
in their transfusion practice to keep Hgb levels higher and ultimately drives the morbidity aspect. Would
calculating attributable risk be of benefit? Of course this would also be limited but could shed some more
light on this issue.
9) Although the authors attempted to control for procedure type in their analysis, it must be noted that
within those categories major differences determining morbidity may exist. For example spine surgery
can span the spectrum between laminectomies to extensive scoliosis correction surgery with massive
blood loss.