The aim is clear, the methods are thorough, the results are well described, and the
discussion is mostly appropriate.
The concept for this review is not original – it has similarities to earlier published reviews,
including one on which I was an author which had similar aims and an almost identical title
and was published in 2012 (but only included measures published up to December 2009).1
However, the authors make a good point that their update is justified by the explosion in
the number of studies of multimorbidity over the last decade and the fact that they have
identified 15 indices which have been published since our previous review.
The project appears to have been carefully and thoroughly conducted. It improves on
earlier similar reviews by including more recent multimorbidity measures, by its review of
the quality (risk of bias) of the validation work, and by publishing details of the
performance characteristics of each validation study. However, the latter is less useful that
it might be because the authors of different measures used a wide range of performance
statistics, making them hard to compare.
The comprehensiveness of this paper is a strength but also a weakness. The paper is very
long with a huge number of references. This level of detail is only likely to be of interest to
other academics in the field of multimorbidity research.
The paper focuses on papers describing the original validation of each index, along with
later adaptations. So the Charlson index is shown as predicting mortality. But some of
these measures will have been used in subsequent research to predict a range of other
outcomes. Did they find and exclude these papers? Or if they included them, where is this
shown? For example, if I were looking for a measure which predicted unplanned hospital
admission rates, or health service costs, I wouldn’t find the Charlson index in Table 2
because it wasn’t originally validated for this purpose, even though its been shown to
predict these outcomes in subsequent research.1 I’m not clear how this review would
inform me about these additional outcomes, and the same issue applies to several of the
most commonly used measures.
By excluding research counts, they have excluded what is probably the most common type
of multimorbidity measure used in research. I’m not convinced there is a fundamental
difference between a simple disease count and a weighted count of disease clusters, which
is included in the review. The only question is whether the weighted counts have been
shown to be more valid than a simple count. The authors argue that they excluded disease
counts because they do not represent the burden of disease on individuals. I’m not
convinced that this matters, if in fact a disease count is a good way of predicting outcomes

other than disease burden. As the authors point out in the discussion, disease counts
appear to be as good as some more complex measures at predicting some outcomes, and
there are other papers which reach that conclusion apart from the one they reference.1-3 I
wouldn’t suggest that the authors change what they did in terms of their methods and
results, but I do think they could beef up and revise the discussion about the pros and cons
of disease counts. They could also mention simple counts of the number of drugs
prescribed, which have been shown to be a proxy measure of multimorbidity which is a
good predictor of a range of outcomes.4 Simple measures like this which can be calculated
with routine data have major advantages over those which require patients to complete
questionnaires or need complex calculations or proprietary software.

1. Huntley AL, Johnson RA, Purdy S, et al. Measures of multimorbidity and morbidity
burden for use in primary care and community settings: A systematic review and guide.
Ann Fam Med 2012;10(2):134-41. doi: 10.1370/afm.1363
2. Brilleman SL, Gravelle H, Hollinghurst S, et al. Keep it simple? Predicting primary health
care costs with clinical morbidity measures. J Health Econ 2014;35:109-22. doi:
10.1016/j.jhealeco.2014.02.005
3. Perkins AJ, Kroenke K, Unutzer J, et al. Common comorbidity scales were similar in their
ability to predict health care costs and mortality. J ClinEpidemiol 2004;57(10):1040-48.
4. Brilleman SL, Salisbury C. Comparing measures of multimorbidity to predict outcomes in
primary care: a cross sectional study. Fam Pract 2013;30(2):172-8. doi:
10.1093/fampra/cms060
Chris Salisbury
