This is an excellent study and a real first in terms of randomising patients to a means
of controlling their own patient relief beyond their presentation in the ED.
The authors randomised patients in moderate to severe non traumatic abdominal pain
to an open label trial of intravenous morphine via a standard PCA pump versus
standard ED/ward based analgesic management.
363 patients were suitable over the study period and 209 patients were consented
entered into the study protocol and followed up for 12 hours after the time of study
entry.
The study was open label and patients completed their own hourly pain scores on a
VAS for the study period. The main outcome was AUC for the pain scores. Opiate side
effects, total morphine dose, % of time in severe pain and patient satisfaction were
also considered.
The two groups were similar at baseline in all important characteristics however
baseline pain score was lower in the intervention (PCA group). The study findings are
reported using standard consort procedures - being intention to treat. These suggest
statistically significant reductions in pain in the intervention when compared to the
control group, with the former having received greater doses of morphine. These
remain present but are reduced after ANOVA adjustments for lack of equivalence in
baseline pain scores. The results are robust to sensitivity analyses which adjust for late
recording of baseline pain scores.
This is a rigorous well conducted study which is well written and presented. My
suggestions for improvement are relatively small.
The different units of pain are somewhat confusing. If possible please use the same
units 73mm (table 3) rather than 7.3 at times (table 1). Please clarify if possible what
the AUC means - is it hours with units of pain?
Please report the relative risk rather than the odds of perfect/very satisfied in the
intervention group.
Table 1 is rather long and should be split into "a" clinical demographic features and "b"
diagnoses and preadmission analgesia. The baseline characteristics should also include
% of patients requiring operative management of abdominal pain during study period.
After adjustment the gains in the pain measures are relatively modest 6.3 units on the
AUC and a 7.3% reduction in time in significant pain however more marked differences

in patient satisfaction - 2.5 x odd of perfect or very satisfied in the PCA group. This
suggests that patient satisfaction may be as much about autonomy in controlling pain
rather than the absolute level and it would be worth mentioning this in the discussion.
The discussion should also make some references to cost differences between the two
pathways to reassure the NHS that this is an affordable improvement.
Lastly to address any possible selection bias it would be good to present a comparative
analysis of baseline characteristics (age, gender, diagnosis) between the 209
participants v the 154 unable to participate