Batty and colleagues examine risk factor-disease estimates from UK Biobank (502,655 people) for
cardiovascular death, cancer death and suicide to consider whether the low response to the original
Biobank survey (5.5%) and consequent confirmed “more favourable” sociodemographic, physical,
lifestyle, and health-related characteristics of the cohort has impact on the generaliseability its use for
risk factor-disease estimation. For their comparator group, they use risk factor-disease estimates from
data pooled from the Health Surveys for England (HSE) and the Scottish Health Surveys (SHS)
(89,895-mean response rate 68%). For each of UK Biobank and HSE-SHS, they present age- and sexadjusted hazard ratios for the relationship between the given risk factor and the respective outcome,
and then generate a ratio of hazard ratio (RHR) by which to compare the two.
I consider the question addressed to be reasonable, the analytical approach to be valid and manuscript
to thus be worthy of publication. However, I do not consider it overall to be of a standard or level of
interest that warrants publication in the BMJ.
Firstly, I consider that the ‘importance’ and ‘urgency’ of the primary question has been widely
exaggerated.
“P6 L51 Concerns seem to rest on the assumption that, relative to a more
representative study, the recently reported more favourable prevalence of selected risk factors and
mortality rates in UK Biobank relative to surveys with a higher response(24) will necessarily affect the
generalisability of findings for risk factor–disease associations.”
The reference quoted in this statement (Fry et al) in no way supports such concerns. Nor do the
previous analyses from Framingham residents, British civil servants and British physicians and US nurses
that the authors themselves cite. Thus, it is unclear and unsupported whether at all “concerns seem to
rest…” or if, if they do, that these are concerns belonging to sensible epidemiologists. It seems possibly
that the authors are invested in exaggerating the magnitude and intellectual basis for concern to inflate
the importance of this analysis.
Secondly, even if such concerns were intellectually valid and/or widely held, I am unclear that the
results/conclusions of this analysis would in any way advance the field in supporting or refuting the
concerns.
The authors did not set out with an experimental design and pre-stated threshold by which they would
conclude either “yes: in regard of the non-representative constituency, there is good reason for concern
in using UK Biobank to evaluate risk factor–disease associations” or “No: there is no good reason for
concern in using UK Biobank to evaluate risk factor–disease associations”
They just examined association for a handful of risk factors against some rather arbitrary endpoints, ie
death from CVD, cancer or suicide.
Most of the hazard ratios are not significantly different; some hazard ratios are significantly larger in
Biobank, a few hazard ratios are significantly larger in HSE-SHS; all hazard ratios are (highly
unsurprisingly) in the same direction between UK Biobank and HSE-SHS.
From this, they produce the following rather banal summary statements:

“P5 L29 Risk factor–mortality associations were directionally the same as comparator studies with some
heterogeneity in magnitude.”
“P12 L13: well-established risk factor–mortality associations were recapitulated.”
And the following conclusions for which the findings offered relatively little new evidence to support.
“P4 L60 Despite a low response rate, aetiological findings from UK Biobank appear to be generalisable to
England and Scotland.”
“P5 L34 Our findings suggest that studies with exceptionally low response rates, conducted at scale and
with a range of exposures, have scientific value.”

Additional points:
• The authors make no mention of the fact that since 2003 the HSE has incorporated weighting to
account for nonresponse bias. This includes different weights for nonresponding households,
nonresponding individuals in responding households, and nonresponse at different stages of data
collection. This would seem highly relevant to this comparison and citation of the 68% response rate.
• Cancer death and cancer incidence are very different entities. Aetiological/demographic associations
are most typically informative for cancer diagnosis, not death

Minor points
Some pretty egregious typos still present in manuscript
1) P3 L58: “ranged from 0.57 (0.40, 0.81) and 1.07 (0.42, 2.74)”.
2) P5 L24 “This is the first study to directly compared…”
3) P11 L15: Nest
