This paper presents compelling evidence that trans women and trans men both experience
rates of breast cancer higher than cisgender men, and lower than cisgender women; the
risk in trans women was shown to increase toward cis-female levels even after a relatively
short period of hormone therapy. The statistical methods employed are entirely
appropriate and the sample is impressively large.
It is a shame that no analysis of the distribution of different antiandrogen treatments (or
absence thereof) in the trans women is included, although perhaps that would be
uninformative with so few cases of those women developing a breast cancer - in either
case this should be clarified to contextualise and support the inclusion of the valuable
insight on lines 187-9. It is also necessary to include information about whether the
individuals from the "reference" population were cisgender. If so, it is more informative to
refer to them as cisgender than "reference". It is also a shame that the opportunity is not
taken to mention the problems that cis-centric designs of healthcare data systems, etc,
can make accessing appropriate cancer screenings more difficult; there is already evidence
that trans men do not receive invitation for cervical screening in many jurisdictions
including the UK, and the evidence here that even post-mastectomy trans men may
require advice and support to self-monitor above and beyond their cisgender male peers
indicates that this is an area for improvement, especially since the majority of trans men
diagnosed with a breast cancer were post-mastectomy. I am also concerned that there is
no mention of a procedure for informed consent for data use in this population.This is
especially important for the individuals who did experience a cancer, since individual data
is reported and may be considered sensitive or even identifying under GDPR.
The remaining concerns are about the language used: notably, in places it is unnecessarily
stigmatising or misleading, perhaps due to the fast rate at which norms of accepted
language in this field have recently narrowed (and presumably - obviously - not due to
authors' intention).

In particular, the word 'trans' in the phrases "trans men" and "trans women" is a distinct
adjective (short for transgender) and not a prefix. The use of "transmen" and
"transwomen" as a single word is criticised for the implication that rather than e.g. being
men who happen to be trans, trans men ("transmen") are a distinct class; one would not
use "gaymen" as a single word, so the same principle is applied here.
Relatedly, it is especially important in an article on trans health that the passages referring
to cisgender people are explicit about this. For example, the use of the term "reference" for
the control group of cisgender individuals is confusing as mentioned above. e.g. line 80-81
refers to postmenopausal women. It should be clarified that these are cisgender women.
Similarly, line 167-8 compares trans women to "the general male population" - this is
phrased in a way that may read as if referring to trans women as "male". It would be
better to begin the discussion with the key finding - that both trans men and trans women
are in-between cisgender men and women in breast cancer risk - however, regardless it is
important to specify that you are comparing trans women to cisgender men. Line 198
refers to "the general female population" when in fact it would be clearer to speak of
"cisgender women".
When these issues have been addressed I will be delighted to recommend publication of
this excellent study.