Dear all,
This interesting paper studied the effects of age and gender on efficacy of beta-blockers (BBs) in heart failure patients with
reduced ejection fraction (HFeRF) in sinus rhythm. The authors, using an IPD meta-analysis, found that beta-blockers have
mortality and morbidity benefits regardless of age and gender.
I have some important concerns about this study which I will report below.

1- Current reporting guidelines from equator network (http://www.equator-network.org/reporting-guidelines/prisma-ipd/) is to
use PRISMA-IPD and so a checklist is necessary. Please see the website above for extensions of prisma to adapt for IPD metaanalysis.
2- Overall treatment effect of beta-blockers in HF with reduced ejection fraction in sinus rhythm is not reported. (to include
relative risk reduction and confidence intervals with p values).
3- In the protocol and study published by the authors (reference 9 and 10): the number of patients was 18,630 .The current
number is13, 833: This means about 4797 subjects were missing? Interpretation?
4- According to an analysis I conducted for peer review purpose, total deaths and not cause of death by gender are not similar
in men compared to women. There is a statistically significant increase of deaths in women (p=0.002) compared to men. This
means that being a man, you have almost 26% risk reduction ( OR.84, CI 0.75, 0.93)
What does that all mean for you according to your analysis? Would that have any alteration to treatment effect estimation?
20- Participation of women in the dataset is pretty ‘’small’’ (24%) compared to the prevalence of HF in clinical settings, this
might be a limitation to be discussed and a call for more women participation in clinical trials is warranted.
21- Elderly patients tend to die more (20%) compared to the other categories in your analysis. How that might affect the
mortality reduction benefits! Does this explain the attenuation of reduction in HF hospitalization in the elderly?
22- Tolerability was estimated by measuring dropouts or discontinuation of BBs. However, in your protocol referred above, you
intended to evaluate the safety of BBs. Why you didn’t?
Minor but still important points:
23- Title modification: to indicate that the population is heart failure with reduced ejection fraction HFrEF in sinus rhythm
rather than heart failure (HF).
24- You mentioned that you searched in Medline and current contents : what is current contents? Flow chart is absent. It is
very important and you will notice its relevance when you fill in the checklist of PRISMA-IPD.
25- You used a fixed-effects model, would you please justify it compared to random model.
26- Heterogeneity was measured by chi-squared test and I2. Test were not discussed and well reported in the text. I suggest
also a Tau square because I2 has its limitations when number of studies is small as it is the case here.
27- In section Tolerability of therapy page 10, please provide us with Confidence intervals and p-values and not only
percentages of dropouts.
28- The discussion is great but sometimes slightly too optimistic. This might be discussed by other peer reviewers.
29- Adherence of BBs in the elderly is poor: is this related to adverse effects or to age?
30- Reference 46, I am afraid to consider it a self-citation. Reference 47 is a ‘’candidate’’ for self-citation too.

Thank you for being given the opportunity to review this paper.
Best Regards,
Muaamar Al-Gobari
