This study is one of the largest deprescribing interventional trials to be performed in
community practice and the investigators should be congratulated on their
accomplishment. The manuscript requires revisions.
Abstract:
Comprehensive medication review- please add in throughout the manuscript that it was a
medication review supported by electronic decision support
Intervention- please add “potentially” inappropriate
Please briefly mention what treatment as usual is (is it not standard for the GP to review a
patient’s medications at each visit? I think usual care would be a medication review
without embedded decision support?)
Please careful not to equate the primary outcome (composite of death or hospitalization)
with no health benefits found. Would simply state no difference in death or hospitalization
as you didn’t study all possible health benefits (same comment for the section “what this
study adds” and throughout the manuscript).
Main paper:
Introduction: please discuss electronic decision support in deprescribing and its
effectiveness (not necessarily in primary practice- could be in any jurisdiction- to support
the concept the eDS in deprescribing can be successful).

I’m debating the wording of the sentence in the intro that states the CMR contains the
current best evidence. From what I understand, it contains a curated list of common
medications and conditions that are responsible for ADRs based on the authors’ own review
of the literature (i'm basing this on reference 6). Some people may think that current best
evidence refers to existing lists of potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) such as the
STOPP criteria and Beer’s list. I think it needs to be made clear throughout the manuscript
that the authors developed their own list. Current best evidence should be replaced by “a
curated list of common medications and condition combinations that have been shown to
cause ADRs in the literature” or something akin to this. The authors will also need to
discuss if that list has been validated, how, and in what context.
I think that throughout the manuscript CMR should be changed to eDS-CMR to distinguish
that the intervention was not just a comprehensive medication review, but an electronic
decision supported review.
Regarding the curated list, it should be made clear that it does not contain anticholinergics
or sedatives (from what I can tell). The CMR mainly contains cardiovascular and diabetes
drugs (unless I have misunderstood). It contains PPIs, ACEi, BB, CCB, nitrates, blood
thinners, insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Stopping these in healthy community dwelling
adults may not decrease mortality or hospitalization.
Reference 6 (for best evidence) is a methodology paper and doesn’t contain the results of
the review the authors performed from what I can tell. Is there a more up to date
reference with the results of the review performed in order to develop the list?
Please list what the nine common ADRs are that were considered in this study (page 9 line
163).
I can’t really tell much from Figure 1; is there an example of an output that could be
included? Or screen shots that contain examples of what recommendations were provided?
I can't tell but I don't think this example contains any recommendations?
How many times during the 2 years was the intervention group subject to electronic
decision support? Was it only one time or was it done at each follow-up visit? Were
patients censored at first hospitalization or death? Please add this.
Power calculation: was this for an absolute or relative reduction of 20%?
Results: is each practice equal to one GP? (page 13 line 268) If not could you state as a
total of 359 practices and xxx GPs recruited 3904 patients.
For the SF-12 could you note what a mean score of 37 and 48 equates to? Or what the
highest and lowest scores are (so that readers can interpret these numbers).
Secondary outcomes: self-reported falls and quality of life. Could you add in the discussion
and results more about quality of life results?
For the primary outcome, could you mention the absolute numbers (ie in the TAU group
there were x hospitalizations/deaths compared to the CMR group where there were y…)
Was loss to follow-up differential between groups? In terms of interpreting the
per-protocol analysis.
For the odds ratios could you state the interpretation (I assume it is CMR compared to
TAU) so that the findings were in favour of CMR but not statistically significant for ITT and
significant for PP analysis. As it is stated now it just says it did not differ between groups.

In table 2, the n for the primary outcome and the secondary outcome of drugs is the total
n participants. I think it would be usual to have the n for the total number of participants
appear at the top of the column, and then the in each row you would have the n that
achieved the outcome.
e.g.

Outcome
TAU (n=1951)
Death or NEH
XX (%)

CMR (n=1953)
YY (%)

Shouldn’t this be reported as a proportion and not a mean for the primary outcome? Same
for several of the other outcomes in this table. I understand why number of drugs is
reported as a mean (sd). The table currently makes it look as though all outcomes are
mean (sd).
Should the last recorded number of drugs be recorded as an incidence rate ratio? I think
Table 2 needs to be looked over. Suggest review the analysis with a statistician?
In the discussion/conclusion, I think it should be carefully highlighted that this was a
healthy population of community dwelling older adults. For the most part this was not a
frail population (only 15% if I understand were moderately to severely frail), with a
prognosis of >12 months and without active cancer. We should be careful not to conclude
that the same intervention would not have impacted the composite outcome had it been
performed in frail older adults with limited prognosis.
In the discussion, please talk about the curated list used to guide deprescribing and its
limitations. This study mainly addressed cardiovascular drugs and diabetes drugs (as
evidenced by the top drugs that were deprescribed). The types of drugs that were
deprescribed between groups did not differ significantly between groups which is
interesting. In many deprescribing studies, one of the top prescribed/deprescribed drug
classes is sedative hypnotics. These were not addressed in this study, nor were any
anticholinergics or antimuscarinics (unless I have not understood the methods, in which
case this should be clarified).
In table 3, there is a list of top ten types of drugs, but these are not types of drugs, these
are specific drugs. Example, the list doesn’t include drug classes (“types” of drugs) it
includes specific drugs. Two of the top ten drugs stopped were enalapril and simvastatin,
as opposed to ace inhibitors and statins. Perhpas these drugs were just switches (what if
enalapril became ramipril and simvastatin became rosuvastatin?). Another example,
pantoprazole and lansoprazole should (I think) be combined in this table and labelled as
proton pump inhibitors.
Suggest changing discontinued to deprescribed.
In table 4, what was it that made these drugs contraindicated? Why was HCTZ
contraindicated? Was it for renal function? Too “tight” blood pressure control?
Hyponatremia? Same comment for the other drugs in this list.
Is timolol given per os in Europe? Where I practice it is an eyedrop. In which case it
should probably be excluded.
I think somewhere in the methods you should differentiate between not indicated and
contraindicated and how these were defined. Same comment as above- throughout the
tables, most drugs should be combined into drug classes and not specific drugs (except for
some exceptions).

What would lead paracetamol to not be indicated? That must be hard to judge? What
triggers this in the tool?
In table 6, I would combine coumadin drugs (warfarin, phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol
etc..)
A lot of the drugs in the renal adjustment table I am not aware of renal adjustments for.
Example, Lasix and bioprolol don’t really have dose adjustments that can be electronically
flagged based on renal function. Where does this list come from?
In table 8, please review the percentage columns. E.g. were 53.3% of patients really
affected by improper allopurinol dosing in the CMR group at T3? this number is hard to
interpret without the n for the denominator and seems high (much higher than the percent
in the TAU group).
Thank you for the opportunity to review the study.
