Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review this paper reporting the results of an
international trial about the efficacy of a computer-based intervention to help GPs reduce
polypharmacy in the elderly. The primary outcome is a composite outcome of non-elective
hospitalization and death, which seems ambitious but sound. The study design is a
cluster-RCT, so that there is no contamination between patients of a same GP. The
calculation of the sample size (inflation factor) and the statistical methods (mixed models)
were adequately adapted to this type of design. There was no significant difference
regarding the main outcome between the intervention group and the control group in the
intention-to-treat analysis (OR 0.88 [0.73-1.07], p=0.192) but the authors point out that
the intervention nevertheless enabled a modest reduction in the mean number of drugs
taken by participants (on average 0,45 drug less in the intervention group compared to the
control group).
Overall, I think this study bring important and valuable results to the medical and scientific
community. First, it should be noted that the intervention presented here seems feasible in
real life, as opposed to time-consuming interventions which can be difficult to implement
outside the experimental setting. From a methodological point of view, a strength of this
study is its follow-up over 2 years of a cohort of almost 4,000 individuals in four countries,
with only 12% of participants lost to follow-up. Many reasons may have contributed to the
lack of significant difference between groups regarding the primary outcome. The authors
actually mentioned the fact that the collection of information for the e-CRF, including
diseases, biological information and medications, could have enhance the awareness of the
GPs to inappropriate prescriptions in the control group. Other reasons may involve a lack of
power (although the sample size was sufficient to obtain a power of 80%, it still means
that there is risk of 20% of not observing a difference which nevertheless exists) but above
all the multifactorial nature of the outcomes. Indeed, non-elective hospitalization and death
may be influenced by pharmacotherapy and adverse drug related events but also by a
number of other parameters related to chronic and infectious diseases, as well as
accidents.
Regarding the sources of conflict of interest, it should be noted that the software was
developed by a society named Duodecim Medical Publications Ltd. and that one of its
member is a co-author of the paper. However, the risk of conflict of interest is limited as
the study was funded by a European grant and the developers did not intervene beyond
the development of the software.
In addition to this general comments, I have a series of questions or comments for the
authors, listed below.
1. Please explain the acronym PRISMA-eDS.
2. Could the authors provide an overview of previous trials using computer-based
interventions?
3. A total of 11 patients were included by each GP. The GPs were free to choose the
patients they wanted to include in the trial as far as they met the inclusion criteria. Could
the authors discuss this methodological choice and its potential influence on the results?
4. How were the data about the SF-12 collected at 12 and 24 months? By telephone
interview?
5. L221 of the Methods section: “All models included a fixed factor for study centre to avoid
confounding through stratified randomization”. This sentence is not completely clear to me.

6. The flow chart is not very clear about the strategy used to analyze the main outcome in
ITT (i.e. the outcome is considered 1 in case of missing information).
7. Table 2: Why is the main outcome expressed as mean (SD) when it is a binary variable?
8. L20 of the Discussion section: I understand that the authors mean that deprescribing
could have caused adverse reactions and in turn hospitalization and death but I think it is
not appropriate to speak of non-inferiority here.
9. Table 3 of online appendices: I think that it could be interesting for the readers to have
further insight on the effects of the intervention. One interesting result to me is for
instance the fact that the intervention increased the deprescription of proton-pump
inhibitors compared to the control group.
Minor comments:
L156 of the Methods section: the e-CRF described above -> the e-CRF mentioned above
Table 2: co-eff -> coeff
