This is an interesting study on price reform that resulted in the shifting of patients from
tertirary to primary health facilities. However, the article does not
completely address several issues raised within it:
A complete overview of the effects of reforms is missing, e.g. what were the effects of
other items in price reforms as outlined in table 1, e.g. what were the effects
on the amount of surgical operations? etc.

The introduction of the manuscript under "Challenges of public hospital reform in China"
focused on primary and tertiary hospitals. In table 1, there is no mention of
the secondary health facilities for medical consultation service fees but looking into the
page 4 and figure 2, there is a mention of secondary health facilties. A
better way would be to start with the amount of outpatient visits, their revenues from the
provision of physician, hospital, and pharmacy services in each of the three
types of health care facilities.
It is mentioned that the public hospitals have multi-sponsorhips, which is why it is hard to
carry out reforms. A mention of the percentage of sponsorship from each
would be helpful? From page 2, line 10 & 11 it seems like local government funds mostly
the public hospitals, however, this is not clear from the current manuscript.
Page 2 lines 39 & 40 state that all services are covered by health insurance schemes. Are
these schemes public or private? How exactly the patients suffered from heavy
financial burden when they are covered by health insurance schemes? What was the
patient contribution of expenses before and after the reform?
Page 2, table 1: "Medical Consultation Service Fees" What was the utilization rate of
senior and junior physicians before and after reforms? Is the physician service
fee paid by health insurance or out of pocket?
The price of physician services was increased under reform while reducing the zero mark
up on drug sales. How did this step translated into reducing the overall
medical expenditure on health insurance scheme, and/or on the local government?
An example of professional services, medical examinations, expensive medical supplies
would help to understand the Beijing/Chinese health care system. In the current
format, it is hard to comprehend which services would lie under what broad heading?
A comprehensive table detailing all items that had a major change due to reforms need to
be presented. Also, a mention of those items in reform would be helpful to mention that
did not have a change.
Grammar needs to corrected at various places in the manuscript.