Name: Kristian Filion
Position: Assistant Professor of Medicine
Institution: McGill University
GENERAL COMMENTS:
In this nested case-control study from four European countries, Arfe and colleagues examine the
association between non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the risk of heart failure
(HF). This study, conducted as part of the larger SOS project, has several strengths, including the
use of 5 population-based healthcare databases, which produced precise estimates and results that
are likely highly generalizable. Other strengths include the inclusion of both a common data
analysis (using a single database) and site-specific analyses with random-effects meta-analysis;
the presentation of both provides key information regarding potential residual confounding and
increases the transparency of such multi-site studies. However, there are several methodological
issues that require clarification; these issues are described in detail in the specific comments
below.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
1. The study cohorts consisted of new users of NSAIDs, with past users of NSAIDs (i.e., those with
no use in the 183 days before the index date) as the reference group for all analyses. This
reference group renders the results somewhat difficult to interpret. These past users will have
discontinued use for a variety of reasons, including improved symptoms, the occurrence of side
effects, and poor adherence. Did the authors consider using current users of one of the individual
NSAIDs are the reference group? Such a comparison may also be more clinically relevant,
particularly given the information presented in the second to last paragraph of the introduction.
2. It is also likely that some of the past users were prescribed short-term NSAID therapy for an
acute event (e.g., sports injury, dental work), and these patients may have an inherently different
risk of HF relative to those who are using NSAIDs long-term to treat chronic conditions. Similarly,
different NSAIDs may be prescribed preferentially for different indications. Some discussion of
confounding by indication is warranted.
3. Was a minimum duration of NSAID prescription required for cohort entry? In addition, was
inclusion restricted based on route of NSAID administration? For example, could a patient enter the
cohort due to a prescription of a topical NSAID?

4. Controls were selected using incidence density sampling, matching on database, sex, age at
cohort entry, and date of index prescription. With all patients entering the cohort on an NSAID
prescription (and thus initially exposed), person-moments earlier during follow-up were thus more
likely to be exposed to an NSAID than those later during follow-up. Did the authors consider also
matching on duration of follow-up (via risk set sampling) to ensure that cases and controls had the
same opportunity for exposure?
5. In the Introduction, the authors discuss that current guidelines limit the use of NSAIDs in
patients predisposed to HF and prohibit their use in patients with diagnosed HF. With
approximately 9% of cases and 2.5% of controls having a history of HF, the inclusion of some
subgroup analyses and/or tests for interaction would be informative.
6. In site-specific analyses, covariates should be included in the model based on substantive
knowledge and not p-values. If an automated variable selection process is used, the use of AIC or
BIC is preferred.
7. The inclusion of duration-response analyses would also be helpful. For example, some evidence
suggests that the increase in myocardial infarction with rofecoxib only occurred after 18 months of
use.
8. Minor comments:
a. Abstract, methods: Please mention how cases were matched to controls.
b. Abstract, results: Please mention that the reference group was past users of NSAIDs.
c. It would be helpful to mention in the “Harmonization and Data Processing” section that a
common data model was used in the primary analysis.
d. Covariates: Some of the descriptions of covariates are somewhat vague (e.g., “other drugs for
CV diseases”, “specific drugs as proxies for certain diseases and conditions not well recorded in the
databases”). Please provide a complete list as an appendix.