Second review
A Propensity Matched Comparative Analysis of Long-term Survival of SABR vs Thoracoscopic Sublobar Lung Resection
using the SEER-Medicare database: Insights from Registry Data
I can see that it is an attractive paper to publish in the BMJ.
• It deals with the biggest killing cancer.
• SABR versus surgery is a hot topic.
• There is an attraction in using ‘big data’.
I would make a case for limiting the introduction and discussion. A great deal of ground is covered. Throughout the
introduction and the discussion there seems to me to be relentless slant, in keeping with the fact that this comes from
surgical authors. The citations opening the introduction don’t adequately underpin the statements made. The complex
issue of CT screening for lung cancer is dealt with in a line. [P.4/6-9]*
The interpretation is that of the lead authors who are thoracic surgeons and it is not balanced by including the views of a
radiation oncologist. “Whose conclusion is it anyway?” (Waller, 2006) I wonder if independent commentaries would be a
better place to offer interpretation.
This revision has not allayed my concerns about drawing trustworthy conclusions about the relative effectiveness of
surgery versus SABR from SEER data (pace Doug Altman’s statistical review). Doug Altman writes “…the role of
propensity scoring is not settled and is an area of ongoing research and therefore one cannot conclude that PS is not
suitable in this instance. There are divided opinions on the matter.” It is with due caution that I dare to push my opinion
further after Doug Altman has made that statement but I cannot shrink from it. While fully accepting that there are
divided opinions in the general case, I want to focus attention on this particular use of SEER data. I see three identifiable
impediments to the reliability of matching.
1.Confounding factors have a much larger effect than the marginal difference in survival between two treatments. The
biological behaviour of lung cancer, (Hillerdal, 2008) the patient’s respiratory resilience and overall health make for more
difference in survival than the difference between surgery and SABR as is apparent in this analysis. I would not trust
statistical adjustment in this instance.
2.Concerns about registry analysis are exacerbated by the effect of ‘diagnosis as an alibi for treatment’. If a clinician
recommends a treatment that bucks the trend, or goes against guidelines, the doctor may seek to offer mitigation in the
case records. The original example was the decision to treat sore throats with antibiotics in some children, contrary to
guidance. A note written with justification in mind is no longer an even handed statement of symptoms and signs. It is
not deliberate falsification (hence the word ‘alibi’ is a neat fit) but it systematically corrupts the even handedness of the
data entries. Registries and databases are prone to the same effect. The data entered need to ‘make sense’ of the
treatment decision.
3.And further, from some a relatively early point the care of the patient is put in the hands of either a surgeon or a
radiation oncologist. Further investigations are then likely to be systematically different introducing ‘work up bias’.
(Blackstone and Lauer, 2004)
I suggest that the most SEER analyses can do is pose questions. Possible inferences and implications for health policy
would be better addressed in editorial material rather than being editorialised by the authors themselves.

The authors end with a plea for a trial. There is a dearth of randomised trials in lung cancer surgery (Treasure et al.,
2012) but few of the many writers who conclude their papers in this way intend themselves to work up trials or even
recruit patients into the trials that others set up. [P.3/21][P.18/19] It would be have more credibility if the PICO for an
RCT and the names of the trial development group were a requirement, to be published as a footnote to the paper.
Otherwise I think it should be omitted. For those of us who struggle to recruit to trials it has a hollow ring.
A couple of specific points:
[P.2/18] Is this appropriately called a cohort study? The data were collected prospectively into a registry database but
there was no research question at the outset. The groups extracted for analysis have been changed illustrating that
these are samples from a larger registry and thus amenable to selection. Should ‘cohort study’ be reserved for a study
where criteria for inclusion are defined at the outset?
[P.2/53] The various outcomes used in specialist cancer papers are often tricky for more general readers and at the very
least they should be spelled. BMJ editors will have their rules but in the previous version we had CSP and DFS in the
abstract and now there is CSS.
* The location is indicated by [page number/line number] for specific comments on the text.

Reference List
Blackstone EH, Lauer MS (2004) Caveat emptor: the treachery of work-up bias. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 128 (3): 341344
Hillerdal G (2008) Indolent lung cancers--time for a paradigm shift: a review. J Thorac Oncol 3 (3): 208-211
Treasure T, Russell C, Morton D, Macbeth F, Utley M (2012) Surgical resection of lung cancer in England: more
operations but no trials to test their effectiveness. Thorax 67 (9): 759-761
Waller PC (2006) Whose conclusion is it anyway? J R Soc Med 99 (1): 46
