Kesselheim and Avorn
I thought the paper was a useful addition to the scholarship on the role of governments in funding
research. The focus on the research was on patents, and while other subsidies are quite important, it
was clear that the focus on was information from patents, and there it did a pretty good job. I have a
few comments and minor quibbles, but I don't want to sound too negative, since I think it is a good
paper, and I support its publication, even in the current form.
Here are a few comments on the specifics.
On page 6, the authors say the following: “In other markets, patent-based levers have been used to
achieve public policy goals, such as helping ensuring access to essential drugs in low-income settings
around the world.”
I think this should be struck. It is true that the PHS manual on licensing patents and some university
policies give lip service to developing country access issues, including, for example, the statement cited
in footnote 10, but the reality is much different. I have found for-profit companies more likely to license
drug patents to the Medicines Patent Pool than any University, and while there may be a rare exceptions
every decade or so, the role of Universities is generally to grant worldwide rights to companies and not
exactly nothing to ensure access in developing countries.

2. The under reporting of U.S. funding in patented inventions is mentioned, and it seems to us to be a
fairly significant issue. We have filed 7 recent complaints to HHS about failures to disclose patents in
specific products, and we have been pretty surprised at the lack of interest by the NIH in following up or
imposing any sort of remedy that would stimulate better compliance. We have yet to receive a formal
reply from the NIH to any one of the seven petitions mentioned here:
https://www.keionline.org/bayh-dole/failure-to-disclose.
Another issue that comes up is that Universities often file corrections to patents, including corrections of
the disclosures of federal funding. Sometimes the corrections are filled several years after the patent
has been published. Rate of corrections, for any reason, are as high as 20 to 30 percent of all patents
filed, for several well known research universities, and universities generally have higher rates of
correction than for other major patent holders, for some reason. See: Errors in Patent Grants: More
Common in Medical Patents,
http://blog.petrieflom.law.harvard.edu/2017/10/21/errors-in-patent-grants-more-common-in-medical-p
atents/.
3. The Orphan Drug Tax Credit is a U.S. tax expenditure. Until 2017, the credit was a subsidy equal to
50 percent of the cost of qualifying trials, for any product that received an orphan designation. While
the paper focused subsidies for patented inventions, readers should at least be made aware of the
extent that trials on many products, including I believe more than 75 percent of drugs for cancer during
the period of the drugs examined, were designated as orphan products.
4. The paper is fairly U.S. centric, looking, for example, for disclosures in patents of U.S. government
funding. The U.S patent office does not ask about foreign government funding of inventions, but such
funding does exist, and certainly is relevant to many important medicines.
5. The discussion of march-in and royalty free rights is short, and makes the following statement:

“These rights could allow the government to use the patented product for its own purposes or, in the
case of march-in rights, grant additional licenses to others if needed to address health needs. However,
to our knowledge, neither right has ever been used by a federal agency for pharmaceutical products,
even in the face of critical drug shortages or extreme price spikes.”
I think this is largely true, but probably not completely true. Certainly the NIH has uses its rights to
block injunctions on the use of the Cellpro device and even an injunction on Fabry patents in Germany,
during the Fabrazyme shortage. The price hike on ritonavir was rolled back on federal programs. And
the NIH forced more liberal licensing of stem cell patents, in the Bush era. The DOE use the
government's rights in patents as leverage for more liberal licensing of FISH diagnostic patents. And in
2017, the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee issued a directive to DoD on march-in that is being
tested right now for patents on a prostate cancer drug.