Referee report of “Sugary drink consumption and cancer risk: results from NutriNet-Sante
prospective cohort”

The focus of the paper is to examine the effect of sugary drinks consumption on time to
occurrence of overall, breast, prostate and colorectal cancers using Cox proportional hazard
models.
This is a well written manuscript; however, I have some methodological concerns:
1. There appears to be a confusion between the concepts or relative risk, and hazard ratio.
The problem formulation and interpretation of results suggest that interest is in comparing
the probability of occurrence of cancer among groups (relative risk) during the period of
observation, but the analysis is based on survival analysis which estimates hazard ratios. A
clear explanation for the rationale for using survival analysis would be helpful.
2. The analysis of dietary data is inherently complex due to the presence of measurement
error, within person variation in consumption, and high frequency of zero consumption
records arising from dietary components that are occasionally consumed, e.g. artificially
sweetened beverages (only 14.8% consumed in this study). None of these aspects were
adequately taken into account in the analyses. Unfortunately, ignoring these issues by
simply estimating individual consumption of a dietary component by taking the mean of
consumption in the analyses can bias the regression coefficients in a non-predictable
direction, and the problem does not go away even if the sample size is large. This often
leads to spurious associations.
3. When looking at relationships between diet and health outcomes, combining several foods
into a single score (e.g. using PCA) exacerbates the problems described above, as the intake
of different dietary components will be correlated between them and so will be their
measurement error.
4. PCA is not well suited for data measured with error. PCA will tend to produce results which
are dominated by variance due to measurement error.
5. The creation of scores using PCA carries extra variability when used in any further
analysis which if not accounted for renders incorrect standard errors of regression estimates.
6. There are important issues of bias selection in this study, although this has been
acknowledged in the discussion.
7. Please justify whether it is appropriate to censor patients who experienced cancer at other
locations. This would mean that these patients should be as likely to suffer cancer as those
patients who remain in the study. Standard methods for survival may not be valid when
there is informative censoring, particularly if the number of patients censored is high.
8. Finally a minor comment. STROBE guidelines for reporting observational studies advise
against presenting P-values in the Table of patient characteristics.
