The question this paper asks is of interest - i.e., are there dangers associated with refraining from
prescribing antibiotics for respiratory tract infections, which are primarily of viral origin. They used a rich
database, the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink. On the negative side, when one uses a large
dataset, it is relatively easy to see statistically significant findings that have little clinical relevance or
importance for the individual practice or patient (1-2 cases a year for cellulitis and pneumonia, 1 case of
abscess a decade).
In terms of style, I felt there was too much repetition of the same points about increased risk of cellulitis,
pneumonia and peritonsillar abscess. I think it could be shortened without changing the message. Some
specific points:

1. In the Introduction, the authors note an earlier study found the overall risk of complications was low
and the "number of patients who would have to be treated to avoid one complication was estimated in
excess of 4,000." They did not use a similar way to describe their own data, but it would have been of
great interest and would put in perspective for the clinician how to interpret this data.
2. They emphasize the significant findings and mention this minimal increased risk is likely offset by the
risks of antibiotic treatments that are unnecessary. Some data regarding this would have been very
informative, even if just by literature review.
3. There is no breakdown of how individual RTIs were treated, and whether the cases of
pneumonia/cellulitis/peritonsillar abscess had any association with patients that actually had an RTI and
did or did not get an antibiotic (discussed by the authors, appropriately, as a weakness). If they occurred
in a completely different population, can the association be explained by RTI antibiotic treatments? If the
excess cases could not be linked to patients with RTIs who were not treated with antibiotics, how should
the results be interpreted?
4. The results of infective complications according to quartile of proportion of RTI consultations with
antibiotics prescribed, as well as infective complications according to rate of RTI consultations are
emphasized and relevant tables/figures included. In contrast, the association between prescribing rate which takes into account RTI consultation rate and proportion of RTI consultations with antibiotics
prescribed - is included only as a supplementary figure, but it seems that this interaction is very
important. As discussed, practices with high proportion of antibiotic treatments for RTI consultations
encourage more RTI visits than other practices. Perhaps those practices are more experienced with RTI
consultations and less likely to miss other diagnoses, or other hypotheses are possible. In any event, this
analysis showed only a significant association with pneumonia - less striking results.
5. How does this study help clinicians? It is difficult to see how this information can be practically helpful.
Its main benefit is reassurance – reducing antibiotic treatment of RTIs does not have collateral damaging
impact. The way the paper is framed, it just doesn’t get this across as the major point.