For Editors:
My first reaction to this manuscript: was: “oh no, not another adverse event
prevalence study based on chart review; don't we all know all this by now?…”
However, after a second reading I realized that there are very interesting new
observations in this professionally conducted systematic review and meta-analysis of
published studies on preventable adverse events in global healthcare. The specific
focus on ‘preventability’ rather than the overall incidence of AE is novel and
important. I agree with the authors that it also more inspiring for health care
workers to focus on that proportion of AE that is amenable to changes in clinical
processes.
For Authors:
Ten years ago authors from the Netherlands (where I live and work) reviewed
studies on adverse events and reported on the proportion of preventable adverse

events among ALL adverse events. (de Vries, E. et al. Qual Saf Health Care
2008;17(3):216-23). This study was published before the first Dutch retrospective
nationwide study on adverse events was conducted and published (Zegers, 2009)
Qual Saf Health Care 2009;18(4):297-302). The median incidence of AEs in the
Netherlands at that time was found to be 9.2% (IQR 4.6–12.4%), and the median
percentage of AEs that was judged preventable was 43.5% (IQR 39.4–49.6%).

I was therefore interested to learn what new information regarding preventable AEs
could be reported today. Of course, I had hoped to see a large reported decrease in
the rate of preventable AEs, perhaps as a result of the myriad patient safety
interventions instated during the last decade. Instead, we get a grim result: the fact
that the incidence of preventable serious adverse events is very high and seems
unchanged.
The authors have chosen a very specific focus on preventable adverse events, rather
than the more typical reporting of overall incidence of AE. This focus is indeed likely
to be more appealing to clinicians and nurses than the overall AE rate, because
preventability suggests that here are ways we can reduce the occurrence of these
preventable AEs and mitigate their negative effects on patient outcome.
A few new elements are immediately apparent from the new pooled analysis. The
time period has shifted away from the very early studies such as that by Leape and
Brennan (NEJM, 1991) in which the outcome measure was ‘negligence’ rather
preventability (reflecting the then more prevalent notion that an adverse event must
be someone’s fault) to the two decades following the 1999 IOM “to Err is Human”
Reports, The number of AE incidence studies on which the authors report has
increased from the 8 reported in the 2008 de Vries publication to 68 in the present
review, and the number of patients has grown from 74485 to 274405.
Compared to the de Vries paper, where the authors simply tabulated the 8 studies
and presented the median rate of AEs, the methodology used in the present study is
entirely up to date (a formal meta-analysis including meta regression on predefined
potential “modifiers, reflecting the advances in the field of meta-analysis).
Nonetheless, the results of both studies are remarkably consistent: the overall rate
of adverse events remains very high 12% and half of these events are preventable.
If 14% of preventable AE result in death or serious disability (“severe harm”), then
one in every 128 patients entering a healthcare system will suffer severe
preventable harm. That is indeed a staggering number (as the authors could not
resist writing on p. 14, l.48).
The primary take home message from this new analysis is healthcare’s continued
appalling safety record compared to other high-risk industries. It is indeed shocking
that we have not been able to drive these rates down very much in the last 20
years. Many of the underlying factors have been eloquently presented by René
Amalberti in his Ann Int Med 2005 paper “Five System Barriers to Achieving
Ultrasafe Health Care” (craftsman mindset, not accepting limits to production, need
for simplification, standardization and limiting worker discretion/autonomy). I can
therefore only agree with the authors’ proposed tag line: ”….preventable harm is a
major, highly prevalent international healthcare challenge which causes unnecessary
patient suffering and can result in several avoidable deaths”.
Specific comments:
Introduction
p.5, l.28 “…Although there is not a consensus on the exact criteria of preventability,
the majority of studies classify patient harm as preventable if it occurs as a result of

an identifiable modifiable cause, and its future recurrence can be avoided by
reasonable adaptation to a process, or
adherence to guidelines...”
Should you consider the possibility that preventability judgments in retrospective
chart review studies have become stricter with time, i.e., that we will now consider a
particular AE more often preventable than in the past?
p.5,l.60: underppined by underpinned
Methods
Well presented; state of the art meta-analytic methodology (BTW: I am not an
expert)
p.6, l.48: whereas key types o preventable expected whereas key types of
preventable harm expected were…. (?)
Results
Cleary presented.
Table 2: please label the 3 columns each for univariate and multivariate predictors
of the prevalence of preventable harm (e.g., ‘univariate’, ‘multivariate’)

Discussion:
p.15, l.56: (“broader variations in the documentation used for detecting preventable
harm are important parameters to consider when interpreting the differences in the
prevalence estimates of preventable harm across studies.”)
Isn't it an interesting paradox that the less one documents in the patient’s chart
(we all have seen those near empty charts), the harder it gets to infer
“preventability” when an AE has occurred.
Items that are perhaps worth considering to discuss here:
‘Preventability’ is a moving target: a professional judgment that is susceptible to a
changing expectations regarding patient safety and the extent of preventability for
certain adverse events. After the first Dutch national retrospective audit of
‘potentially preventable’ mortality had been published (Zegers et al., Qual Saf Health
Care 2009;18(4):297-302), I was told by several of the (recently retired) clinician
reviewers that they often found it very hard to deliver the ‘preventable’ judgment,
because to them it felt as if they were stabbing their colleagues in the back. This
attitude may have changed in later years, as we have become more accustomed to
chart review and assessment of preventable harm.
Even when ‘medication error’ appears to be the primary cause of a preventable
death, several redundant safety mechanisms are often breeched as well. For
example, a postoperative morphine overdose will produce life-threatening
respiratory depression; if discovered in time by frequent monitoring of respiration
rate - and perhaps use of pulse oximetry - the opioid effect can be reversed with
naloxone and no patient harm will have ensued. Since surgery and intensive care
seem to be particularly sensitive to preventable AE, the concept “ failure to rescue”
could be mentioned. This has been used frequently in the surgical literature, for
example the 2009 landmark paper in NEJM by Ghaferi et al. :“Variation in Hospital
Mortality Associated with Inpatient Surgery”.
Cor Kalkman

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Cor J. Kalkman, MD, PhD
Job Title: Professor of Anesthesiology
Institution: University Medical Centre Utrecht, the Netherlands
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-check
lists/declaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy)
</a>please declare them here:

Reviewer: 4
