Dear Drs Elwyn, Wieringa and Greenhalgh,
This is a far-reaching paper addressing a crisis in clinical care that remains opaque to most
clinicians. The article clearly outlines the problems with current clinical practice guidelines.
I imagine that you are working with strict word limits that enforce brevity, but there were a few
areas that warranted clarification, in order of importance:
At the end of the article, I was not clear how the authors’ proposed solutions actually address some
aspects of the problem. The issues of credibility, bias, advocacy, and distortion would also be of
concern even with fast frugal wiki-based tools. I had questions about the piece of paper that
Amanda handed to Jan. Was it customized to this patient’s concerns? Or generic? Who created it?
Is the information up to date and reliable? Who updates it? Etc.
The fictitious physician in the vignette is particularly astute, and would set a high standard for
other clinicians. How many physicians can use social media in the way that Amanda does? How
many have that level of communication skills? By using her as an example, you are implicitly
saying that providing tools is only part of the solution. For example, clinicians need internal
“mindware” to be attentive to what’s important, notice distinctions, be curious, adopt a beginner’s
mind and recognize their own biases (based on sex, race, disease status, age, behavior, habitus,
etc., see Croskerry P NEJM 2013) -- otherwise they might not even think to seek information. This
deserves some mention.
You might mention research (Kruglanski and Gigerenzer, Psychol Rev 2011) indicating that intuitive
and analytic thinking both rely on the same data; dispelling the concern that you’re suggesting that
good intuition in some way substitutes for knowledge. It is the way that knowledge is processed
that distinguishes the different modes of thinking, as you know – but might not be clear to the
reader.
You might provide an example of what a “mindline” is. The uninitiated might be mystified rather
than enlightened by your definition.
Most clinicians in the USA do not consult voluminous guidelines. If anything, they use formats such
as DynaMed, Up to Date and the like. These often have associcated patient information sheets that
are quite comprehensive. It would be useful to incorporate mention or critique of those tools, albeit
briefly.

Best regards,
Ron Epstein