Thank you for providing me the opportunity to review this manuscript. It was interesting to read how the new policies are
impacting healthcare in the US, or the lack of it!
In India, we have not seen a lot of innovations in terms of health policy, and there is a lot of dependence of the experience in
the west and adapt those policies to use them to our needs.
This study seems to be the first study to measure the impact of HVBP on patient mortality, over years, which such a large
number. There have been studies in the past which have studied different indicators of health impact. Many have used
different forms of KPIs, but this study stands out because of the large number, and the presence of multiple control groups.
This study is not apt for general readers globally as such, but definitely apt for policy makers. It covers an important aspect of
medicine which is widely debated, and was covered by the media.
Abstract: establish objective in the subheading objective. It just introduces the study.
Introduction:
1. Reference 5, Page 4, Line 18. The webpage cited does not specifically talk about the factors mentioned in the manuscript
2. HVBP is based on the Premier HQID. The general reader might not know about it.
3. Targeted conditions on Line 14, Page 5 is understandable only to people who have read about the HVBP. It would be best if
a little background is given so that the global audience can associate with why these conditions were chosen.
4. References 14,15 on Page 5, Line 21 are for P4P, not for HVBP as mentioned in the manuscript.
Discussion
Page 10, Line 56 has a reference 12 in manuscript. Is it an error?
The RQ is appropriately defined and the study design answers the question. The design, though, fails to answer the broader
question, of whether this intervention is making an impact on healthcare for the good. It may not be feasible to answer this
question yet, and more comprehensive analysis of many more conditions, over many years may be needed to assess the
impact of such an intervention.

The methods seem appropriate and an IRB approval may not be needed for this study.
The results are well tabulated, but I do not understand the relevance of Figures 1 and 2.
Interpretation and conclusions seem well written .