Systematic review of prediction models for cardiovascular risk in the general population: too many models, too few validated
and often insufficient reporting
Originality
Whilst Beswick and colleagues (Beswick AD, Brindle P, Fahey T, Ebrahim S. A Systematic Review of Risk Scoring Methods and
Clinical Decision Aids Used in the Primary Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease (Supplement). London: Royal College of
General Practitioners., 2008) have published a systematic review the conclusion from that report “The generalisability of risk
scores in different populations cannot be assumed and there is currently little evidence that they are effective in improving
health outcomes. Future research needs to be directed at refining the accuracy of
prediction models and, most importantly, examining ways of turning them into effective clinical tools.” indicates that the
objective and conclusions of the submitted paper are substantially different. I therefore believe it does add to the published
literature and should be seen as original work.
By highlighting the plethora of prediction models and documenting their shortcomings, particularly around external validation,
the authors provide much need guidance to researchers (and funders) on what should be the priorities for future studies.
Secondarily the results would be of interest to clinicians and policy makers with an interest in cardiovascular health who are
potentially the end users of any developed models. They need to understand the limitations and differences between prediction
models and be able to utilise ones appropriate for their populations.
Scientific reliability
The research objective is clearly defined.
Study design
The authors have undertaken a systematic review, albeit a descriptive one, and this is appropriate for the study
question/objective.
Introduction
The introduction is brief, acknowledges previous published research and provides good justification for the current study.
Methods

The methods are clearly and adequately described. Although they have only searched from 2004 to 2013 I think their reliance
on a previous review is acceptable given the nature of the topic. Having an end point is also important and they do
acknowledge, when discussing the study limitations in the discussion (line 436), the large number of subsequent publications
that have occurred after 2013. I agree with them that it is unlikely these publications would change their main conclusions or
recommendations.
Their search strategy, screening and data extraction methods are consistent with other studies.
I agree that descriptive analysis was the best approach for the available data and current methods.
Results
The results were very interesting (surprising) even for a researcher/ and clinician who works in the field. For me there were
several take home messages that I can use in my research, teaching and clinical work. Firstly the sheer number of studies, the
fact that only a few have had extensive external validation, the wide variation in predictive performance, the inconsistency in
outcome measures, the limited use of assessing the incremental value of predictors (despite the large number of predictors
used) and the paucity of validated prediction models in some geographic areas.
Discussion
The discussion and conclusions are well written and consistent with the results. Although long I believe it would be hard to
reduce its length and still do justice to the extensive results. The authors make sensible and logical recommendations that
could potentially impact cardiovascular health care across the globe. I believe the messages are clear.
The limitations are acknowledged and discussed. It is important that the authors reference the limited evidence about the
effect of risk prediction tools clinically and in particular on actual CVD incidence.
References
Appear to be up to date.
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds
Reflect accurately the paper, results and discussion.
Additional point
Clearly the authors have enough results and recommendations for one paper but I did wonder if, by using the collected data, if
they could make recommendations about which prediction models did not require further validation in specified populations
(North America/Europe) and which were most promising, based on current research, for populations that had previously been
neglected (for instance Africa/Asia/certain subgroups).
Prof Nigel Stocks
University of Adelaide