Reviewer feedback
LENGTH: Article is within the recommended length. However, the introduction exceeds the
recommended word limit.
PRESENTATION: Short title not provided. The single italicised sentence doesn’t convey the key
message of the paper.
The body of the text is well broken into subheadings
EVIDENCE BASE
Overall impression:
The topic is suitable to stimulate discussion, raise debate and air controversies. However, there are
some important comments they authors should consider in order to make the paper more relevant to
a general readership.
Introduction:
1-Some of the statements are not backed by references. The authors should reference the first two
statements. In the second sentence, the authors make mention of compelling evidence. Where’s the
compelling evidence coming from? From systematic reviews? RCTs? The two studies that have been
referenced at the end of the 3rd sentence are cohort studies in which case enough adjustments for
confounders were not made. Authors should either remove the word “compelling” or make sure more
studies with quality evidence are referenced.
Challenges in studying male partner involvement:
In this section, the authors raised some very strong points to support their case but, in some
instances, not enough evidence was given to support their claim.
Firstly, the first challenge in male partner involvement should be the varying definitions of male
partner involvement. Authors should have argued here that many definitions of male partner
involvement lack the consideration of the intersectionality theory/approach which considers male
partner involvement as an intersection of social norms, systemic forces and power dynamics. In
addition, many definitions of male partner involvement don’t consider the temporal variation of male
partner involvement over time. Male partner involvement should be seen as dynamic and changing
over time. In general, authors should have mentioned that in order to plan interventions that work, a

deeper understanding of male partner involvement is needed. There’s a study that has been
conducted in Burkina Faso on this and will be published anytime soon.
One challenge in male partner involvement that the authors didn’t mention is the lack of robust
studies on the impact of male partner involvement on the uptake of PMTCT services. There are very
few RCTs and even when cohort studies are published, there isn’t adjustment for confounders. These
challenges ultimately affect the quality of findings even when systematic reviews are conducted.
Furthermore, the lack of uniformity in the studies introduce a lot of heterogeneity, making it difficult
to reliably pool the findings together in a meta-analysis.
In page 6 line 45-46, the authors should provide more evidence to support their claim that unitary
interventions are “unrealistic”.
Bundled interventions: The authors failed here to mention that there might be some evidence to
support the effectiveness of bundled interventions, but no robust cost-effectiveness analysis has been
conducted to factor in the cost component. In many settings in sub-Saharan Africa, we can’t overlook
the cost of interventions as well.
Unintended effects: Good argument here. However, they failed to mention that in some cases, the
expectations of women can be somehow contradictory, given their concern regarding their loss of
privacy if men were allowed into their space. This controversy is important to stimulate discussion on
how pre and post-natal care can be re-organized.
Available evidence from individual studies
The authors presented a good case on the use of bundled interventions that integrate male partner
involvement. However, they didn’t mention how the use of community health workers, male
champions and other community liaison officers can impact these bundle interventions.
Page 8, lines 35-50. The authors should explain why they singled out community education and
sensitization. Community education and sensitization and usually part of a bundle of community
interventions.

Evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analyses
Page 9, lines 5-6. The authors have mentioned that more rigorous analyses of male partner
involvement are needed but didn’t explain why. There was no critical appraisal of the studies by
Brusamento et al and Takah et al.
The authors also missed a systematic review published by Manjate et al.
Here is the link https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26726756
CONTRIBUTORS and SOURCES:
Sources of information used in preparing the manuscript were not stated.
BOXES/TABLES/FIGURES: Good
REFERENCES: More than 20 references used. No need to include the “dio” in the Vancouver style.
Ref #18: The journal title isn’t italicised.
KEY MESSAGE BOX: Authors should include a message box with 2-4 “take home” messages.
