The paper of H Kyu and colleagues examines the influence of physical activity on a number of
cardiovascular, metabolic and cancerous outcomes. The article embraces a large number of articles and of
outcomes, and my main concern is up to what point such a wide approach would not miss critical issues
susceptible to change the way results can be interpreted. For instance, one article we recently published on
physical activity and breast cancer indicates that taking hormone replacement therapy might have
interfered with the protective effect of physical activity, which might explain why physical activity has a
moderate effect on breast cancer occurrence (Pizot et al, EJC, 2015). Similar concerns could exist for other
outcomes. If taken at face value, readers could understand that physical activity does not confer the same
protection against major diseases. However, differences in protection between conditions could just be due
to a lack of more subtle analysis of published data. Stratified analysis and sensitivity analyses on the type
(ie, professional or recreational), on ways physical activity was measured, and according to strong risk
factors specific of diseases (eg, sex, adiposity) could shed light on the relationships between physical
activity and diseases.
The way physical activity has been reported over time has been highly variable across studies, from just
considering professional activity as a surrogate for physical activity, or as “low, moderate, high” physical
activity and sophisticated codifications in MET-h/week.I could not understand from the text how authors
dealt with the high variability in exposure reporting.
Regarding results, I am surprised by the figures, in which all relative risks tend to cluster in a zone of low
values and in a zone of high values for physical activity. Hence, disease risk would be a function of a low
and a high level of physical activity. This dummy effect contrasts with exposures reported in many articles
in quartiles or quintiles. Authors need to explain why such clustering occurs. Would this be due to the
Bayesian approach?
My other comments are:
-What does “domain-specific physical activity measures” exactly mean? Authors should give an example of
what they did.
-The amount of MET-h/week assigned to the various types of physical activity has changed over time. How
were physical activity in MET-h/week standardised for variations in MET-h/week over time?
- Data sources for breast cancer analysis seems to be non-exhaustive: what about Catsburg 2014 and
Rosenberg 2014?
- What about the domestic activity? In the NHANES and SAGE surveys, the domestic activity seems to not
be taken into account. Is domestic activity included in recreational activity?

- NHANES and SAGE surveys did not include European countries; maybe these surveys are not
representative of European countries (in terms of physical activity) and include a bias that could be
discussed.
- Did you try a standard dose-response meta-analysis (for example with Greenland and Longnecker) to
compare with results of the Bayesian approach ?
- More details on the prior used should be added. Did you choose the same priors for all 5 outcomes?
- In Bayesian meta-analysis, the results depend a lot on the prior distribution used. Sensitivity analyses
based on several prior distributions should be added to show how the results depend on assumption.
Minor comments:
- P11 line 3 and 6: you meant MET-min instead of MET-hour?
- P18 line 47: “meta” instead of “meat”
