This study examines the association between oral fluconazole dispensing during first
trimester of pregnancy and the risk of congenital malformation (with focus on
malformations previously linked to fluconazole) in a large cohort of ≈1.9 m pregnancies of
Medicaid insured women in the US, 2000-2014. This is a well written manuscript on an
important topic and adds to the evidence on safety of fluconazole use in pregnancy, which
is conflicting. The analyses are nicely done and the results are well-presented. I only have
minor comments that may help to further strength the presentation of the results.
ABSTRACT
The title includes congenital malformations, but the abstract only focuses on three
subgroups of congenital malformations. Either the title should be modified or it should be
evident from the abstract that these three subgroups are primary outcomes and that the
study also examines other malformations.
Page 2, line 33-54: Please add the number of pregnancies exposed to fluconazole and
topical azoles during first trimester of pregnancy.
Page 2, line 46-51: Please add fluconazole to the different dose groups.
Page 2, line 46: The conclusion in the abstract highlights the increased estimate for
conotruncal malformations at higher doses and provides the number of excess cases. In
the conclusion of the manuscript, this increased risk is not mentioned neither is it
mentioned in the summary of the study findings at the beginning of the discussion (Page
19, line5-22). However, this summary highlights the increased risk of musculoskeletal
malformations for all dose groups and provides the number of excess cases. The focus of
these three parts of the manuscript is a bit inconsistent and should be modified.
BACKGROUND

Page 4, line 6-10: Please add whether the recommendations are for pregnant women or
women overall. Are topical azole antifungals not considered first-line treatment for VVC
during pregnancy in the US?
Page 6, line 38: Perhaps add that these prior safety studies reported no increased risk of
congenital malformation overall (or large subgroups of malformations).
METHODS
Page 6, 9-11: Describe whether this is the most recent data available.
Page 6, line 18: Add a sentence and a reference that describes how a pregnancy cohort can
be created from this data. For example reference number 20-25 all refer to “Palmsten K,
Huybrechts K, Mogun H, et al. Harnessing the Medicaid Analytic eXtract (MAX) to
evaluate medications in pregnancy: design consideration. PLOS ONE”
Page 6, line 13: Describe whether outpatient setting includes primary care physicians,
specialized outpatient clinics, etc. If MAX data does not include diagnostic information from
primary care (it is assumed included), this should be discussed in the limitations of the
study.
Page 6, 15: Topical azole antifungals are available over the counter. Describe which kinds
of over-the-counter drugs are included in MAX data.
Page 6, line 53: Please define the time window for the baseline period again.
Page 7, line 31-32: Please add a sentence about the motivation for investigating
musculoskeletal malformations, oral clefts and conotruncal malformations as primary
outcomes.
Page 8, line 43-50: Please rephrase this sentence so it is clear that the algorithm identifies
infants with congenital malformations with high specificity (/high positive predictive value)
Page 8, line 8: Please add “(treatment indication)” after vaginal candidiasis.
Page 8, line 40: Please add some details about using prevalence at birth as a proxy for
absolute risks and some considerations whether the assumptions of no loss to follow-up or
competing risk are fulfilled. In the discussion, please provide some estimates (if available)
or consideration why only few fetuses with the primary outcomes (musculoskeletal
malformation, oral clefts, and conotruncal malformations) result in fetal death or elective
terminations.
Page 9, line 10. Please add that an absolute standardized difference less than 0.1 for a
covariate was considered well-balanced.
Page 9, line 14: Please add some details about how correlation between several
pregnancies in the same mother was taken into account. This is only described in the
footnotes of the figures.
Page 9, line 24: Perhaps add “only” one 150 mg prescription…
Page 9, line 45: Perhaps add some more details about this sensitivity analysis and please
refer to eTable13.
RESULTS
Page 10, line 8: Please provide a reference to eTable 2.
Page 10, line 24: Please provide a reference to both Table 1 and eTable 4 (eTable 4 should
not only be mentioned in the footnote of Table 1).
Table 1: The subheading in this table could be rephrased to “Selected cohort
characteristics…..”.
Table 2: Perhaps omit subgroups of musculoskeletal malformations with less than 11
exposed cases in this table (like in figure 1B). Furthermore, add that this table is based on
the entire cohort (before trimming observations from the non-overlapping regions of the PS
distribution).
Page 17, line 8-10: Add that the numbers of exposed cases for musculoskeletal
malformation subgroups were small for 5 out of 8 subgroups.
Page 17, line 33: The risk of malformations according to dose is not a dose response
analysis and the subheading should be rephrased.
The manuscript does not refer to eTable6-8. However, consider to omit these tables from
the Supplementary Appendix as they only show cohort characteristics for a subanalysis
/sensitivity analysis.

Page 18, line 20: Correct “Table S 10-12” to “eTable 10-12”
Page 18, line 22: Explain which outcome
Page 18, line 22-31: Replace the wording incidence with risk or absolute risk. Add a
reference to Table 2, which provides the absolute risks for transposition of great vessels
among topical azole-exposed and unexposed.
Page 18, line 34-41: Explain more precisely the extreme scenario and the probability
assumptions the estimates are based on.
DISCUSSION
Page 19, line 26: Add reference number 13
Page 19, line 38: Add the reference: Mastroiacovo P, Mazzone T, Botto LD, Serafini MA,
Finardi A, Caramelli L, et al. Prospective assessment of pregnancy outcomes after
first-trimester exposure to fluconazole. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1996;175:1645-50.
Page 20, line 42: Replace the wording incidence with risk or absolute risk.
Page 21, line 5: Reference number 34 and 39 are misplaced in the text and should be
mentioned in connection with the validity of the algorithms to define outcomes. Perhaps
use both references from the methods section. Furthermore, include and discuss estimates
of the positive predictive values of musculoskeletal malformation, conotruncal
malformation (/cardiac defects), and oral clefts based on the three references.
Page 21, line 20-54: Although this study uses an active comparator group of topical
azole-exposed pregnancies, confounding by severity of vaginal candida infection might still
be present and should be discussed. Topical azoles are first-line treatment during
pregnancy and pregnant women treated with fluconazole may have more severe candida
infection. Perhaps more severe candida infection during first trimester (or factors
associated with severe candida infection) could be associated with an increased risk of
musculoskeletal defects.
Musculoskeletal malformation include a large number of different abnormalities affecting
bone and muscle development in the skull, trunk and limbs. The results show that
fluconazole exposure increases the risk of all subgroups of musculoskeletal malformation.
Most teratogenic drugs increase the risk of one or few specific malformations. Could this
speak against a causal association?
Lastly, follow-up of infants is three months after birth. Could this cause misclassification of
some subgroups of musculoskeletal malformations?
CONCLUSION
Page 22, line 19-22: Are topical azole antifungals not considered first-line treatment for
VVC during pregnancy in the US?
SUPPLEMENTARY APPENDIX
The supplementary material is comprehensive and provides additional information about
the study. However, it is a bit difficult to read, but if the subheadings of the tables
described more precisely what the various tables contain it would be easier.
eTable 9-12: It should be more evident from the subheadings that these concern
sensitivity analyses and exactly which specific sensitivity analysis.
Furthermore, “in Medicaid Analytic eXtract 2000-2014” should be omitted from all tables.
eTable 6-8: These table could be omitted as they only show cohort characteristics for some
sensitivity analyses.
eTable 1: This table is mentioned for the first time in the discussion and should not be
labeled number one. Perhaps this table could fit into one page only.
eTable 2: There is no reference to eTable 2 in the manuscript.
eTable 13. It should be clear from the subheadings that this table includes detailed
information on the methods of this sensitivity analysis.
