This is a systematic and comprehensive analysis of prospective cohort, nested case-control, and case-cohort
studies that assessed the association of SFA or TFA intake with all cause mortality, coronary heart disease, stroke
or T2DM. The findings confirm previous meta-analyses showing no association of SFAs, but positive associations
of TFAs, with CHD morbidity and mortality. Additionally, this is the first report using meta-analysis to assess the
associations of SFAs and TFAs with all cause mortality and T2DM. However, the number of studies is quite limited
in some of these analyses, particularly for TFAs (n=5 for SFAs and n=2 for TFAs in relation to all cause mortality;
and n=7 for SFAs, n=5 for total TFA, and n=3 for ruminant TFAs in relation to T2DM).
Major concerns:
1. The quality of the data for SFAs and outcomes is consistently estimated as “very low” – the lowest designation
possible – and yet the results of this paper, with its intended public health impact, are reported as though the
foundation on which they are based is rather solid. A discussion of the types of weaknesses in these studies is
important and relevant, as would mention of the inherent problems in using such data for formulation of dietary
guidelines.
2. As the authors note, it is critical to consider the replacement nutrient when evaluating effects of SFAs and
TFAs. The lack of such information in the present analysis should be explicitly stated in both the abstract and the
conclusions of this paper.
3. It would be helpful, at least to this reviewer, to point out the rationale for assessing both most and leastadjusted models. Presumably the latter minimize the potential problem of over-adjustment, but how does the
inclusion of these results impact interpretation of the main findings, which are based on the most-adjusted
models?
Minor concerns:
1. The abstract is somewhat misleading with regard to the number of studies, since the number for each
endpoint, i.e., all cause mortality, total CHD, stroke, etc, is not 33 for SFAs or 18 for TFAs. The number of studies
evaluated in each comparison (along with event and total population if possible) should be provided.
p. 5 lines 17. The 2013 ACC/AHA dietary guidelines have recommended limitation of SFAs to 5-6% of the total
diet. This should be cited.
p. 9, lines 36 The Seven Countries Study showed a positive association of SFA with increased mortality over 25
years but results could not be included due to an “incompatible effect measure”. This is a weakness of this metaanalysis and meta-analyses in general, ie. the inability to pool all available and relevant data in a meaningful
way, and should be discussed.
p. 14, lines 47 - 50 It is not correct that the analyses suggested an association between TFAs and T2DM - the
maximally adjusted association did not approach significance.
p.17, lines 55-56, p.18, lines 1-17 The authors should clarify the biology of even versus odd chain SFAs since odd
chain SFAs appear to be relatively accurate biomarkers of dairy intake whereas even chained SFAs are poor
markers of overall dietary SFA intake.
References 85 and 133 are the same