
The authors have responded well to the comments, and I still believe this is a very good
research study. But some response do not go far enough in my opinion.
1. The decision to report one of the pre-defined primary outcomes as a secondary
outcome is still troublesome, even though the authors note this in the discussion. Why not
simply report 2 primary outcomes? The problem is that the primary outcome moved to
become secondary is actually not statistically significant, whilst the retained primary
outcome is. This looks bad, because, it does appear to be a selective decision. However,
both effect sizes are in the same direction. In many ways, they do back each other up,
and why raise any complaints in this regard? Just stick with 2 primary outcomes.
2. I find it incredibly reassuring that the new meta-analysis that I requested shows
consistent findings across centres. I strongly recommend this is given in the Appendix at
least, and am surprised why the authors do not see why this add credence to their
findings. This analysis also accounts for clustering of patients within centres, which their
main analysis does not.
3. I asked them to consider adjustment for baseline imbalance (e.g. as a sensitivity
analysis), but they have not done this yet. “As this is a randomized controlled trial, our
proposal is not to adjust the
analysis. If the editor thinks this is important to report, we are more than willing to do
so.” I understand the view that this is an RCT, and hence randomisation should expect to
balance groups and so estimates are unbiased; but clearly there is slight imbalance.
Hence the question is valid: are conclusions robust. Thus I do ask again for this in a
sensitivity analysis. As for the multi-centre analysis above, if findings barely change, then
this add credence to the finding. The focus should not be on the change in p-value here,
but rather any chance in the magnitude of effect (and its clinical relevance).
4. The authors changed their analysis methods from the first submission from a complete
case analysis to one that uses multiple imputation to ensure an ITT analysis I think. What
assumptions is this imputation analysis making? What if baseline covariates were
themselves missing, from which the outcome is being computed? How do results compare
to the complete case analysis from before? It would be nice to know in the paper.
Also, in the discussion they say: “missing data were balanced between groups averting
any bias in outcome.” – but does the multiple imputation not exceed this statement now?
6) Re-write: “Of the women assigned to atosiban, cesarean delivery was performed in
60% of the women and 55% in the fenoterol group” – it reads like the fenoterol group is a
subset of those in the atosiban group.
7) At start of discussion it says: “Although the difference was not statistically significant, it
is likely to be true, as the number of women in cephalic position after the procedure was
significantly decreased after atosiban.” Please change to ‘it is highly plausible’ rather than
likely to be true.
I hope this helps the authors improve the article going forward.
Best wishes, Professor Riley, BMJ Statistics Editor.
