The paper is very well written in all sections with respect to language and grammar. The script satisfies most of the
STROBE criteria. However, I have a few comments and queries about the paper to the authors.
To Editor:
Statistics is not my forte so I would recommend the editor to evaluate the study with the help of a professional
statistician for the validity and relevance of the sttistical tests used.
The paper is very well written and may be recommended after satisfactorily addressing the queries raised.
To the authors:
Details of structural pathology of menisci was collected in the methods and presented in the tables but not presented
under results nor discussed the results in discussion with respect to the type of tear in relation to outcome. Salient
findings and their relevance may be discussed for these as well as associated pathology in the knee.
What was the effect of tear type on the main outcome? Please discuss.
Did the authors have a chance to look at the effect of duration of symptoms and outcome?
Sensitivity analysis was mentioned to have been performed by adding degree of cartilage defects in addition to age,
sex and BMI for the main outcome under the methods section. What was the outcome? Please discuss findings in the
discussion. Although cartilage loss was presented under results, other parameters were not discussed.
Data and its meaning is not clear in supplementary table 1. What do the authors want to convey here? The legend of
table indicates baseline data but why add assessed at 52 weeks here? Is the data baseline or at 52 weeks?
Under the unanswered section, the authors imply that APM is not useful in traumatic tears. I submit that this topic was
not researched in this paper and preliminary glance indicates more than 50% patients were satisfied after APM in this
group at 1 year and KOOS score seems to have significantly improved from preop status to 52 weeks post op. So the
conclusion is not acceptable although the recommendation to conduct further study on that topic may be accepted
Authors seem to have given more weightage to the single item questions in the above recommendation. These
questions were asked at 1 year and hence may suffer a retrospective memory bias and also these responses are
subjective. There is definite improvement in KOOS scores assessed in these patients compared to the preoperative
levels. Hence not recommending surgery to traumatic tears may not be appropriate, in my opinion, with the results
presented by the authors.
Main difference in results between TT and DT may be related to presence of degenerative meniscal changes. If
degenerative menisci are included in both groups, the results would probably be equal/ not significant. Have the
authors considered this point and if yes, how did they exclude this effect? This would bring accuracy of visual
assessment of meniscus through scopy into question.
How accurate is assessment of degenerative meniscus through arthroscope? Has this been validated with histological
appearances? The authors note that majority are degenerative in the DT group. It would be interesting to see how
many patients below age 40 and 45 are included in each group. This data is not presented and may be included in the
supplementary data for those who are interested.