This is a clearly executed manuscript in an important area of research. I suggest the following revisions:
The authors mention imputing missing values using the mode. The number and percentage of all missing values
should be shown in Table 1. It is critical to know the proportion of missing values for each variable. The authors should
also provide more information regarding which women were considered to have used oral contraceptives. Did they

include women on progestin only pills or morning after pills? Were women who used other hormones for contraception
such as the Mirena IUD, the hormonal patch or hormonal ring, excluded from the analysis?
On page 5 please clarify what is meant by calendar year. Does this mean year of birth? As this a cohort study the
power to assess relationships for specific birth defects is more limited than the statistical power in a recent analyses of
the National Birth Defects Prevention Study (a case control study) that was led by this reviewer, i.e. Waller et al.. For
gastroschisis, our study had 447 cases of which 40 were exposed to OCs during pregnancy for an adjusted OR of 1.82
for exposure during pregnancy compared with the current analyses which included 138 cases of gastroschisis of which
3 were exposed during pregnancy and an adjusted OR of 0.84 (0.26 -2.68). It seems important to point out that this
analyses had more limited statistical power to detect an increased risk of gastroschisis and hypoplastic left heart
syndrome among women exposed to OCs than Waller et al. For hypoplastic left heart syndrome my paper included 186
cases of which 16 were exposed during pregnancy for an adjusted OR of 2.33. In comparison, the current analyses
includes 93 cases of HLHS of which 3 were exposed during pregnancy for an adjusted OR of 2.47. Although in the
current analyses the elevated OR of 2.47 for HLHS was not significant it also seems important to note that both
studies found an elevated OR > 2.0 for HLHS. Due to the lower statistical power in this study it is not surprising that
the OR of 2.47 did not achieve statistical significance. In table 3, the word gastroschisis is misspelled.
The current analyses used a different method of exposure ascertainment compared with previous studies which used
maternal interview and yet results were reasonably similar to previous studies. I think the currently analyses makes
an important contribution to the literature.
signed, Dr. Dorothy Kim Waller