I reviewed this paper for the LANCET. I liked it then, I like it now.
Here are the comments that I submitted (the authors will know them already!)
No points are critical - and in the main relate to issues for the discussion section
----This is a secondary analysis from the MATRIX study. The analyses were pre-specified and have clinical relevance, in that
management paths for ST elevation and Non-ST elevation patients are usually separate. The study is large and has adequate
power even at this subgroup level. The results are credible and well-presented. As such there is much to like! We even get a
meta-analysis for free.
Here are some points to consider that may merit some revision to the text (in terms of context of presentation or in the
discussion:
1. The STEACS group are 'mixed'. They are not just true primary PCI cases. I see that the median interval from pain to PCI is
short (3 hours) but it would be good to see the full breakdown of the 'indication' as come will be post thrombolysis and others
will be essentially convalescent. The majority of readers will read this evidence as relating to ST elevation PPCI practice; this is
largely true (I expect), but let us see the facts
2. A trial profile diagram would help in point 1 but might also help us to see the treatment path of all randomised patients
,especially the ST elevation group. The latter were (in an unstated proportion of cases) randomised pre-angiography and hence
some will not have been managed with PCI.
3. It might be nice to see some procedural details, like stent rates, heparin doses, treatment delays, thrombus aspiration rates
(possibly), number of lesions and vessels treated etc.
4. The major limitation of the study is the disproportionate high use of GPI in the heparin arm.
Most of the enlightened world have now woken up to the fact that there is no credibility in the concept that bivalirudin has an
anti-thrombotic efficacy advantage over heparin (such that the need for GPI is obviated). This myth has been peddled for
many years, with considerable success, at great financial cost to society. Bivalirudin has never bettered heparin in the
prevention of thrombotic events and its use is almost certainly associated with increased stent thrombosis. Trials examining H
v B, with comparable rates of GPI use, and with modern heparin dosing (<=70 u/kg) do not reveal any difference in bleeding
rates.
The approach adopted by the MATRIX investigators was sound and beyond reproach. They had to design a trial that had the
potential to reflect the prevailing clinical reality in nearly 80 different centres (where operators will have been used to the coadministration of heparin and GPI, especially in STEMI). To some extent I am surprised that the rate of GPI use in the heparin
patients was as low as that reported! My suspicion is that if GPI in the heparin arm had mirrored that in the bivalirudin arm
then we would have seen better outcomes for the heparin treated patients in terms of reduced bleeding and more favourable
NACE. (There may also have been some reduction in mortality.)
My (personal) interpretation of the data in this paper is that the GPI rate of use with heparin was low enough to create the
current conclusions (no differences between the treatment arms. Had the GPI rate been higher (as in HORIZONS AMI) the
findings would have been different, favouring bivalirudin; and had the rate been lower we may have seen an even better
performance from heparin.
I accept that you are not really interested in my speculation, but the disparate GPI use demands comment as we move to a
more enlightened age in ACS PCI.
