Thank you for asking me to review this manuscript.
I have the following comments in order to improve the manuscript for publication in the BMJ:
Abstract
Main outcome measures: it should be "odds ratio for admission being infected versus comparison
women". Please put OR in parenthesis. Comparison women should be clearly defined in the Abstract. In
the Abstract, it is not clear that you have chosen a historical influenza cohort as comparison group.
All the adjusted OR must be clearly defined as compared to comparison women (influenza cohort).
The Conclusion should be more factual about the outcomes of the cases. The first sentence "The
majority of pregnant women hospitalised with SARS-CoV-2 were in the late second or third trimester,
supporting guidance for continued social distancing measures in later pregnancy" is confusing - just
because the majority of pregnant women hospitalised with SARS-CoV-2 were in the late second and
third trimester, why does it support guidance for continued social distancing measures in later
pregnancy? Have the authors demonstrated data suggesting that pregnant women are more susceptible
to acquiring the virus during the late second or third trimester? Have the authors demonstrated data
suggesting that social distancing measures in later pregnancy in preventative of SARS-CoV-2 infection? I
am fully supportive of social distancing but I do not think the conclusion has been substantiated with
evidence from the study.
Introduction
Two weeks have passed since 16 April, as the situation is evolving rapidly I would recommend an update
on the published literature.
Methods
The study design appears to be a hybrid of cohort study and case-control study. This should be fully
justified. The Methods is lacking a proper description of the study population. How was a case defined?
Was it confirmed by laboratory testing?
I understand the desire of working out the risk factors for SARS-CoV-2 infection in pregnant women and
this can only be done with the inclusion of a comparison cohort. Were the controls healthy pregnant
women from a historical influenza cohort? Please clarify this. The main challenge of any case-control
study is good selection of controls and I have doubts that the right controls were selected.
Outpatient cases were excluded, which is a major limitation that should be acknowledged in Discussion.
The authors might gain knowledge by comparing the characteristics and outcomes between inpatients
and outpatients to identify risk factors for admission.
Women were only tested if symptomatic for SARS-CoV-2 infection. This should be acknowledged as a
limitation as we know the rate of COVID-19 in asymptomatic pregnant women could be substantial in
regions with widespread community transmission.
Authors should comment on measures to be undertaken in order to minimise duplicate reporting in
future publications (perhaps by individual hospitals or other registries).
Results
Where applicable please provide counts with percentages throughout.
All adjusted OR should be clearly defined "as compared to a historical cohort of healthy women admitted
for delivery" (if this is the case following confirmation by the authors).

Please give s separate figure for women who had a pregnancy loss. I believe the number should be four?
Please state clearly what pregnancy loss meant. Do you have more details on these cases?
31 of 40 critically ill patients had been delivered due to COVID-19. Can more details be provided (i.e.
worsening respiratory condition etc)? Was decision for delivery driven by gestational age at
presentation?
"three had died" - Did you mean three postnatal women had died or three women who required level 3
critical care had died? Please make this clearer.
"were admitted and had a positive test for SARS-CoV-2 died" - "a positive test for SARS-CoV-2" should
be provided in Methods so there is no need to write this in Results. With this phrase it makes me wonder
if all cases were laboratory confirmed COVID-19.
For the nine women who were treated with an antiviral, what were the indications? Can the authors
comment on their response to treatment?
There were 61 women given corticosteroids for fetal lung maturation, I think the denominator should be
the number of cases presented preterm and not 427. It would also be important to learn more if
corticosteroids had any impact on the course of disease.
The rate of iatrogenic preterm birth is comparable to that of the published literature.
Twenty-eight women had general anaesthesia - the percentage should be 19%.
"Three deaths were definitely unrelated to SARS-CoV-2 infection." Please elaborate on why three deaths
were definitely unrelated to SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Can the authors state how many neonates born to the 243 pregnant women were tested for
SARS-CoV-2? Were the neonates tested only because of symptoms? How were they tested? What
biological samples were collected? We need more details regarding the neonatal infection.
Discussion
In your first paragraph, you further confirmed that indeed you were looking for risk factors associated
with admission with SARS-CoV-2 infection. The control group should be those with SARS-CoV-2 infection
managed as outpatients. The choice of control group in this study was incorrect. If you do not have
enough outpatients, then you should delay publishing your results on risk factors associated with
admission with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
You have commented that advanced maternal age, black and minority ethnicity, overweight and obesity
and pre-existing co-morbidities were risk factors for admission with SARS-CoV-2 infection, the writing
style for smoking was changed. Smoking was associated with adjusted OR of 0.3 suggestive of a
protective effect?
One in twenty of the babies of mothers admitted to hospital subsequently had a positive test for
SARS-CoV-2. This rate is questionable - we need to know if all neonates were tested. If not all neonates
born to infected mothers were tested then this number does not stand.
Only inpatients with SARS-CoV-2 were included - please acknowledge exclusion of outpatients. Please
also acknowledge that pregnant women were presumably only tested when symptomatic so number of
cases are likely to be under-reported.
"We have no evidence as to whether IgM was raised in these infants..." Does it mean antibodies testing
was not undertaken? Please make this clearer.
As testing of the neonates was not performed immediately after birth, the reported early SARS-CoV-2
neonatal infection cases could be postnatal infection as mother and baby were kept together.
Tables
Gestation at symptom onset and end of pregnancy should be divided according to the following groups:
<24
24-27
28-31
32-36
37 or more
It would also be good to see the data in the following groups:
<24
24-33
34-36
>37

To me, this paper is diluted and too much focused on risk factors, which are similar to those observed in
nonpregnant populations. This paper lacks good description of findings that matter to physicians and
pregnant patients: maternal deaths, adverse outcomes, treatments and complications. If this is a cohort
study, I think it should remain to be a cohort study and provide important findings as such, and not be
mixed with a case-control design.