Eurich et al. conducted an observational study to assess risk of heart failure following communityacquired pneumonia (CAP). Strengths of the study include large sample size, careful adjudication of
pneumonia cases, and follow-up. My concerns are related to inadequate control of confounding due
to higher risk of HF prior to pneumonia and assessment of outcomes.
Major concerns
1. The authors excluded patients with CAP and prevalent heart failure diagnosis. What is the
likelihood that some of the CAP patients were diagnosed with heart failure in the past but were not
coded for heart failure during the index hospitalization? Prior studies have used 1-year lookback
(Zhang JX et al., Med Care; 1999) or similar approaches. Although the authors have adjusted for
several chronic diseases, I am unsure if prior history of HF among CAP patients has been completely
addressed and it may affect the results.
2. Unsure why the authors were not able to match ~7% of the cases. Please present their outcomes
and whether they were similar to the matched cases?
3. The primary outcome is incident heart failure. Did this include HF in the primary discharge
diagnosis field alone or any discharge diagnosis field? Is there any data regarding validity of either
approaches? Reference 27 isn't related to validity of heart failure diagnosis in administrative data.
Minor concerns
1. Discussion regarding studies examining relationship between pneumonia and HF. In addition to
the Schembri study, a study by Corrales et al. Am Heart J 2015 includes similar long follow-up.
2. Some of the references seem a bit incorrect. For instance, the third paragraph in the introduction
appears to describe limitations of prior studies examining the relationship between CAP and HF. The
references seem incorrect and only a couple of studies cited have examined this relationship.
3. The mortality in CAP patients was higher. Yet the duration of follow-up for both groups was quite
similar (9.6 vs. 10 years). Please make sure that follow-up was truncated at the same time for both
groups to avoid ascertainment bias.