Excellent topic and primary aim of this study very important to patient community.
International collaboration and recruitment in study is much appreciated and delighted to
see successfully accrual of the numbers represented in this article. Appreciation that the

follow up will continue until each conservatively-managed patient has been followed for at
least 5 years.

Link on page 19 of 126 (line 32) www.iotagroup.org/adnexmodel/ indicates page cannot be
found. Pleased to have access to review the Telephone Surveys and awareness of the
discussion with a patient group and commitment to disseminate more broadly to other
patient groups. However, there may be some confusion disseminating results, etc. in some
countries, i.e., United States, without educating the patient advocacy who may not be
versed in the IOTA terminology as it relates to classifications used as High Grade Serous
(HGSC) or Low Grade Serous (LGSC) when understanding the relevance reflected by the
IOTA terminology. Also, with the CA-125 in regards to sub-types, might not be the best
indicator for the more sub-types, i.e., as in Granulosa (GCT) Inhibin A & B might be a
better suited biomarker including clinical monitoring of Adult Granulosa Tumor Cells (GCT).
Hopefully in the not-too-distant future, all countries will be using the same terminology
which will be of great benefit to the patient community attempting to become more and
better informed about evidence-based research. As more and more individuals are
searching to understand about ovarian cancer specific to themselves or a loved one, it
assists greatly for plain language and consistently of terminology.
On behalf of the patient community, thank you for your efforts and commitment on our
behalf to prevent unnecessary surgery and produce evidence-based guidelines on the
optimal management of the majority of ovarian cancer tumors.

Also noted there is ongoing recruitment of participants for NCT01698632: International
Ovarian Tumour Analysis (IOTA) Phase 5 (IOTA-5) listed at clinicaltrials.gov with most
recent posting of February 7, 2019.