This paper investigated the outcomes of a population of patients with: 1) atrial fibrillation, 2) who were on
antithrombotic therapy, and 3) who were admitted to hospital with GI Bleeding. More specifically, this paper sought to
determine the impact of maintaining/discontinuing antithrombotic therapy on the outcomes of death,
thromboembolism, major bleeding and recurrent GI Bleeding.
This study found that: 1) The early (90 day) event rates were quite high, with(1,119/4602) patients had an event
during the blanking period, 2) Although OAC use was associated with an increased risk of bleeding, it was also
associated with better outcomes in respect to death and thrombotic events.
Overall, I think that this study is extremely relevant to clinicians who manage patients with atrial fibrillation. GI
Bleeding is a not infrequent complication to antithrombotic therapy, and the decision to withdraw therapy versus
modify/continue therapy in a patient with a recent GI Bleed is an important question for which there is a paucity of
research. Clearly this question has important implications vis-à-vis exposing patients to risk of bleeding (with
continuation of antithrombotic therapy) versus exposing patients to risk of stroke (with discontinuation of
antithrombotic therapy). This paper provides important insight into this question, and as such, I would recommend

acceptance of this research to the BMJ for publication. There are, however, some suggestions that I have, that would
hopefully improve the overall value of the manuscript to prospective readers:
1) As noted above, the early (90 day) event rate is quite high, with 1,119/4,602=24% of patients having an event
during the blanking period. While I agree with the observation that 39.9% of patients died within 2 years, I think that
the relatively high early rate, during the blanking out period, followed by a leveling off of the event rate afterward is
probably more germaine to the clinician, since the study design (excluding patients with an early event rate) and
results (better outcomes in those who continued antithrombotic therapy provide potential insights into how this could
be applied in clinical practice (i.e. if your patient has not had an early event, then OAC is associated with lower long
term risks). It may also be useful to qualify the conclusions of the study to note that the benefit of OAC applies to
patients who survive the first 90 days.
2) The “blank our period” is of particular interest. This study has certainly convinced me that, if a patient survives the
blank out period, that, all things being equal, they would benefit from persisting with OAC. This, however raises
several questions: a) What happened during the blank out period in terms of antithrombotics? Is there any way to tell
if therapy was interrupted, and if so, for how long? Presumably, by definition, all of the patients who resumed therapy
did so within 90 days of hospital discharge. It is probably worthwhile explicitly noting this fact. But is there any way to
quantify, for instance, what percentage of these patients were discharged home from hospital on therapy?, b) Is there
anything that predicts those patients who “survived” the blank out period? In other words, are there any factors that
differentiated those patient who were included in the study, and those that were excluded after the blank out period.
Presumably if you could predict who was going to have an early major bleed, this might compel you to take a more
conservative approach in the first 90 days, whereas if you could predict who was going to have an early stroke, this
might compel you to take a more aggressive approach in the first 90 days.
3) The result of Table 2 are very compelling, however, I believe that there is one aspect of the patients’ care that has
not been well documented/explored. Specifically, while it is true that some patients had their antithrombotic therapy
discontinued, many other patients had it modified. For instance, if I am reading the table correctly, 602/3,409 patients
were on OAC+Antiplatelet therapy at the time of the index event. And while it is true that 105/602 patients were on
No Anthithrombotic Therapy at “baseline”, it is also true that 173/602 patients stopped their Antiplatelet Therapy (but
continued the OAC), while 275/602 patients continued both the OAC and the Antiplatelet Therapy. So, there are
actually 3 strategies that are being compared, and I presume that the strategy of discontinuing the Antiplatelet
Therapy (but continuing the OAC) would be superior to either continuing both or discontinuing both Antithrombotic
Therapies. I’m not sure that this train of thought has been fully pursued in the paper? It is likely not possible to
incorporate this data into Figure 1, however, the obvious groups worth exploring would be: a) The 385 patients who
were just on OAC at Index (of whom 219 stopped OAC, 51 continued OAC, 62 switched to Antiplatelets, and 51 Add
Antiplatelets), b) The 692 patients who were on OAC+Antiplatelets (of whom 105 stopped all therapy, 173 stopped
Antiplatelets, 150 stopped the OAC and 275 continued current therapy, and c) the 1,749 patients who were on
Antiplatelets (of whom 589 stopped their Antiplatelet Therapy, 35 switched to OAC, 1,049 continued antiplatelet
therapy, and 47 added OAC to their antiplatelet therapy).
4) I think that it would be helpful to display the results (for instance, for Figure 3, or for the groups identified in item
3, above) in tabular form. It’s very difficult to get a sense of the absolute risks/benefits without this data being
explicitly provided.
5) Given that there are competing risks (i.e. thromboembolic versus bleeding), it would be useful and important to
provide some estimate of Net Risk. Ideally this estimate of Net Risk would (also) be adjusted to consider the relative
importance of death, stroke and bleeding (see Thromb Haemost 2014; 111: 465-73.).
6) For Figure 3, does the “Reference” need to be displayed?
7) The HAS-BLED Score has been determined in this paper, and the study authors noted that patients on antiplatelet
therapy had the highest HAS-BLED scores. However, Antiplatelet therapy contributes to the HAS-BLED Score itself. It
is not clear whether this observation still holds true if the antiplatelet therapy is adjusted for? (i.e. are the HAS-BLED
Scores exactly 1 point higher?)