Thank you for the opportunity to reviewing this very interesting analysis. I have a few
minor comments.
Please include an explanation to the abbreviation UHC.

The authors write “Mental disorders (which include substance use disorders, self-harm
and dementia)” I think explaining your definition of mental disorders too would be
helpful.
The authors write “The burden and cost of untreated mental disorders is extremely
high for individuals and families (including lost wages of caregivers) and to
communities and, ultimately, to society as a whole[3]” Could you illustrate this
sentence with some examples?
The authors write “First, integration must explicitly be equity sensitive, ensuring that
persons with less common, but severely disabling, conditions such as schizophrenia,
alcohol dependence and dementia, are not left behind, not least as these individuals
are less likely to seek care, less likely to use information technology and more likely to
experience discrimination, isolation and premature mortality.” Is dementia and alcohol
dependence, really less common? I think these are very common!
The authors write “Mental health care has been, in many respects, a pioneer in the
development of care strategies for disorders which are characterized, particularly at the
severe end of the staging spectrum, by a chronic, episodic or relapsing course.”
Perhaps pioneers but at an early stage, pioneers sounds like too much of a success
story to me.
The authors write “[…]we reassert the view that primary health care must the
foundation of the architecture of UHC to realize the goals of integration of mental[…]”
what does this mean?
This paper describes well how Mental Health is a central part of Universal Health Care
but does not tie it in to Universal Health Care Coverage. It would be nice if the
conclusion could describe how the elegant 5C principles would enhance the coverage
part.
Best wishes
Anna-Clara Hollander | PhD, clinical psychologist, post doc
Department of Public Health Sciences| Karolinska Institutet
Solnavägen 1E | SE-171 77 Stockholm
073-7314567
anna-clara.hollander@ki.se| ki.se
