Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review this high-quality paper. The study attempts to answer

a long-standing question about how safe reducing the percentage of antibiotics prescribed for respiratory
tract infections in the primary care setting is, most of them being unnecessary due to the self-limiting
nature of these infections. The present manuscript, carried out by a prestigious group of researchers in
the UK, resembles a highly-cited paper published in 2007 also in the BMJ, but some of the present results
are quite different (reference number 13). The analysis performed seems sound, and the results obtained
are very clear, albeit expected. In addition, the tables and figures provided are very well presented.
However, I have some comments:
The use of large datasets of electronic medical records have the drawback of their accuracy – mainly for
the diagnostic codes – and, particularly in this paper, this aspect is even more relevant since you
considered the diagnosis of different complications. For instance, were pneumonias confirmed
radiographically? You should more clearly describe if some of these complications, mainly those attended
in the secondary sector such as pneumonia, could have been missed in this cohort study.
Linked to the previous query, it’s not clear to me if you also considered the pneumonias admitted to the
hospital. About 20% of pneumonias are expected to be managed in the hospital setting, and some of
them will have a poor outcome. We all know that the chances of detecting differences in the number of
very infrequent complications such as Lemierre’s syndrome or intracranial abscess across the different
groups are slim, even with the use of large databases. However, the presence of complicated pneumonia,
bacteraemia, and death in these diagnoses are not as infrequent as the previous complications. You do
not describe the severity of these complications, mainly because the methodology used is not appropriate
for that, but did you find any difference in terms of mortality between the highest and the lowest
antibiotic prescribing practice groups?
In the Introduction section you mention that Petersen et al observed that the estimated number of
patients who would have to be treated with antibiotics to avoid one episode of pneumonia after an upper
respiratory tract infection, one quinsy after sore throat and one mastoiditis after otitis media was higher
than 4,000. However, you do not mention that the risk of pneumonia in the month after the diagnosis of
acute bronchitis in Petersen’s study was high and substantially reduced by antibiotic prescription, with
this protective effect being greatest in people aged 65 and over (with a NNT of 39 in this group age).
When it comes to the number of pneumonias, your results differed considerably from the findings of
Petersen et al, since you found that only one extra case of pneumonia would be seen if GPs reduced the
antibiotics prescribed by 10%. I miss a clearer discussion about these differences. You standardised the
incidence rates of pneumonia by sex and age. However, could you identify the number of extra
pneumonias among elderly patients that could have been observed if GPs had reduced the antibiotic
prescribing by 10%?
The BMJ is an international journal and from this perspective the lowest quartile of antibiotic prescribing,
with a median of 38% of antibiotics prescribed for the respiratory tract infections, might be even higher
than the mean antibiotic prescription rate observed in some other countries in Europe such as Sweden or
Netherlands (the latter country with 22.5% of antibiotics prescribed for these infections as you mention
in reference 8). One might also wonder why you considered quartiles instead of breaking down the
different practices into more groups, such as quintiles, sextiles or even deciles. It would permit having
groups of practices with really very low antibiotic prescribing rates and some complications might have
been more clearly observed in these very low antibiotic prescription practices. Despite the fact that the
overall prescription of antibiotics has not dramatically changed over the last years, nowadays there is an
increasing number of GPs who are very aware of the threat of the antimicrobial resistance and prescribe
very few antibiotics for these self-limiting respiratory tract infections, and these GPs would not be
reflected in the lowest quartiles but could have been reflected in the lowest deciles, for instance. You
should discuss this point.
You used a cohort of individuals followed up from 2005 to 2014. It would be interesting to have some
information about the trend of how the number of consultations for respiratory tract infections and
antibiotic prescription for these conditions have changed over this 10-year period in the UK. Linked to the
previous query, you should also describe whether the use of rapid tests (CRP for instance) and the rate of
delayed prescribing of antibiotics have significantly changed in this period.
It is not clear to me if you were able to identify the percentage of antibiotics not immediately prescribed
(delayed). If not, you should make it clearer in the paper. Since some studies have not observed any
increase of the number of complications of sore throat when a delayed prescribing of antibiotics was
carried out compared to treated patients, provided you have this information, you could specify if the use
of the delayed prescribing of antibiotics varied across the different antibiotic prescribing quartiles.
Some tweaks:
You should describe all the acronyms used in the tables and figures. Having to go to the text every time
you come across some of them that are not explained as footnotes is really cumbersome.
The vertical line depicting the lack of statistical significance (in number 1) in figures is missing and is
crucial for visual impact.