Yongze Li et al. conducted a nationwide epidemiological study and investigated the
prevalence of diabetes and factors associated with the high prevalence in 31 provinces in
mainland China. They found that the prevalence of diabetes in China has increased by
nearly 2% since 2013, which means that the number of patients with diabetics has
increased by almost 25 million. Another striking finding in this study is that they reported
no significant difference in terms of diabetes/prediabetes between urban and rural
residents in China.

There are two major highlights in this study. Firstly, as far as I know, due to the
methodology of the study in 2013 (JAMA. 2013 Sep 4;310(9):948-59), its data regarding
the prevalence of diabetes in China are still under controversy and thus not widely
accepted in the academia. In this study, however, the sampling method regarding the
recruitment of individuals was in accordance with the composition of the latest national
census. This study may have provided more accurate results. Secondly, the conclusion of
this study deserves more attention from the academia. While the prevalence of diabetes in
the United States has been flat or even declining in recent years, this study found that the
trend in China is still upward. The authors provided a cogent and compelling discussion of
the reason for the sharp increase in diabetes among elderly people while presenting some
distinctive, novel viewpoints. In general, this is a well-written manuscript. I believe that
this study would have broad significance and draw much attention in the field.
Nevertheless, there are still several issues that need to be addressed:
Page 14, Line 24: The sampling method is very important for this large-scale
epidemiological survey. It is noteworthy that the authors not only used statistical methods
for weighted results but also recruited individuals whose age and sex compositions were
parallel to those in the latest national census, to reduce selection bias. However, more
quality control details should be explained in the methodology part.
Page 16, Line 5: Standard protocols for anthropometric and clinical assessment should be
provided in the Supplement.
Page 23 & Page 52: When discussing the multivariable, multinomial, logit models, the
manuscript mentions “living in the central China region…” as an associated factor. Yet it is
not reflected in Table 3. Please explain.
Page 29, Line 13: One of your objectives is to evaluate the diabetes epidemic by
geographical location but this part is not well discussed in the manuscript.
Page 32, Line 13: The conclusion for the high prevalence of diabetes is largely acceptable.
But the authors should have exercised a degree of caution when stating that “….was not
mainly attributed to aging and obesity….”.
Page 52: In Table 3, please define Hypercholesterolemia, Hypertriglyceridemia, High LDL-C
and Low HDL-C.
Page 54: Please add data sources for Figure 2.
Page 58: In Figure 3 of the Supplement, specific prevalence values should be marked.
