A very interesting paper, and relevant to me as a woman of child bearing age, who has previous experience of VTE.
Having a tool which can be used to predict the likelihood of a woman suffering a postpartum VTE, using their individual
risk factors, rather than the current one-size-fits-all blanket approach, sounds like a great idea. The use of a computer
programme which is compatible with most current secondary care systems suggests that it could be quite easily
integrated into current practice.
I do question when, at what stage, this prediction model would be put into practice with individual women because
current GreenTop guidelines from the RCOG suggest very regular assessment and awareness of possible VTE risks all
through pregnancy. This piece of research specifically looked at postpartum VTE, but unless I missed it, I did not see any
explanation as to why this tool could not be used to predict VTE risk in all pregnant women as well. Obviously as a lay
reviewer I do not have the knowledge to know the answer to this, but it is something that sprang to mind when I read
the paper.
I cannot see any reason why this tool, once validated and accepted by the RCOG should not be used. I can not foresee
any valid objection from women. The only issues that doctors may face is women's willingness to admit to smoking or
alcohol consumption during pregnancy, but I expect they face this anyway.
I would suggest that a plain English summary is produced, minus all the mind-blowing statistical analysis, if it is
intended that patients or their carers see this paper.
I understand the reasoning behind the lack of patient involvement in the design of this study, but if this risk prediction
tool is to be rolled out across the NHS, maybe involving patients in the development of a patient information leaflet
about VTE and how this prediction tool functions, would prove beneficial.
I was curious as to why the situation in Canada is mentioned a couple of times? and also the first time Canada is
mentioned (page 4 ln 40) there is a reference number missing.
Overall an interesting and potentially very beneficial piece of research which could save the lives of many new mothers