1/Comments for authors
This study is meta-analysis of RCT of ACEI/ARB in patients with stable coronary artery disease
(SIHD).
The main findings of this report are that the benefit of ACE/ARB is only demonstrated versus placebo

and in studies with high events rate in the control group. This does not support their broad use in all
SIHD patients!
Their meta-regression including control event rate is of particular interest.
Main comments
- My main concern is that they did not assess the beneficial effect of RAAS inhibitor in patients with
SIHD and normal LVEF as they stated but rather in patients with SIHD and no overt heart failure or
in some studies no known altered LVEF. As they analysed trial data and not individual data, LVEF is
unknown in many patients, and these patients have been included in the trials based on the absence
of clinical heart failure, or in some others based on the absence of known reduced LVEF.
- A publication from the large REACH registry (>20.000 patients) already suggested the absence of
benefit of ACE in SIHD patients. This registry was of particular interest as it confirmed on the same
population the benefit of statin (and could serve as a quality control). This study (Eur Heart J 2014)
should be at list cited and commented.
- The authors should also examine the effect of ACEi and ARB separately.
Other comments
- I do agree with the authors that the broad (blind???) use of ACEi in patients with SIHD should be
discouraged. However, the authors should discuss in more details the implications of their results on
the different recommendations: 1/ SIHD who also have hypertension, diabetes, CKD, LVEF<40% and
2/ACEi is reasonable in patients with SIHD and other vascular disease (class IIa, level B).
Figures 4 and 5 may be omitted.
Christophe Meune, MD, PhD
2/ Comments for the editor
This study is meta-analysis of RCT of ACEI/ARB in patients with stable coronary artery disease
(SIHD).
The main findings of this report are that the benefit of ACE/ARB is only demonstrated versus placebo
and in studies with high events rate in the control group. This does not support their broad use in all
SIHD patients!
Their meta-regression including control event rate is of particular interest.
My main concern is that this result was largely expected because the most recent trial failed at
demonstrating a beneficial effect of RAASi in patients with SIHD, and because a previous publication
from the large REACH registry (>20.000 patients) already suggested the absence of benefit of ACE in
SIHD patients.
As the consequence the authors should add new information.
- A meta-analysis at individual data may allow the distinction between diabetic and non-diabetic
patients, those with really normal LVEF versus LVEF from 40 to 60%
- They should at least also report the results for mortality separately for ACE and ARB.
Some figures may be omitted
