The authors should be commended on the enormous amount of work that went into this
well-written and comprehensive article. It is easy to do an “average” job on a systematic
review and meta-analysis, but to do it as thoroughly as it should be done takes substantial
work, and the fact that the authors have done this should be acknowledged.
In general, this article is well written and has a relevant message, that the clinical and
imaging signs of elevated ICP are not as reliable as most people believe or as is classically
thought.
In broad order:
Abstract:
Well written, no changes recommended.
Introduction:
Explains the clinical problem and the premise for the study well, no changed recommended.
Methods:
Search strategy – very strong, good to see a health librarian involved which improves the
confidence in the search strategy used.
Study selection + data extraction – again, very strong, followed Cochrane and similar
guidelines rigorously including having a second author double check the extracted data for
accuracy.
TCD indices – very thorough including getting patient-level data from the individual TCD
study authors

Risk of bias assessment is very thorough
Results:
In the “physical examination” section in results, I would suggest clarifying that you used a
GCS ≤ 8 as a definition of ‘decreased level of consciousness’. You have explained this in the
abstract, but not in this section.
Discussion:
The use of the effect of the presence/absence of the signs on the pretest probability is a nice
method, and really emphasises for the reader how the clinical signs analysed are really not
that useful for clinical decision making. I would modify the line “Compression or effacement
of the basal cisterns can occur secondary to increased blood and edema” slightly, to remove
the term blood and leave it as “secondary to parenchymal oedema” or something similar.
While blood can of course be seen in the basal cisterns – e.g. with SAH – this is not quite the
same as effacement of the basal cisterns by brain parenchyma. The blood is usually
high-density, and is not in itself an indicator of increased ICP, while effacement of the
cisterns by the brain is (or at least is traditionally thought to be). The midline shift you talk
about is interesting, and worth considering. You state that midline shift only had a sensitivity
of 80.9%. This likely reflects the fact that midline shift can be localised – for example, a
basal ganglial hypertensive bleed might result in midline shift at the level of the septum
pellucidum, but might not result in diffusely increased ICP. This distinction is more or less
academic, however, and on balance it is worth leaving this component in your analysis. I am
also glad to see in the discussion some analysis of the problems with TCD. The main
problems with TCD indices are the lack of strong evidence for it’s use in assessing ICP as
well as the inter- and intra-observer variability problems, like many quantitative ultrasound
haemodynamic measurements. The authors nicely tackle the main limitations of their study
in the discussion as well.
Conclusion:
No changes, summarises your findings nicely.
Figure 1:
There appears to be a numerical error in this figure:
3,770 articles ID’d = 1,209 duplicates = 2,570 articles screened – 2,530 articles excluded by
title and abstract screening results in 40 articles yet the result given is 47.
In summary, I again commend the authors on this sizeable undertaking. This has resulted in
a well written paper, which was a pleasure to review. The topic at hand is interesting and
provides a simple but important clinical point. I have made minimal suggested changes, and
I think the article is suitable for publication in BMJ and would be of great interest to it’s
readers.
