Dear Editors and Authors
Thank you very much for the opportunity of reviewing this manuscript again. The authors revised the manuscript nicely.
Now readers should be able to interpret results with sufficient caution, according to the detailed discussion and
variations of the estimates according to different regression approaches. Also, the results look convincing that the
observed associations could not be solely explained by the measured factors.
Major comments:
1. Presentation of results should be revised. For example, as the authors recognised, comparisons between no treatment
and metformin+gliptins for different outcomes indicated results driven by effects of metformin, gliptins, or both. The
results cannot be interpreted for inference of gliptins. The writing should avoid the confusion. The current presentation of
the results for dual and triple therapies are thus suboptimal and would be crucial to be revised.

The similar care is needed in the Discussion. The authors state, on page 18, “Compared with no current treatment, dual
therapy with a combination of metformin and one other drug (glitazones or gliptins) was associated with a significantly
decreased risk of all five outcomes including hypoglycaemia.” This statement does not support a potential benefit of dual
therapy. Rather, it seems supporting a benefit of metformin, with regards to the other findings presented in Suppl table
3. Such a biological inference or explanation is not provided throughout the Discussion section.
It is great that the authors present results based on different analytic approaches (Table 3, Table 4, and Suppl Table 3).
Yet, the authors still need to provide useful information jointly from those sets of results. The current inference and
conclusion are not exactly clear for health effects of the main exposures of interest (gliptins and glitazones).
2. Given the results based on mono-therapies and dual therapies, some results were difficult to interpret. For example,
Table 4 indicates a potential adverse effect of gliptin monotherapy on kidney failure, compared with no treatment. By
contrast, Suppl Table 3 indicated little adverse effect of gliptins + metformin on kidney failure, compared to metformin
only. Both comparisons in Table 4 and Suppl Table 3 are about the effect of gliptins. Also, no effect was supported in
Suppl Table 2 in which gliptins were examined after adjustment for the other drugs. However, as this example indicates,
no consistent interpretation is allowed. Given that, it does not make sense to highlight the result from Table 4 only,
ignoring Suppl Table 2 and 3, for the potential adverse effect on kidney.
This type of inconsistency can be explained by at least two things: remaining confounding by indication; and a true drugdrug interaction in the dual therapy. Neither was clarified in this study. Despite this ambiguity, the authors pay attention
to only significant findings. It would be anticipated that the authors interpret both significant findings and non-significant
findings. Do any non-significant results deserve discussion?
3. The authors stated that they did not sub-classify gliptins into different types. The authors should state it for
sulfonylureas as well (e.g. Simpson et al, Lancet Diab Endocrinol, 2015;3(1):43-1) and for the others. Readers should be
guided to recognise the limitation about potential heterogeneity across different subtypes for each of the 6 drug classes.
This point for gliptins, sulfonylureas and others should be made not only in the Method section but also in the Discussion
section. There is a risk that this paper would give a premature impression that all types of sulfonylureas might equally
raise a risk of the outcomes of interest. The authors might want to avoid it.
Minor comments:
In the Table 3 footnote, the authors must describe that the different types of the anti-diabetic drugs were ‘mutually’
adjusted. “use of other diabetes drugs” is not clear. In the table, the text in the header “Model C” should be taken out.
The footnote includes sufficient information, and each Table should stand alone.
In the Supplementary Table 3, “Metformin alone” should be “1.00 (Reference)” rather than “1.00 (1.00 to 1.00)”. (it
seems that red colour was assigned to the third one by mistake.)
The following sentence on Section 3.3 should be shortened and revised for readability. “as if” makes it difficult to read.
“We included prevalent users of metformin or sulphonylureas in the study cohort as if we had excluded them this would
have substantially reduced the numbers of new users of glitazones and gliptins which were our main exposures of
interest, since these are usually prescribed following monotherapy with metformin or sulphonylureas.”
This sentence is followed by “We also excluded patients with an existing diagnosis of an outcome of interest..” This
exclusion is indeed essential. Thus, this exclusion criterion should be written before the description about an incidentuser design.
On the same section, the following sentence is not of inclusion/exclusion criteria of entering the cohort.
“Patients were censored at the earliest date of the first recorded diagnosis of the outcome of interest, death,
deregistration with the practice, last upload of computerised data or the study end date (31st January 2015).”
This may be better fitted to a different section concerning an outcome and person-time of participants (3.4 Outcomes or
3.5 Exposure data).
On section 3.6, the authors stated that they justified inclusion of covariates. But the authors just stated what they
included, but why they selected them. The authors state, “smoking status and continuous variables (systolic blood
pressure, body mass index, creatinine, cholesterol/HDL ratio and HBA1C), we used the most recent recorded value
immediately before the relevant treatment period.“ Why were only the most recent values used? A physician might have
made decision of treatments by considering changes of HbA1c over years rather than a single value of it. For simplicity,
in the Discussion about study limitations, the authors might have to state that they could do more rigorously by taking
some examples of advanced modelling. The authors do not need to repeat what covariates were modelled (Page 22).
The authors should state why hazard models were performed by using metformin monotherapy as a reference category.
This seems to be particularly important.
The Discussion section should not repeat methods and result sections. As noted above, it would be nice that the authors
do not only summarise results based on mono-, dual-, and triple-therapies, separately, but also draw collective
inferences from those findings for each type of drug.
Finally, a few comments are provided hereafter but not to be addressed in this particular study. First, the authors
excluded the number needed to treat or harm, and this exclusion is consistent with the argument of not doing
competing-risk analysis. For more clear understanding of aetiology and public health importance, two types of hazard
ratios and an indication from the differences are of future interest. Second, covariate adjustment could be much more
rigorous by considering any measures repeatedly assessed before exposure status at a certain time point. Any covariates
would be somewhat useful to estimate probability of exposure and use it as a standardisation or adjustment of potential
confounders. Third, it was nice to see the authors’ effort to examine interactions by specific covariates, but it would be
also interesting to see drug-drug interactions, which is fit to the aim to examine dual or triple therapies. This would be

difficult to assess in a trial and be of interest in this work.