This is a meta-analysis on vitamin D supplementation and mortality showing that there is
no significant effect. Previous meta-analyses on this issue have partially shown moderate,
yet significant, effects and it seems that not only new trial data but also a different and
more conservative selection of RCTs for the present meta-analysis have contributed to the
finding of no significant vitamin D effect. I have some comments.

-The number of analysed participants was not significantly larger than in previous
meta-analyses altough the authors included several new RCTs. This has to be discussed in
detail. I would be particularly interested whether the null finding of this meta-analysis was
rather driven by excluding trials that have been analysed in previous meta-analyses or by
the fact that new RCT data were so neutral, or both.
-The authors excluded trials with hydroxylated vitamin D. I wonder why they did not
include trials (if avaiable) of 25-hydroxyvitamin D supplementation.
-Page 4, line 59 to 60: „Observational studies revealed the association of vitamin D
supplementation and reduced mortality“. I guess the authors mean „Observational studies
revealed an inverse association of 25(OH)D and mortality“. In this context the authors
should reference the following studies: PLoS One. 2017 Feb 16;12(2):e0170791 and Am J
Epidemiol. 2017 Apr 15;185(8):720-726. In addition, the authors should critically discuss
that observational studies indicate an increased mortality risk only at very low 25(OH)D
concentrations and that most participants included in the analysed RCTs had 25(OH)D
concentrations that were not associated with increased mortality risk in observational
studies.
-The potential impact of ongoing trials on the overall concluions should be discussed.
-The fact that there was an extremely high prevalence of vitamin D supplement intake in
the placebo group of the VITAl trial (nearly 50%) should be discussed and it is strange to
see that the treatment group of some included trilas had a lower vitamin D supplement
dose when compared to many participants of the placebo group of the VITAl trial.
-Since in Table 2 the Risk Ratio for vitamin D3 trials was 0.95 (0.90 to 1.00) I would be
cautious with stating a clear missing effect of vitamin D on total mortality because this
result suggests that vitamin D 3 (the most widely used vitamin D supplement) has an
effect on mortality that is close or at the level of formal statistical significance (at least in
this subgroup analysis). This is of importance because the outcome of a Cochrane
meta-analysis on this topic was that vitamin D 3 reduces mortality whereas vitamin D2
does not.
-Some typos have to be corrected e.g. page 2, line 19 „low“ has to be corected to „Low“
when starting a sentence; page 2, line 21-22: „have reamined inconsistent“ should be
rephrased. Page 12, line 201 „of the VITAL trial“; line 204: „not significantly reduced“
should be changed to „not significantly reduce“. Line 209: „in trial in which participants“
should be changed to e.g. „in trials with participants with…“.
