•Are the questions the paper addresses relevant and important to patients and/or carers?
The problem of polypharmarcy in the elderly, especially those with chronic illnesses such as
Parkinson’s disease is a real one. Medication changes in form of type and dosage are
frequent, which adds to the risk of administration errors by patients / carers and
prescription errors by GPs. The additional issue of self-administration of non-prescribed
medicines, such as supplements and ‘drugs’ prescribed by alternative therapists also
exacerbates the problem.
In the UK, GP consultation time is limited to approximately 10 minutes per patient. The use
of computerised medication review (CMR) will expedite and improve patient-doctor
discussion of treatment choices and medication changes.
• Are there topics or issues that are missing, or need to be highlighted more?
My comments here are in my capacity as a retired lecturer in research methodology.
The researchers will benefit from discussing the need for further research, such as a longer
follow-up period of beyond 24 months using a crossover clinical trial, so that the GPs who
were in the control group could benefit from using PRIMA-eDS and vice versa. Since GPs
and patients were not blinded, the crossover will not create unwanted bias.
• Is the treatment or intervention suggested or guidance given something which
patients/carers can readily take up? or does it present challenges?
As mentioned before, the use of CMR, such as PRIMA-eDS can truly benefit both patients
and their GPs. In the case of Parkinson’s disease (PD) cognitive decline is progressive and
anti-PD medications have multiple side effects, with possible contraindications and drug
interactions. An electronic record of patients’ medication will prevent the need for patients
/ carers to recall changes of their medications. CMR can also be used to improve
patient-doctor communication and develop a shared responsibility in relations to their
medical treatment. Finally, PRIMA-eDS should be made accessible to and shared with
hospital doctors when patients are admitted, so that doctors could make informed
decisions on these patients’ medications whilst in hospital.
• Are the outcomes described/measured in the study important to patients / carers? Are
there others that should have been considered?
Both the primary and secondary outcomes (non-elective hospital admission or death by 24
months and reduction in the number of medications) are very important to patients with
chronic illnesses such as Parkinson’s disease.
However, outcomes in form of time-saving and the improve quality of patient-doctor
relationship may also be measured by recording consultation time and by the use of a
patient / carer survey of the quality of their doctor’s consultation.
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper and
make it more useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients/ carers?
As mentioned previously, a separate section in the research article, titled ‘Future Research’
could be helpful.

Although the limitations are highlighted in the ‘Discussion’ section, a separate subheading
of ‘Limitations’ could help the reader appreciate the issues that the researchers
encountered and how they have been addressed.
• Do you think the level of patient/carer involvement in the study could have been
improved? If there was none do you have ideas on how they might have done so?
Definitely worth considering PPI in any future research. I am a Patient Expert/Adviser for
Parkinson’s UK. My involvement with researchers are not restricted to research problem
and design issues; interpretation of results and writing up. As patients, we can openly
discuss personal experiences of medications reviews and GP consultations, issues related to
polypharmacy and their impact on hospital admissions (both non-elective and elective).