David Cromwell, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine
This paper examines issues generated by the recent focus on rates of violence in the UK media. It
addresses an important topic and challenges the perceptions given in the media by comparing the
figures on violent crimes based on police data with figures from other sources. They highlight that the
trends in the police figures are not evident in the time-series produced from routine hospital data or
from population surveys, both of which the authors argue might be more reliable, with just reason.
Furthermore, the authors highlight that the unbalanced view of rates of violent offences in the media can
lead to undesirable consequences both in terms of policy responses and in relation to the population’s
reaction. That the latter could lead to an increase in rates of violence makes this a relevant topic for the
BMJ.
The article would be improved if various weaknesses could be addressed. The major issues of concern
for me are:
1. The article contains a number of phrases that are like the journalist language being condemned. The
article would benefit if these were rewritten to be more specific and neutral. For example, the first line
of the Abstract reads “Media coverage of spiralling rates of violence in England and Wales has been
ubiquitous…”, followed by “motivating a search for drastic measures”. Alternative statements might be:
“National newspapers and television news programmes have reported a rise in rates of violence in
England and Wales…” and “stimulating debate among politicians and policy commentators about
measures that might reduce the risk of violence.” There is also a tendency to use phrases that are
broad generalisations (eg, last sentence of Abstract - “safety concerns”, “intensify the problem”) when
more precise concepts would be more helpful.
2. The article refers to the media without distinguishing between the different types of media
(newspaper, television, web-based), the extent of their coverage (national, local) and their quality
(tabloid, broad-sheet). It would be helpful to separate / contrast the responses to the changes in the
police figures in the different sectors of the media. For instance, it would be interesting to see the media
time-series in Figure 4 for different groups, if feasible.
3. There needs to be more consistent referencing of sources for statements about media coverage
throughout the article. For example, the last sentence of the introduction refers to recent increases in
rates of stabbings but gives no reference.
4. The article needs to be clearer in presenting the numerical figures from the different sources. Firstly,
sufficient information should be given to enable the results to be reproduced (eg, how were the hospital
data obtained, what codes were used to identify events, and how where the data analysed?). The
statement about recent HES data not being available (pg 4) is not true - data are released / published
on a monthly basis by NHS Digital. Secondly, the graphs need to be redrawn so that the vertical axis is
clearly anchored at 0. A well-known way of emphasising change is to remove 0 from the vertical axis.
The general statement about the accuracy of HES at the bottom of page 4 needs to be more nuanced.
5. The article does not examine how the strengths / weaknesses of the different data sources on the
rates of violent offences might influence the results. For example, deaths from violence are likely to
make the news but people who die before arriving at hospital will not be admitted and so will not be part
of these statistics. The article should state how (un)likely is it that these differences explain the
observed patterns.
6. The section describing the evidence is inconsistent when describing the setting in which studies were
conducted. I think it is difficult to extrapolate from the US or other countries with different cultures /
laws to the UK. The source of the evidence needs to be clearly stated with appropriate caveats.
7. The conclusion needs to be revised to give a balanced account of the paper results and its implication.
For example, its first line refers to fatalities which is odd – the data presented concerns all injuries.
Also, why does the conclusion refer to “swift justice”? – the nature of justice is a new idea and is outside
the scope of this article.
Minor points
1. page 3: I would say “we examine the consistency of police-recorded trends in serious violence .. with
other national sources of data on injuries rather than “using injury data from…”

2. The section titled “Data reliability” is more accurately described as “Reliability of police-reported data
on violent offences"
3. The end paragraph of the section on data reliability seems inconsistent with the rest of the content in
this section, and the article more generally. I feel it needs to be reviewed / moved.
4. Page 6: I would re-write the phrase “may have in skewing the public debate” to something more
neutral “may have on the public debate”. Also, in the following sentences, “adverse effects” and
“respond disproportionately” are also vague statements that require revision.
5. Page 8: I don’t think it is accurate / clear to write “During the recent crisis,” – crisis in what sense?
6. The summary points need to be revised after the changes to the abstract / main article have been
made.
