This is an interesting paper on short-term effects of air pollution on mortality in China. The situation of air pollution in
China is a major concern worldwide and there is a great interest in knowing the effects on human health. To analyze the
dose-response relationship in a setting with so high concentrations of air pollution is very important.
However, I think that the paper needs to be improved in particular regarding the methodology. Therefore, I suggest a
major revision. The main points of my concern are:
a. The year is considered as a dummy variable
b. In the pooled analyses the city is a dummy variable.
c. The dose response analysis is based on the pooled analysis, under the hypothesis of homogenous confounders, which
cannot be the case.
d. The lack of an analysis of heterogeneity among cities.
Although the Authors might be consider to re-conduct the analysis too time consuming, I strongly recommend it, since it

would be of a great importance.
Here follow the points for major revision
1. Some description of the cities is needed. I.e. number of inhabitants, surface, % of males, % of >=60 year olds,
number of monitoring stations considered for calculating API in each city, number of monitoring station by type (traffic,
urban background), some level of industrialization. Information that could help in understanding the results.
2. The trend is considered using a dummy variable for year. It would be better to use a spline for trend or a non
parametric function.
3. The Authors performed a pooled analyses with the city is a dummy variable. It would be better to have city specific
analyses and a meta-analysis to pool the results, with a test for hetherogeneity.
4. The dose response analysis is based on the pooled analysis, where the hypothesis is homogenous confounders, which
easily cannot be the case. I suggest to use the methods used in the APHEA-2 project with a meta-smoothing for the
dose-response relationship (see Samoli et al. 2003 OEM).
5. It would be interesting to see the results also for cumulative lags (to 7 days), for distinct CVD and respiratory
mortality, and an analysis of heterogeneity of city specific results.
6. The analyses by gender and age should be performed on all the cities, not only on those with statistically significant
results. Here again, the authors should try to explain hetherogeneity.
Minor revision
P1. L 23. I do not think that lack of representativeness is an important point here. Even 38 cities in China do not
represent all Chinese population
P2 LL 12-17. As far as I know the authors published a paper on 32 cities on Environmental Research 137 (2015) 278286.
P4 LL3-30. Some additional information on DSPS could be added as supplemental material. It covers 6% of the
population in China. What about the considered cities? Is this percentage homogeneous in all the considered cities?
Some additional information on the Chinese system could be useful. Are comprehensive data on mortality not available?
P5. What is the rationale for using holydays? I can understand it in Europe, but I imagine that in big Chinese cities the
situation can be different. What is the mean number of vacation days in China? It would be appreciated to have some
background.
P5. LL35-42 Can you better explain how the degrees of freedom for meteorological factors were calculated? Where they
multivariate independent models?
Table 1. It would be useful to have a column with the IQR of PM10