The authors present a very interesting manuscript where they analysed through a matched cohort study
the association between the provision of palliative care - as identified by a set of physician claims fee
codes within a variety of administrative databases - and markers of healthcare use, the place of death
and the use of a group of burdensome interventions in the end of life. This is certainly one of the largest
population-based studies in the field of palliative care and providing data on patients with noncancer
illnesses. I am not aware of other studies reporting population-based data on palliative care for patients
suffering from advanced noncancer illnesses. I hope that the authors may find my humble comments
below helpful and that they may assist them in further improving their manuscript.
1. P. 3, lines 51-53: “Palliative care was associated with increased rates of emergency department visits
and hospitalization, which differed depending upon whether they lived in the community or in a nursing
home”. That sentence is part of the summary box of the manuscript. Please review this sentence as
there is not enough information for readers to understand that the content of the sentence refers only to
patients with dementia.
2. P. 6, lines 89-91: “The primary goal of palliative care is to improve quality of life and reduce symptom
burden with the hope that it may simultaneously maximize high-value care by reducing healthcare use
and its associated costs.[9,10]”. That sentence is quite problematic because the goal of palliative care is
not to maximize high-value care by reducing costs. I understand this might be the goal for some,
probably most, healthcare administrators, but the goals of palliative care should never be equated with
the aim of decreasing healthcare costs. Instead, we should think of cost reduction as a welcome side
effect of palliative care, but not as a goal. Neither the 2018 definition of palliative care by the
International Association for Hospice and Palliative Care
(https://hospicecare.com/what-we-do/projects/consensus-based-definition-of-palliative-care/definition/)
nor the 2002 WHO definition of palliative care (https://www.who.int/cancer/palliative/definition/en/).
3. P. 7, lines 112 to 114. The authors state that the objetive of the present study was to “measure the
association between newly initiated physician-delivered palliative care in the last 6
months of life and healthcare use in adults dying from noncancer illness, and to compare these
associations with those who die from cancer.” Why did the authors decide to restrict their analyses to
patients whose first palliative care billing code was issued by a physician within 6 months of their
demise? The 2016 Heart Failure guidelines by the European Society of Cardiology already stated that
ideally palliative care should be introduced early in the course of heart failure. Additionally, it is usually
considered that the fact that patients with advanced illness are usually referred to palliative care
services much too late in their disease trajectory often means that several opportunities to relieve
avoidable suffering were wasted. I wonder if by excluding patients who already received some form of
palliative care, say in the last year or last two years of life, the authors could not be missing an
opportunity to assess the effectiveness of palliative care approaches at their best, i.e., when there is
time to build a caring relationship with patients and their families early in their disease trajectory.
I also would like to argue that the fact that the authors defined provision of palliative care as the
presence of one of several billing codes related to palliative care, no matter who provided that care, is at
the same time a limitation and a strength or their study. It is a limitation in the sense that the content of
what each physician meant when they filed a give palliative care-related code is likely very
heterogeneous. On the other hand it is also a strength because their findings reflect real-world
physician-patient-family interactions. This means that the authors did not distinguish specialised
palliative care provided by a multidisciplinary board-certified group of palliative care professionals from
primary palliative care provided by other physicians. If my understanding about those issues is correct,
extending their analyses to longer periods would only strengthen their hypothesis that palliative care is
associated with decreased hospitalization, visits do emergency departments and use of intensive care
units. If they could find evidence that earlier palliative care is beneficial, this would make their study
even more relevant. It would be close to showing the presence of a dose-response gradient regarding
the effects of palliative care on healthcare use at the end of life. Indeed, Zhang et al

(https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/414825) found that for patients
with advanced cancer, that the presence of previous end-of-life discussions in the baseline of the study
later on in the study.
The authors justify their decision to exclude patients who received 2 or more visits with a palliative care
code in the year prior to the 6 months of life based on an argument from pharmacoepidemiologic studies
which I do not think that really applies to the context of palliative care or even for medications whose
effect might be strengthened by its duration of use. For instance, Singh and Yu showed in a
pharmacoepidemiologic study that allopurinol was associated with a decreased incidence of myocardial
infarction and that such association appeared only when patients had been on allopurinol for more than
6 months and that it was even stronger for those who had been using it for more than 2 years
(https://arthritis-research.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13075-016-1111-1).
4. Do the databases the authors had access to provide information about the primary specialty of those
doctors who issued palliative care billing codes? Would it be possible to differentiate episodes of care
where palliative care codes were filed within hospitals, ambulatory clinics, home care services, long-term
care facilities and hospices? Would it be possible to discern when those palliative care codes were filed
by the patients’ primary care physician?
5. It is not clear how the authors processed and linked the different pieces of information from the
different databases. The supplementary eAppendix does not provide enough details so that another
researcher having access to the same databases could replicate the study. I appreciate the description of
the datasets available in eText 1 and the data that were presented on the validity of those databases
regarding a variety of outcomes and measures, however that information is not sufficient for me to
understand with clarity which data came from which dataset. For instance, what kind of data was
extracted from the Ontario Drug Benefit dataset? What is a “shadow billing”? Which dataset contained
information regarding dates and causes of death?
6. I do not understand why the authors chose to perform direct matching on “1) cause of death, 2)
frailty score category, 3) presence of metastatic cancer, 4) residential region (according to 1 of 14 local
health integration networks), and 5) the probability of receiving palliative care using a propensity-score
derived from age and sex”, instead of using all those variables to generate a single propensity score and
then using that propensity score to match patients. I am asking this because propensity-score matching
is considered more efficient than direct matching and because one of the advantages of propensity-score
matching is its ability to take a larger number of variables into account
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4866501/). Additionally, I believe it would have been
important to include in the propensity-score the number of visits to emergency departments and
hospitalisations in the year prior to the record of the first palliative care-related physician billing code or
at least in 1 or 2 years prior to the moment of matching at 6 months before death. This would be very
important given the fact that there were relevant weighted standardized differences concerning those
variables at the date of first palliative care visit (table 2).
7. It was confusing to read that patients were matched for the presence of metastatic cancer because I
would expect that patients with metastatic cancer would have been excluded from the noncancer
patients cohort and I did not understand that patients with cancer were also matched to that variable
variable should only have been used for the cohort of cancer patients and not for the noncancer patients
cohort. By including patients with cancer in the noncancer patients’ cohort the authors undermine to
some extent their argument that their study was focused on noncancer illnesses.
8. The code for positive pressure ventilation included both invasive and non-invasive mechanical
ventilation?
9. Why did the authors decide only to consider inpatient palliative care codes if they were recorded for
the same day of hospital admission?

10. P 11, lines 198-199: “… resuscitation for life-threatening conditions (including cardiopulmonary
resuscitation”. Well, resuscitation is always for life-threatening conditions, and it sounds confusing to
read resuscitation including CPR. I understand from page 39 that there are 3 different codes for
resuscitation, but to the clinical reader all of them represent CPR.
11. Please provide more details regarding the statistical modelling strategy that was used. It is not
sufficient to state that multivariable generalised linear models were used accounting for matching.
There are several GLMs. I understand the authors must have used logistic regression for the binary
outcomes but it is not clear which GLM they used for count data. Was it Poisson, was it negative
binomial regression?
11. As recognized by the authors on page 14, lines 224 to 230, their matching strategy was not able to
avoid the occurrence of significant differences regarding a number of variables including the hospital
frailty index, the number of previous hospitalization (weighted standardized difference of 0.44) and of
emergency department visits (weighted standardized difference of 0.36), which likely represent evidence
of confounding by indication. In their analyses the authors adjusted their results for the number of
previous hospital admissions and hospital frailty score but not for the number of visits to emergency
departments. However the most likely consequence of such confounding would be falsely decreasing the
effectiveness of palliative care because the group of patients who received palliative care had a higher
frequency of worse-prognosis related variables in the baseline. Hence, if the authors are able to adjust
their statistical models for the number of visits to emergency department or redesign their matching
strategy, it would be expected that the effectiveness of palliative care would appear to be even stronger.
12. Table 1 should also provide data on the number of hospitalizations and visits to emergency
departments at least for one year prior to the moment of matching.
13. Another post-hoc analysis that could help elucidate the reasons for the unexpected increase in
healthcare use for patients with dementia involves comparing patients with dementia according to how
distant in time the palliative care consultation took place before their death.
14. Please check the confidence interval for the first line of the adjusted odds ratio of eTable 5. The odds
ratio estimate for that line is outside the confidence interval.
15. Since the authors reported as a secondary outcome of their study to compare the outcomes among
patients with noncancer and cancer illnesses I expected to see some direct comparisons between those
groups to see if palliative care was more effective, but beyong eFigure 1 I could not find any direct
comparisons regarding the other measures of healthcare use between those subgroups.
