It is about time that this analysis takes place, so thank you for this initiative and well written paper that I
recommend to be published. It could be published as it is.
I do however have some suggestions for expanding/clarifying the analysis a bit.
The SBI and EIBI way of thinking about alcohol use disorders and how we deal with patients alcohol
consumption in general practice has, in my opinion, been a road blocker for development af more context
compatible way of dealing with patients having alcohol problems in general practice.
This brings me to my first bullet / suggestion :
Brief (person-centred) intervention is probably what most GPs do already when they see an open clinical
window for delivering it as a meaningful part of a consultation. So the difference between usual practice
and brief intervention lies more within the way the GP should chose when to intervene (screening /
systematical opportunistic approach as part of the BI concept and a clinically founded decision to include
drinking questions and advice because drinking may play a role for the problems or symptoms presented
by that particular patient ).
I think you could use a few more words describing the difference between a systematic alcohol-centred
approach to risk and problems and the usual tradition for person/patient-centred care that takes place in
general practice in our part of the world (McWhinney et al.)
Second bullet / suggestion :
Prevention – could you be a little more specific about what BI was supposed to prevent? The idea of early
detection of “unhealthy” use of alcohol is not very precise and may have caused some problems in
getting acceptance from GPs uptake of the concept. The road from risk to harm or an addictive condition
is not well described in my opinion. The SBI concept was build on the idea that the bulk of problems
/harm / costs related to drinking took place in a large group of “close to social”-drinkers, i.e. risky
drinking, hazardous drinking. This focus on another group than the one usually considered problemdrinkers was in Danish studies in which I conducted one of the things that Danish GPs found to be
confusing and disturbing in a patient-centred everyday practice (ref 5 on GPs experiences). They were
not ambivalent (as you write on page 2). They found the program disturbing and problem creating and
would recommend against SBI after having tried a SBI program in their practice for 8 weeks.
Third bullet / suggestion :
Maybe this paper could benefit from referring to other conditions in which programs for systematic early
detection / screening has failed to demonstrate positive effects (i.e. brief smoking interventions that have
failed to demonstrate effect on solid outcome as objectively verified smoking cessation) . Maybe you
could even say something about possible negative effects of screening / early detection programs.
Research on these effects and quaternary prevention in primary care is growing. I know that we tend to
think that brief intervention is good, and that the problem is on implementation or efficacy /effectiveness
matters. It is highly possible that screening for poorly defined conditions can generate problems or harm,
in this case by disturbing the relationship between a GP and his patient and future possible windows for
patient-centred intervention? I am aware, that this might be too controversial at the moment – in that
case, leave it out.
Fourth bullet / suggestion :
You say on page 4 (ref 23) – “We do not know which skills practitioners should possess to discuss
alcohol”. You could include this fact more directly in you suggestions for research in box 1. After 20 years
of teaching GP-trainees how to deal with substance abuse and addictive behaviors among their patients,
I find that the knowledge and skills levels to be quite low actually. The fact that we have more clinical
opportunities than we can find the time for using to include drinking habits in the consultation process –
is not recognized by many future colleagues. Basic skills for motivational interviewing approaches lack as
well. Knowledge on co-morbidity for addiction (especially personality disorders and other minor
psychiatry) is not well disseminated either.
