Using the Danish nationwide registries, Dr. Scherning-Olsen and colleagues investigated the ability of PPI treatment
to reduce gastrointestinal bleeding associated with NSAID use among post-myocardial (MI) infarction patients on
antiplatelet therapy.
Among 35 previous studies on PPIs in (UA)/MI patients treated with dual antiplatelet therapy, a total of 4 RCTs and
4 observational studies evaluated GI bleeding in 28,032 patients (3 of 4 RCTs of omeprazole and 2 of 4
observational studies of any PPI showed statistically significant lower rates of GI bleeding among PPI users), yet the
current study adds important and new ’real-life’ data specifically related to the use of NSAIDs on top of
antithrombotic treatment.
The authors conclude that the use of PPIs is associated with decreased risk of GI bleeding in post-MI patients using
NSAIDs concomitantly with antithrombotic treatment, whichever the antithrombotic treatment regimen, type of
NSAID and type of PPI.
As mentioned by the authors, administration of NSAIDs to post-MI patients is now discouraged due to their
cardiovascular risks, yet NSAIDs are still widely used, as illustrated by Figure 2.
The study has some limitations inherent to an observational registry-based study, but these limitations are
appropriately addressed in the statistical analyses and the section on study limitations. However, the handling of
treatment with vitamin-K antagonists is not clear – please clarify this important issue in the method section on
”antithrombotic” treatment and throughout the manuscript.
I agree with the statement that ”our data suggest that there is probably a beneficial effect of PPI treatment
regardless of underlying gastrointestinal risk”, however to further support this statement, please consider adding
additional data on different subgroups presumed to be at high risk (e.g. previous GI bleed, n = 5,511) and low risk
(e.g. young patients), respectively.
Regarding the reference list, there are a few redundant citations, whereas the authors may wish to include e.g. the
recent comprehensive paper by Melloni et al (Conflicting Results Between Randomized Trials and Observational
Studies on the Impact of Proton Pump Inhibitors on Cardiovascular Events When Coadministered With Dual
Antiplatelet Therapy, Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015;8:47-55). Also, the authors refer to (ref. 15) the original
comprehensive ACCF/ACG/AHA expert consensus document on reducing the GI risks of antiplatelet therapy and
NSAID use, but may wish to use the updated version instead (Abraham et al, JACC 2010).