I enjoyed reviewing this paper. There is a lot of interest in the popular press and in
lifestyle magazines in the effects of diet on 'heart health', and advice seems to be at best
confusing and possibly at worst downright wrong, picking up on a single statement from a
particular research group or self-styled expert. This study looks at the risks of egg
consumption in combined studies, both men and women, over a period of 32 years follow
up, and comparing different rates of egg consumption with other nutrients. One of the
arguments which has been used is that 'eggs contain cholesterol which is dangerous' or
similar suggestions.
The findings, which suggest that consumption of eggs may be preferable for health than
unprocessed or unprocessed meat, but less beneficial than yogurt as a source of protein,
appear to be authoritative and clear, and would be of interest to the lay reader. The other
findings that may be of interest to the lay reader would be the suggestion, based on
participants of Asian origin, that this may also depend on what foods the eggs are combined
with - as in a Western diet eggs are often used in association with refined starches whereas
in Asian diets they are combined into different types of dishes.
There is not much discussion of why eggs (which contain cholesterol) do not contribute
significantly to levels of blood cholesterol and heart disease risk, but perhaps that is beyond
the scope of this paper?
Data from a large number of patients were used to obtain these results. As the study was
retrospective over a long period (32 years of follow-up), it is not clear whether this particular
investigation (value of eggs for heart health) could have been foreseen at the start of the
study. I do not see this as a disadvantage for this particular study.
I would see this as a useful message to get across to public health educators and to
journalists and self-styled nutrition experts, and thus to the general public, to encourage
more informed choices on heart-healthy eating.