This is an interesting study assessing linked data of largely good quality on the risk of
injury among children whose parents experience a mental health problem. The authors
have done a good job in drawing and analysing the data available to them. I have added
some comments below that could help improve the manuscript further, the main being to
ensure that the social and wider context of mental illness is taken into account in the set
up and interpretation of the findings and recommendations.
Introduction
- Page 3, Line 38, the word "diagnosed" confused the structure, I suggest deleting per the
CAPRI acronym.
- Page 3, Line 45, I would suggest revising the word "burden", the use of which, although
common in public health research, is facing a critical revision by lived experience experts
these days.
- Page 3, Line 51, this is an interesting claim but the reviewers have no way of scrutinising
it since the research cited is "submitted". I would suggest not using. The point to me is
clear and simple and doesn't need extra justification: Mental illness is common, hence
several people who become parents would be experiencing mental illness.
- Page 3, Line 56, isn't neglect and maltreatment a risk factor for accidents and injuries? I
suggest rephrasing; it seems that the point here is that there has been no explicit focus on

accidents. Also, I would consider adding at the end of this sentence that that there is also a
lack of focus on social and other contextual factors.
Methods
- Settings, could the authors please cite studies - if available - that comment on the quality
and validity of data in all databases? The Multi-Generation Register and LISA do not
specifically refer to such studies.
- Parental mental illness, are prescriptions available in these Swedish databases in the
same way that they are in some of the UK or US ones? Prescriptions are also a good proxy
for a condition sometimes.
- Socioeconomic position, area deprivation would be an important factor to take into
account in such an analysis as a key related social determinant. Were data on deprivation
available at all?
- Page 8, Line 16, I suggest that "Secondly" would work better than "Finally" in this
sentence.
Results
The results do a good job in presenting the findings expected from the Methods.
Discussion
- Page 14, Line 6, I am not sure I agree with the explanation provided on the comparison
to the Welsh data. UK primary care data are still largely including records of common and
severe or chronic conditions and repeat prescriptions are often provided by GPs.
- Strengths and limitations, whilst individual-level socio-economic indicators are a really
useful variable to be able to adjust for, the lack of area level socio-economic data is a
limitation and should not be mentioned in the paragraph on strengths. As the authors
acknowledge in their limitations, they were not able to assess enviornmental factors, which
are likely to play a big role, especially in relation to exposure to violence.
- Implications, I am not sure I agree with the authors' suggestion that no targeted
interventions are needed, rahter families need to be enabled to access standard universal
programmes. Public health evidence suggests that high risk populations need better access
to targeted interventions as universal often fail to accommodate them (as the authors
acknowledge). This is the case even in developed communities, like in Sweden, due to
social inequalities that impact on access to programmes and care.
- The communication of the findings of this research needs very careful thinking. Given
how common mental illness is, care should be taken for the findings to not be
misconstrued as proposal to remove children from parents living with a mental health
problem. Instead, access to targetred solutions will be critical. Overall, I thought that one
point that the study and discussion does not make clearly is acknowledge the context in
which such families live in. Even though mental illness is common, its risk and distribution
is socially determined, hence it is more likely that CAPRI families will live in areas of higher
deprivation, violence, or with poor access to services, and this means that to achieve injury
prevention in CAPRI we should consider societal and community interventions to reduce
these inequities.