A very professional piece of work, nicely presented, and 'publishable'. My concern is that
the study populations were for the most part of an age where dementia is rare and usually
unusual. So may not be generalisable
Comments
1. This individual patient meta-analysis aimed to examine whether physical inactivity is a
risk factor for dementia, with attention to the role of cardio-metabolic disease and reverse
causation bias. There were 19 studies, 400k participants, 6M PYAR; 2k incident dementia
cases, including 1600 cases of Alzheimer’s disease. Dementia was related to physical
inactivity within 10 years of diagnosis (HR 1.4, suggesting reverse causality), but not for
physical activity >10 y from diagnosis. Diabetes, ischaemic heart disease and stroke were
also associated with physical inactivity, and in these individuals there was a modest
increased risk of dementia amongst the inactive (HR 1.3, CI 0.8-2.1).
2. The rationale and findings set out in the key points are especially well done
3. The topic is important: dementia is one of the most important public health and social
issues of our time, and will continue to grow in importance. Cohort data shows an
association between physical activity and dementia. Data from sequential
incidence/prevalence studies suggest a substantial reduction in age specific prevalence
over recent decades, the cause of which is unexplained. Physical in activity has been
hypothesised as a factor, and is potentially reversible. Trials have been essentially
negative, but have generally been of short duration and modest intensity, with global
cognition as the outcome, rather than specific cognitive domains.
4. The methods appear to have been done well, and are clearly explained, with careful
harmonisation of variables across studies.
5. The results are well described
6. The populations studied were young (mean age at entry 45, range 36-54) and dementia
was very uncommon (2000 cases in 6M PYAR). Some dementia ascertainment was
laughably poor (death certificates). Ascertaining physical activity by self-report is also
unreliable (if inevitable). Even 14 years follow up was relatively short, and essentially

participants were studied at an age when people do not get dementia (it is relatively rare
under 70). Dementia was seen in <0.5% of participants. Dementia at these ages is likely
to be atypical in some way. Therefore the question has to be if results can be extrapolated
to the older ages at which dementia prevalence increases dramatically (over 80). There is
a subgroup analysis of participants over 6o (which actually contributes most of the cases),
which showed no difference in results.
7. The analysis of cardio metabolic disease as a ‘control’ and as a potential intermediary or
mechanism was interesting and novel. All 3 conditions showed a positive association of
about the right magnitudes without dependence on time.
8. The discussion is sensible. I particularly liked the assessment of concordance with other
studies. The role or measurement error and other biases is carefully discussed. The issue
of dementia incidence in the age range studies was not commented on.
9. The paper is well written, and wording is very precisely chosen. The diagrams and tables
are very well done. Typos p 13 cardiometbolic disease in physically inactivite
10. the appendices are lengthy, but appear to be informative, and may be thought of as a
model of their kind
Rowan Harwood
