BMJ.2018.047236. Comparative efficacy and acceptability of non-surgical brain
simulation for the acute treatment of adult major depressive episodes: A systematic
review and network meta-analysis of 113 randomised clinical trials.
In their submission, Mutz and colleagues report the findings of a large systematic
review and network meta-analysis evaluating the comparative effects of 18 different
non-surgical brain simulation protocols among individuals with major depressive
disorder and bipolar depression. Their analysis, which primarily focuses on two key
outcomes of interest – response and discontinuation – finds that more than half of
the treatments are more efficacious than a sham procedure, with some protocols
outperforming the others. Although generally well-conducted and reported, I have a
number of important suggestions for the authors. As a health policy researcher with
experience in network meta-analysis, my review focuses on the methods and the
implications of the findings to inform practice and wider health policy.
Major comments:
1.
Validity of the network meta-analysis.
a.
The key assumption of any network meta-analysis is the balanced
distribution of relative treatment effect modifiers across the network of comparisons.
To obtain internally valid estimates of how different interventions compare to each
other, different edges of the network should have a symmetric distribution of key
variables that are expected to influence the outcome of interest. The authors refer to
this assumption throughout the paper and state in their results section that
“baseline depression severity, percent female and age were similar across most
treatment comparisons. As such, the assumption of transivity is likely to hold in our
data.” Substantially more detail is warranted to confirm that this assumption holds. I
would suggest adding tables in the online appendix which report the following
information for all edges of the treatment network: mean age, % female, depression
severity and type, % treatment resistant, % with bipolar depression, % high risk of
bias. This could also be visualised using network plots with coloured edges (similar
to those in A Chaimani et al. PLOS One 2013, which is already cited in the authors’
submission). As there are some edges of the network with considerable
heterogeneity (according to the table in the online appendix, I-squared is > 40% for
several pair-wise meta-analyses). What other variables can be considered as
potential explanations for this heterogeneity?
b.
The authors should discuss the treatment geometry and its implications for
their analysis. Many of the interventions that appear to perform well have very few

trials that include few participants. This is especially the case for pTMS. For
suggestions on how to interpret network geometry, see EJ Mills et al. BMJ 2013. For
example, to what extent is the asymmetric nature of the network diagram
expected/surprising (are the sparsely populated edges of the network representing
newer treatments that have not yet been evaluated)?
c.
As a non-expert on the topic, I would have appreciated more detail and
reassurance that the 18 protocols that are being compared are sufficiently unique
and non-overlapping. To what extent are different nodes in the network independent
interventions vs. different doses/iterations of the same intervention? This question
becomes particularly relevant when the authors interpret their findings on ECT in the
discussion section, which is not considered as a single intervention in their network
meta-analysis (instead, its different iterations are considered as separate nodes).
Appropriateness of this important methodological choice should be discussed further.
d.
Reporting bias and other potential meta biases are not evaluated, which is
an important limitation. This is especially important since the intervention that
appears to outperform others in terms of discontinuations is also one of the
least-studied interventions (pTMS).
2.

Practice and policy implications.
a.
While more than half of the techniques are found to have ‘significant’
effects, there is considerable uncertainty in treatment effect estimates, with 95%
CIs for ORs going up to 30 in some cases. What is the clinical significance of these
findings in terms of the observed magnitude of effect? Is it comparable to other
treatment strategies that can be considered in this population of mostly
treatment-resistant individuals?
b.
The statement that “non-surgical brain simulation techniques constitute
viable alternative or add-on treatments for adult patients” is very strong. It is
unclear to which intervention these techniques could be considered as an alternative
(since no alternatives are considered in this analysis).
c.
Importantly, practice and policy implications are not adequately discussed.
The discussion and conclusion sections of the paper do not make any specific
recommendations about which intervention should be prioritised in clinical practice
when such techniques are indicated. Is this because the authors do not find
sufficiently strong evidence from their network meta-analyses to recommend certain
interventions over others? Given the questions raised in my earlier comments (that
interventions that seem to outperform others are also the ones that are relatively
under-studied), I would tend to agree with this conclusion. However, I think the
authors should more clearly state whether they think these techniques are mostly
interchangeable (or specify which ones should be considered). In a similar fashion,
it’s unclear how the findings of this analysis should be utilised by policymakers. The
authors mention that their results “are relevant to policy makers involved in
regulating medical devices and developing treatment guidelines.” Further discussion
on this point is essential. A few questions that the authors may wish to consider
include: How are these treatments currently used in the NHS? Are there NICE
guidelines about their use following treatment failure with 2 or more
antidepressants? How should guidelines change as a result of these findings?
3.
Novelty. The authors acknowledge that there are previous meta-analyses
and network meta-analyses published in this area. While the previous analyses were
not as comprehensive as the authors’ submission (in terms of the number of
techniques covered), it’s not clear whether this reflects the current disagreements in
this field in terms of what constitutes viable treatment alternatives and relevant
comparators. Can the authors refer to a consensus statement on this topic that
defines the scope of relevant interventions? If not, further justification is warranted
for the authors’ choice of interventions.
Minor comments:

•
Abstract should give a brief indication about network geography. This could
be as simple as indicating which interventions are the most-studied vs. those that
remain under-studied in the literature.
•
Abstract should also give an indication about risk of bias in the evidence
base alongside heterogeneity, inconsistency, and meta-bias.
•
The statement in the abstract “comparing active treatments,…” could be
misinterpreted. I would suggest clarifying that this is based on a combination of
direct and indirect evidence.
•
The concluding statement in the abstract “need to consider other patient
and treatment-related factors in addition to antidepressant efficacy…” does not
follow naturally from the study’s findings.
•
The methods section refers to both individuals with major depressive
disorder and bipolar depression while the title of the paper focuses on the former. I
suggest mentioning both groups throughout the paper.
•
Conventionally, the subjective judgements/interpretations that inform the
risk of bias assessment are included in the online appendix. This provides an
opportunity for other researchers to better understand the reasons for concluding
that some trials are judged to be at lower vs. higher risk of bias.
•
Was there a particular reason why mITT analyses are accepted? As the
definition of mITT varies significantly across different studies, could this introduce
further heterogeneity into the analysis?
•
How should the readers interpret the findings that there is some
inconsistency in the treatment networks? Are these loops also the ones that have
more heterogeneity in different edges of the network? Should any of the findings of
the network meta-analyses be discounted accordingly?
