General comments:
First of all, congratulations to the team proposing the iBox protocol which will be a greatly
valuable tool for bringing the evaluation system and the prediction models (what we are
currently lacking of) to the next level.
In case the outcome is as wanted for kidneys, I emphasise that this tool is used in an
adapted version for the entire field of solid organ transplantation (including combined
transplants – maybe starting with kidney pancreas transplants or liver kidney transplants)
and furthermore we should not forget about VCA (hand transplants in particular), the young
but matured field craving for outcome predictors too.
For kidneys I expect the iBox to be a much more predictive tool compared to any scoring
system (KDRI, KDPI, the ECD and SCD dichotomy, the DBD DCD comparison etc) applied to
8000 kidney transplants when including both cohorts.
One strength of this study will be the multinational approach which will mirror the clinical
reality significantly better than any other available score at the moment which was
developed with registry data from one nation.
A very important detail, from my point of view, is missing in the protocol: Ex vivo
(hypothermic/normothermic) machine perfusion and normothermic regional perfusion (in
DCDs) needs to be included in this cohort where applicable.
When a protocol is talking about risk assessment as risk stratification and optimizing the
outcome of kidney transplant including the most important detail “to understand why”,
perfusion of organs must not be left out. As far as I know, in most of the US centres and in
many French transplant centres machine perfusion (hypothermic) of the kidney is performed
in almost all centres and on a regular basis.
It is an excellent opportunity to include perfusion; in almost all performed case hypothermic
for kidneys I assume as there is no randomized trial running in the countries involved in this
study involving neither short term normothermic kidney perfusion nor long-term
normothermic kidney perfusion.

Comments and requests for the protocol:
1) Primary endpoint: Time frame: 7 years after iBox risk evaluation
Why 7 years? It is very positive to have such a wide time frame but what’s the rationale
behind it?
2) Secondary endpoints

Living or deceased donor kidney recipient
transplanted after 2002.
Why after 2002? Why not 2000?
3)
Baseline donor’s characteristics:
5. Type of donor: deceased vs living please add DCD and DBD for the deceased group
10. ECD status please add this for DBD and DCD as many publications divide DCD the same
way as DBDs are differentiated
13. PLEASE add donor proteinuria

Transplant characteristics:
14. Cold ischemia time for perfused kidneys please add/discriminate between CIT: aortal
perfusion to placement on perfusion pump and overall CIT: from aortal perfusion to “organ
out of ice” or a similar term used in the centres involved in the study
15. Delayed graft function primary non function needs to be included too
In case DCD kidneys are involved in the study which were recovered after NRP, this needs to
be highlighted too! I fully understand that this has to be analysed as a subcohort and cannot
be as easily implemented in the iBox system as the widley used hypothermic machine
perfusion per se.
Follow-up variables:
21. Type of treatment: calcineurin inhibitors, mycophenolate mofetil, mTOR inhibitors or
belatacept add the changes of IS: especially for belatacept – de novo or converted from a
CNI
