I believe the paper should be published as it will greatly add to the literature regarding P4P/ Quality Incentive Programmes
especially for hospitals in the US and generally.
My answers to the various sections are below:
a) Originality - Yes this work is original and greatly adds to the body of literature regarding this important subject
b) Importance of work to general readers - the whole topic of P4P/ QI improvement programmes are of great interest to all
key stakeholders including physicians, hospital managers, health authority personnel, etc. This work and the findings certainly
enriches ongoing debates in this area and should be published.
c) Scientific reliability - the authors have used very appropriate and extensive techniques to add credibility to their findings and
interpretations
d) The research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered
e) The overall design of study is certainly adequate. However - minor comments below
f) The Participants studied are adequately described and their conditions
defined
g) The Methods are adequately described, and comply with relevant reporting
standards. Some minor comments below. Good choices for non-surgical comparators (Page 5) as well as why certain patients
excluded (Page 5). In addition, statistical approaches used, etc. (Pages 6 and 7)
h) The Results are well presented and certainly answer the research question.
i) Interpretation and conclusions are well presented and the underlying message is very clear
j) The References - up to date and relevant - I have included some suggestions below.
k) The Abstract and summary does reflect accurately what the paper says (although some minor suggestions - below)
I have some minor suggestions for consideration (not essential). These are:
i) Abstract - if room - Why the controls were chosen and state that the main outcome measures are those chosen by Medicare
in their incentivising programme (not obvious from the abstract)
ii) Page 4 line 6/7 - Good to include P4P programme refs alongside hospitals such as the QoF programme in the UK, CAPI in
France, programmes in Germany developed by the Institute for Applied Quality Improvement and Research in Health Care
GmbH and the Allgemeine Ortskrankenkassen Sickness Fund, etc.. In addition also include the AQP in England at the start and
then refer later on in Page 4
iii) Page 4 line 42 - know that this statement is typically true - but good to back up with some references if possible. Similar for
lines 49/ 50 on Page 4 if possible as this is a bold statement to make without any references
iv) Page 5 line - Is ref 3 the only reference - as make comments about more countries moving towards national penalties to
incentivise quality

v) Top of Page 6 - Give good reasons in the discussion and limitations why Maryland and CAH hospitals chosen as comparators.
Good to consolidate this under methodology and then carry on with comments in the limitations - otherwise readers are left
wondering until the end why these 2 groups chosen
vi) Line 55 page 10. The way ref 12 added needs amending
vii) Page 11 - Line 20. May be worthy commenting on the research findings from the unintended consequences of QIs coupled
with financial incentives, e.g. work of Stephen Campbell and others
viii) Page 11 lines 45 - 48. Make a bold statement about limited impact of national policies without any references - this should
be addressed
ix) Page 12 line 16 - refs 12,25. Not sure ref 12 is correct. In addition, style needs amending
x) Page 12 line 40. I believe the spillover effect is called a Hawthorne effect. If this is the case - may be worth referring to this
and referencing this