Thank you for the opportunity to review this article submitted to the BMJ. It was
a very interesting and well-written paper. Generally I am cautious about

nutritional epidemiology studies, due to the big issue of diet changing over time,
missing confounders, and the exact definition of diet. For example, here, what
type of meat do these findings relate to? And how much meat is actually good (or
bad)? I find it hard to translate the findings.
Below, there are some further comments to make, which I hope the authors can
use to improve or refine their article further, going forward.
1) The authors do multiple imputation in a sensitivity analysis, rather than the
main analysis; ideally it should be the main analysis, but at least they confirm it
does not change findings.
2) “Low meat eaters and fish eaters also appeared to have a higher risk of total
stroke compared with regular meat eaters (p for heterogeneity between all diet
groups=0.03), but the difference was not statistically significant.” – contradiction
as the p-value was small? Moreover, I would suggest caution about using the
term statistically significant, and rather focus on the magnitude of effect and
importance of values covered by the 95% CI. So, rather than tests of differences
across groups, focus on the estimated differences and CIs.
As an example of how the statements depend on arbitrary statistical significant
see this: “When vegetarians and vegans were assessed separately, vegans had a
borderline lower risk of IHD (0.78, 0.61-1.00) and a higher risk of total stroke
(1.44, 1.01-2.05) compared with regular meat eaters” – the use of the word
borderline in the first but not the second, even though the CIs are both basically
ending at 1.00
3) The authors convert hazard ratios to absolute risk at 10 years, though I
wonder whether this should be made conditional on covariate values (because
the hazard ratios are conditional on adjustment factors). So the absolute risk at
10 years is for who? Perhaps show a patient with average covariate values?
Also, how does this account for competing risks? For example, due to deaths to
cancer? Is this a real world interpretation of the change in risk?
4) My main concern is that I’m not comfortable with the dichotomisation of meat
eaters into <50g versus > 50g per day. Maybe this is due to the information
about meat eating that was available. Ideally, we would want this to be examined
as continuous variable, and non-linear trends examined. But, perhaps
participants did not know the amount of meat they eat each week anyway? We
need clarity on this, as this dichotomisation could be driving the key findings. It is
well-rehearsed in the statistical literature that the dichotomisation of continuous
variables only serves to lose information and is rarely sensible; for example, why
should a meat eater of 49g be different to one with 51g per day? And what if
someone eats 49g one week and then 51g the week after?
5) How may measurement error (in terms of the exact amount of meat eaten per
week) have influenced these findings? Bear in mind that the error may be larger
in those that eat more meat, and therefore the error is not consistent across the
range of values.
6) Another concern, or at least surprise, is that there is an associated benefit for
IHD but an associated harm for stroke. I would expect this to be in the same
direction, intuitively. Therefore, it makes me more worried about residual
confounding.
7) A related point - The findings are not dramatic: e.g. for total stroke, the low
meat group has a HR of 1.17 (1.00 to 1.38), so no overly strong evidence of an

association statistically (would be vulnerable to more confounders, for example)
and not especially large in magnitude anyway. This is reflected by small absolute
numbers that would additionally get a stroke by 10 years if they are meat.
Further, would the dichotomisation of meat at 50g and the non-proportional
hazards issue change things?
8) Figure 1: important to note this is showing the rate ratio for one group
compared to the regular meat eater groups.
9) When interpreting HRs, I think lower risks of IHD should be changed to lower
rates. (and conversely higher risks to higher rates for stroke). If you want to say
risk then I think you should give the time-point that the risk relates to.
10) “the associations for IHD were partially attenuated after adjustment for
self-reported high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, and diabetes, and to a
larger extent body mass index.” – this is mentioned in the abstract but without
any results, which is not helpful to the reader. Moreover, why did the authors not
adjust for all these confounders to begin with?
11) Conclusion of abstract: “Low meat eaters, fish eaters and vegetarians had
lower risks …” – be more cautious. Low meat eaters, fish eaters and vegetarians
were associated with a lower risk …
12) “We utilised repeated measurements of diet and important time-varying
confounders at follow-up to account for possible changes.” – I did not see this in
your analysis? The follow up information as obtained in 2010, some 17 years
after first recruitment, and so how were time-varying confounders actually
measured in those 17 years? I wonder if this is misleading, as we actually do not
have information (e.g. yearly) on current diet.
This is actually a major concern, because “Of low meat eaters at baseline, 48%
were regular meat eaters at follow-up, and 43% were low meat eaters.” –
therefore there is much switch over during the middle period.
In summary, I have a number of concerns for the BMJ to consider. These are
typical of many nutritional epidemiology studies we encounter, and they make it
hard to understand the meaning of the findings for the BMJ reader. The paper is
well-written and raises interesting questions, but the grouping of meat eaters by
50g, the potential for residual confounding, and the changing of diet over time,
raises important caveats to the study findings. I truly hope my comments help
the authors going forward, as they have clearly worked very hard on their study
and project.
Richard Riley
