The paper presents the results of a pragmatic randomized controlled trial of an established shared
decision making intervention, Chest Pain Choice, in 6 different emergency departments. The paper
is very well written and has several strengths, particularly the multi-site, randomized design and
the breadth of outcomes (patient, physician and utilization outcomes). The results provide
important new evidence for the field of shared decision making on the use of personalized risk
communication in the clinic and the application of decision aids/shared decision making in a highly
emotional clinical setting with significant time pressures.
The paper would be strengthened with some attention and clarification in the following areas:
Methods:
1. The primary outcome is knowledge which is appropriate for the intervention, yet there is no
information on validity or reliability (or any psychometrics) of the measure used. Please include
psychometric information for the primary outcome.
2. Some other measures may be less familiar to readers and having some sense for scoring and
interpretation would be helpful (e.g. how is OPTION scale scored and what is clinically meaningful
difference? same for Trust in Physician Scale?)
3. The vast majority of shared decision making studies occur in outpatient settings (with
recruitment ~Mon-Fri 9-5pm). For recruitment in this study, given that many EDs are open 24/7,
were patients recruited 24/7 or just during 9-5pm on weekdays? How was research coordinator
time/effort allocated across the sites? Were there differences across sites, etc? Perhaps this is
included in the protocol paper, but a brief description would be helpful.
Results:
4. For the patients who decided to follow up with a clinician outside the ED, do the authors have
data on how many participants actually had an appointment with a specialists/PCP within
recommended time frame? This information seems important, especially as this arm might be
difficult to replicate at other sites due to challenges confirming appointments before patients leave
the ED.
5. You report on the time in the visit, yet in the methods do not describe how that result was
calculated. Please include details on how the time of each “visit” was assessed and calculated.
6. Table 2 presents data from both arms, but for several of the questions, it is not clear what the
usual care arm is rating. For example, clarity of information (what information are they rating?),
would they recommend to others (recommend what?) It is difficult to interpret those responses
without any sense for what the usual care arm received.
Discussion:
7. The authors say they demonstrated feasibility, however, given that the research coordinator was
very involved in setting up and using the Chest Pain Choice decision aid, it would be important for
the authors to comment on feasibility of use of the decision aid outside a trial setting. Who would
identify eligible patients? Who would enter the clinical data? Do they actually have data that it will
be used outside of the trial?
8. All of the settings were academic centers, would the authors comment on any issues or barriers
for adopting the decision aid outside academic EDs?
