Thank you asking me to re-review this paper. I have not repeated all my comments from my previous review as some of
these have been addressed. The revised study aims to assess risks of amputation, blindness, severe kidney failure,
hyperglycaemia and hypoglycaemia in patients with type 2 diabetes associated with prescribed hypoglycaemic drugs.
Among the strengths of the study is the large sample size (670,000 people with diabetes) and the long period of followup (up to 17 years) which gives the study around 2.86 million person-years of follow up data. The data is derived from
QResearch, a large UK primary care database derived from the electronic medical records of general practices that use
the EMIS system.
Direct comparisons of different drug agents and regimes in randomised clinical trials are difficult for a number of
reasons. These include the costs of carrying out clinical trials, which results in the samples being relatively small and the
length of period of follow up shorter than is possible with data from clinical databases such as QResearch. Many of the
drugs for the treatment of diabetes are also now generic and this too reduces the likelihood they will be studied in future
clinical trials, which are likely to focus on newer agents. It is also difficult to compare drug combinations and look at
important but rarer outcomes because of the smaller number of patients in clinical trials. The current study uses wellestablished methods for data extraction, aggregation and analysis that have been used in many other QResearch papers,
including in studies published in the BMJ. It adds to previous work in this area of the safety and effectiveness of drugs
for diabetes.
My main comment about the paper remains the inclusion of the insulin-treated group in the analysis. If the paper is
about trying to assess the outcomes of patients on different oral hypoglycaemic regimes, then the insulin-treated group
should be removed from the analysis. This group has the highest risks of hypoglycaemia, which is to be expected given
that this is a well-established complication of insulin treatment. The insulin-treated group, however, also has the highest
risk of blindness, hyperglycaemia, amputation, and kidney failure (Table 3). These risks will not be the result of
treatment with insulin. Indeed, without treatment with insulin, this group would be at an even higher risk of
complications and also at high risk of death. The authors have now mentioned residual confounding and reverse
causality in their discussion as possible causes of the higher risks of complications in the insulin-treated group. However,
in my view, this group should be excluded entirely from the study as it is clearly not possible to adjust for confounding
factors in this group with the data available to the authors. The paper would then just focus on the group that is treated
with oral hypoglycaemic agents.