Crump et al. have analysed the rates of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in a nationwide
Swedish cohort relative to preterm birth. This is a large study, data seems quite complete
and it has significant strengths. The association between preterm birth and later CKD is
strong overall, although strongest in children. This study adds to the field of knowledge on
developmental programming of kidney disease as long term follow up of preterm cohorts is
only now becoming possible.
This study is therefore highly relevant, however there are several points which should be
addressed and could strengthen the manuscript prior to consideration for publication.
1.
The authors state this is to their knowledge the first study examining long term
risk of CKD among those born preterm. This is partially correct, however the authors may
not be aware of the studies by Ruggajo and Vikse from Norway (AJKD 2016) where they

examined preterm birth and risk of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). The authors should
consider this paper and discuss how the Ruggajo findings are relevant or different from the
current study.
2.
Specifically, the authors in the current study state they found no association with
fetal growth. No specific data is presented to this effect. Among those born preterm it
would be important to stratify (as Ruggajo et al did) whether the preterm infants were of
appropriate weight for gestational age (AGA) or small for gestational age (SGA). I presume
this data is available in the Swedish registries? If yes, the analyses should assess whether
being SGA or AGA modulated long term CKD risk (in general it seems being SGA is likely
the strongest programming ask factor overall).
3.
Was there an association between preterm birth and ESKD in this cohort? This
data should be available.
4.
Given the diagnoses are based on ICD9 codes, is there data on neonatal AKI? If
yes, it would be highly valuable to report whether any episode of neonatal AKI in this
cohort was associated with long term CKD risk
5.
The rates of maternal diabetes are extremely low, this has been associated with
CKD and proteinuria in other populations, the authors should state that they are likely
underpowered to truly assess this association.
6.
Were causes of CKD available as ICD9 codes? This would be interesting to
evaluate
7.
On page 13-14 I am not sure I follow why there is a discussion on vascular
structure and function. This is speculative and I am not sure the argument follows. The
continuum of risk across degree of prematurity is similar to that observed with birth
weight. These are not categorical. More parallels and contrasts should be made in the
discussion with the birth weight literature to improve the depth of the paper.
8.
In table 3 it appears the significance of the association between preterm birth and
CKD is largely lost over age 20. This should be discussed. A potential weakness that should
be discussed is it is likely there were relatively smaller numbers at older ages. The total
subject numbers in each age group should be more clearly stated in one of the tables and
not only the cases.
9. I cannot comment on the adequacy of the statistics