This is an interesting and thoughtful reflection on what taking wellbeing seriously would mean for the
health budget which draws together a number of different strands of policy, economic and public
health thinking.
As this is a discussion paper, I will raise (in the spirit of discussion) some questions which the authors
may wish to consider in revising the paper.
First, the implications of taking wellbeing seriously within the health budget could be better
developed. This seems particularly relevant since within the health sector there are analytic methods
which could be adapted to take into account additional dimensions of wellbeing. It may not be
completely obvious what effect this would have. One of the discomforting features of the logic of
health cost effectiveness analysis is that it may not be worth saving someone’s life because they have
poor health (and so generate fewer qalys) but this conflicts with many people’s moral intuitions. If we
expand this logic to wellbeing, perhaps we should refuse to save the lives of people who have poor
prospects of happiness, but this seems perhaps even more deeply problematic.
Second, although the paper is purportedly international (featuring a graph of spending in oecd
countries), it does not really pull out the differences between countries and indeed the mental frame
is dominated by a very classically British model, which a single vertically integrated MoH which makes
all the important decisions. Some discussion of the import of the discussion for the variety of OECD
health systems might be good. One way to open up the discussion would be to talk about Bismarck
systems which have a different and perhaps complex set of stakeholders; or the more localised sort of
system classically associated with eg sweden. Another would be to reflect that many smaller
countries do indeed manage to achieve a greater level of integration simply because the ministerial
portfolio is smaller and more manageable (scotland has a cabinet secretary for health and sport;
finland for social affairs and health; Estonia for labour and health). Indeed the recent move in the
direction of health and care integration in the uk countries may reflect a global trend away from the
freestanding MoHs of the past.
Thirdly, I think it is important to break down the idea of financial protection as a contributor to
wellbeing. “Financial protection” is an economists’ and health policy shorthand and I do not think this
is adequately well explained in the paper for a BMJ readership. Furthermore, one dimension of
financial protection is the insurance benefit; another dimension is pro-poor transfer. These
dimensions are conceptually separate and contribute to wellbeing in different ways.
