In this Analysis article, the authors lay out their arguments that online consulting
could become a part of mainstream general practice. This is a good overview of
the issues and could well provoke response and debate amongst BMJ readership.
The authors are quite right that the demands and expectations of the public have
been significantly influenced by how easily they can do other things online. To
some extent they are saying that the shift online is inevitable over the coming
decades but there is a chasm between where we are now and where we expect to
be then.
Page 3, line 6 – Any citations for the AI work? I know Babylon got in trouble for
some overclaims, and a STAT investigation of IBM Watson might be worth
referring to as a more cautious note on AI overclaims generally (it was just doctors
behind the curtain not AI)
Table 1 is good. But are there really no safety or ethics benefits the authors can
think of? Is there any safety benefit in more people having discrete STI consults,
for instance? Or to make it easier for the bedbound to connect with a doctor
quickly to get some antibiotics onboard for a chest infection rather than waiting for
the on-call doctor to make a (near mythical) house call? Is there an ethical
obligation not to unduly inconvenience patients who may struggle with transport
or live far away from their provider?
Page 4, line 37. Optionally, could comment that the culture of technologists /
Silicon Valley often incorporates values like “Move fast and break things” which is
antithetical to “First do no harm” or other tenets of medicine.
Page 6, line 45. To play devil’s advocate as to the cherry-picking issue, just why
shouldn’t the busy working people who fund the NHS through their taxes be able
to access services on their own terms? The NHS is for everyone, after all, including
the relatively advantaged.
If the authors were American I suspect we’d see a lot more here on the issue of
reimbursement, the lack of which has hampered Telemedicine adoption in the US.
This seems like something that could be mentioned in brief with a line or so.
