This is a well-written and well reported article, as expected from the set of authors involved. The authors have clearly
worked hard to address an important topic using the primary care database available. It is good to see that a protocol
was published for this cohort study. I have reviewed this from a statistical perspective, and although standards are
generally good as expected, I have some comments for improvement and areas for clarification to be addressed in any
subsequent revision:
1) When reading the article, my initial impression was that there are a lot of analyses here, for example across
different 3 outcomes, different classes, individual drugs,, and different follow-up times. For the latter it says in the
methods that ‘As sensitivity analyses we repeated the analyses firstly restricted to the first year of follow-up, then
including the entire follow-up period’ and also time since starting treatment is investigated as categories, e.g. first 28
days.
But in the protocol, though 5 years and 28 days are mentioned, I cannot see mention about the 1-year analyses. Can
the authors clarify please why they focused on 1-year in the end, if not mentioned in the protocol (perhaps I am
missing something)?
2) In relation to this point, most analyses over the 5 year period are not significant, but there are more significant
results by 1 year. This suggests that the hazard ratio is not proportional over time, but this is not evaluated formally
(statistically) and raises the question about the HRs from years 1 to 2, and 2 to 3 etc. Therefore I find the focus on 1year an incomplete picture, and wonder whether the authors could comment in the results about whether the
proportional hazards assumption was appropriate (the methods say it was examined, but we don’t see the details). I
would find it strange that the HRs at 1-year are significant but not at 5-years, if the proportional hazards assumption
is actually ok.
Many 1-year results are the main message in the abstract and conclusions, yet they are only given in the
supplementary material in the actual paper. I think they should be brought into the main article tables, and this may
link to a more detailed investigation of the proportional hazards assumption (if the HR is constant over time, or what
the HR is within each year interval upto 5 years).
Of fundamental interest: if the SRIs are associated with benefit for the first year but overall the 5 years there is no
difference, does this mean that the SRIs are associated with harm in the latter years?
3) Further, the authors look at 3 outcomes in the paper ‘arrhythmia, myocardial infarction and stroke or transient
ischaemic attack’. Yet, in the protocol there were far more than 3 outcomes listed (see below), and none were
mentioned as primary outcomes. Can the authors clarify why they looked at these three outcomes in this paper as a
priority over other outcomes listed below:
•all-cause mortality
•suicide (including open verdicts)
•attempted suicide/self-harm
•sudden death
•overdose/poisoning with an antidepressant
•myocardial infarction
•stroke/transient ischaemic attack (TIA)
•cardiac arrhythmia
•epilepsy/seizures
•upper gastrointestinal bleeding
•falls
•fractures
•adverse drug reactions (including bullous eruption)
•motor vehicle crash.
4) The authors adjust for confounding using Cox regression, and it is good to see that many confounders are indeed
adjusted for. That being said, I would also have liked to see whether conclusions are robust to the use of propensity
score matching methods. Or can they justify in the Discussion why this wasn’t considered beneficial over traditional
regression adjustment? Perhaps, due to the time-varying nature of the use of antidepressants, this was problematic

5) Can the authors clarify in the paper the use of the time-varying antidepressants covariate and its interpretation for
an individual who stopped. If an individual stops antidepressants, then do they then (for subsequent follow-up periods)
move to the non-treatment group? If so, then how does this handle the potential for events to be due to the earlier
use of antidepressants? Could it be that the lack of any differences between groups is because some of those who
were on anti-depressants or moving into the non-treatment group, and therefore any genuine difference is being
attenuated?
6) “Even for doses of citalopram ≥ 40 mg/day there was no significantly increased risk (adjusted hazard ratio=1.11,
95% CI 0.72 to 1.71).” – though this statement is correct, the confidence interval is 0.72 to 1.71 and is therefore
wide: is there low power? Indeed, there are not many events in many analyses. This is worthy of discussion please in
the strengths and limitations section.
7) I am also concerned about missing data: the authors say ‘We included all eligible patients in the database in our
analyses to maximise power’ – but there are no details about how missing data were handled. I notice that under a
table it says ‘5.0% of prescriptions had missing information on dosage.’, so there is some missing data – but how was
it handled? It is also not mentioned in the protocol.
8) The authors used ‘robust standard errors to allow for clustering of patients within practices’ – such methods are
done when the model used is mis-specified (or the correct model is difficult to actually fit), and therefore the ‘robust’
standard errors used to inflate uncertainty accordingly. However, here I do not understand why the clustering within
practices was not accounted for by using, for example, using a stratified Cox model or adding a frailty term (with a
random effect on the baseline hazard to allow for separate one for each practice). Though this is a minor point, I
would like the article to clarify if alternative approaches to accounting for clustering affected the conclusions.
9) In places, the authors infer a difference between individual drugs, which is often not justified. This is most apparent
in the ‘absolute risks’ section, where they say ‘Absolute risks of arrhythmia and myocardial infarction were highest for
lofepramine’ – this is not justified, as the CIs for the risks and NNH are very wide and overlap with the other drugs.
This therefore needs to be re-written. Please check elsewhere for this issue too.
In summary, this is an important piece of work, and I hope my comments help to improve the article further,
especially in regard to the outcome investigated, the time-points considered and the use of time-varying covariate.