Overall, the manuscript provides reassuring information that certain SSRIs purported to be “potent” CYP2D6 inhibitors
do not elevate the risk of all-cause death in breast cancer patients who have used such drugs along with tamoxifen.
This is an important finding because so many breast cancer survivors struggle with depression. The methods are
thorough, and the authors did several sensitivity analysis that re-confirm their null finding. Attached here are
consideration points for clarification, mainly for the Methods.
Abstract: Consider inserting the actual mortality rates for the potent inhibitors vs. non-inhibitor groups (only HRs are
shown).
Methods: Lines 21-35: Why wasn’t exposure handled as a time-dependent variable, especially given that many
patients switched antidepressants medications? For example, if patients switched from non-potent to potent, how was
that handled in the analysis?
Could tamoxifen medication adherence be assessed from the 5 databases? It seems as though low number of
concomitant days might be due to the fact that tamoxifen might not have been taken daily.
A distribution of the other SSRIs by drug’s name should be shown as well as fractions exposed to paroxetine only and
fluoxetine only
ICD9/CPT codes were used to identify breast cancer cases. Is it possible to identify the breast cancer cases by
captured by SEER-affiliated registries that operate in the states served by the 5 various plans?
Analysis: It appears that the distribution of covariates between the two groups were generally similar, even before
propensity score matching. Was a conventional analysis approach also done (ie, without propensity scores)?
Results: Table 1. Not clear why codes for Stage III-IV are included in Appendix A if Tables 1 only includes Stages 0-II?
The fraction of women with DCIS (Stage 0) is very high in this study; generally in SEER data, DCIS is about 17-20% of
women diagnosed with breast cancer in the U.S. annually. For clarity, the label for third variable should be Screening
& breast cancer treatment” (remove “prior” as mastectomy/adjuvant treatment happen after pathologic diagnosis). Of
note, the fraction of mastectomy (40-50%) is very high. Reasons for this might be included in the Discussion.
Table 2 lay-out: Can this table show the mortality rates stratified by exposed vs. non-exposed group?

Conclusion (lines 49-50): The main concerns (also acknowledged by authors) are the younger age group in the
cohorts, and the median follow-up of approximately 2 years. Given this, a more germane outcome would have been
breast cancer recurrence. Hence the conclusion that SSRI inhibition of CYP2D6 does not appear to reduce tamoxifen
effectiveness in clinical practice could be supported if the drug interaction didn’t elevate breast cancer recurrence risk
as well. Can the analysis examine this outcome, or are there other studies that could lend support to the current
findings?