Thiels et al
Thank you for submitting this manuscript to BMJ. The topic is timely given that opioid
prescribing trends in the US and abroad have changed given the concerns about opioid
abuse and overdose. I travel and lecture on the topic almost every week, and I frequently
encounter confusion and questions about tramadol. Many physicians (including me a few
years ago) feel that tramadol is “safer”—some do not even recognize it as an opioid. While
the focus for the US opioid epidemic has revolved around oxycodone and more potent mu
agonists, tramadol has received less attention. The manuscript is well written and the
findings are clearly presented. There is a nice mix of surgical conditions. While a novel
outcome and an important contribution, the finding is not overly surprising---physicians
feel much more comfortable prescribing tramadol and this liberal prescribing would be
expected to lead to higher rates of new persistent use. Regardless, I do believe it is a
meaningful addition to the opioid literature.

There are no page numbers in the manuscript, so I will use the PDF page number when
necessary.
Major critiques/overall comments
1.
The outcome of new persistent opioid use is not novel at this point.
2.
The a priori primary outcome would ideally be defined before the analyses. As it
stands, there are 3 primary outcomes that are different definitions of the same outcome.
Two are positive and one is not. Our group has used something between the 90+ and
90-180 definitions. Sensitivity analyses are necessary, but I feel an outcome needed to be
defined and should not be done after the data were analyzed.
3.
Overall message- the “what this study adds” and the “conclusion” of the abstract
do not match. One suggests that tramadol had an “increased rate” and the other states

“did not have lower risk”---this is an issue that is hard to resolve given my point above
aobut the lack of a single primary outcome when you have a mixed result. The first line of
the discussion is probably the best summary of what you found.
4.
Follow up period- you only required insurance coverage for 90 days after surgery,
yet some of your outcomes go out much further. I’m confused by this decision. I know the
cohort gets smaller as you restrict to continuous coverage, but it is hard to follow the
results given outcomes that go beyond the inclusion period.
5.
Mechanism of action of tramadol- I would suggest that you take the opportunity to
clearly describe the additional issues for tramadol----metabolism and NE reuptake
inhibition. These are critical topics that are essentially ignored when discussing tramadol,
especially given the perception that it is safer.
Additional comments:
1.
Not sure I would consider tramadol or other opioids as ‘traditional’---just that
tramadol is a dirtier med and not a pure opioid agonist.
2.
Abstract, outcome- do not like the ‘e.g.’---outcomes need to be defined clearly.
3.
P7-Prefer call it Optum rather than use the acronym you created.
4.
P11- please move IRB statement higher into the methods. Has nothing to do with
stats.
5.
P13- a 25% use of tramadol would be incredibly surprising. We used Truven and
found a 2.6% rate of tramadol use after surgery between 2010-2016, Larach et al, Annals
of Srugery
6.
Discussion- would be nice to reference the relevant figures and tables in the
discussion—does not need to be comprehensive, but would enhance reader understanding.
7.
P14- While the data are from the US, the UK has recognized tramadol dependence
for some time---we have just ignored it.
8.
P14- suggest that you sub-section this important section about the mechanism
and challenges---this is a VERY important section, and I do not want it to be missed. This
paragraph and prose should be expanded to include the fact that known metabolism
variants can greatly influence the efficacy or high from tramadol, much as people now
appreciate for codeine. Moreover, the NE reuptake effects can pose drug-drug interactions
that must be considered given the increased use of SNRIs and the remaining use of TCAs.
9.
P16- I think it is an overstep to suggest whether definitions should or should not
be used in future. This was not a methods paper. The quick summary of definitions does
not get into the nuances of some of the definitions. One can argue that using definitions
that are far too strict downplays the importance of repeated prescriptions over several
months after what was intended to be a short-term, single script in most cases.
10.
Ref 54 included but not in the body of the manuscript
11.
Conclusion- delete the first sentence.
12.
Tables, minor- I would include the definitions in the Tables 2-5. Should not have to
go into the methods to know the definition.
13.
Minor- a table or figure with the definitions would aid in the ability to follow the
outcomes.
