Nyboe Andersen and colleagues have utilized the extensive medical records linkage
capability of the various Danish medical registries to assemble a true nationwide
cohort of patients with inflammatory bowel disease in Denmark. They have posed the
question of whether anti-TNF agents are associated with an increased risk of serious
infection in patients with IBD—this is a topical question, because data are conflicting
on this point in the IBD literature. They have constructed a matched cohort study
(age, gender, IBD duration, IBD subtype, propensity score excluding azathioprine and
corticosteroid use) of over 1500 anti-TNF exposed and over 1500 unexposed patients.
Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was used to determine if any use of antiTNF drug was associated with time to first serious infection (defined as an infection
associated with a hospitalization) in the first 90 days or the first 365 days after
initiation of therapy. They found that in the first 90 days, IBD patients exposed to antiTNF agents were 63% more likely to develop serious infection compared to the
unexposed. For the first 365 days, this increased risk decreased to 1.27 times, and
was no longer statistically significant. Supplemental analyses included a comparison of
serious infection risk between patients on anti-TNF monotherapy versus those on
thiopurine monotherapy—risks were elevated about twofold but not quite statistically
significant. A non-propensity score-matched analysis of all 4200 anti-TNF exposed
patients and 46,000 unexposed patients showed slightly higher risks (hazard ratios of
1.8 at 90 days and 1.52 at 365 days).
The study is very importantly and timely. I think the authors should address the
following issues, however:
1. First of all, presumably there is a window of time, when drug is on board, that the
infection risk exists. Unless one postulates a significantly prolonged pharmacodynamic
effect, one can rely on pharmacokinetic data to “guesstimate” that the time of
elevated risk of infection would be within 5 half-lives of the last dose of medication.
It’s not explicitly stated but I think this study examines anti-TNF use as ever or never.
I think the estimate of risk could be improved by factoring in the duration of anti-TNF
use and the stop dates of anti-TNF drug.
2. I also would like to hear more justification of the use of the propensity score
matching. The strict matching results in a loss of 64% of the potential exposed cases.
Does the benefit of propensity score matching warrant the loss of nearly 2/3 of
exposed patients?
3. IBD case definition: please be more specific in Methods about how an IBD case is
defined. How many ICD-8 or ICD-10 codes or needed to define a case. You discuss the
sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic codes for IBD from another study, but that
study is now almost 20 years old. Did you use the same definition of an IBD case? If
you used a different definition, have you got any validation information to share?
4. How did you handle patients who had in their records ICD codes for both Crohn’s
and UC?
5. Anti-TNF exposure was obtained from 4 different sources. How many sources
needed to be “positive” for a patient to be considered exposed? This section of the
Methods briefly mentions the Danish Crohn Colitis Database but the average reader
might not know what this is—you should reference it and perhaps briefly describe it.
6. Serious infection definition: how can you tell from the registries if the patient was
primarily hospitalized for an infection? Can you discriminate between that and a
nosocomial infection occurring in an IBD patient who had hospitalized for a different
reason? This should be made more clear.
7. Propensity score: How was this actually calculated? Adding up the various variables
in eTable 2? What was the range of scores for the propensity score? How close did the
match have to be?
8. Figure 1: might be helpful to more precisely define how case of IBD was defined