Secondhand smoke and incidence of dental caries in deciduous teeth among children in Japan – Results from the Kobe
offspring study. Tanaka et. al.
Dental caries is a continuing problem in pediatrics, and deserves attention. The same is true for smoking and exposure
to secondhand smoke. Tanaka et al. investigate smoking status during pregnancy and at 4 months as risk factors for
the incidence of caries in deciduous teeth in a large (N=76,920), population-based retrospective cohort study.
The study is well-written, and statistical analyses are state-of-the-art. Oral examinations are performed by qualified
dentists.
The study supports population and individual interventions to reduce smoking only to some extent (see major point
1).
Major points:
1.The etiology of caries involves various physical, biological, environmental, and lifestyle factors. Tanaka and
colleagues hypothesize that secondhand smoke exposure in infants and children is related to caries in deciduous teeth.
Mechanisms behind this are not clear. There might be a direct influence of secondhand smoke on teeth and

microorganisms, but also an indirect effect via inflammation of the oral membrane, impaired salivary gland function,
serum vitamin C levels, and immune dysfunction might be the case. In addition, the authors righteously conclude that
causality is not supported by this work. This should be stated more firmly in the paper, and not only in the final
sentence of the manuscript. The authors can elaborate on this in the discussion part of the manuscript. For example:
What speaks for causality, and which aspects do not support causality? What is the role of the study design
confounding variables in this? Extensive corrections for confounding have been used, but were all aspects covered?
2.Causality is not established. Yet a population attributable fraction (PAF) is calculated (24%). This seems
inconsequential since, as the authors state, “it is impossible to conclude whether smoking prevention would reduce
risks of caries”. PAF should therefore be left out of the manuscript, or at least needs further explanation (see point 1).
Minor points:
1. It remains unclear how PAF was calculated
2. The number of cigarettes smoked during pregnancy was recorded. What is meant? The number of cigarettes per
week or per day?
Caren I. Lanting, MD PhD Msc
Research Scientist
Child Health
Netherlands Institute for Applied Scientific Research TNO, Leiden, the Netherlands
