This is a much needed analysis, that comes at a crucial time, as the future of mesh
procedures for stress incontinence is under consideration, and alternatives are being
performed increasingly frequently despite a lack of understanding of their comparative
efficacy. This topic is certainly of wide enough interest for the BMJ readership, and my
impression is that this has been well planned and executed, however some improvements
are possible to improve the presentation and accessibility.
Title: I think the title is precise and appropriate
Abstract: Although the title page implies the existence of an abstract, there does not seem
to be an abstract included with my review PDF
Introduction: The introduction is long, and the structure somewhat meandering. Overall I do
not feel this is very well written, or provides the background needed to engage readers
without a good understanding of the topic. There are also some controversial statements
Bladder training is not commonly offered for SUI. I do not feel that international debate has
culminated, but is instead likely to run on. Some sentences are unnecessarily wordy "What is
the impact of the recent..." could be "The impact of the recent...".
The references from 14-18 are handled in a clumsy way. Some of the claims based on these
earlier Cochrane reviews in the introduction strongly prejudge the eventual results of this
analysis in an unhelpful way. For example "the new era of simpler and less costly treatment"
with MUS - surely this is directly the question addressed by this review. I feel the authors
need to work harder to identify the gap in evidence earlier in the introduction, given the
existing Cochrane reviews.
Methods: There are some quite bold decisions taken that need more explanation. Why were
cough stress tests and diaries not considered? These are reasonable choices, but these are
common and well validated tests that are often seen as objective tests of cure or

improvement. They are not necessarily patient important, but have been among the most
physician important measures. It is not clear at all that urodynamic investigations provide a
better objective test of cure that cough stress testing alone.
Some terminology is outdated: "detrusor instability" should be detrusor overactivity.
Were studies with any assessment less than 2 weeks excluded, or studies with ONLY
assessments within 2 weeks?
I would like to see more detail on the GRADE assessments and how this differed from the
primary reviews.
There are some slight methodological limitations, included lack of duplicate screening and
failure to contact authors of newly identified studies for missing data or validation of data
extraction. These could be mentioned in the discussion.
The search will be at least 18 months out of date by the time this is published. Did the
authors consider an update?
The decision to exclude urethral injection therapy is unexpected as it represents one of the
four most commonly offered procedures. Was this because it could not be included in the
network? is it still worth reporting the direct comparisons here?
The planned methods for meta-analysis of harms need to be included in the methods
section. The cut-off of five studies irrespective of sample size seems arbitrary.
Results
Some new methods are included in the results. The decision to exclude trials with 100% cure
or improvement seems controversial and needs more discussion. Again I would like to see
more details of how evidence was downgraded in GRADE assessments. It is striking that a
comparison with 21 RCTs is rated as low quality evidence.
The tables are clear, but it is not always easy to follow the descriptions of results in section
3.2. The most striking and statistically significant results are the poor outcomes of
transobturator tape vs retropubic MUS. This is hardly discussed. Also notable is that lap
colpo is not worse than open colpo in direct or indirect comparisons. This is not apparent
from the text. Instead it sometimes reads as editorialising from the point estimates. The
emphasis on the SUCRA is reasonable for imposing some structure on very complex results,
but is very unlikely to be clinically useful. Instead much more nuanced analysis of the
differences between older Cochrane reviews, the updated direct evidence, and the NMA is
needed.
Discussion
The discussion discounts the recent NICE NMA in their draft guidance which provides a
relevant comparison with these analyses.
There are some linguistic errors "It is incumbent on future researcher"
More nuanced discussion of similarities and differences with the best available observational
studies is needed.
The mention of the RCOG is somewhat parochial. This is clearly a worldwide issue, and many
regions have mandatory registers.
Summary Box
This substantially overstates the strength of evidence. The SUCRA suggests that four
procedures are most likely to be the best, but by no means do these data show that these
four "are more effective" than for example lap colpo. There remains clearly a lack high
quality evidence for most comparisons even up to 12 months.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Rufus Cartwright
Job Title: Sub-specialty Trainee in Urogynaecology
Institution: Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here: Nil

