I consider it important to assess the impact of this novel virus in all the world. Italy has
been deeply affected by this. This manuscript contributes to increasing the knowledge
regarding the virus and particularly its consequences.
I need to understand the following queries which could be raised by the readers:
1-The causes of death are classified according to the mechanism of death. There is a
sequence starting with the main of death, then the contributory causes. These are usually
recorded in international death certificates format with letters "A" for the main cause, and
"B", "C" and "part 2" for the contributory causes depending on their importance in the
death mechanism. Do the data you have available allow you to distinguish COVID-19 as a
main or contributory cause of death?
--If the data sources do allow to do such comparison:
1-a-Could you describe the proportion of deaths with COVID-19 as the main cause of
death?
1-b-Could you do sensitivity analysis to better understand how COVID-19 is relevant in the
mechanism of death?
1-c Which contributory causes are relevant together with COVID-19 when it is the main
cause of death and vice-versa?
--if the data sources don't allow distinguishing COVID-19 as a main cause of death or not:
1-d-Please state that this is a limitation of the data sources you have available
2-Could the author please report the proportion of in- and out-of-hospital deaths in the
target population stratified by age, sex and time? Autopsy proportion could also clarify the
reader how certain were the subjects diagnosed...
3-Could you show the population pyramids with one side for males and the other one for
females (not both of them on the same side, as it is currently visualized). This presentation
is more familiar to the reader.

4-As far I read about COVID-19 in national reports from both Italy and Spain, I understand
that comorbidities, particularly if they are multiple are more common among persons who
die with this disease. In addition, few Chinese papers point out that smoking perhaps is
implicated in a bad prognosis. In addition, such comorbidities impact the health system!
4.a-Do you have information regarding the prevalence of current smoking, comorbidities
(COPD, hypertension, asthma, diabetes, CVD, number of comorbidities) in Nembro,
Lombardy or Italy to better understand the findings before and after the COVID-19 attack
this region? For example, I read that in Italy in 2015 took place the European Health
Interview Survey: you can use reports from the survey to discuss how were these
prevalences might perhaps impact comorbidities in advanced age groups, but not in the
younger ones. Or are there any regional studies to compare these risk factors with the
country in order to better understand the results you show?