de Haas and colleagues present a well-written study of nation-wide fetal RHD screening to guide targeted anti-D
prophylaxis, which has been implemented in three European countries so far. Other countries will soon follow, and any
information regarding programme setup and performance is thus very valuable.
The study from de Haas and colleagues is the largest to date in the field and provides a comprehensive description of
clinical, technical, and logistical issues relevant for successful implementation and performance.

The data demonstrate a powerful and reliable test setup and scoring algoritm. The study is very informative and highly
useful for other centers engaged in noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping and cell-free fetal DNA testing.
Overall, the study is highly valuable to the field and should be interesting for the readers of BMJ.
I have only a few minor comments.
1. Table 1. I cannot find ‘a’ in the Table. Maybe it should be inserted after ‘Reference’?
2. Regarding blood sample transport, do your protocol contain a rule for maximum days in transport, where other
centres use, e.g., 48 hours or 5 days?
3. Regarding false-negative samples, in Table 1, case 6 and 7 have very high levels of maternal DNA. Have the
authors considered or investigated the reason for these high levels?
4. The authors explain, in the introduction, how the exon 5 and 7 duplex can distinguish between certain RHD
variants. As this is an essential issue in the field, the authors might consider using their results to exemplify this
application (although some can be deduced from eTable2).
Also, to which extent did the detected variants (by the duplex assay) cause a clinical outcome that was different from
what would have been recommended using an assay that could not distinguish the same variants? For example, did
the authors avoid prophylaxis in cases of maternal exon 7 positive and fetal exon 5 negative (suggestive of a maternal
RHDpsi and fetal RHD negative)? Or in cases of fetal exon 7 positive and exon 5 negative (suggestive of a fetal RHDpsi
variant)?
Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript,
Frederik Banch Clausen, PhD
Senior Research Scientist
Rigshospitalet
Copenhagen University Hospital