There are a number of statistical concerns about this nested case-control study.
Methodology:
1. The data are pooled from 5 electronic databases covering 4 European countries and were
‘harmonised’ to obtain comparable “…variable and outcome definitions…”’. What evidence is there
to show that the resulting information is equivalent? Also, patients from the databases appear to
form quite different cohorts. For example, 16% of cases in the Germany cohort had acute MI as a
comorbidity compared to 1% in the UK cohort and 2% in the Italy cohort.
2. Cases were those hospitalised for HF during follow-up. But what percentage of heart failure
patients are hospitalised? Does this vary between countries?
3. What is the estimated percentage of ‘missed’ NSAID drug exposure (due to ‘over the counter’
prescribing)? Does this vary between countries? If the percentage is large then I am not sure an
‘understatement’ of the actual association between NSAIDs and HF risk can be claimed.
4. “…up to 100 controls…” were selected for each case identified. Why 100? What is the power of
the study, for individual drugs, to detect significant ORs? [Figure 3 shows very wide confidence
intervals for dose-response relationships for specific drugs – based on only 2 countries with this
data- indicating low power]
5. Cohort subjects were classified into current, recent and past NSAID use. The latter acted as the
‘reference group’ and included those whose prescription was more than 183 days before the index
date. Might this not introduce confounding by indication? What were the possible reasons for
stopping?
Analysis:
6. Only covariates available in all databases were used in the statistical analysis. Does this include
all features listed in Table 2? Are there any important covariates which could not be included?
7. The primary statistical analysis related to pooling individual data, whereas the secondary

involved pooling summary database estimates. For the latter, results are presented for the
individual drugs in the Supplementary tables. However, I could find no estimate for current use of
any NSAID using the secondary approach. Was this analysis carried out? It would be useful to
compare this result with the estimated OR of 1.20 obtained from the individual pooled data.
8. The dose-response analysis was restricted to 2 countries only (UK and the Netherlands). Was an
analysis carried out of the overall (ie. non dose-response) data for these two countries to see how
it compared with the 1.20 OR for HF hospitalisation of any NSAID use for all 4 countries?
9. A large number of individual NSAIDs are considered, and hence the problem of multiple testing
and the increased possibility of chance statistically significant findings should be acknowledged.
Presentation:
10. Overall (pooled) estimates should be added to Figures 1 and 2.
