The article represents an important directive - and moves toward translation of policy to
actionable, scalable interventions. The central thesis of the article advances the idea that
more knowledge is necessary on how to scale.
Overall, however, this message must be more forceful, clear and directed for this
manuscript to be actionable and to advance the field.
Suggestions are below.
1. Abstract
*Would start abstract with the sentence: "In this paper, we discuss the urgent need for
more implementation research in the prevention and management of NCDs..."
*Would condense the rest of abstract to two sentences 1) There are policy commitments
to address NCDs at scale, including in the SDGs and in the Best Buys documents 2) There
is a gap on key knowledge to implement interventions at scale to reach the globally
agreed targets.
*Would end with sentence that provides case-studies or examples on this way forward
*The conclusion, by way of contrast, is sharply and potently worded – this type of clear,
direct language should be used to clarify message
2. Introduction
*Box - Definitional Clarity
*Please provide a box defining implementation research for the reader and distinguish
from implementation science, operational research and action science.
Addressing barriers
The authors indicate "There is currently limited evidence for the implementation and
effectiveness of these policies and interventions in all countries, but particularly in low and
lower-middle income countries (LMICs) in which evidence of their implementation is
sparse."
*Would suggest a follow-up paragraph on three reasons on WHY this is the case.
Is it only lack of investment? Is it political will? Is it lack of knowledge of best practices on
scale-up? The reader is left wondering on how exactly will partnership-led implementation
research aid in the effort and how the authors’ approach maps to the core barriers that are
thwarting progress.
*A one line synthesis of WHY - despite support from GACD and other funding bodies - the
authors believe there is insufficient focus on implementation research is also needed
3. Examples
*Kenya/Essential Medicines example
-Helpful.

*Would add a small section on how Kenya can learn from other settings that have
improved procurement over time to strengthen the argument. How has implementation
research from settings like AMPATH in Western Kenya helped – or not helped?
*Would request at least 2 more examples to strengthen argument and logic. The examples
are the key piece to the manuscript – currently this sections needs to be strengthened.
- Consider examples - 1 for bad practice and 1 for good practice to clarify the argument
anchored on interventions provided in the Best Buys
-Given authors background in Europe activities, would also suggest highlighting 1-2
European examples as acceptable
4. Addressing Counter-arguments and Concerns
*A new section with 2-3 reasons on core reasons/arguments against the proposed
approach by authors is needed. What countervailing forces – by governments, by private
sector, by citizens themselves – frustrate progress on this area?
*The authors highlight need for multi-sector partnerships – but what exactly are the
parameters for how this type of research should proceed? E.g. engagement of private
sector healthcare entities on access to treatment? Engagement of food/beverage
companies on salt reduction? What are risks involved in this type of implementation
research? What are key opportunities?
5. Conclusion
Well done and clear! Effective language to make the point compelling and clear.
