
I thank the authors for their detailed responses to the reviewer comments and the changes
they have made including further analysis. This paper reads well and provides a thorough
independent external validation of the three osteoporotic fracture risk models. The authors
have addressed my previous comments satisfactorily and I only have a few further comments
to make:
1) Pg 7: ‘three separate cohorts’ still reads as if they are independent from each other, whereas
my understanding is that some patients could be included in all three datasets (e.g. if they are
aged 60-90). Therefore they are not really separate but rather subsets of the same data that
may overlap due to the age ranges used. Could this be clarified further?
2) I’m glad to see that the authors have now imputed data for variables with missing values
rather than excluding these patients. However, can the authors please provide more
information on the method of imputation. The authors mention that imputation is based on a
linear regression model using age and sex. Does this mean that everyone with the same age
and sex gets the same imputed value for BMI or is there some variability in the values imputed
for patents with the same age and sex?
3) Can the authors also justify the use of single imputation rather than multiple imputation and
why imputation was based on age and sex alone rather than including other variables and the
outcome in the imputation model.
4) Thank you for including calibration plots for the three models in Figure 3. However, a
smoothed line might be better than a straight line here, especially to show the miscalibration in
the oldest age group of 80-89 years where it doesn’t appear to be linear. It is interesting that
Qfracture appears to massively overpredict risk in this 80-89 year age category, yet this is
missed if just looking at calibration within age categories or risk deciles (Table 4a and 4b).
5) Supplement 3: 0.499 and 0.505 relate to the proportion of the 10 year number of events at
5 years rather than the ‘total’ being 0.499 as currently worded.