In making a decision about acceptance, there are two large issues:
- Does this pass the “so what?” test – i.e. if the methods are solid is there enough interest for BMJ
readership about the potential risk-benefit of radiation to justify publication? The medical

community seems to have a bit of a “split personality” approach to this. On the one hand, if we
believe in ALARA (as low as reasonably achievable), then we have to believe that there is some
risk, even from the low radiation resulting from CT exams (at least on a population basis). If this is
the case then there is utility to modeling it. On the other hand, there is legitimate concern that
overblown public perception of risk may lead to avoidance of imaging that has benefit. The Hendee
article does the best job of speaking about this from the perspective of not doing risk estimates
(the pendulum swinging back). What is really interesting about this article is that it provides some
evidence (given that it may be highly speculative) that the risk of not getting screened outweighs
any radiation risk of getting screened. One of the major arguments of Hendee is that population
based risk may be overblown by the media and extrapolated by individual patients. This article
may have the opposite effect – providing clinicians who want to do LDCT lung cancer screening
with a publication that can alleviate fears that people may have about radiation when deciding to
engage in CT lung screening. From this perspective it may actually serve a public health mission to
publish this data assuming the methods are as solid as can be expected. The other side of this,
however, is that if we are willing to publish population based data on radiation risk we should be
willing to accept it in other analyses.
- Are the methods solid. The major issue here is that the authors are presenting this data as
prospective data and emphasizing this methodology in their manuscript. While this data is used,
the real methodology is actually the estimation of risk benefit using BIER VII data and estimates of
LAR from cancer etc. While the methodology should cite the prospective data, it should focus much
more explicitly on the modeling methodology. This requires a major revision. The “intervention” is
not the prospective enrollment, it is the analysis, and the paper should be very explicit about this.
Materials and methods
This should begin with the modeling as a separate distinct section. The “model assumptions from
prospective data” should be its own section.
The detail about scanner protocols can be much abbreviated or even left out and referred to in the
citations.
Overall, the manuscript would benefit form close reading by a native English speaker.
Specific comments:
Page 4
- Line 34-36: Says that the “increased risk of ca related to LD radiation doses [repetitive], and its
magnitude is still controversial”—it’s not just that risk of radiation from LD CT is controversial, the
risk of radiation induced malignancy for all CT <50mSv (which is basically ALL CT – including
standard doses) is still controversial
- Line 49: “95% credibility interval” I think they meant confidence interval
Page 5
- Line 6-9: I take issue with the notion that you can’t estimate what will happen to “real cohorts of
smokers” with models given all the data we have on the history and progression of lung cancer in
smokers combined with screening guidelines
Page 6
- Line 27-57:did they strictly stick to the protocols – if yes, how they evaluated this, if no then
what were the variations in dose?
Page 8
- Results about “average effective dose” need greater clarification. Was this normally distributed?
If so how was this determined? What is standard deviation? Would it be reasonable to also put the
range(s) as well as median and IQRs?
o Same goes for cumulative effective doses (Line 37)
o In eTable 1 and 2 what does +/- standard deviation mean? Is that one standard deviation? 1.96
SD? Is that a 95% CI? Here we are seeing some differences… can they comment on why if it was a
standard protocol the organ doses are so varied?
• Is it b/c of shielding due to different body habitus while using SAME protocol? Is it b/c there was
variation in the protocol? Is it b/c some people only got one scan but others got multiple a year
(this still wouldn't account for the variation in baseline imaging though
Page 9
- Line 14: Table 3—It is difficult to look at/make comparisons, please standardize the denominator
and report per 1,000 persons (or something)
- Line 16: here is something that is a problem and you want to really state clearly—this is a study
that was forward looking and reports number of cancers caught in their screening test, but this
study didn’t have a control arm and there is no direct comparison being made between subjects
scanned over 10 years and people who were not. Rather they are estimating CT induced cancers
from a calculation. Someone reading this quickly could think that they OBSERVED 2.8 additional
cancers based off how this is reported as 2.8/5203.
- Line 30-42: this is a confusing paragraph—how did they calculate this, where is my table? Also
aren’t you just reporting what BEIR VII Table 12D-1 tells you when you draw differences btwn

genders?
o In figure 1 please label it better w/ something to the effect of Lung Cancers estimated to be
attributable to CT radiation per 1000 people screened
Page 10
- Re: BMI/body habitus—please explain why this is relevant and talk about this more in the
methods section
- Line 45: “This highlights how the esteem[?] of organ and effective doses” do you mean
estimate?
- Line 54: What do you mean dose for 6 and 5 groups of patients? Isn’t this something that should
be in methods?
Page 11
- Line 43: If the radiation is trivial given the early cancers we are catching why would we consider
a higher age for women?
Page 12
- Line 10-17: Glosses over the controversy of the LNT model. doesn’t discuss that the BEIR VII
report itself states that w/ doses <100mSv “statistical limitations make it difficult to evaluate
cancer risk” or that in the Health Physics Society statement doses <50mSv are considered to small
to observe health risks