I am a patient reviewer, so I can be completely wrong. It is just what I as a patient read into it.
And, because this is all quite meta, many of the suggested questions by BMJ for patient reviewers
do not apply here. I am currently involved as co-author (‘consumer’) in a Cochrane Systematic
Review (status: submitted for review), hence I accepted to review this article as a patient.
This meta meta analysis gives some insight in how sex-difference are treated in Cochrane
Systematic Reviews (CSR), but in my opinion one of the conclusions stated in the main text, and
not in the abstract, is a bit absolute: “researchers should no longer undertake sex-based subgroup
analyses in general, but [that] sex-based subgroups should be tested only when there is a priori
credible biological rational and some expectation for clinical relevance. This may not be a common
occurrence.” I wonder what this is based on. Because, if only sub-group analyses on sexdifferences should be included when 'a priori there is credible biological rational and some
expectation for clinical relevance’, how can unexpected sex-differences be detected? And, what is
‘some expectation’?
As becomes also clear from the article, is that when data of different RCTs are pooled, some of the
sex-differences may be lost and not be detected. Should not be investigated why this is, instead of
disregarding it altogether? And in CSRs it may be that on a pooled-level there is no significant
effect, while on sub-group (sex) level there is. For patients it is very frustrating that on a group
level there seems to be no effect, while some participants (or in some RCTs in CSRs/MAs) do see a
positive effect (or an adverse event) that is paradoxically filtered out by the methodology that is
designed to do this. Isn’t that where sub-group analyses are intended for?
Furthermore, the title of the article is: “Sex-based subgroup differences in randomized controlled
trials”, while the conclusion in the main text is not so much about that subject, because it is mostly
about interpreting sex-differences in sub-group analyses in CSRs and MAs.
And to conclude my patient review: what is wrong with “Isolated sex-based subgroup analyses are
simply hypothesis-generating.” In my patient opinion there is nothing wrong with generating a new
hypothesis that can be subsequently tested.