This manuscript is a very strong article which investigates the association between
commuting by bicycle and injuries. The disaggregated (individual-level) and prospective
study design is original, unusual (for road injury studies) and pertinent. The statistical
methods are appropriate, and there are clever adjustments and stratification (e.g. commute
distance). Nevertheless, I think there are a few limits, concerning the outcome measures,
the exposure (to road injury) or potential confounding that would need to be discussed by
the authors.
1-Main comments.
Exposure. Commuting distances are taken as a measure of exposure to injuries. Distances
travelled are a proxy of the likelihood of conflicts with motor vehicle, which is strongly
related to traffic volume, vehicle speed, roadway configuration, density of intersections, etc.
For cyclists as for other road users, there are great variation in the risk of injury, according
to the route taken, the roadway context. These environmental factors could not be included,
but this limit should be part of the discussion. Road injury are strongly related to “where”
people bicycle, not only to cycling or to cycling distances.
Potential confounding. There is a great spatial variation in the road injury rate within a
country (e.g. according to land use; e.g. urban vs rural), across cities (e.g. according to VMT
per capita), across neighborhoods, across streets and intersections, etc. This spatial
variation is not unrelated to the amount of cycling in a community. For example, we expect
people living in dense areas to have i) lower overall road traffic death rate and ii) greater
bicycle use. It seems that this potential confounding would lead results toward the null
value, but I would still like to know how it could influence the results. Maybe the adjustment

factors (e.g. Townsend deprivation index) controlled for this, but would it be possible to
reproduce some analyses (e.g. table 4) for a subgroup of participants living in similar areas
(e.g. urban areas, specific city or cities)?
Outcome: The main outcome includes all injuries (or stratified by injury types, Table 3),
involving any mechanism and not only road injuries. I would have like to know which fraction
of all injuries are related to the main question (i.e. cyclist falls and crashes) but secondary
outcomes (cycling-related accidents and road traffic accidents) partly answered this. To me,
the fraction of all road traffic accidents events that were related to cycling (Table 4:
0.069/0.084 for cyclist commuters) is an important result, which reinforce and validate other
results.
Details.
Bicycling vs exposure to road injuries. In the discussion (p.9, line 32; p.10, line 32), the
authors could state that cyclist injury risk – and severe injury risk - is strongly related to
potential conflicts with motor vehicles and to roadway infrastructures, not only to bicycling.
“Perceived” risk. The determinants of “perceived” injury risk are very different (and
sometimes unrelated) to the objective measure of risk. The authors could justify their study
not only on the “perceived risk” of cycling but on the actual increased risk for cyclists (e.g.
per trip or per km travelled) compared to other road users, which has been reported before
(in aggregated, ecological studies). For example, it has been estimated that a modal shift
toward active transportation would increase the health burden of road injuries in London
(Woodcock, Lancet 2009; 374: 1930–430).
(p.10, line4-6). The authors could find other references than number 27, more specific to
injury prevention (e.g. Grundy C, BMJ 2009;339:b4469 doi:10.1136/bmj.b4469), and also
refer to the potential benefits of an overall reduction in car use not only for physical activity
but for road safety.
(p.9, line 59). “(Cite evidence)”.
(p.10 line 52) There is no reference number 29.
