The authors investigate the relationship between patient-reported hip pain using questionnaires and radiographic
hip osteoarthritis (RHOA) in one cohort obtained from the Framingham community based OA study (FOA,
n=1003)and one cohort obtained from the osteoarthritis initiative “longitudinal cohort study of OA” (OAI, n=4366).

Hip pain was defined as present when patients had “hip pain on most days” (FOA) or “most days of a month during
the last year” (OAI). When the region indicated by the participants was the groin or anteriorly on the hip, this was
regarded as the clinical gold standard for presence of symptomatic hip AO. RHOA was considered present when at
least to minor criteria for RHOA were present and was assessed by two examiners. Subsequent diagnostic
performance of RHOA was calculated.
The authors conclude hip pain was not present in many patients with RHOA, and that many patients with hip pain
did not have RHOA.
The study is the largest to date assessing the relation between hip pain and radiographic OA, draws data from large
representative samples nand is well written. However, it provides relatively limited new insights and it is very
difficult - if possible at all to infer its clinical implications.
I have the following major comments:
1. The study conclusion is somewhat incremental since it is already known that hip pain and RHOA frequently do not
occur together. It is the consequence when either one or both are present which is important. However, this
consequence, being additional investigations or conservative or surgical management, is not reported.
The critical step is the consequence of the presence and extent of either one or both of the investigated aspects:
based on these there will be further diagnostic investigations, conservative management or surgical management
(THA). Initially, other aspects are investigated like walking distance, pain at night or by initiating movement, then
physical examination (movement patterns, range of motion, contractures) is performed and occasionally additional
investigations like MRI are ordered. Subsequently, a treatment decision is made.
These aspects are not taken into account in the current study and the consequence of the presence and extent of
hip pain and/or RHOA is not further investigated, which invalidates its clinical applicability and leaves the reader
wondering how to interpret the study findings.
Concurrently the consequence of the presence and extent of hip pain and/or RHOA would also have provided a
reference for interpretation for the reading by means of measure of how pressing the complaints or RHOA were felt
to be by a clinician or surgeon judging by the treatment initiated, which may lend more credibility to the data
instead of only estimating from questionnaires which are known to have their limitations too. Now it appears none
of the participants did receive treatment for hip OA and both hip pain and/or RHOA may be in an earlier or mild
stage, especially since the time from onset (invalidating) symptoms is not reported, and which could explain the
lack of agreement and diagnostic performance of hip pain and RHOA.
An anchor question like: “would you be willing to receive pain medication / physical therapy / invasive treatment /
THA for these symptoms?” would be another option to investigate possible consequences.
2. As acknowledged by the others there is a lack of a true gold standard and this makes interpretation of the study
results difficult. Albeit chosen to optimally suit the available study data (which has large numbers of patients), the
gold standard chosen may be suboptimal.
Ideally, one would have liked assessment of the femur head from autopsy or after THA to confirm true presence of
OA, or MRI investigation or the hip joint. Nevertheless, one would still debate: what is true OA and when is it
relevant?
The diagnosis of OA is only relevant when treatment is necessary due to hip joint pain, and arguably more
specifically when it is felt that therapeutic intra-articular joint injections or THA is required. A corresponding gold
standard could be the subsequent disappearance of symptoms. Physical therapy or NSAIDs may not be specific
enough as treatment for intra-articular problems and are generally used for multiple hip joint problems.
The gold standard as chosen by the authors may not be sufficiently specific to provide a true estimate of the
diagnostic performance of radiographic examination of RHOA. Although limited to the location of the groin or
anterior aspect of the hip, “pain on most days” is still somewhat vague. How invalidating is this pain (VAS score,
continuous, sleep disturbance, walking distance limited etc) and – again – what is the relation to potential
consequences corresponding to this level of hip pain and/or RHOA?
Minor comments:
• An analysis investigating the relationship between the severity of hip pain (or groin pain / anterior hip pain) and
the severity of RHOA may be informative and more clinically applicable; is this possible?
• Duration of hip pain (how many weeks/months/years) could be an important aspect which is currently not
reported but which may influence the relation between hip pain and RHOA. Would a stratified analysis to duration of
hip pain (6 months, 12 months etc) be possible?
• Since both cohorts are longitudinal in nature, it could be very interesting to describe the ‘natural’ course for the
relation between hip pain and RHOA; would these eventually come together (i.e. severe hip pain is most often
accompanied by severe RHOA)?
• There was no lateral radiograph of the hip joint for detection of RHOA and which is performed in routine clinical
practice for this reason
• Why were these two study cohorts chosen, could that be clarified? Especially since in one cohort only log-leg
radiographs were present?
• The OAI cohort is a selected cohort of patients which are at risk for knee OA. These patients may be at higher risk
for hip OA and since PPV and NPV are depend on the prevalence of the condition (hip OA) in the populations these
may be biased and this should be mentioned in the manuscript.
Textual comments:
• Please provide patient numbers in the abstract.
• Figure 1 may be more informative when it is constructed for groin pain / anterior hip pain
