This is an extensive revision, and the authors have clearly responded very well to
the many comments they received. I only have minor points remaining.
1) “All pairwise analyses were conducted using the ‘meta’ package (version
4.9-4) (21) in RStudio 1.0.143” – please be clearer on the actual estimation
method used to fit the random effects model as there are many within the
software package. I think the DL method is used for estimation (as noted in the
text a bit further down in regards to the estimate of tau-squared) but should be
explicit.
Same applies to the use of mvmeta and network modules in Stata to fit the
network models. What was used? REML estimation? That is the default.
2) Did the network analysis account for uncertainty in variance estimates (note:
this is the default in network and mvmeta, unless the nounc option is removed).
Please clarify, as confidence intervals may be too narrow otherwise, as
mentioned in my previous notes in the Editors comments). See
1. Hartung J, Knapp G. A refined method for the meta-analysis of controlled
clinical trials with binary outcome. Stat Med 2001;20(24):3875-89.
2. Jackson D, Riley RD. A refined method for multivariate meta-analysis and
meta-regression. Stat Med 2014;33(33):541-54.
3) “Statistical heterogeneity within each pairwise comparison was estimated
using the I2 statistic” – as mentioned I2 is not a measure of heterogeneity
directly, which you recognise in your response, but it still reads like you are
saying this. Rather say in the text tht it is the proportion of the total variance
that is due to between-study heterogeneity
4) In the results when giving the ORs in brackets from the various
meta-analyses, I suggest saying ‘summary OR = ‘ to emphasise that this is the
summary result. As noted, there is heterogeneity, so just saying OR = … is a bit
misleading. I think the word summary helps to clarify that this is a meta-analysis
result.
5) Results: “No other significant differences between active treatments were
found” – significant in what sense? Statistically or clinically? If the former,
suggest you rather say: There was not statistical enough evidence to suggest any
other difference between active treatments.
6) “The treatment protocols with the highest probabilities of being the most
efficacious in terms of response were Bitemporal ECT (36.9%) and priming TMS
(18.5%), while Low-frequency Left rTMS (30.3%) and continuous TBS (29.6)
were least efficacious”
- recommend here that additionally you also say which ones had the highest
mean rank, and which ones had the highest probability of being ranked last.
Focusing just on the one with the highest probability of being ranked first may be
an incomplete picture. I recognise the full results are in the sup material, but
here it is important to say also in the results.
7) “Fitting the design-by-treatment interaction model provided no evidence for
significant …” – again statistically significant?
8) “However, there was moderate uncertainty in these estimates, and we cannot
exclude the possibility that the actual number of inconsistent loops is higher than

those reported.” – the last bit is too vague. Reported by who? By the authors
above, or something else?
9) “When trials with high overall risk of bias were excluded, …” – did they resolve
any of the inconsistency concerns too?
10) “There was considerable variation in the precision of treatment effect
estimates” – do you mean from the individual studies, or from the
meta-analyses? If the former, why does that matter? If the latter, then explain
more why this is important. I think because it implies some treatments have
more evidence available than others?
11) Figure 3 – tell the reader these are summary meta-analysis results. Are
these from the pairwise MA or the network MA? Same for Fig 5.
12) Table 1: “Effect sizes represent relative odds ratios …” – do the authors just
mean odds ratios? They are not dividing 2 ORs as far as I can tell, so not relative
ORs. Also the outcome should be clearly labelled for the left (pink) and top
(blue), for the reader.
13) Lastly I see that the number needed to treat and number needed to harm
have been added to the results of the paper, at the suggestion of a previous
reviewer. I understand the desire to translate to clinical decision making, but I
worry about these numbers, because they are based on the summary
meta-analysis result. As we know, there is some heterogeneity (in both the
baseline risk and the treatment effect across studies), and therefore the NNT and
NNH are also hugely variable. If the authors want to include this, then they need
to make it clear in the methods section how these are calculated and what
hypothetical population they relate to. The heterogeneity makes the
interpretation of NNT even more problematic than it is even when there is a
single trial, as discussed here:
https://discourse.datamethods.org/t/problems-with-nnt/195
Perhaps, in hindsight, the authors should remove these values or place them in
the supp material.
With best wishes, Prof Richard Riley
