The authors are to be commended for a novel approach and contribution to the ongoing debate regarding surgical resection
versus SABR in early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NCSLC) patients. Their study design, which focused on 1) a more recent
cohort of patients from 2007-2012 2) patients receiving sublobar resection and 3) thoracoscopic/minimally invasive
approaches addresses several of the biases and limitations encountered in previous retrospective analyses on this topic. The
manuscript is well written, and their propensity-matched analyses appear appropriate and sound. I do have a few
questions/points of clarification for the authors:
1) In the methods section (page 8, line 27) the authors state that histology was included as a matching variable. Does this
mean that all SABR patients included in the analysis had a biopsy proven lung cancer? If so, the methods should state that
patients without FNA/biopsy were excluded. If this was the case, I am also curious what percent of SABR patients were
excluded on the basis of biopsy. This presents a small bias as this may represent a group of patients who were too sick or frail
even for bronchoscopy or CT guided needle biopsy. If the SABR patients without histology were included in the analysis (coded
as unknowns) this could influence the overall ‘health’ of the SABR group accordingly also.
2) Why did the authors not include race as a matching variable? This is a patient variable that can certainly influence mortality,
and is typically included in propensity matching models.
3) Did the authors consider a subgroup analysis with SABR versus wedge and SABR versus segmentectomy accordingly? If
done, this would be a meaningful contribution to the debate that segmentectomy is oncologically favorable to SABR, but
wedges may be more or less equivalent. I am curious what happens to matched segments to matched SABR patients, and a
wide enough caliper (0.2) was used that I think this type of analysis would be possible.
4) Page 10, lines 26-30 “no statistical differences noted in gender or income, or distribution of the patients”, as phrased is
vague…I am not sure what “distribution of the patients” is referring to.
5) In the results section, page 11, line 14, the authors state that there was a statistically significant difference in 3-year cancer
specific survival (91.2% vs 87.7%, p=0.061). In the methods section, the authors do not define their cutoff for significance,
but convention would hold that it would be p<0.05. I think the authors should amend this statement (as well as the abstract)
to say it approached, but did not reach significance. This should also be tempered/edited in their discussion (page 13, lines 510).
6) Can the authors please state which variables were entered into the overall Cox proportional hazards model, and also list the
hazard ratios from the matched cohort. CPH modeling in propensity matched groups should only have the group variable in the
model (here, SABR versus surgery), can the authors confirm this, and list the respective hazard ratios for the matched cohort.
7) In the discussion, the authors mention that it is unclear if “such a large-scale trial can be completed”, (page 13, lines 30-32,
page 15, lines 12-16), however, it would be worthwhile to mention the ongoing multicenter Stablemates trial.
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02468024. With an alternative randomization scheme, it represents a new paradigm in
recruitment and enrollment.
8) Please develop the second paragraph on page 13 a little more, because this is an interesting point, that most of the
mortality for these patients is coming from comorbidities, not lung cancer. This is implying and driving home the point that this
is a sicker/high-risk population where a delicate balance between short- and long-term risks must be struck.
9) Page 14, lines 9-12, this sentence is not clear, with typos.
10) An additional limitation: for surgical patients identified in SEER, you do not know what percent of clinical Stage I patients
were upstaged, and therefore not included in your analysis. This is a benefit of surgery: that patients receiving surgery may be
appropriately staged, and you may have stage migration in your surgical arm, but not SABR arm. This could account for some
survival differences also, and should be mentioned.