This systemic review assessed the prognostic utility of long, short and very short term BP variability
(measured through clinic, home and ambulatory monitoring), independent of mean BP, for CVD events
and mortality. The authors concluded that visit-to-visit clinic BP variability was associated with
cardiovascular and mortality outcomes, over and above the effect of mean BP. The observed effect is
similar in size to that for cholesterol. The extent to which systems providing information to clinicians
about BP variability could alter or enhance the management of cardiovascular risk needs further
investigation.

Major points
1. Introduction
Most of this part described the shortcomings and limitations of previous studies, but the authors used
these studies for the meta-analyses. Because all of the studies of BPV have several limitations, it would
be better to describe pathophysiological considerations rather than just describing the shortcomings.
2. P9
When the BP measurement is performed based on the guidelines, clinicians may have used the
appropriate cuff size. The interarm difference is not large as to be clinically significant, and is needless to
describe. Seasonal variation could be a problem in a very long term study, but if the information is really
necessary, the temperature, atmospheric pressure, and noise of the room, sleep time and the time of
smoking etc. could have larger impact on BPV.
3. P13
The content of the sentence from lines 267 to 269 is not true.
4. The results of the visit-to-visit clinic BP variability is almost as same as those in previous metaanalyses, few novel things were added.
5. The results of BPV by home BP and ABPM are underpowered as shown in Figures e13-e31. These
figures consists of 1 to 3 studies, and these may not be enough numbers to analyze as meta-analyses.
6. P12, line 261
What do the authors mean “very short term variability”? Very short term variability usually means beatto-beat BPV, but this paper did not analyze it.
Minor points
1. P7, Line 134: Please insert a table showing all the result of the Chi-squared test and the I-squared
statistic, to overview the heterogeneity of the study.
2. Authors should describe if they checked not only articles in English but also other languages, at least
those abstracts.
3. Please describe what authors did to eliminate publication bias. For example, please show the funnel
plot of the study selection.
