Reviewers Comments for Manuscript ID BMJ.2015.025275
Saturated and trans-unsaturated fatty acids intake and risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease, and
type 2 diabetes a systematic review and meta-analyses
This aim of this paper was to systematically review the literature and quantify the association (through metaanalyses) between SFA and TFA and the following clinical end-points: all-cause mortality CHD, CHD mortality IHD
and Type 2 Diabetes in prospective observational cohort studies.
From the literature search the authors included 33 papers in this review. They demonstrated a significant
association only with total trans-fatty acids and all-cause mortality and total CHD, and industrially produced TFA
and CHD mortality and CHD. More specifically SFA were not associated with any of the other clinical end-points.
Importance of the subject
This paper provides valuable information towards the development of the evidence base for clinical dietary
guidelines for these lifestyle diseases and for the development of policies towards the removal of industrial trans
fatty acids from the food supply. This review was of prospective (& retrospective) observational studies, which
does not indicate causality.
In my opinion this manuscript will be of great interest to the general readership as well as the general public. For
this reason I feel it is important that the authors make it quite clear that this paper does not provide causal
evidence that saturated fats do not increase the risk of development of these diseases and that this needs to be
interpreted and weighed up against other reviews that have examined this relationship in RCT’s. To facilitate this
I would recommend that the title is edited to included observational studies in it (please see note in General
Comments).
Originality
There have been previous systematic reviews and meta-analysis, or parts thereof, on this important and highly
debated and controversial topic (Mozaffarian 2010, Siri-Tarino 2010, Mente 2009), which have been referred to
and cited in this review. The authors stated why this review is needed in the last paragraph of the introduction. I
feel it is important that this is explicitly stated; i.e. that SFA and/or the TFA were not considered for all clinical
outcomes in previous MA and the incorporation of more recent observational studies that have been published.
I note that for the authors of this paper, it represents on-going work in this area, in which they have an extensive
publication history.
Overview
General Comments
In my mind there is some confusion as I read this paper, over whether this MA examined prospective or
retrospective studies; the Abstract states prospective studies, however in the Methods there is mention of
retrospective studies. In the results no retrospective data is presented, yet I see all the forest plots of the
retrospective studies in the supplementary files (eFigure 43- 47). The authors need to specify what they are
presenting and be consistent throughout the paper. If the retrospective data is analysed and not presented or
discussed - it needs to be stated why, even if the reason is that it has been excluded is due to the quality of the
evidence attained from the data. Perhaps, as a way around this, the retrospective studies could be presented as
summary data in a table or a summary forest plot.
A discussion of possible biases that may contribute to the high level of heterogeneity from the included
observational studies would be of benefit. One of the possible, and highly plausible, biases could be the different
dietary assessment methodologies used in these included studies (for example 24 hr recall vs FFQ). This is
indicated in the summary table, but a discussion is needed.
The authors have adhered to the PRISMA Guidelines for the Abstract, and followed MOOSE Guidelines and
presented in Appendix A.
Title
1. Please include observational studies (and dependent on what decision is made about prospective and
retrospective studies, this could also be included) in the title.
Abstract
2. No associations are given for TFA and Type 2 diabetes or ischemic stroke – please state why.
3. List retrospective studies in the abstract see Note 7 below.
Introduction
4. In the 2nd paragraph line 35, can you provide what % reduction in sat fat intake led to this drop in CVD risk?
5. The research questions and methodology to be used is well defined in the last paragraph of the introduction.
Methods
6. Search terminologies used and search engines are appropriate. Also reviewed Cochrane Central Registry of
Controlled trials, but not others such as clinicaltrials.gov registry or through the ones provided by WHO
International Clinical Trials Registry Platform.
7. Up to this point I am under the assumption that this review examined prospective cohort studies (as indicated
in the Abstract (under design), however in the Methods (under study selection) you mention retrospective (pg 6,
line 19) and provide details about the retrospective. Please list retrospective in the abstract.
8. Where any age restrictions placed on the observational studies that were selected for this review?
9. What screening was done of the dietary assessment techniques used in these observational studies that were
included? Was the dietary assessment technique included as an inclusion or exclusion factor for the MA?
10. The data synthesis appears robust and complete, however it may be best to have this reviewed by a

statistician with expertise in MA.
Results
11. For the Literature Flow section, a breakdown of which countries these observational studies came from would
be useful, particularly as there are differences in the allowed level of industrial trans fats in certain foods in some
countries. I note that there is discussion of this on pg 17, line 27 and as such it may be useful to have the
breakdown earlier in results.
12. I note that there is no presentation of data from retrospective studies
13. On page 9, line 48, it is not immediately clear to me that you are referring to the meta-analysis for your
paper, could the wording be changed to make this more explicit to the reader.
Discussion
14. Study aims are addressed.
15. In the section on Replacement effects (pg 15), the authors comment about the common sources of CHO in
typically studied populations. Is there any evidence of the type of CHO consumed in the studies that were
included in this review paper?
16. On pg 15, line 50 and continuing in the paragraph – are the authors able to make comment on the types of
polyunsaturated fat (n-3 or n-6) that replaced the saturated?
17. On pg 16, line 6 - What do the authors mean by high quality carbohydrate – this may need more definition.
18. In SFA and Health outcomes, pg 16 line 48 – are the authors able to provide any reasoning or discussion as
to why SFA may lead to increased risk of CVD and mortality in people with diabetes?
19. On pg 17, line 49 could you please specify the duration of follow up for the Womens health initiative study.
20. On pg 18 line 24, the following wording does not seem correct and needs to be reviewed, “Studies in the USA
and China the first two published cohort studies to report that…”
21. On pg 22 line 11 under “Strengths”, the authors state that “This study has several strengths. First, this is the
first evidence synthesis of observational studies…” this is not a strength of the publication, it is just an actuality.
22. On pg 23 line 4, specify what sort of polyunsaturated fat (n3 vs n-6) and if it is not known or described, this
needs to be specified and/or discussed. This needs to be done throughout the manuscript.
23. A discussion of possible biases from the observational studies that have been included in this MA, including
dietary assessment in the different studies and also retrospective vs prospective, is warranted.
Figures
Figure 1. Needs to state Saturated fat in the Figure caption
Supplementary Files - All relevant documents have been included in the supplementary files
Final Comments
This is a well written paper which is highly topical and relevant and adds to the evidence base for (re)developing
the evidence base for the dietary prescription for people who have CHD and diabetes and for the primary
prevention of these lifestyle diseases which are highly prevalent. Following revision of this manuscript, this paper
would be acceptable for publication.
