This very important paper describes the relationships between baseline BP and the subsequent risk of a range of
important CV outcomes in people with diabetes. It is particularly important as this population has been the subject of
substantial debate, with many people suggesting that BP lowering to below current targets may be harmful. These
comments have been based on observational studies, including those from the registry used for this paper, which are
prone to confounding and are therefore of uncertain reliability.
The present analysis included a very large number of participants, allowing the authors to exclude those with previous
CV disease, who are much more common at lower BP levels and are thel ikely source of residual confounding. When this
was done, the relationship between BP and outcomes became linear for the vast majority of outcomes assessed,
providing strong evidence in support of the likelihood of previous J-curve relationships being due to residual
confounding, and the concept that BP levels below 120 are likely to be beneficial.
There were only 2 outcomes for which a linear relationship was not clearly observed after excluding these individuals
(heart failure and total mortality) but even these relationships were substantially attenuated after excluding existing CV
disease, suggesting further unmeasured confounding is contributing. Furthermore, the apparently higher rates of death
in the lowest BP group were due to factors that it is difficult to relate to BP lowering, and this population had the lowest
doses of BP drugs.
Taken together, these results strongly support BP lowering below current targets in diabetes, and are consistent with the
existing but underpowered randomised trials
I think the description of previous studies in the discussion section could be shortened and the results summarised more
succinctly.
I also think it would be of interest to examine the relationship between BP levels and renal events if this is available.
Finally, studies showing an increased CV risk at lower BP levels have been published and promoted widely given their
controversial nature. THis higher quality and therefore more important study deserves the same airtime