This paper makes a reasoned case for a consideration of the barriers and opportunities
for realising the goal of integrating mental health in universal health coverage, one of
aspirations of the Sustainable Development Goals. The authors briefly reviewed the
reasons for the failure to achieve the goals of integration of mental health into primary
care as envisioned in the Alma-Ata declaration. Alluding to burgeoning evidence on how
to tackle this failure, the authors identify full integration of mental health care into
physical health care as a central plank and suggest that what they describe as a 5C
approach could be particularly relevant to achieving universal health coverage.
There are two contentious propositions that require some further thinking through and
consideration for a revision of the paper. First, the notion that treatment decision for
mental health conditions should be "according to the severity of the symptoms
(assessed not diagnostically but through criteria such as the number, duration and
impact of these symptoms)" seems to ignore the fact that, indeed, current diagnostic
categories are typically based on number, duration and impact of symptoms. It is
doubtful that the authors would be canvassing for clinicians to do away with these
categories and make their own judgement on those criteria of number, duration and
impact of symptoms. In reality, practicing clinicians commonly make their treatment
decisions based on diagnosis AND impact on the patients they are assessing for
treatment. The reality of the dimensional nature of mental health conditions does not
obviate the need for diagnosis. Rather, it suggests that relevant dimensions such as
those of symptom severity and impact assessment be considered along with diagnosis
in order to provide person-centred intervention. Second, the authors suggest that a
central plank for responding to the need to integrate mental health care into general
health care is the deployment of non-specialist counsellors. While this may have been
shown to work in specific research projects, especially randomised controlled trials, the
reality is that not only is the case difficult to make for governments, especially those in
low resourced settings, to engage a new cadre of staff solely to address mental health
issues, this approach itself is unlikely to fit in well into the clamour for integration. As
the authors have correctly highlighted, mental and physical conditions frequently
co-occur and so would require that, in the first tier of the health system, the primary
clinician seeing a patient with both conditions can at the least identify the presence of
the two conditions. For example, most persons with depression, the mental health
condition responsible for the largest global disability burden, will only be recognised to
have the condition by the clinician attending to any co-morbid physical condition or
presentation that the patients may have. If the depression is not recognised, the
patient cannot be referred to see a counsellor even when there is one. A major reason
why integration has not succeeded especially in regard to the treatment of common

mental conditions is that of the problem of recognition of the disorders by frontline
providers. This, more so than inability to provide effective treatment by trained
providers makes effective coverage difficult to achieve. The authors have not offered
any suggestions on how to address this bottleneck as a way of giving effect to the need
to integrate mental health in UHC.
Lastly, for efficient integration of mental health in UHC, authors should probably
acknowledge that we need more evidence about the natural history of many of the
more common mental health conditions. The epidemiological findings that as many as
90% of those with these conditions in the community in some countries do not receive
treatment is not entirely relevant to the integration of mental health into UHC. Not
everyone of those 90% will need specific treatment and certainly not all will want
treatment. Our knowledge of what determines natural resolution of some of these
problems is inadequate and without it there is always a risk of medicalising transient
human miseries.
