Reviewer: Dan Crouse.
This article reports on a large, international time-series analysis of associations between
short-term exposures to ozone (O3) and risk of mortality. The authors present RRs and
excess mortality overall, and for each of the 20 countries included in the study.
The study design is very sophisticated, the authors consider several sensitivity analyses,
and the results are generally presented in an effective way, but I found some of the text
sloppy and/or difficult to follow. Additionally, I have some reservations regarding the
interpretation of some of the findings. I provide some specific comments below:
Page 6, Lines 21-23: This sentence needs to be tightened up for clarity: “included fewer
cities/countries within limited geographical regions” – fewer than what? and “limited
geographical regions” isn’t clear, either. I believe the authors are trying to state that
previous studies considered only a few cities/countries and/or had limited geographic
scope, or were limited to selected geographic locations… Also “applied various analytical
approaches and modelling choices” could be written as “heterogenous study designs” …
Page 6, Line 29: “specific groups of individuals” could be “subgroups of the population”
Page 6, Line 35: Something seems to be missing in this sentence (as written, it is not clear
what the comparison group is): “The comparison between health impacts above the
current AQSs can provide valuable insights into the potential public health benefits
achieved by strengthening current clean air policies”. Do the authors mean “Identification
of the health impacts above the current AQSs…” or did they mean “The comparison of
health impacts between the various AQSs…”?
Page 6, Lines 38-40: I don’t follow the logic: “… a widespread evaluation across several
countries, which would help identifying more affected areas with a greater need for
intervention, is still lacking.” What is lacking – reliable estimates of short-term
concentrations of O3 in different countries, or a clear understanding of how populations in
different countries respond to exposures to O3?
Page 6, Line 43: associated WITH short-term exposure…

Page 7, Line 53: I really like this multi-level approach.
Page 8, Line 12: how were city-specific daily number of deaths related to ozone identified?
Page 8, Line 33: Could the authors differentiate between AIC and quasi-AIC? (also this is
referred to as qAIC at one point and as q-AIC at another).
Page 9, Line 11 and onwards. I realize that this is a large study sample, and the effect
size is very small, but I don’t believe I’ve ever seen RRs presented with four decimals
places elsewhere (e.g., the main finding of an overall relative risk of 1.0016 (95% CI:
1.0010-1.0023)). I appreciate that this is statistically significant, but really, this is a very
negligible association. If these RRs were reported at only three decimal places, the
“heterogeneity” between countries would not be evident, and I would argue, not really
worth reporting on. For example, do we really believe that the RR of 1.0023
(1.0013-1.0033) reported for Canada is in any meaningful or practical way “larger” that
reported for the US (i.e., 1.0016 (1.009 − 1.0023))?
Page 9, Lines 25-42: This study would be strengthened greatly if excess mortality burdens
could be quantified and contextualized. The excess mortality fractions provide us with
some information, but without an idea of how many people actually live in these countries
and above the thresholds in each country it is difficult to appreciate how large or small
these effects actually are. Specifically, how many deaths would be attributable to O3 in
some of those high ranges of exposure in each country? That question may be beyond this
study, but in Table 2, for example, it would be helpful to see additional columns next to
each cut point with a list of estimated deaths. (e.g., in Canada, 0.07% of deaths were
attributable to ozone above 160 μg/m3, which translates into ??? deaths…).
I really appreciate that the authors produced and presented the information in both Table 2
and eTable2 (Figure 3) (the latter is especially cool and novel).
Page 10, Line 12: related to my earlier comment, I don’t agree with the statement: “we
were able to obtain consistent evidence of an association between short-term exposure to
ozone and total mortality.” In addition to the small effect sizes, about half of the RRs
presented in Figure 2 are not statistically significant.
Page 10, Line 24: please spell out acronyms at their first use.
Page 10, Line 38: similar comment to above: “Our results revealed important differences in
the ozone-mortality association across countries”. I don’t agree that the scale of effect
differences between countries could be described as “important”.
