Comments to authors:
The Whitehall II Study is a well-established cohort study. In this analysis, the authors
investigated the association between the life simple 7 ideal cardiovascular health (CVH)
score at the age of ∼50 years and subsequent risk of incident dementia. Based on
comprehensive analyses, it was concluded that ideal cardiovascular health in midlife is
associated with a lower risk of dementia later in life. The paper is well written and we enjoy
reading it. The following minor comments and suggestions may help the authors to further
improve the paper.

1. The authors properly used the multi-state model to assess the potential role of
cardiovascular disease in the association between ideal CVH score and risk of dementia.
The authors may comment on why CVD was not associated with dementia in the Transition
C, given that CVD has been associated with an increased risk of dementia.
2. Study population: Although the Whitehall II cohort is well known, the authors may state
that the study cohort was recruited from the British Civil Service and men accounted for
two-thirds of the total sample, which differed from community-based cohorts of the
general population. This has implications for generalization of the research findings. In
addition, 1016 people had missing data on CVH metrics and relevant covariates (Figure 1).
Do these persons differ from those in the analytical sample in terms of demographic
features and incidence of dementia?
3. Diagnosis of dementia: Incident cases of dementia were identified using the electronic
medical records. Although a previous study (reference no. 15) showed reasonable
sensitivity (78%) and specificity (92%) of dementia diagnosis in the health record data,
the golden standard used in that study was based on clinical record data, and the
sensitivity was varied over time. The authors may comment on how this will affect the
main results.
4. In the analysis of the MRI subsample, ideal CVH score was not associated with white
matter hyperintensities. The authors may briefly comment on it.
Comments to editor:
Rui Wang, PhD, Postdoc, contributes to the comments.