The analysis article is a pleasant reading of a topic that is gaining traction in academia,
and in public policy: migrants' right to healthcare. I think the authors do a good job to
make a crucial point: migrants have, and should be recognized, the right to healthcare
services, and that this presents (many) more benefits than it does costs. My
recommendation is to publish the article, with a few small modifications, based on several
comments below:
1. I miss two things in this article, which I think are important.
a. After stating the scale of migration and the importance of their right to health, in a very
general way, you move to several examples of South-North migration. It would be good,
given almost half of all international migration is South-South, to give more centrality to
this
b. A discussion of what happens when universal health protection schemes do not exist in
the country of destination, or that of origin? This would be a discussion necessary

especially for South-South migration scenarios. What happens to a migrant from Honduras
going to Nicaragua. I don't think it changes the normative argument that they have a right
to health, but it does change completely the practical implications of recognition of that
right. Indeed, in several parts of the text, I get the feeling that a short discussion on the
relative strength of health systems is in place. How can we overcome the challenge of
including migrants in national health systems, in countries where those health systems
cover less than 20% of the national population?
2. In several parts of the text, examples from countries are given to underscore
arguments. Given these are "anecdotal" or somewhat random examples, anyway, would it
not be nice to use examples from the South? Costa Rica (migrants contribute almost 12%
to national economy, according to a OECD study). Or examples of exclusion, such as
Argentina recently?! This is to show that the issue of incorporation into welfare protection
schemes is much broader than "only" in the North. I recognize and applaud the Thailand
example, but it would be nice, in the vignette-type examples, to include some form the
South. I'd be happy to help.
3.
In the explanation of Thailand's program for migrants, it is not clear to me if, before 2014,
"illegal" migrants could participate? It seems so, but it is not made explicit!
4.
The example of Spain is forwarded as a positive case, in which migrants are granted
universal healthcare right. However, the Spain case could be read differently, as a
negative case. So far, there has only been a pledge to renew this right, if I am not
mistaken. It remains to be seen whether this 2012 restriction will be rolled back.
5.
On page 6, the authors write: "In summary, many migrants, especially those that are
undocumented, lack entitlement to health care but, even when they have a legal right,
there may be many barriers to them realising it."
This is exactly why there should be more research on ACTUAL access to health services,
and not only (or predominantly) on formal entitlements. On the latter, to the contrary
what authors argue in the next section, there is actually quite some research, which
informs policy. On the former (actual access), way less.
6.
The authors say that there is "scant research". I think they should recognize there is a
growing body of research, both on migration and social policy (in North and South), and
an incipient literature on transnational social protection. To say that research is scant is
doing justice to the growing number of people working on this currently!