This study took advantage of the multiple body-shape data before mid-life obtained retrospectively in
conjunction with a BMI transformed body-shape data to investigate the association between body-shape
trajectories and mortality risk. A model-based modeling approach was used to identify 5 distinct
trajectories of body shape, i.e., lean-stable, lean-moderate increase, lean-marked increase, mediumstable/increase, and heavy-stable/increase. Authors found that the lean-stable had the lowest mortality
risk and the consistently heavy body-shape was associated with the highest mortality risk. In addition, this
phenomenon was more apparent in non-smokers than in smokers and for CVD than for other diseases.
Significant trajectory-smoking interactions were clearly demonstrated.
Major comments
This study has made use of a very unique set of body shape data collected retrospectively for several time
points before mid-life, which allowed for generating body-shape trajectories and studying how these
different trajectories were associated with mortality. Personally, I feel that this type of study is what is
needed to challenge the so called U-shape relation for BMI-mortality which relies on BMI data on one time
point.
Specifically,
1. Title: The paper is about the trajectory of body shape “before mid-life” not “across the lifespan”. Some
modification should be made for the title and across the text.
2. Abstract and Discussion: This paper should stress not only the increased mortality risk of heavy body
shape, but also the lowest risk of the lean stable in the conclusion statement to refute the previous
viewpoint on increased risk at low BMI.
3. Please make clear how the BMI data at age 50 is converted to body shape information in the method
section. Although authors pointed out the more details about the conversion are provided in Supplementary
Table 1, it is not clear by reading the Supplementary Table 1. Where is the data coming from in
Supplementary Table 1? Would you please provide the reference?
4. Line 31: Reference 24 was submitted in 2015. Please provide the journal information was provided.
5. Line 33 to line 42: It is not clear how authors calculated the mean BMI at different ages in each
trajectory group in Table 1, since body shape information was recalled, and BMI was not measured for
earlier life time points.
6. Line 43-48: It is stated that “those in the lean-stable group were more physically active, tended to use
multivitamin, and consumed a healthier diet than those in the other groups.” Statistical testing should be
carried out.
