
The authors have conducted an individual participant data meta-analysis, comprising
15 cohorts from Europe and the US. Whilst this is an impressive amount of work, I
felt there are a number of details that have been omitted by the authors, that need
clarification and explanation.
How were these cohorts were identified and gathered (obtaining data for an IPD
meta-analysis Is notoriously difficult) – are other cohorts available?
Were these cohorts identified by a search? What eligibility criteria were used to
include the cohorts?
Can the authors describe how these data sets were requested, obtained, managed?,
some details on data checking.
It would be helpful if the authors consulted the PRISMA-IPD reporting guideline
(JAMA 2015; 313: 1657-1665) to ensure all relevant bits of information have been
reported.
Missing data were both omitted (if they had missing exposure or outcome data) and
included for other variables using the missing indicator approach – why use this
flawed approach (large literature discouraging this type of analysis – Groenwold et al
CMAJ 2012; 184: 1265-1269)? I also couldn’t see (unless I missed it) what was
missing and how much was missing. Can the authors clarify? Also why not consider
multiple imputation.
It would be useful to have some more basic information in this table on the cohorts,
dates, country etc. This information is in the supplementary material, but you have
to work to digest it and having it in an easily accessible format would help.
Table 1: presumably the +/indicates standard deviations, should avoid +/.
Reviewers have pointed out the incorrect HRs in the Abstract, and on page 16 of the
Text.
The models were adjusted for a number of covariates – were these all recorded in all
cohorts and all on the same scale? I’d be surprised, if they were there covariates
that were recorded as continuous for some cohorts whilst categorical for others? This
is often the case? If so, how was this handled in the analyses? Some information on
harmonization of covariates.
Also were all covariates available in all cohorts? (or was this part of the inclusion
criteria?) – if not how was this handled? Systematically missing covariates is a
problem with IPD MA – though methods to impute these type of covaraites have
recently been published (Resche-Rignon et al 2013; Stat Med; 32: 4890-4905).
It’s also usually recommended to conduct a risk of bias assessment – I could see no
evidence of this.
An assessment of the impact of moderator variables was carried – but why was this
done by categorising age and bmi, why not retain on the continuous scale.
