Haavardsholm et al present the results of a very important investigator initiated study in rheumatoid
arthritis patients. Employing a tight control treatment strategy with predetermined therapeutic steps,
they assessed the value of targeting clinical plus sonographic remission (defined as no power Doppler
signal) in comparison to just clinical remission (defined as DAS<1-6 and no swollen joint). The authors
should be commended for embarking upon such a well designed and timely study.
The primary endpoint was a combination of the following outcomes: DAS<1.6 and no swollen joint (both
for at least the last 8 months of the 2nd year of the study) and no radiographic progression by the van
der Heijde Sharp score. The study revealed no significant difference between the groups for the primary
and across most secondary endpoints with only a subtle, marginal advantage of the sonographic
remission group regarding radiographic progression. The secondary endpoints included the acute phase
response, SDAI remission, EULAR good response, physical function and quality of life.
The strength of the study is in the stringency of the target, namely absence of power Doppler signals in
all assessed joints as well as absence of any clinically swollen joint for the sonographic group and
absence of any clinically swollen joint for the clinical group. From this perspective, one may conclude that
this trial provides the ultimate information that targeting sonographic remission is not worth the effort
required nor the additional therapies needed.
Some additional information would be desirable.
Introduction.
1. The authors state that subclinical joint inflammation is present in a majority of patients in clinical
remission (2nd paragraph). This statement is based on a selective interpretation of the literature, since

several studies revealed that only few patients had subclinical sonographic inflammation when stringent
remission criteria were applied (e.g. Sakellariou et al, ARD 2013) and that subclinical inflammation was
not associated with radiographic progression (e.g. Gartner et al, ARD 2015). Indeed, the authors
themselves prove these latter and invalidate the former studies, since in their clinical remission group
more than 60% of the patients had no power Doppler signal in any joint. Thus, the reference to the
literature should be addressed more comprehensively and also the results related to the various studies
mentioned.
2. It may be worthwhile mentioning that sonography is also used for diagnostic reasons, not only for
management. This point is also important for the discussion, since the results presented discourage the
use of ultrasound for the management of arthritis, but not for diagnostic purposes, such as to evaluate
tenosynovitis or joint effusion.
Methods
1. Why was the personnel performing the clinical assessments including joint counts unblinded? This
could have biased the results in favor of the sonographic group. While this apparently did not matter,
since there was no overall difference between the groups, it is still a limitation, which may have to be
mentioned in the Discussion.
2. Data in supplements are often not easily accessible, especially in the long term. It would be good to
see the treatment escalations and their timepoints in a Table, if approved by the Editor.
3. The definition of no radiographic progression is stated as <0.5. With the score used and 2 readers,
<0.5 actually means <0. Or is it <0.5?
4. Why did the authors chose a 20% difference between groups for the primary endpoint to determine
the sample size? Was this number a pure assumption or was it based on some published data? At the
end of the study, the difference was only 3.3%, suggesting that even a much larger study would not
have revealed a significance between the groups. However, this could be emphasized more strongly in
the Discussion, since the study may otherwise be criticized for being underpowered.
Results
1. The readers may not be familiar with the 44 joint count nor with the Ritchie index or the DAS.
Therefore, the authors should add a 28 joint count for swollen and tender joints and a DAS28 to Table 1.
2. Table 1 should show ranges and upper limits of normal (e.g. CRP, ESR, ultrasound score)
3. On p. 11, the CDAI is mentioned – presumably a typographical error?
4. It would be good to see the CRP values and ACR-EULAR Boolean remission rates in Table 2. It would
also be helpful to see the mean DAS and SDAI values at 12 and 24 months in Table 2.
5. It may be worthwhile to show mean radiographic scores over time, since radiographs were obtained at
several timepoints.
Discussion
1. In line with the comment provided in the very first point and the authors’ note in the discussion that
there was growing evidence on the importance of subclinical inflammation, the contradictory views
expressed in the literature should not be concealed.
2. The authors mention the subtle difference in radiographic outcomes between the groups. This
difference amounts to only 0.45 points on the van der Heijde-Sharp score scale of over 400 points after 2
years of treatment. Is this clinically meaningful? How does this relate to functional impairment? How
many years would it take to see this difference manifested in terms of clinical or functional
consequences, quality of life or ability to work? Moreover, the difference in radiographic score relates
exclusively to the erosion score, while there was no difference between the groups regarding joint space
narrowing. All these aspects may deserve being discussed.
3. Another important piece of information is contained in the manuscript and could be briefly mentioned
in the discussion. In this study, patients were started on MTX plus prednisone and after 2 years more
than 70% of those in the conventional and more than 50% of those in the ultrasound group were still on
MTX monotherapy and presumably in remission according to the respective definition (otherwise they
would have escalated therapy). Moreover, despite a treatment strategy targeted at remission, only 17%
of the patients in the conventional group required a biologic agent. These data reveal the power of both a
treatment approach targeting remission and a start with MTX plus prednisone.