Zena Jones
Patient Lay Reviewer
I have included the questions that are asked of us and answered below each question.
Are the questions the paper addresses relevant and important to patients and/or carers?
Yes I believe that all patients carers and the public will want to know that there are clear guidelines for
staff especially in such uncertain times.
Are there topics or issues that are missing, or need to be highlighted more?
I think the use of AGREE tool was identified at the end as possibly inappropriate to utilise I think this
could be highlighted at the summary which is clearly what people read first. The paper mentions Korea but doesn't indicate North or South - a minor point but I believe it to be an important one. I think the
fact that there are 3 that the authors thought of good quality which were; BTS; GTEI; ERS guidelines
and those I think could be highlighted more.

• Is the treatment or intervention suggested or guidance given something which patients/carers can
readily take up? or does it present challenges?
I think this is a useful tool that some patients/carers may want to see further developed and built upon
so that in the event of them being hospitalised they could discuss options with practitioners but it is
about them having access to the end product i.e. gold standard clinical guidelines- Presumably the team
will be sharing this globally with teams at WHO and relevant Ministries of Health regardless of whether
this is published or not. I appreciate this is not the usual way of sharing but we live in unusual times and
it beholds everyone to set aside usual protocols/ etiquette and inform teams what is found rather than
waiting for publication so that someone may/may not read this.

• Are the outcomes described/measured in the study important to patients/carers? Are there others that
should have been considered?
All clinical guidelines are important to patient outcomes and having clear guidelines written is vital to
optimise best practice. However I appreciate that this is such a fluid situation and requires flexibility in
writing and adjusting these guidelines as further data is analysed.
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper and make it more
useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients/ carers?
I would like to see the use of GRADE in the summary as previously discussed. Aksi maybe breakdown
and a recommendation of what should be included in clinical guidelines, as an outline, especially as you
give clear examples of what you consider as best practice.
• Do you think the level of patient/carer involvement in the study could have been improved? If there
was none do you have ideas on how they might have done so?
I see no evidence of PPI which is disappointing. (Apologies if I have missed a portion of this but I cannot
find any evidence)I know some people find it difficult to involve patients (it really is very easy if you
have the inclination) in their research and reviews however you have access to patients via social media
just a bit of thought in how to involve people will not hinder you or slow you down. You could have had a
co-author as a patient.I find it somewhat ironic that you make a point of saying that some of the
guidelines didn't have stakeholder involvement and yet I see no evidence of it here which is such a
shame and no obvious reason to ignore involvement.
