Originality
The main originality of this study is its high statistical power. The results are also original in that they
contradict those of most studies that have been performed on the subject.
Importance of this work to general readers
Due to the origin of the cohort and the exclusion of the most severely diseased patients, the study
population is representative of a current GP population. It is noteworthy that only a few major

arrhythmias occurred during the study, which is representative of the daily practice situation. The
antibiotic submitted to analysis are very commonly used in general practice and the question of the
eventual cardiac toxicity of these drugs is relevant for a GP.
Scientific reliability
The research question has been clearly defined, and pertains to a possible increased risk of major
arrhythmias in fluoroquinolone users compared with Penicillin V users. It has been answered
satisfactorily. In fact, a pharmaco-epidemiological study is the only type of study that can be used to
answer the research question. No individual randomised trial or even no meta-analysis of randomised
trials can have enough power to answer the research question.
Overall study design
The study design, a large cohort, is adequate to answer this type of question. At first sight, such a rare
event as a major arrhythmia in general practice patients would better be assessed in a case-control
study. However, if enough patients can be studied, a cohort design is preferable because it is less open
to bias.
Participants
The patients who have been included have been described adequately, although some specific risk
factors (for example QT interval) for severe arrhythmias are not available. This is a consequence of the
use of a database that has not been designed for the study. Another drawback of the use of such
databases is that the current health state of participants cannot be known for those who have not had a
prescription in the preceding years. Thus, the authors had to exclude individuals with no other
prescriptions for any medication in two years preceding the index date. Such an exclusion ignores a
category of patients that may be important to consider, those who have the smallest Baseline risk of
events. The study cohort can nevertheless be considered as well protected against selection bias.
Methods
The methods are described adequately. The origin of the cohort is clearly defined, and the methods used
to protect the study against confounding are described with sufficient detail, as are the exclusions of
categories of patients that may be not representative of the population to which the results are supposed
to be relevant. The methods section therefore complies with the international recommendations
regarding pharmaco-epidemiological study reporting.
However, the methods section does not address the ethical problem that may result from the use of the
personal identification numbers. Are the data anonymous? Why is the study status regarding submission
to an IRB different in Dennmark and Sweden? These points should be addressed before publication.
Results
The propensity score matching resulted in a severe loss of treatment courses, which makes the study
population less representative of the target population.The incidence of major arrhythmias was small in
the matched population. The incidence in the population excluded by the propensity score matching
should be provided and discussed reative to selection bias.
The main result is a non-significant difference of risk of major arrhythmia in users of fluoroquinolones
compared with penicillin V. Although large, the study was not powerful enough to allow differentiating
between different fluoroquinolones and, as underlined by the authors, its conclusions apply mainly, if not
only, to ciprofloxacin.
The authors should explain how they calculated the risk difference. In fact, at first sight, observed rates
of major arrhythmias in the current use period being 3.4 and 4.0 / 1000 person years in the
fluoroquinolone and penicillin V groups respectively, a mean rate difference of 6 / 10 000 is expected.
The main results allow ruling out an increase in risk greater than 18%, a small increase that could not be
considered as relevant in a pharmaco-epidemiological study. No sub-group analysis suggested any major
heterogeneity in the results, except for age. But the heterogeneity for age does not suggest that older
patients are at risk of major arrhythmias when treated with fluoroquinolones.
Interpretation and conclusions
The discussion is well based on the study results and the analysis of previous studies can be considered
as even-handed. However, a discussion of the risk of selection bias should be provided in view of the
comparison of severe arrhythmia risk in patients included and excluded by the propensity score matching
process. The possibility of residual confusion by indication should be also discussed more in depth. We
cannot rule out for example that patients with a long QT interval or other ECG anomalies were not given
fluoroquinolones. The summary of product characteristics of fluoroquinolones contains explicit mention of
a QT lengthening effect that is expected to result in the exclusion of more at-risk patients. A
measurement bias can be ruled out, but any major lack of accuracy in outcome measurement may
explain a non-significant result. This should be discussed more clearly.
The message conveyed by the article is clear and well supported by the study results. The abstract, the
summary, key messages and What this paper adds reflect
accurately what the paper says.