Introduction:
-second line, you wrote AMI, but it is preferable ACS (acute coronary syndromes).
-lines 3-6, the sentence needs refereces. I do not totally agree with this sentence. In addition, it is
necessary to specify that the results are conflicting. The DAPT trial is positive, but others (e.g. PRODIGY) is
negative. Data from meta-analysis does not support this sentence.
Methods:
-all the study is based on the comparison with the PEGASUS trial. Selection of high risk criteria is easy
when based on age. It is less unclear how and when diabetes, renal failure and secon MI were selected. For
example, who did diabetes diagnosis? Is based on drug use? When this diagnosis is done? at the time of
first event, after one year. Similarly, who and when did renal disease diagnosis? Which criteria are applied?
CrCl <30 ml/min? Who perform and control this diagnosis?

-Bleeding definition: your definition could be misleading. You used the definition of serious bleeding event
(see Eur Heart J. 2010;31:1257 and ARCH INTERN MED 2011;171:1948). Please clarify, use this definition
and references.
-The target of your work is the comparison with the PEGASUS population. At the same time, it is more
similar to DAPT trial. You started to follow-up patients after the first year. This is totally similar to DAPT
study. The main discrepancy is the history of PCI. How is possible that only the 40% of patients with MI
received PCI? In the PEGASUS the percentage was 83%. In the DAPT 100%. In my opinion this is the main
limit of the study. I have strong doubts regarding the study population selection. Probably the MI diagnosis
is overestimated. Data regarding aspirin prescription supports again this doubt. How is possible that aspirin
was present only in 79% of patients? The Reviewer has a good experience in registries (e.g REAL) and
these findings are a little bit surprising.
-Accordingly, there is a blinded control (random) of the source of data? There are random or planned audit
to verify the quality of data?
