Overall this article is important and useful. Should be published.
Independence of interested parties that participate in EU decision-making and policy
development need to be investgated and documented.
However important points need to be revisited (major comments):
Line 98-99: This view seems rather partial and oriented. Patient groups' actions target both
public authorities (reimbursement/coverage) and industry (for example advocacy campaigns
to lower the price of medicines (closing-down Wall Street on September 14, 1989 (seven
ACT UP members infiltrated the New York Stock Exchange to protest the high price of the
only approved AIDS drug, AZT. Several days following this demonstration, Burroughs
Wellcome lowered the price of AZT from $10,000 to $6,400 per patient per year).
Other actions in favour of generic products met to advocacy towards the World Trade
Organisation which adopted rules on Compulsory Licensing and this advocacy movement was
conducted by patient organisations that were largely funded by the pharmaceutical industry
237-241 Methods
Analysis by location of study sample is missing. Location of study sample reflects a large
dominance of anglo-saxon culture: United Kingdom, USA, New-Zealand, Canada, Australia,
Ireland mentioned 25 times out of a total of 37 locations.

Given the very different practices/cultures in the anglo-saxon world (and also laws and
practices on financial relations etc.) a separate analysis should have been done to account
for contextual influence of different legal systems/sets of rules.
Results
361: At that time, HAI, Perehudoff is member of, adopted strong views that the directive
proposal was a partial introduction of direct-to-consumer advertising in Europe which raises
the impartiality of this analysis. Can you objectively assess/judge other's opinion when
yourself adopted a strong one?
The work done by Perehudoff was based on 11 groups in official relations with the European
Medicines Agency (EMA) out of 22 contacted, when there were 25 eligible organisations
among 41 actually involved in EMA activities as of June 2009.
362-363: This statement can largely be discussed, it is partly false. The organisation I work
for, for example, did not support an increased role for industry. It supported the view that
pushed information for prescription medicines should continue to be banned
(communication/advertisement from industry), but pulled information (when patients or
their organisations contact the marketing authorisation holder to obtain information) should
become possible (this was the case in some member states but not all, introducing large
disparity in access to life-saving information).
Another proposal was to authorise industry to provide product information on websites in the
jurisdiction of EU institutions, as most of these websites were registered/hosted in the US,
and European authorities had no legal power to intervene in the information they provided
(European users having to navigate on US based web sites to find information on a product,
informationwhich might differ from the European authorised reference documents), where
my organisation thought the European Commission had a point there, but which did not
mean my organisation advocated for industry to be authorised to post anything they wanted
on Internet.

430 - 533, Discussion section
The systematic review with meta-analysis as proposed here is interesting, however the
discussion eliminated other works on the same topic. Their absence questions the
completeness of the literature search on what is already known on this topic and/or the
discussion. Publications from experts on conflicts of interests in the health care sector and on
the financial links between patient organisations and industry funding include:
• Sebastien Dalgalarrondo "Sida : la course aux molécules", Paris, EHESS, 2004
• Daniel Carpenter & David A. Moss (dir.), Preventing Regulatory Capture. Special Interest
Influence and How to Limit it, Cambridge University Press, 2013.
• David Demortain, “The tools of globalization. Ways of regulating and the structure
of the international regime for pharmaceuticals”, Review of International Political
Economy, 2015, 22, 6, 1249-1275.
• James Ferguson, «The uses of neoliberalism», Antipode, 2010, 41, S1, 166-184.
• Boris Hauray, Emmanuel Henry & Sébastien Dalgalarrondo, «Conflit d’intérêts», dans
Emmanuel Henry, Claude Gilbert, Jean-Noël Jouzel & Pascal Marichalar (dir.),
Dictionnaire critique de l’expertise. Santé, travail, environnement, Presses de SciencesPo,
2015, p.71-79.
• Deborah Cohen & Philip Carter, «Conflicts of Interest: WHO and the pandemic flu
"conspiracies"», BMJ, 2010, 340, c2912.
441-444: To discuss possible publication biais here. Many patient groups, if not most, do not
publish their position on policy proposals, often because of lack of resources. They use other
advocacy methods to make their voice heard.
So what are these studies measuring ? The relation between industry funding and the
position of patient groups? Or the relation between industry funding and the likelyhood that
a group publishes its position, thanks to the additional resources? This would favour the
hypothesis of a link between industry funding and the group position when the group

position is in favour of industry (and thus is more likely to receive funds from industry
afterwards).
In other words, does industry fund a patient group to influence its position towards industry
interests?
Or is the industry funding a “reward” to groups that adopt views that seem to be closer to
industry interests? This would exclude groups that are against industry interests and
therefore not likely to receive such rewards. The causality industry funding therefore
favourable organisation position is not demonstrated.
The competing interest exist, but this does not demonstrate the patient groups were
influenced by industry.
This is briefly discussed lines 449-451 but 3 lines do not really balance all what is explained
above and after.
487-488: another indication of uncompleted literature search. Equivalent legislations were
adopted in other jurisdictions, e.g. Belgium (betransparent.be), France (Decrêt 2013-414 of
May 21st 2013) and probably many others.
More minor comments:
Line 59-61: In Discussion, authors should address biases that might also exist among other
interested parties, healthcare professional organisations in particular, also playing important
roles in advocacy, education and research vis-à-vis funds they receive from industry,
probably in higher proportions/amounts that patient organisations.
Line 68-69: more importantly patients groups are part of the decision-making and ascientific
evaluation§. This is important to recognise their role/impact, and also for the purpose of this
research. The more senstivie aspects of dependency to industry, if there is one, are when
this can influence decision-making (although no such case reported, but concern raised)
98-99: patient groups are not only advocating for avccess to new medicines and devices, but
sometimes older ones also.
Discussion
The discussion part should address biases that might also exist among other interested
parties, healthcare professional organisations in particular, also playing important roles in
advocacy, education and research vis-à-vis funds they receive from industry, probably in
higher proportions/amounts that patient organisations
103: it is good practice to cite older references. Authors should refer to full literature on the
topic (some publications in 2004), not the most recent one (2017). One of the 26 studies
was published in 2003 by one of the authoris (Mosconi), and it certainly refers to documents
relating concerns about financial relationships between patient groups and industry. The
concern still can persist today, even if not new, and remedy measures have been
implemented in some cases.
148-151: Definitions are not so clear. An AIDS patient organisation can advocate for the
rights of people who are at risk of acquiring HIV to access effective prophylaxis (they’re
health services users, they’re not defined by a specific disease/condition). Furthermore, later
in the article patient groups that include multiple conditions are described. Definitions should
be changed.
323: Given the period during which most studies were conducted (from 2003 to 2018), email
communication should have been the method of choice. Why not mentioned/measured?
327-329: This seems to indicate communication only took place at the initiative of industry.
This does not seem to take into consideration situations where patients/consumers disagree
with industry, or need to contact them to advocate for the interests of patients to access a
product, a compassionate use programme, to improve a clinical trial, to reduce the price of a
medicine etc.

359: Results
Not only consumer but also patient organisations
411-413: This seems to be an extremely small sample, out of a total number of patient
groups in Germany that can approximate or exceed 8,000.
510-512: not clear what this says. NICE has a procedure to involve patients in its discussion
which includes a declaration of interests. See
https://www.nice.org.uk/Media/Default/About/Who-we-are/Policies-and-procedures/declarati
on-of-interests-policy.pdf. So does this mean NICE does not use its procedure, or
declarations are not complete?
512-515:Other interests that could influence the opinion of patients/experts should be
mentioned. Public funding can also exert a strong influence on an organisation or an expert.
525-526: The authors could also add that ten Patients and Consumers’ organisationds
eligible to work with the EMA published a Code of Practices giding the Relations between
Organisations and the Health Care Industry, as an illustration that indeed they are very
aware of the importance to critically evaluate this role.
See :
https://www.eurordis.org/sites/default/files/thumbnails/0904-PO-Code%20of%20practice.pd
f
532: There is no such thing as a neutral source of funding. Even crowdfunding activities or
membership base funding impose certain conditions on an organisation strategy or action
plan.
548-549: The author in question could have declared being part of an organisation that hold
strong positions against patient organisations being funding by industry. This might have
affected the capacity to assess neutrally and objectively the link between industry funding
and independence of patient groups.
See Hayes, L. and Mintzes B (1997) ‘The ties that bind: drug industry sponsorship”. HAI
Lights, 3(2-3):1-3
Shouldn’t this haven been declared as a potential intellectual conflict of interest?
556: Is there a potential conflict here, as Katrina Perehudoff published several articles
largely commented in this article and was also part of HAI, with srong views against patient
organisations funded by industry?
