This is a well-argued, concise paper, and very timely given the UK government's recent
commitment to net-zero emissions by 2050.

I suggest two ways in which the paper could be improved that might require new material
and moderate re-writing, and some editorial tweaks.
First, I suggest a stronger acknowledgement that the health effects of the zero-carbon
transition may be negative, or at best, neutral. There is a sentence here and there in the
present draft which nods in this direction, but I think it is a more serious matter than this.
a. Many effective climate policies are not win-win for health: it will require strong scrutiny
and effective advocacy to avoid win-loss choices. b. I think the implication that double
gain is psychologically compelling is not defensible. There are many instances in our own
lives where this is evident, and much experimental work also. See Kahneman's work for
instance on the asymmetry of choice - potential losses weigh far more heavily in most
people's minds than possible gains. And c. there are powerful structural obstacles to
transformation, which way overshadow theoretical co-benefits of climate policy. In
transport for instance, automobility culture and associated commercial interests stand
squarely in the way of better spaces for carbon-saving walking and cycling. In this latter
respect, I think the co-benefits skeptics have a point when they say "if so good, why not
already in place?"
Second, I feel the ending of the paper is a bit weak. The science is well summarised, the
timing is impeccable, the question goes to the heart of public policy in many countries. But
what is meant by "engaging more effectively with policy makers"? The "disciplinary silo" is
a cliche - everywhere, everyone is urged to break out of them. Can the authors say more
about where we should be going, as climate and health researchers? Perhaps there are
case studies, examples of policies that have been swayed by analysis of health
consequences. The rich literature on 'health in all policies' might contain some sign posts.
Not just in the UK, though I am sure a great deal that is relevant has been written in that
country. What about the recent history of air pollution, for example: has the joint impact
on climate risk and population health hastened the introduction of effective regulation? If
so, how did this come about?
Minor points
With coal down to 3% of electricity generation, have the easy improvements been made in
the UK, and might it be too optimistic to project GHG emission reductions to date into the
future?
It is true both adaptation and mitigation are relevant to housing, but is this not true also
for power generation? Part of health protection in a much warmer and more erratic
climate will include better provision of cool spaces, and this will very likely come with
substantial demand for reliable power supply, for instance.
Land transport - as well as the non-exhaust emissions of particles from electric vehicles,
there are other hazards that will not be improved by a shift from fossil fuel driven cars to
electric cars. Injury risk, social severance, the effects on mental health of an isolated,
inactive, car-dependent transport system, for instance.
Page 5, line 30 - what is "unrealistic"?
Page 6, line 13 - I don't agree the GBD figures necessarily point to changing diets as the
greatest potential for health gain. Apart from the idiosyncrasies of the GBD estimates
(which in some respects may be better suited to global comparisons than national
planning) "potential for gain" is not determined by attributable burden. More often, it is
the presence (or not) of plausible interventions, and the costs of these interventions, that
illuminate opportunities.
page 6, line 30. There is no mention up to this point of the health effects of pricing
mechanisms such as carbon taxes. These may be worth mentioning, since there are

clearly both gains and losses that may result, depending on how taxes are applied and
what is done with the money that is raised by the taxes. The effects of carbon pricing are
also a good illustration of a more general point, that of the risks to health equity of climate
policies. The social distribution of gains and losses deserves a mention in the paper I
suggest. It is not too difficult to imagine how poorly-crafted interventions could widen
health gaps.
page 7 - line 51. Whose behaviour is referred to here? Members of the public? Or the
behaviour of those with influence? In the transport case, it is difficult to imagine that
individuals' choices of mode of transport make much of a difference, compared with the
behaviours of planners, engineers, transport bureaucrats and politicians in local and
central government.