Comments by Gabriel Scally
This is an interesting paper that explores, in some detail the system, particularly in England,
pertaining to control of infectious diseases. It is relevant to the current effort to create a system for
testing and contact tracing in relation to COVID-19. The demolition of the structures of civil society
from 2010 onwards have made that a much more difficult task, as has the impoverishment of local
authority budgets and the low regard that many local authorities have for the public health function
and public health staff.
The final sentence of the 'Key Messages' section calls for local 'public health bodies' to lead testing
and tracing. It is not at all clear what these 'bodies' are.
It should be noted that the legal requirement on RMPs to report notifiable diseases was a poorly
functioning system and breaches of the requirement were rarely, if ever, the subject of legal
proceedings.
P9 line24
"strengthened from 1977-2002 by the Communicable Disease Control (sic) Centre in Colindale,
following". The correct title is the 'Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre' and it is probably more
accurate to write that line as: "strengthened from 1977-2002 by the creation of the Communicable
Disease Surveillance Centre in Colindale, following"
P9 Line36
"In 2012, the Health and Social Care Act abolished local area health authorities, and carved public
health out of the NHS in England." The local bodies abolished were Primary Care Trusts, Area Health
Authorities had disappeared many years previously. The regional Strategic Health Authorities were
also abolished by the 2012 Act. Public health was not 'carved out' of the NHS, only part of the public
health function was transferred. In fact NHS England retained about half of the public health budget
and continued to provide core public health services such as screening and immunisation.
In the conclusion it would be useful to note the importance of 'case finding' as the preliminary step to
testing and tracing.
