The authors have responded positively to most of my comments, but there remain some issues that need addressing.
1 (previous point 1). The process of estimating somatotype at age 50 from BMI has been clarified, but the clarification
itself raises some points.
The paper fails to say why the age 50 somatotype needed to be estimated. The somatotypes from age 5 to 40 represent
an impressive summary of body shape tracking for the first half of life. My guess is that a value at age 50 was felt to be
needed to justify the phrase "early and middle life" in the title and elsewhere. However this is not stated, and it needs to
be.
The modelling process based on a mixed effects model is a clear improvement on the previous methodology. However it
is the wrong way round, as they authors acknowledge. The aim is to predict somatotype at age 50 from BMI and
previous somatotypes, so modelling BMI and inverting the regression equation to give somatotype is incorrect. A better
approach would be to use polytomous regression with somatotype as the dependent variable. This would avoid having to
invert the regression equation, and would also correctly predict a somatotype category at age 50 without the need to
truncate the scale.
The description of the process, although improved, still relies on the supplementary information to be clear. The second
paragraph under Body Shape Assessment on page 8 still does not mention BMI at age 40, and it does not explain why
BMI is relevant when the main focus is on somatotype. I suggest this paragraph be completely rewritten, linking
somatotype and BMI more obviously and summarising the ages when the data were available.
2 (previous point 3). I suggested that excluding subjects with BMI < 18.5 was illogical, but the authors are keen to
remove them. I find their argument unconvincing, that such BMI's are below the normal range and hence should be
excluded. But how many BMI's were excluded as being above the normal range, and is not the conclusion of the study
that high BMI increases mortality? This is inconsistent.
The interest is in the natural history of BMI and its link to later mortality, so there is no good reason to arbitrarily omit
subjects at the extremes of the BMI range. The authors cite reverse causation to justify the exclusion, yet their design
has a built-in ten-year mortality delay (from age 50 to 60) to minimise the effects of reverse causation. I insist that
there be no exclusions based solely on low (or high) BMI.
3 (new). Reviewer 2 asked for reference 24 (now 21) to include the journal name. This has been added, but the
reference is still incomplete.