This paper addresses the important topic of how valid BMI measures are for evaluating
health risks in children with different racial backgrounds. The paper derives equations based
on standard measures (height, weight, age, gender, race) to predict body fat, and reports
significant coefficients for different ethnic groups and overall models. While this is an
interesting analysis there are also some concerns.
1. Deuterium dilution is used for the reference method for body fat. This method does have
the advantage that there is no radiation, but it is problematic because it necessarily has to
assume constants for the known overestimation of total body water by DD (usually 3%
assumed) and the hydration of lean body mass (usually assumed to be 73% water) and we
don’t know how good these constants are when comparing data across different races. Since
the errors propagate, quite small inaccuracies in these constants can lead to big errors in the
calculated primary data. The ideal here would be to have multicompartment body
composition modeling data if that is available in the datasets, which would reduce the need
to rely on assumptions. It is likely that both of the constants are race-specific, and by not
taking them into account there are method biases that could potentially account for at least
some of the significant (but small) racial effects that are seen here. For example, the degree
of overestimation of body water by DD reflects the greater space that DD dilutes into, which
seems to relate mostly to body protein content. Since body protein content differs between
races it would be preferable to have a race-specific constant (which does not exist today),
and this would necessarily change calculations of fat free mass and fat mass. In addition, we
don’t know if the hydration of total body water is the same in children of different races and
some studies in adults suggest it may not be. The combination of the uncertain constant for
correcting the overestimation of total body water by DD and the uncertain constant for the
hydration coefficient means we don’t have really solid data for fat free mass and fat mass on
which to construct the paper’s models. At the least, this paper should use

multicompartment data if available, and if not address the fundamental weaknesses of the
DD method in the Discussion.
2. The conclusions seem to be broadly consistent with an earlier paper by the same group
(reference 15) which calculates BMI coefficients for different races and genders. It would
seem to be more useful to use adjusted BMI standards for difference races rather than
calculating body fat, since this is already an established technique used in public health. The
paper does not clarify in what ways the approach described here is superior to the approach
taken in reference 15.
3. A final comment is that the paper needs to clarify recommended uses for the models.
With the potential bias of the method in different ethnic groups (noted in #1, above) it would
risk introducing bias into research studies of ethnicity, but it also seems quite complicated as
a clinical tool. A clear articulation of what the authors propose for use of the method would
be helpful.
