This is an interesting and timely paper that looks at an important addition to the
institutional landscape of health security. I find the core of the empirical analysis, how the
disbursement criteria of the PEF would have applied to past outbreaks, an interesting and
convincing approach to assessing the likely contribution of the PEF to health security in
the future. However, I feel that the paper overstitches the argument with regard to
investor benefits, and that more/a different type of analysis would need to be added to
substantiate this point.
I have three main observations:
(1) The paper makes the argument that the PEF benefits investors more than global
health. The second half of this argument is substantiated by an analysis of how many
outbreaks in the past would have triggered the PEF insurance window. The first part of the
argument, however, is less well substantiated. How does the PEF benefit investors? Is
there something about the design of the PEF (and it’s disbursement criteria) that makes it
privilege investors’ interests? If so, what is this? Explanations of how the financing of (and
therefore investors’ interests in) the PEF works tend to be rather brief (see my comments
below). If the paper wants to go beyond arguing that PEF is unlikely to contribute much to
global health security and make the additional point that it privileges investors interests’,
the paper would need to explain in more detail how it does so.
(2) I think that the paper underplays the role of the Cash Window and its contribution to
outbreak response a bit. It is mentioned only on page 6, although the amount disbursed is
considerable. I wonder whether there is more to this, which the paper could explore. If it
was the case that the cash window is less dependent on an ‘insurance dynamic’ than the

insurance window, this could make the analysis of the PEF more nuanced and potentially
more powerful with regard to conclusions that can be reached about the compatibility of
insurance-based financing and pandemic preparedness. However, and going back to the
point I raise above, for such an analysis, it would be important to understand the
underlying financing mechanisms of the PEF in a bit more detail.
(3) The paper seems to be confounding two different questions/methods: 1) assessing the
disbursement criteria of PEF by checking them again past outbreaks; 2) comparing the
PEF with CERF and CFE. While I find the first question/method clear and convincing, I’m
not sure I understand the rationale for the second question and the method of
comparison. What does the comparison with CERF and CFE add to our understanding of
PEF’s (hypothetical) contribution to past outbreak responses?
In addition, I have few minor/more detailed comments:
Section on “data analysed””
- I was a bit surprised that the World Bank was not mentioned here as a data source
Lines 79-89 and 111-114, explanations of how the financing of PEF works:
- Could you provide more detail on how this works? Given that a key argument of the
paper is that the PEF benefits investors more than global health, it would be good for the
reader to have more information on how this works and how investors can gain.
- The paper makes a very harsh judgement in the Conclusion where it characterises the
PEF as “an arbitrary tick box exercise, allowing the World Bank to prioritize pay out to
bond holders instead of prioritizing its role in pandemic financing” and repeats the claims
of arbitrariness and insurance logic further below. I feel that this brushes over a really
important part of the analysis that the paper would need to add: how do the disbursement
criteria benefit bond holders? When do bond holders get paid? In what way might it be
beneficial to them that the PEF has very high hurdles for disbursement? It may seem
intuitive that the less is paid out the better for the bond holders, but the paper should not
leave it at the level of readers’ intuition and implicit argumentation, but explain this in
more detail – especially when it makes such strong statements like the one in lines
192-193 and 200-203 in the Conclusion.
Line 97: “using catastrophe bonds to finance pandemics”
- I feel that this wording is a bit unfortunate. Perhaps better: “using catastrophe bonds to
finance international responses to pandemics”? or sth. like that.
Lines 99-103:
- There appears to be some misalignment between the research gap identified, the PEF
and how it has been used, and the methodology, which looks at payments made by other
crisis financing mechanisms, CERF and CFE. I had expected to focus of empirical research
to be on the PEF. (see also my comment above on the section on “data analysed”).
Page 5, line 36:
- Why is the coverage here US$275 million, while the insurance window is US$425 (as
stated on the page before)?
Box 3 on Methods:
- This seems to be a good method to assess the extent to which PEF would have
contributed to outbreaks in the past and, therefore, how likely it probably is to contribute
to help fight outbreaks in the future. I am wondering, however, why you included the
criteria ‘outbreaks for which CERF and/or CFE funds were allocated’, rather than just
outbreaks? Would not the latter have been sufficient/better to assess the extent to which
PEF would have been able to contribute to health security in the past? What are the
reasons why you bring in the implicit comparison with CERF and CFE?

Line 172:
- When you refer to PEF’s eligibility criteria, do you mean all of the criteria or only those
related to which pathogens qualify? In line 169 above, you refer only to the pathogen
criteria if I understand correctly.
