This is an extremely thoughtfully constructed and conducted study on the effects of
duloxetine in pregnancy on birth outcomes using a Medicaid Analytic eXtract data set. The
authors carefully outlined the importance of this study, given the dearth of information and
controversial opinions on the risks of SNRIs in pregnancy, and developed a methodical
approach to answer several questions. Additionally, the manuscript was clear and well
written and they used the tables, figures, and supplementary materials very well; all were
easy to read and interpret.
The study has many strengths. The authors used rigorous analytic strategies including
PS/hdPS. The large dataset enabled them to create multiple study cohorts and referent
groups, allowing them to answer multiple questions at once regarding comparative safety
of duloxetine to other exposures. I found their presentation of data very compelling.
Limitations of this study included mostly those that are common to analyses of claims
data. The authors do comment on most, including risk of exposure and outcome
misclassification and the risk of selection bias when restricting to only including live births.
However, a few other minor points did come to mind:
- It in introduction and discussion, it would be helpful to comment on the risk of untreated
or untreated pain and depression/anxiety.
- Bipolar disorder is not considered a comorbid illness (p. 7) when someone has
depression. Bipolar disorder includes episodes of mania/hypomania that alternate with
episodes of depression. The depressive episodes are considered part of bipolar disorder;
therefore, depression and bipolar disorder cannot occur concurrently. I recommend the
authors revise with this in mind.
- A common difficultly in assessing the safety of pharmacological treatments in perinatal
women is confounding by indication. Since untreated/undertreated mental illness itself
imparts risk of adverse outcomes, it can be difficult to parse out outcome causality.
Therefore, it is always helpful to understand illness severity to help understand if this is a
potential other confounding factor. Understandably, this is not available in this type of data
and would likely affect the results minimally even if it was, but the authors should consider
commenting on this. I feel that a comment on this could strengthen the manuscript.
- Please clarify lines 24-27 on page 9.
- The authors should consider commenting on this result and their thoughts on why this
may be: “Duloxetine-exposed women tended to be older, were more likely to be white, had
a higher burden of chronic comorbid conditions, more frequently used other medications,
and had more intense healthcare utilization.” (p.9, lines 46-50).
- The paper could be strengthened by some background on the population of women are in
the MAX dataset. This is particularly important because women of lower socioeconomic
status 1) experience higher rates of perinatal depression 2) are less likely to receive

treatment. It would be helpful to provide detail on this throughout the paper and also to
contextualize this results and discussion with this in mind.
- The authors should consider moving their commentary regarding their understanding of
the high RR of urinary malformations to the discussion (p. 10-11, starting with line 51 on
page 10).
- The authors should consider moving their discussion of extra validation methods to the
methods/results section and leave only the strict rationale/interpretation in the limitations
(p.14 lines 47-56; p. 15 lines 3-10 and lines 12-33).