The paper presents an analysis of ultrasound, radioiodine and PET imaging in patients with differentiated thyroid
cancer with secondary treatments and disease specific-survival as the main outcomes. They use extensive data on
more than 23,000 patients from the SEER database in 1992-2009. The authors show increasing trends in both imaging
and secondary treatment, particularly after 2000.
The issue seems to reflect a more general problem in medicine. A common attitude among medical professionals is
‘what can be done, should be done’, to be obliged by technology, bound by a medical version of Hume’s guillotine
‘from is to ought’. It is obvious that also in medicine supply creates demand (‘if it’s available, use it’). This is likely
most obvious in privately funded health care systems and exacerbated by fee for service payment. Yet, also in publicly
funded health care, resources tend to get used, which commonly takes place through extension of indications. The
‘mission of no omission’ attitude implies that only failure to act can constitute malpractice, but ignores the problem of
overtreatment and risks inherent for any medical intervention.
1. My main concern about the paper is the very indirect inference that can be drawn from the data. The title chosen
for the paper emphasizing ‘implications’ is accurate, as the data do not allow explicit analysis of the appropriateness
and benefits of post-diagnostic imaging. Interpretation of the findings is tricky. If undergoing an isotope scan is
associated with improved survival, does it indicate excessive use of imaging and successful disease management? Is it
due to a referral pattern with low-risk patients undergoing isotope scan and high-risk patients followed up with other
imaging modalities? Likewise, if an examinations shows a HR=1, would it indicate that the examination is unnecessary
or that it leads effective detection of recurrence with subsequent treatment eliminating any adverse outcomes?
Confounding by indication, i.e. selection of patients to the examinations is hard to assess based on these data. Ideally,
of course a randomised trial would be needed to definitively assess the impact of different imaging strategies or
criteria in post-diagnosis follow-up of these patients (not only a prospective study as proposed by the authors).
2, It seems obvious that secondary treatment no given without imaging results showing disease recurrence. The
authors seem to imply that not all recurrences detected would have any impact on the patient outcome – otherwise
the fact that imaging leads to treatment would be hard to fault.
3. For broader applicability, it would be of interest how specific the described practice is for the US and how widely it is
encountered in other settings as well, including the UK and Europe.
4. Was the increase in imaging similar across age groups and stage strata?
5. Completeness of data on secondary treatment is not explained. Has it been assessed for SEER? This is a potential
weakness.
Minor comments
The RR 0.94 for incidence is hard to interpret – it seems to indicate a decreasing, not increasing trend (presuming
standard Poisson regression is applied)
I presume the time trend is analysed with a continuous calendar year, so that a RR of 1.022 translates into 2.2%
increase annually. This should be mentioned in the text.
Some characteristics that might be relevant are not mentioned, including type of health insurance and type of hospital.
If they were not available, it should be mentioned as a shortcoming.
The authors should indicate whether the time axis in the two figures refers to the year of diagnosis or year of
procedure.
The number of references (54) seems excessive.