Review of: “Population Strategies to Decrease Sodium Intake: A Global Cost-Effectiveness Analysis”
I am fairly familiar with published cost-effectiveness analyses on sodium reduction – and based on this I
can confidently say that is a very high quality study. It has very strong methods (especially around
various aspects of uncertainty and the use of a Bayesian hierarchical model etc) and of course has
extremely impressive breadth (181 countries). It is a very substantial contribution to the literature.

1. Methods – 2nd paragraph on reasons for not considering healthcare savings from avoided CVD
events. Including such cost savings would be optimal as per current best health economic practice (see
publications on this topic by van Baal). Hence this should be considered a study limitation and noted in
the Discussion – but it is also a limitation which is entirely reasonable given the logistics involved in
obtaining cost savings data for 181 countries. (Indeed this latter reason is given in the Discussion – but
needs to be reiterated in the Methods).
2. In the e-Discussion the intervention is described as involving “drafting a regulatory code, designing
enforcement plans” – so this actually looks to this reviewer like mandatory regulations backed up by law
are the interventions. This seems to be in contrast to the main text where the intervention is similar to
the UK with “government-supported industry targets”. Perhaps then the intervention needs to be
clarified more in the Methods Section – is this voluntary or mandatory (or a mix of soft and hard law
depending on the country – but with the same effect achieved as per the UK intervention). Of course a
new law can also be supported by a media campaigns as well.
3. Following on from the above, the Discussion could potentially be a little stronger around discussing
the issue that in some countries, sodium reduction might be achieved most efficiently and costeffectively through straight out new mandatory regulation. Nevertheless, the UK approach of voluntary
agreements (possibly with the implicit threat of regulation if not successful) might still be the most
feasible approach in some countries (depending on the political setting).
4. Fairly optional – but it would be good to provide more context around other possible strategies the
authors could mention that taxing salt may also be an option for countries (as per various modelling
studies [1] [2] and currently utilised in 3 countries [see the recent systematic review by Trieu et al
2015 in PLoS One]). Indeed, this could be more cost-effective than voluntary regulations since it can
raise revenue for fiscally constrained governments – and allow improved spending on health. Other salt
reduction measures could also be mentioned, eg, improvements in food labelling
5. Many of the published cost-effectiveness studies around sodium reduction indicate that such
interventions are actually cost-saving (when considering averted healthcare costs – and even when
extra health costs associated with longer lives are also allowed for [2]). So it could be stated more
clearly in the Discussion that if such costs were considered in this type of modelling, then it could be
likely that such sodium reduction interventions would be cost-saving (from a health sector perspective).
Furthermore, if a wider societal perspective was taken (to include reductions of productivity loss) then
sodium reduction interventions may be even more attractive.
6. Fairly optional – but could say in the Discussion that the WHO benchmarks for CE thresholds do have
limitations [3] – but that the WHO benchmarks are still probably the most practical approach for studies
such as this.
Fairly minor:
7. At first use of “UI” use “uncertainty interval”
8. In the Discussion – where “vascular stiffness” is mentioned, could clarify that this is “independent of
raised blood pressure”?
9. Table 1 – the “Population” – presumably this should also say “adult”
10. Figure 3 – at least on my PDF version, the alignment of the words with the dots could be improved.
11. References need to be in BMJ style.
References
1. Smith-Spangler CM, Juusola JL, Enns EA, Owens DK, Garber AM: Population strategies to decrease
sodium intake and the burden of cardiovascular disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis. Annals of internal
medicine 2010, 152(8):481-487, W170-483.
2. Nghiem N, Blakely T, Cobiac LJ, Pearson AL, Wilson N: Health and economic impacts of eight different
dietary salt reduction interventions. PLoS One 2015, 10(4):e0123915.
3. Marseille E, Larson B, Kazi D, Kahn J, Rosen S: Thresholds for the cost-effectiveness of interventions:
alternative approaches. Bull World Health Organ 2015, 93:118-124.
