Overall an interesting study which is hypothesis generating and contributes nicely to the literature in the
area
Originality -There is literature in the area, but this is a useful addition
Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers?
Its hypothesis generating and useful to researches, although not currently applicable to clinical practice
Scientific reliability:
Research question and methods were well described
Results and discussion
Well described however some revisions advisable:
General comments:
Needs a greater explanation of the limitations of the study including confounding factors such tamoxifen
for chemo prophylaxis, HRT use )
A Meta-analysis by Wu has shown a dose dependent relationship between parity and endometrial cancer
risk. The authors could explain why they think was not seen with this study and the reason for this?
Please comment on how obesity was collected ( eg one point in time whist pregnant?) and if this was a
confounding factor
Specific comments
Page 6 May be useful to adjust for association with EC risk likely to be more relevant than marital
status, urbanicity,eg- Obesity, PCOS, Exogenous estrogen use and presented as a multivariate analysis
Page 7, line 51 ‘was particularly strong’ -statistics would help clarify this
Page 10, line 17 – ‘two fold more protective’…… needs further clarification
The authors to review comment on page 11 line 57-page 12. Review outcome of these references as not
all in line with comment.
The findings are in contrast to be the article by Dossus. Please comment on the potential reasons for the
differences in the literature.
Figure S1 needs more explanation in terms if stats to aid interpretation
Minor typo page 3
Table S5- Is it possible to split S5 into obese and non-obese adjusted and non-adjusted?

Abstract
The conclusion requires review. .Whilst this research is hypothesis generating, the data does not directly
support this conclusion. Further research is required for this. Thus some re-wording would be advisable
