This is a well-written paper on the ‘weekend effect’ in obstetrics. This topic has not been revisited for
many years, and is due for a re-consideration. The authors do a nice job of synthesizing the prior
literature on the topic, and their database, analytical methods, and general approach are sound. Their
results are interesting, finding a significant weekend effect that persists after multivariable adjustment
(in contrast to the seminal study by Gould et al.). The inclusion of multiple obstetric quality measures is
another strength of this study. In places, I question some of the analytical choices (e.g., including noncephalic presenting fetuses and multiple gestations in the sample). Descriptions of the day-to-day risk
prediction could be clearer, as could the definition of elective cesarean.
1. Abstract conclusion: 750 perinatal death and 450 maternal infections, relative to what denominator?
Overall sample size, per year, etc? Please clarify.
2. Can the authors provide a citation for the Carstairs quintile? Readers may not be familiar with it; I am
not.
4. Outcomes: while perinatal mortality is often analyzed as a quality marker, the inclusion of all stillbirths
(e.g., antepartum and intrapartum) poses problems. Antepartum stillbirths are less amenable to
prevention by appropriate obstetric care, as compared to intrapartum IUFDs. Yet, most IUFDs in the
developed world are antepartum. Are the authors able to determine timing of fetal demise and include
only intrapartum stillbirths in their IUFD outcome? This should at least be acknowledged as a limitation.
5. Why did the authors use day of admission for maternal outcomes and day of birth for neonatal
outcomes? Please explain/justify. This comes in the Discussion but a quick explanation in the Methods

would improve interpretability.
6. It is not entirely clear what analytical methods the authors used to achieve their indirect
standardization (re: comparing other days to Tuesday admission). More detail (or more clarity) is
needed.
7. The findings disaggregating births/maternities between elective cesareans and non- is intriguing How
did the authors define elective cesareans? Is this data provided in the HES data, or did they use a
secondary-data algorithm?
8. The authors should provide some, even cursory, description of the results in Table 4.
9. Table 4: multiparous appears twice, with different values. For the row with ~2% multips, did the
authors mean “grand multips”?
10. Figure 2: Are the y-axes on the logarithmic scale?
11. Discussion: Re: The high-risk conditions the authors mention may be excluded in future sensitivity
analyses- I am accustomed to seeing these conditions excluded from analyses of quality of obstetric care,
as standard practice. Either way, the list should also include multi-fetal gestations.
Reviewer: Jonathan M Snowden