General Comment
I think that this is a very important paper and ground-breaking piece of research which deserves
public dissemination in a high impact journal. To my knowledge this is the first robust research
combining accurate probability assessment with patient preference in an emergency setting. The
research points the way for other difficult diagnostic decision making scenarios in the emergency
department (such as pulmonary embolism and sub arachnoid haemorrhage). There will certainly be
challenges to implement such an approach into real-life care but this research is an important first
step. It might be easy to be distracted by these potential challenges and they should not detract
from the key message here, that this approach improved patient knowledge which as described in
the methods was the objective that was most valued by the patient.
Introduction
Major points: None
Minor points:
Line 108: Does it really add anything to highlight a 49% relative change when there is an absolute
change from 26% to 13%?
Line 113: These consequences are not a certainty. Would it be better to highlight that these
consequences MAY occur?
Line 122: It would be useful to the reader to highlight here that this is about shared decision
making
Line128: Although it is implied by previous mention of the pilot and is obvious in the methods, it
would be helpful to the reader to highlight the primary outcome here or expand on what
effectiveness is being tested if word count allows
Methods
Major points:
Line 148: This really a point for the discussion-limitations but I mention it here because this is the
reference point in the text. The inclusion criteria are very appropriate but this highlights that in
other geographical healthcare settings the benchmark for this inclusion (being considered by the
treating clinician for observation unit admission for cardiac testing) may be quite different. I don’t
think that this would effect the primary outcome of “knowledge” but could impact achieved
differences in testing and admission rates. Perhaps this should be mentioned under limitations.
Minor points:
Line 144: I realise that this is an American study but since this is being submitted to a British
journal, is there another descriptor such as ‘central USA’ that could be used rather than ‘midwest’
which even as a frequent visitor to the USA I find confusing.
Line 173: Readers may not be familiar with the abbreviation MN for Minnesota
Line 183: Why was it study coordinator that determined the variables a priori? Could this mean
that in real life that the creation of the shared decision tool would take longer? This relates to line
382 in the discussion. How much time is taken creating the correct decision tool?
Line 209: FedEx is a US tradename – would ‘secure courier’ be better?
Line 220: I thought that this explanation paragraph was very helpful but was partly repeated under
the outcomes paragraph. Is there scope to put some of this in an appendix? It is a long
paragraph.
Results
Major points:
Line 332: it would be very useful to highlight that these knowledge scores are from a total score of
eight (if that is correct)
Table 1 “Pre-test probability of ACS” - was this the percentage calculated by attribute matching?
Discussion
Major point:
I don’t know if there is room to discuss this here, however, it strikes me that a means of making
accurate probability assessment is key to the shared decision making. The tool used here is based
on a large dataset of American patients. That is not a flaw but, in order to work safely in other

settings (with different patient demographics, prevalence and clinician training) would other
datasets specific to those settings be needed? Is this worth discussion?
Minor points:
Line 412: “There is now evidence to support applying the SDM tool in a greater variety of clinical…”
- are there references for this?
In the USA, how will the current dataset be adapted to take into account the predictive values of
the next generation of cardiac troponin assays?
Conclusion
The conclusions are sound