• Are the study's aims and the issue and questions that the paper addresses relevant and important to you as a patient? Do
you think it would be relevant to other patients like you? What about carers?
Although this topic may seem quite niche to readers outside T1 diabetes, I would argue that it is an important step in diabetes
research, since all of the trials in this field to date ignore the vital part that education plays in self management and blood
glucose outcomes. This is the first to actually provide a robust answer to the research question.
• Are there any areas that you find relevant as a patient or carer that are missing or should be highlighted?
The authors state “the results of the trial do not support” offering pump therapy without adequate education. This is
misleading; the trial was not comparing pump therapy without education and pump therapy post-education. One could just as
easily (and misleadingly) say that the trial doesn’t support offering MDI without adequate education. The results of the trial
only show that there is no significant difference between MDI and pump therapy, once a baseline of good education is laid
down. That in itself is an important finding.
Pumps are described (p3) as having the “ability to adjust basal insulin”. Since one can adjust basal with MDI as well, albeit
somewhat crudely, it might be clearer to state something like “ability to adjust basal insulin hour by hour”.
The authors state (p4) that pumps are more expensive than MDI, but do not offer a comparative MDI cost. It would be helpful
here to include blood glucose monitoring costs for both. Were any data collected on number of bg tests made by the
participants? If so, that would be helpful to include (for example, fear of set failure might make patients test a lot more on the
pump – which would increase the cost even more).
The authors use the phrase “poor” blood glucose control in several places, which is unhelpful to doctors (“poor” is too vague
and defined differently in different papers) and unhelpful to patients (“good/poor” is judgemental and paternalistic, as well as
inaccurate – a “good” HbA1c could mask huge fluctuations in control). If it is used as a shorthand for a particular level of
HbA1c, the authors should state the HbA1c level rather than use a vague term. If it is impossible to do that, the authors should
consider using “high” or rather than “poor” – although this is still not ideal without a definition.
• From your perspective as a patient, would the treatment, intervention studied, or guidance given actually work in practice? Is
it feasible? What challenges might patients face that should be considered?
While I can see the value of choosing patients who had not stated a preference for MDI or pump for this study, for many
people, their preference and personal circumstances will make a difference to the acceptability of the treatment. Average
“treatment satisfaction” (from a group that had no particular preference of treatment or reason for asking for one over the
other) is not particularly helpful when it comes to an individual’s expectations and needs. Given that no significant difference
was found in terms of other outcomes, the authors might consider reflecting further on this as part of their conclusions. Also
see point below about useful information for doctors.
• Are the outcomes that are being measured in the study or described in the paper the same as the outcomes that are
important to you as a patient? Are there others that should have been considered?

It is very encouraging to see that DAFNE graduates were involved in the design, and that important outcomes such as
moderate hypoglycaemia were included for study.
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper to make it more useful for doctors to
share and discuss with patients?
It would be particularly helpful for medical readers, as part of the discussion, to have insight into the kind of issues they should
focus on when discussing MDI/pump therapy following this trial; since the authors have patient advisors, they could perhaps
get their input on this.
• The level of patient involvement in the research described, and if and how it could have been improved. Authors are now
required to state if and how they involved patients in setting the research agenda and the design and implementation of the
study and include this information in a box within the manuscript. If there was no patient involvement we would welcome your
ideas on how this could have been done. We hope this will help authors think of the best ways to include patients in their
future research and further progressive patient involvement in the research enterprise.
The patient involvement is described fairly well. However, it would be helpful to know whether patient expertise from both
kinds of treatment types (MDI as well as pump) was included. The authors state that “one of the project team is a pump user”
but that then raises questions about how the project team differs from the steering group, whether this person was also a
healthcare professional (which is fine, but should be stated), and what treatments the other patient experts had experience of.
This is just a question of minor changes for clarity/consistency. Since the authors are based in the UK, they might also consider
dissemination via diabetes.co.uk, and via tweetchats such as @theGBdoc. (It’s possible that their patient advisors have already
planned this, but if so it would be helpful to describe that so that other readers/researchers can see good examples).