Review of manuscript
Manuscript Number: BMJ.216.033135
Title: “External validation of prognostic models to predict the risk of developing gestational
diabetes”
Comment to the editor:
The authors aim at validating existing prognostic models for the risk of GDM in a large scale
cohort. Their analyses allow for identifying models featuring highest discriminative abilities. I
think these findings may be of interest to countries / decision-makers applying high-risk
strategy when testing for GDM. However, there are some details that need clarification. I
suggest accepting the manuscript after having revised these points.
Comments to the author:
The authors aim at validating existing prognostic models for the risk of GDM in a large scale
cohort. Their analyses allow for identifying models featuring highest discriminative abilities. I
think these findings may be of interest to countries / decision-makers applying high-risk
strategy when testing for GDM. However, there are some points which need to be reconsidered.
Abstract
- P. 4, line 74: I would prefer using “recruited” instead of “included”, and “week of pregnancy”
instead of “gestational age”
- P. 4, line 79: The wording of this sentence is not clear. Do the authors mean “the findings were
reported according to the TIRPOD statement”? -> please adjust the wording throughout the
manuscript (e.g., P. 5, line 106; P. 8, line 159)
- P4, line 84: Please report the exact number of models instead of using “most”.
Introduction
- Line 114: Please use “gestational diabetes mellitus”
- Line 118: I would suggest using “Early diagnosis and treatment”
- Line 132: I would prefer the wording “… evaluated and compared … in one independent cohort
by independent investigators”
Methods
- If I have understood correctly, the systematic review has not been part of this manuscript, but
submitted as a separate publication. The actual structure of the Methods-Section is quite
misleading, since the reader may not be expecting the description of systematic literature review
as the first paragraph. I therefore recommend starting this section with the description of the
cohort population. Please also adjust the wording accordingly in the Results-Section of the
Abstract
- Line 166: I suggest using “<14 weeks of pregnancy” instead of “gestational age”
- Line 222-223: What do the authors mean by this sentence?
- Lines 224-226: The authors likewise re-assessed all models in the sub-group of nulliparous
women. Please provide more details on the handling of missing information on the history of
GDM within this sub-group (Imputation?).
- Please add a notice to the reader that in the Results-Section, imputed values are being
reported.
Results
- In general, the authors present a lot of tables / figures in this section. In the description,
however, they address the findings presented in the tables only insufficiently. Thus, the reader is
often let alone with a lot of information. It would very helpful, if the authors could “guide” the
reader through their findings.
- Lines 241, 244-246: Some information on the criteria being applied to assess whether models
over- / underestimated the risk of GDM would help the reader’s understanding.
- Fig. 3: Please report the correct intercept and slope values in the figure.

Discussion
- Line 324: References 46, 47 do not support the statement made by the authors: In those
studies, metformin was used to prevent GDM within the high-risk population of patients with a
polycystic ovarian syndrome. Moreover, use of medicaments should not be the first choice
intervention for prevention during pregnancy.
- The models, the authors recommended for implementation in clinical practice include maternal
age, BMI, history of GDM, etc. – characteristics well known as risk factors for GDM. Today, these
characteristics are already used to identify women at possible risk for GDM. So what could a
predictive model add to routine clinical care? In the sub-section “clinical implications and
conclusions”, the authors should emphasize additional benefits of using such models in the
clinical practice to point out the relevance of their study.