Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. I am reviewing this as a statistician with limited knowledge of
osteoporotic fracture; therefore my comments are primarily on the methodology and reporting of the study.
Electronic health records (EHR) are a valuable resource which the authors use to perform an independent external validation of
the QFracture, FRAX and Garvan risk prediction tools with data collected in Israel. All three models can be used to predict the
risk of hip fracture and two models (QFracture and FRAX) can be used to predict the risk of major osteoporotic fracture. The
authors compare the performance of all three models in the same data, as well as validating each model using participants
within the same age range as that used to develop the model.
Firsty, I would encourage the authors to use the TRIPOD guidelines for reporting of a validation study (http://www.equatornetwork.org/reporting-guidelines/tripod-statement/). Many of my comments are related to items on the TRIPOD checklist.
I feel the methods section would benefit by keeping all validation and analysis together at the end of the methods. Currently
paragraph 2 in study design and paragraph 2 in study population discuss the different validations performed and the age
ranges of patients selected for the second part of the validation. This might be better placed after discussing the study design,
data etc. when discussing the methods for comparative and external validation.
The second paragraph of study population says that external validation was performed on three separate populations. My
understanding is that they would differ slightly because of the age ranges selected but are not separate as patients could be
included in all three.
Could the authors please give a bit more detail about how information was used. Under study variables, the authors say,
‘based on information that was last documented as of the index date’. How long before the index date was still considered
acceptable? For example, if the last height and weight were taken several years prior to the index date is it reasonable to
assume the BMI remains the same at the index date? The same would apply to other variables in each of the models.
Can the authors comment on how complete they think the medication records would be? Are pharmacy dispensing data usually
up to date and linked with the other EHR for individuals? Other than BMI and smoking (for which patients were excluded from
analysis), are any other variables used in the models likely to have missing data?
Other than age range and country, are there any other known differences between the developmental data and the current
data for validation? Having a summary table of patient characteristics would be useful for comparison.
The authors convert 10 year probabilities to 5 year probabilities by fitting a linear regression model to the cumulative number
of events with follow-up month as the predictor. I think the assumption of a linear trend over time is probably reasonable
based on the graph presented, however fitting a linear model to investigate the relationship between follow up months and
cumulative number of events ignores correlation between data points (where the cumulative number of events from one month
is highly correlated with that of the next month). This is why the R^2 values are near perfect. A Poisson model on the other
hand would model the event rate for each unit of time (e.g month) and could perhaps show that the rate is relatively constant
over time. Could the authors comment on whether a Poisson model was considered and if so why this was not used?
Related to the above point, the authors say that a conversion factor was chosen but do not state what the conversion factor
was for predicting 5 year rather than 10 year risk.
In addition to age and sex stratified calibration, calibration for different risk groups (often plotted for deciles of predicted risk)
can be useful to see if the model predicts well across the range of predicted probabilities.
The number of hip fractures and number of major osteoporotic fractures for the ‘comparative’ analysis are provided. It would
be helpful to report the number of events for the ‘external’ validation too as these numbers vary for each prediction model.
For the highest 10% or 20% risk, it would be helpful to have the corresponding probabilities and perhaps have these points
marked on the ROC curves for comparison too.
The second paragraph on page 13 could benefit from being clear about which model and which outcome each set of results
correspond to.
The external validation of all three models focusses on discrimination of each model. I am not surprised that the AUC for
QFracture improved as I would expect including patients from a larger age bracket to widen the range of predicted probabilities
when age is a predictor. It would be helpful to look at calibration too in the external validation, as we might expect that this
would improve in a group of patients that are more similar to the developmental data.
