Re-review of 5ARIs and risk of type 2 diabetes
The authors have addressed the specific comments of the reviewers but have not
adequately addressed some of the broader comments.
The previous comment about the interpretation of the results still applies: “Be
careful not to ascribe a “different” risk between 2 cohorts where the HR is 1.18
(page 14). While that may be “statistically” significant, it is very close to the null
and could be due to bias or confounding. I would call an HR of 1.18 a null
finding.”
And the previous comment: “The authors interpret the results to indicate that
there is an increased risk of T2DM in users of dutasteride and finasteride
separately for BPH compared to Tamsulosin. They need to be much more
tempered in their interpretation since the effect is very small and not consistent
between the 2 databases and could be due to bias and confounding.”

In the current draft of the manuscript and despite the above comments the
authors still say in the end: “Here pharmacoepidemiological studies show that the
incidence of T2DM was indeed increased in patients with BPH receiving
dutasteride compared with tamsulosin, but an increased risk was also seen in
patients receiving finasteride.”
And: “In summary, men taking 5α-reductase inhibitors for BPH are at increased
risk of developing T2DM.”
I do not see any acknowledgment from the authors that the increased risks could
be due to bias or confounding or that the increase in risk is very small. This
comment applies to the abstract as well as the body of the paper.
Previous comment: Page 11, line20-23; “Use of finasteride and dutasteride
required expert reviews… What does that mean?”
Your edit did not clarify the meaning of the sentence. “What does use of
finasteride … required expert review” mean? Does this mean that no one can be
prescribed a 5ARI without being seen by a urologist? If so, say that.
In general the paper needs to be written more clearly. I had a hard time reading
this paper. It was a struggle to understand much of the text. The second
paragraph of the section entitled “Methods -Discovery Cohort” is a good example
of language that needs clarification:
“The patients were registered in primary care between 2003-14, and remained
under follow up or died during the study period.” I think the author means that
patients included in the study population entered a study cohort between 2003
and 2014 and were followed until the end of the record or until they died, but the
wording is awkward and I may have misunderstood.
“ Patients were excluded if they had received prescriptions for finasteride or
tamsulosin prior to 2003 or had a history of cancer, diabetes or oral
glucose-lowering or insulin treatment.” The reference to exclusion for history of
cancer, etc. does not specify timing and it is not clear what the time relationship
was. Were these patients excluded it they had cancer etc. any time before first
study drug prescription? This should be clarified.
“Patients concurrently prescribed dutasteride and tamsulosin were described both
separately (“D+T”) and included in a “Total” cohort combined with those
prescribed dutasteride alone.”
Please rephrase this more clearly.
Specific comments:
The abstract does not follow the structured headings. Under design the authors
describe the population. Under setting the authors report the study design.
The authors defined the index date as: the date of first prescription for
dutasteride or finasteride or tamsulosin. But then in the new text on page 9 they
say: “The duration of BPH was defined from the date of first record of BPH or first
prescription of dutasteride, finasteride or tamsulosin to the index date.” I think
they are now defining the date of diabetes diagnosis as the index date. This
needs to be corrected.
The following is written in the Discussion section at the top of page 19:
“Patients were censored if they switched between dutasteride and finasteride but
not if they ceased treatment; however this would only under-estimate risk.” Does
this mean that the investigators did not consider the timing of the study drug use
in relation to the diabetes onset? That is, a patient could have stopped the study
dug but was still considered exposed? This point is not clear in the methods
section. The methods do not actually describe how person time was accumulated
for each exposure group. This should be added.
