Dear Editors and Authors,
Thank you very much for the additional opportunity of reviewing the
manuscript. As the editor expressed and as BMJ is one of top journals,
more rigorous causal analysis would be anticipated. But I feel it guilty to
request more to do at this moment, I am afraid.
I appreciate many analyses which the authors did. But at the same time, I
cannot get rid of my negative feeling, because I am aware of the authors’
competing interest: Without advanced approaches which have already
appeared in medical journals, a publication from this study seems to

benefit a company’s product, which the authors support, to predict
cardiovascular risks of patients based on clinical data.
In this opportunity, I would like to leave a few comments for just a minor
revision:
1. To express limitations in the Abstract and the Conclusion, the authors
only inserted “whilst subject to residual confounding”. The authors should
at least document what the reviewers mentioned, including the lack of
assessment of adherence to prescriptions and the lack of dose-response
information.
We can imagine that it would be awful if a clinical trial published a paper
without information about compliance or dose levels of treatment. The
information is essential. The authors should document the lack of essential
information in clinical medicine as strongly as possible. Readers should be
warned enough that this study examined prescriptions rather than what
patients actually took.
It would be preferable to document the phrase “confounding by indication”
in the Abstract, as this let readers be aware of seriousness of the
limitation. “Residual confounding” sounds too vague.
2. The authors found significant interactions as presented in the
Supplementary Table 2. The measures derived from interaction terms are
not interpretable. The authors should revise the presentation (values
themselves or table footnote) so that readers can interpret the results
quantitatively. For example, for the interaction between one drug and age,
it would be ideal for readers to calculate HR of adults with age 70 y. But
the current presentation is not informative enough to do it. The
information can be important for external researchers who want to use
them in meta-analysis or in modelling research.
3. Some of the decisions in exposure definition and modelling remain not
convincing (or not justified). The authors argued that their decision was
made because a previous study did the same thing. “We did because a
previous study did” is never a good scientific argument. I wish the authors
will not do it in a future study.