Mutz and colleagues should be congratulated by their extensive, important, and
timely review on this topic. As pharmacological interventions reached a plateau in
terms of efficacy, research has been lately focused on NIBS. The work of the authors
is an important effort towards ranking and summarising the available evidence.
1) My main concern regards the inclusion of ECT in this MAs. This is an important
addition, but also brings additional questions that I believe the authors should
discuss in more details:
a) the ECT-sham is not the same as rTMS-sham or tDCS-sham. ECT-sham might
involve anaesthesia, sedation and is difficult to mimic, whereas rTMS and tDCS
interventions are more alike (although still different). The efficacy of the sham
interventions should be assessed (ECT vs. rTMS vs. tDCS) as an additional proof of
transitivity. Otherwise, indirect comparisons between ECT vs. rTMS or ECT vs. tDCS
would not be possible, as they would not be linked by the same node (sham).
b) Although the authors explored transitivity, they could provide more details. For
instance, they should supply in Supplementary Material box plots comparing clinical
and demographic variables of ECT vs. rTMS vs. MST vs. tDCS vs. TBS etc. They said
that transitivity is likely to hold because depression scores, age, and gender were

similar. However, my guess is that patients significantly differ in even more
important variables associated with treatment response, such as TRD,
outpatient/inpatient status, presence of psychotic features and so forth.
c) For these reasons, the authors should discuss the implications of these limitations
more carefully. An important aspect is that ECT was tested in a large range of
patients. For instance, for subgroup of patients such as patients with psychotic
features and suicidal attempts ECT is still the intervention of choice.
d) Another aspect is that ECT trials are substantially older (started in the 1980s)
than rTMS (1990s) and tDCS (2000s) trials. There is evidence that placebo effects in
depression change over time, possibly due to different inclusion criteria. This should
be discussed.
e) Finally, as ECT/MST is substantially different than rTMS/tDCS, I would suggest an
additional sensitivity analysis excluding ECT/MST trials.
2) The authors should present a summary table of the different interventions, in the
main text or in the supplementary material, showing the number of trials, number of
patients, age, gender etc for each modality tested.
3) An estimate measure such as NNT (with 95% CI) would be useful to compare the
relative efficacy of the interventions, along the ORs.
4) Regarding tDCS, the authors said that they were excluded in a SA because the
studies showed some differences compared to others... could the authors state what
differences were found? Also, the authors said that tDCS is a less invasive treatment
protocol; although, regarding invasiveness, it would make more sense to group
tDCS/rTMS together and leave ECT/MST out, as these interventions require seizures.
5) The authors could add one sentence stating the importance of their tDCS finding.
As tDCS is less expensive than rTMS or even other interventions (e.g.,
psychotherapy), it should be considered as a clinical therapy for policy markers
outside the research setting.
6) A limitation that should be discussed is that other important parameters such as
number of sessions and dose were not investigated, and they can crucially change
the efficacy of these interventions. Whereas this is standard for pharmacological
trials (most trials ranging from 6-12 weeks and using a standardised dose), these
parameters vary widely across NIBS therapies.