Dear Dr. Park and Colleagues,
Hello, and thank you for the opportunity to review your work. This review is for your paper titled ‘Screening as a cause
of the thyroid cancer epidemic in Korea: evidence from a nationwide study’. Overall, the paper submitted is strong. I
think it is important work and hope to see it come to fruition. I hope you find my comments helpful.
Best –
Louise Davies
White River Junction, Vermont, USA
*Originality – does the paper add to literature?
The work adds to the growing body of literature on overdiagnosis. It brings out in more detail the terrible problem of
overdiagnosis of thyroid cancer that is occurring in Korea and was first brought to light for people in United States by
the New England Journal of Medicine article last year.
The paper focuses quite a bit on the change in the size of detected tumors. This is very similar to the approach that we
took the last time we looked at the SEER data when we published our paper (Davies & Welch) in JAMA Otolaryngology
in 2014. I think this group is missing a great opportunity by focusing on tumor size
I think that this group has very interesting and unsettling data that they could highlight better in the dramatically
increasing incidence of detected regional spread of thyroid cancer to the lymph nodes. Presuming that the regional
spread of disease is also a product of overdiagnosis, these results call into question our current thinking about how we
might best manage thyroid cancer overdiagnosis. In the thyroid cancer field, the discussions right now are about
whether we can monitor cancers of one cm, or 1.5 cm. If it turns out we also need to be thinking about whether
people with regional spread should be observed, that is a big shift in thinking. Focusing on the importance of the fact
that we are detecting regional spread of disease without a change in mortality would really be a an important new
piece of data.
*Importance to this journal’s readership – clinicians / patients / policy makers…?
Presuming that the authors agree with my suggestion of how they should refocus this paper to point out the dramatic
increase in the detection of regional involvement that still does not increase mortality, I think this paper would be very
important. If they feel it is important to maintain a focus on tumor size, it will still out a lot, but it will not be as
impactful.
*Scientific reliability – is the question clearly defined / appropriately answered?
The research question is clearly defined. There are some issues with the presentation of results that need to be cleared
up
*Overall design – adequate?
The design is adequate.
*Participants – adequately described / conditions defined?
The participants are adequately described
The conditions under study are adequately defined
*Methods – adequately described / consistent with reporting standards?
The methods lacked some key details that would be helpful to most readers.
First, the staging system is the AJCC staging system, not TNM. It should be called the AJCC sixth edition, not the TNM
sixth stage.

The use of the SEER summary stage variable requires explanation in the form of a clear definition of local, regional,
and distant. Only those of us who work closely with SEER data know what it means, and in fact the definition of local,
regional and distant varies by tumor site. Therefore, it is really important to indicate what exactly constitutes ‘regional
spread’ in the seer summary data variable for thyroid cancer. Specifically, I would guess that regional spread means
involvement of lymph nodes. If this is the case, there is potentially a problem with table one. Regional lymph node
involvement in table 1 does not appear to have change substantially between 1999 and 2008, but the seer summary
stage for regional steadily increased from 1999 to 2008. This suggests that either the definition is not what I thought
it was for thyroid cancer, or there’s an error in the table. The mismatch between the Seer summary stage numbers for
table 1 and table 2 also feels unsettling. The numbers are being expressed differently – one is case numbers and the
other is age standardized incidence rates, but somehow I feel like they should probably match up better than they do.
*Results – answer question / are credible / are well presented?
The results are somewhat confusing in places because the data that are presented visually do not always match data
that are reported in the results text. For example, the authors refer on page 11 to a supplementary table 2. This is
said to be data on regional lymph node involvement over time by tumor size. There is no such table in the data set,
and even looking to see if something was mislabeled, I could not find any display of these data. This is too bad,
because I’m very interested in seeing these data.
Table 1 is clear and useful. Table 2 also provides useful data. Figure 1 is helpful, but might benefit from a clear divider
to separate the screen detected plots from the clinical detected and total. I personally find figures 2A and 2B to be
very hard to interpret. It needs a label on the Y axis, but also I’m not sure what I’m supposed to get from this figure.
It may need a different method of illustration. Supplementary figure 1 should be part of the primary data in my
opinion. Even though it is a familiar figure to many, it is still very striking and helps to place the problem of
overdiagnosis in perspective.

*Interpretation and Conclusions – warranted by / sufficiently focused on the data?
The interpretation is warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data. The message is clear.
*References – up to date / relevant
References are up to date
References are relevant
*Abstract/summary/key messages – all consistent / accurately reflect the paper?
The abstract, conclusions, key messages all accurately reflect what the paper says.
*Grammar and language – acceptable?
There are some grammar and English language issues to address, they are minor.