Overall, the study is well written with comprehensive sets of statistical analyses. The manuscript examines differences in
mortality risk in breast cancer survivors taking tamoxifen and strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (SSRI antidepressants:
paroxetine, fluoxetine) versus those exposed to SSRIs that are not CYP2D6 inhibitors. The study addresses an important
issue in survivors’ care-i.e., guidance on SSRI treatment decisions for women who are taking tamoxifen. Prior studies
suggest that certain SSRIs can lower tamoxifen’s effectiveness in reducing breast cancer recurrence.
The study is retrospective cohort using secondary data from 5 claims databases in the U.S. The subjects from the 5
claims database were then divided into two groups: those who prescribed SSRIs after tamoxifen initiation, and those
who were exposed to SSRIs prior to tamoxifen initiation. The statistical analysis was thorough and included a couple of
sensitivity analyses, all of which produced similar results. Of note, all-cause mortality is examined between SSRIexposed groups (CYP2D6 inhibitors vs. non-inhibiting), thus increasing comparability of the study groups. Overall, no
increased mortality was observed in the group exposed to paroxetine or fluoxetine compared to those who took the
other SSRIs. This finding is consistent with other studies that have recently examined breast cancer recurrence.
Although it does not diminish the manuscript, the Discussion could address other potential limitations to help with the
results’ interpretation. Some suggestions include:
Selection of all-cause mortality as the end-point (versus breast cancer mortality).
Methods: the 5 claims database have >100million patients, but the Abstract and
Methods should include the N of the females who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the study (Cohort 1: N=5828
new users of tamoxifen; Cohort 2: N=8465).
Although ICD9 coding is used to identify breast cancer and stage at diagnosis, the validity/reliability of using ICD9 for
staging is not mentioned (path reports are the gold standard for this information, but not available in the claims
databases). Also with ICD9, it is difficult to distinguish if the codes are indicative of incident disease, second primary
cancer of the opposite breast, or history of cancer (e.g., subjects might have been initially diagnosed with DCIS and later
developed invasive disease for which they were then prescribed tamoxifen), so the cohorts might contain a mixed group
of breast cancer patients.
The fraction of women with DCIS (Stage 0 disease who are at low risk of breast cancer death) is very high in the cohorts
compared to national SEER statistics. Given the large number of with Stage 0 disease (who are low risk of mortality),
could this have affected the HRs? Can the Table 2 include the HRs of models excluding women with DCIS (or provide
absolute rates of mortality excluding women with Stage 0 disease in another table)? Also, breast conserving therapy is
the recommended treatment for early stage breast cancer, but missing as a variable in Table 1.
Is it possible the short mean duration to tamoxifen could have partially contributed to the non-association?
Minor points:
• Typos (endoxifen; not edoxifen); statins (not satins, Table 1).
• Table 1: contains many variables, some of which may not be germane to the aim (e.g., site of the breast lesion).
• Table 1: The Appendix includes ICD9 codes for Stages III-IV, but Table 1 is missing the distribution of these stages.
Note, mammography is listed under BC treatment, but it is used for screening and surveillance – was this variable used
in the analysis?