The authors present a clinical trial evaluating the benefits of labor induction vs. expectant
management at 41 weeks. This is a large and well done trial regarding an important topic
relevant to present obstetric care and decision making. My comments are as follows:
1. Abstract/introduction – the authors state that pregnancy complications begin to rise at 40
weeks, but there are also data that suggest they may rise earlier (i.e., for some after 39
weeks). This is not a major issue, but for accuracy, such literature should be cited.
2. Abstract – the definition for metabolic acidosis should be specified in the abstract (as pH
is).
3. “what is already known on this topic”: the authors state that the optimal time for offering
induction is not know – but this study does not provide the ability to know the optimal time,
as it do not evaluate different thresholds (e.g., might 40 be even better than 41)? Could
they clarify this point?

4. “what this study adds”: Although I agree that the finding of stillbirth reduction is very
valuable, it is not clear to me why (based on other literature such as the other recent trials
of labor induction vs. expectant management at term, such as those in the US and UK) that
labor induction should/could not also be offered earlier than 41 weeks. This trial shows that
41 is a reasonable time, but other trials show earlier times may be reasonable too – this is
not to say there is one right answer, but I wonder if a more general recommendation could
be made that takes into account the results of this trial in the context of other relevant work.
5. Introduction – if complications rise after 40 weeks, why would it not make more sense to
plan for IOL at 40 weeks (or evaluate that in a trial) than at 41 weeks? It might help in the
introduction to make clear why the 41 weeks was chosen instead of an earlier time.
6. Methods – the authors will need to justify at some point the selection of Apgar < 7 at 5
minutes for inclusion in the primary component, given it is not known to be highly associated
with any significant adverse neonatal outcome. This seems particularly incongruent given
that the other outcomes in the composite are so much worse in severity.
7. Methods – was the size of the fixed blocks known to the investigators, and if so, why was
a fixed block size chosen, particularly for a open label study?
8. Methods – can the authors make clear what they mean by the drop out rate? Women
randomized who then were lost entirely? Or who didn’t follow the plan?
9. Methods – it would help in the methods to specify the subgroups and whether they were
chosen a priori.
10. Results – I don’t believe it is meant that a primary cesarean (meaning a first cesarean)
was had by only 0.4%. Does this phrase mean a scheduled (no labor) cesarean?
11. Results – duration of active labor. How was this defined and how could it be known with
certainty given that no standard examinations were performed for all participants? It seems
like an outcome less prone to ascertainment bias, such as time in L&D, would be preferable.
12. Results – please define what “failed induction” means.
13. Results/interpretation – the authors should consider (and note), with regard to
endometritis, that (1) there is a very real chance of type I error given the many comparisons
that were made and (2) in an open label study, an outcome such as this one may be prone
to ascertainment bias.
14. Interpretation – the authors seem to not to put into context the several other studies
(the US trial, the UK trial, as just two) that suggest that induction even earlier than 41
weeks makes sense from an outcomes standpoint. I don’t want to imply that they need to
clearly endorse such a strategy, but in the discussion, it seems that these studies are
discussed but then there is no clear reason why the recommendation is that labor induction
should be offered at 41 weeks but not earlier. I would suggest that this trial should be put in
the context of others and some approach to synthesis of the results for a larger-context
recommendation should be made.
