Transplantation is the preferred method of treatment in end stage renal disease because of
prolonging life of the patients and improving quality of their lives. Due to the modern
immunosuppressive protocols, the incidence of acute rejection episodes in patients after
kidney transplantation decreases, but chronic allograft dysfunction remains the main cause
of organ function loss. Long-term changes in transplanted kidney depend on many factors
e.g.: HLA compatibility, age and sex of the donor, PRA, delayed graft function (DGF),
immunosuppressive treatment, acute rejection episodes, infections, arterial hypertension
and obesity of the recipient. It is considered that kidney allograft function in the first month
after transplantation is a predictor of its long-term outcome. Currently, there is lack of
adequate risk-stratification system that would include not only clinical, but also genetic
factors and that could be used internationally. This manuscript is addressing very important
needs in the field of kidney transplantation.
Recruitment of derivation cohort included the use of a standardized protocol to ensure
harmonization. Was such a protocol used in the case of validation cohorts recruitment?
When calculating the risk, the authors included factors (listed in Appendix), which in the
earlier studies proved to be significantly related to the transplantation outcome. My only
remark concerns the ‘delay between dialysis and transplantation’. Do the authors mean the
length of dialysis treatment prior to transplantation (dialysis exposure)?
The statistical tests used were adequate.
Can the authors explain more precisely why they chose to work on 5 prognostic risk groups
and not on a smaller or larger number of potential risk groups? What does the 'reasonable
spread of risk' mean in this case?
An important confirmation of the obtained results is the analysis of the iBox risk prediction
scores in therapeutic randomized controlled clinical trials.
Despite the very significant advantages of iBox and the inclusion of many risk factors for
graft loss, it lacks the consideration of genetic factors, which are now widely described and
proven to have a significant impact on transplantation outcome. This means that iBox will
require modifying or adding another risk stratification system that takes into account genetic
factors. Although this is a limitation of this study, it does not have a significant impact on the
quality of the current publication.
This study provides a novel tool for worldwide implementation. Although this tool will
probably need further improvement (because of growing field of epigenetics), it is an
important addition for clinical practice. My recommendation is to accept this manuscript with
minor revision.
