This manuscript is a timely simulation analysis of high sugar foods, with comparisons to
taxes on SSBs. The paper comes after the implementation of several SSB taxes across the
world, including Mexico, Finland, the UK, and the US and uses 2 separate data sources –
one for purchases and another on dietary consumption and weight measures. The paper is
written in a straightforward manner, with the outcomes described well. Several concerns
emerged:
1) Page 4, Intro – better to use “people first” language, such as “people with obesity”
rather than the word/adjective “obese.” Increasingly, this is the most accepted way to
refer to obesity.
2) Page 5, Methods – a 100% pass-through is highly unlikely, based on other prior
published studies in the US (including Berkeley and Philadelphia). A more modest
pass-through is likely a better assumption.
3) Page 5, Methods – a 25% voltage drop in sample size is quite high. Could authors
provide a flow diagram to show more precisely why some patients were excluded? Also, it
seems to be a major limitation to have no information on foods consumed outside of the
home, esp considering that most of the snacks modeled are consumed outside of the
home. Further, why use 2012-13 data, rather than more current? Is more current data not
available? Lastly, why no use of age in the analysis – it does seem that the Kantar sources
has this information (perhaps not gender?).
4) Page 5, Methods – almost no information is provided about the National Diet and
Nutrition Survey – no citation either I don’t think. Need more information about
demographics, how representative of UK population, how collected, types of information
available, especially for those of us not familiar with this data source.
5) Page 6, Methods – a static model of weight change doesn’t reflect the latest data from
Kevin Hall and others on dynamic changes in weight – likely better to use these models,
which are more accurate reflections of true weight loss with calorie reduction
6) Pages 6 to 7, Results – when describing the results as they pertain to Figure 1, there is
some repetition, referring in different ways to response by weight class and income.
7) Page 8, Results – the predicted change in calories from a SSB tax seems to contradict
prior modeling work published in BMJ (and other journals) – worth a comment about why
this change might be lower than prior studies. Perhaps, as discussed below, this relates to
the very small mean intake of SSBs found in the data.
8) General results comment – limited discussion of own price elasticities; would be helpful
to discuss these and in discussion contrast with other studies.

9) Appendix table 1b – I’m very surprised to see the elasticity for meat being so high,
rivaling elasticities for SSBs. This seems unlikely, considering meat is typically a staple.
Other staples seem missing like grains.
10) Appendix table 1c – No comment on wildly different mean total daily kcal consumption
from high to low income. These major differences suggest large amounts of missing
information for those with the lowest counts – high income group. The lower amounts
fruit/vege kcals for high income group seems unlikely. SSB kcal/day amounts also seem
very low.
11) Appendix 2 – This table highlights the lack of information about cross-elasticities. Why
would an increase in price of SSBs lead to higher BMI for high income? There is no
discussion at all about which substitutions would/could lead to this. Perhaps this is related
to underestimates for SSB purchase overall.