Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting work. IPD meta-analyses are not an easy
undertaking, and it is encouraging to see the authors have obtained and synthesised IPD from over
100,000 patients and 15 studies. This is commendable. The authors conclude that their data indicate
that genetic risk and dietary fat quality are each associated with T2D incidence. But there is no evidence
to support tailoring dietary fat quality recommendations to individual T2D genetic risk (i.e. because there
was no interaction).
I would like to recommend the authors revise their article after addressing the following comments and
concerns.
1) The genetic risk score was created (GRS), though I am still not clear about exactly how.
- “The GRS was generated by summing the number of risk alleles at each genetic variant weighted by
the respective allelic effect sizes on risk of T2D (log transformed odds ratio estimates) from the largest
published genome-wide association meta-analysis” – this is not clear to me; why not simply adjust for
these genetic factors in the analysis, rather than create an (unvalidated) risk score. At least in
sensitivity analysis, I would also suggest this is investigated.
2) Also, I think the weighting approach needs further explanation, so that it could be replicated by
others. Perhaps in a supplementary material? This is an IPD meta-analysis, with clustering by study (and
potential heterogeneity in effects across studies). How was heterogeneity across studies accounted for
when creating the score? Or perhaps as the weights are derived from external data, this does not
matter?

3) Was imputation of missing data done in each study separately (to correctly preserve clustering and
heterogeneity)? I think it was, but just make this more explicit.
4) In the main analysis, GRS and fat are assumed to have linear effects, but this may not be the case.
Indeed, their interaction may also be non-linear. A multivariate meta-analysis of splines could be used
to investigate this, within the 2-stage IPD meta-analysis framework [1, 2] The authors must consider
non-linear trends in their revision, as otherwise perhaps they are missing non-linear associations.
5) The authors use a fixed effect meta-analysis, which assumed effects are the same across studies.
Given the heterogeneity in observational studies, I do not agree with this assumption. They are from
different countries, using different methods of measurement, and follow up periods, etc. At the very
least, we need some assurance that a random effects approach leads to comparable findings
6) I-squared is a very poor measure of heterogeneity; it is misleading.[3] Simply estimate and report
the heterogeneity itself (between-study variance).
7) The meta-regression uses dichotomised variables (e.g. mean age > 55 years or < 55 years), which is
arbitrary and loses power. Also such analyses are severely prone to across study confounding, so the
analyses have little credibility. I suggest they are removed or severely downplayed. If included, at least
also consider age as continuous.
8) What is the ‘joint meta-analysis method’? A multivariate meta-analysis? Please explain and justify.
9) Some details on the length of time to obtain and clean IPD was be welcome.
10) The authors do not investigate non-proportional hazards; that is, whether the hazard ratio of
interest is a constant over time. This must be addressed.
11) Often the authors use the term relative risk, but do they mean hazard ratio?
12) Peter’s test – I thought this was specific to odds ratios, requiring the 2 by 2 tables? Perhaps I am
wrong. Debray test is specific to hazard ratios.[4] (this is perhaps a minor point)
13) Authors say that missing studies will not be due to reporting bias, as they are missing in areas of
high significance. But I disagree, looking at sup fig 3, many of the ‘missing’ studies would fall in the
white non-significant regions. Please can they check this again.
14) The interaction analyses are poorly reported, both in the results (just p-values given) and in the
table 3, where p-values are given and just the direction of interaction effect is reported. What are the
summary interaction estimates and CIs?
15) “Meta-regressions analyses were conducted to examine the impact of continuous mean age and BMI
of each cohort on the interaction between fat” – but why look at mean age, when the authors have the
IPD and so can assess the interaction between INDIVIDUAL age and the GRS-fat interaction? The
meta-regression is prone to confounding and ecological bias, whereas the within-study information is
less prone to confounding.[5, 6] As mentioned, I am not sure the meta-regression analyses add
important information.
16) The authors excluded participants who reported implausible baseline energy intake (< 500 or >
4,500 kcal/d), and participants who had missing genetic or dietary fat quality data. Can the authors
clarify why they were excluded, rather than included as part of the multiple imputation analysis?

17) “With the available sample size, we had 88% statistical power to detect an interaction effect size of
1.04 HR on T2D risk (type 1 error rate set at 0.05)” – do the authors have a reference for this
calculation? Power calculations are awkward in this setting, given the clustering and potential for
heterogeneity. It is even more important to report the interaction estimates and CIs in Table 3, as
otherwise the CIs may be wide, and the conclusion about a lack of interaction may actually be due to
low power. Indeed, can we also see forest plots of the interaction estimates please.
In summary, there are quite a few points for clarification and/or updating. I sincerely hope the authors
find my comments helpful and that they lead to improvements. I re-emphasise that the BMJ should
recognise the considerable achievement by the authors to have obtained this IPD and undertaken the
meta-analysis, and provide a comprehensive and well-written report of their work. I am confident the
authors can address the comments raised, and I look forward to reading the revision.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
Reference List
1.
Gasparrini A, Armstrong B, Kenward MG. Multivariate meta-analysis for non-linear and other
multi-parameter associations. Stat Med 2012; 31: 3821-3839.
2.
Gasparrini A, Armstrong B. Multivariate meta-analysis: A method to summarize non-linear
associations. Stat Med 2011; 30: 2504-2506.
3.
Rucker G, Schwarzer G, Carpenter JR, Schumacher M. Undue reliance on I(2) in assessing
heterogeneity may mislead. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008; 8: 79.
4.
Debray TPA, Moons KGM, Riley RD. Detecting small-study effects and funnel plot asymmetry in
meta-analysis of survival data: A comparison of new and existing tests. Res Synth Methods 2018; 9:
41-50.
5.
Berlin JA, Santanna J, Schmid CH, Szczech LA, Feldman HI. Individual patient- versus
group-level data meta-regressions for the investigation of treatment effect modifiers: ecological bias
rears its ugly head. Stat Med 2002; 21: 371-387.
6.
Schmid CH, Stark PC, Berlin JA, Landais P, Lau J. Meta-regression detected associations
between heterogeneous treatment effects and study-level, but not patient-level, factors. J Clin Epidemiol
2004; 57: 683-697.
