Lind et al. investigated whether HbA1c<6.5% gives less risk for retinopathy and
nephropathy than less tight control in 10,398 children and adults with type 1 diabetes from
the Swedish National Diabetes Registry. Results showed no difference in risk of
retinopathy and nephropathy at HbA1c levels below 6.5%, but increased risk for severe
hypoglycaemia, compared to 6.5-6.9%, with severe complications (proliferative
retinopathy and macroalbuminuria) mainly occurring at HbA1c > 8.6% and milder
complications (any retinopathy and microalbuminuria) increasing in risk above HbA1c
7.0%.
This is the first study investigating the relationship between HbA1c and microvascular
complication in a large sample over a long follow-up period. This issue is of great
importance for general readers, including patients and their families and policymakers, and
is appropriate for BMJ.
The paper is well-written and easy to read. Methodology, including statistical analysis, is
appropriate and adequately described and results are clearly presented and discussed. In
particular, two major points are highlighted by the Authors in the discussion which
summarize the main take-home messages, i.e., that risk of microvascular complications is
similar, but that of hypoglycaemia is increased for HbA1c levels below 6.5% compared to
6.5-6.9%, whereas risk of advanced complications is increased for HbA1c levels >8.6%.
These findings imply that lower (<6.5%) HbA1c values should not be recommended
because they increase the risk of hypoglycaemia without reducing the risk of
microangiopathy and that very high HbA1c levels should be lowered at least to moderately
elevated levels in addition to targeting HbA1c. References are up to date and relevant.
I have only two concerns on this outstanding work, which the Authors should address:

1.
In the Abstract, Summary, Introduction, and Discussion they highlight that targets
for glycaemic control differ for children and adults in various developed countries and that
paediatric targets are usually higher than adults ones. However, they do not provide data
on the difference, if any, between the paediatric and adult population, especially
concerning the possible increased risk of retinopathy with lower HbA1c values.
2.
They analysed HbA1c data over 8-20 years until 2017, a period characterized by
significant changes in the management of type 1 diabetes, with the introduction of modern
insulin analogues and continuous glucose monitoring, which may have improved glycaemic
control in a significant proportion of those patients who developed the disease two decades
ago, when these tools were not available. However, no data are presented regarding the
impact of different trends over time in glycaemic control on the development of
microvascular complications, i.e., stably poor or good, variable with significant HbA1c
variability (which is associated with an increased risk for microvascular complications),
initially poor then good, or viceversa.
Another (minor) point concerns the definition of micro and macroalbuminuria. It is unclear
whether the ranges of values in parentheses (in mg/g and mg/l) were alternative
definitions. In particular, I do not understand if values in mg/l were also used for
classifying patients as micro or macroalbuminuric, which may introduce a classification
bias.