o Are the study's aims and the issue and questions that the paper addresses relevant and important to you as a patient?
Do you think it would be relevant to other patients like you? What about carers?
Interesting focus of the study to research the effectiveness of CT in a randomised comparison with ICA. From patient’s
perspective I do think that the results of this study are relevant, taking into account the results of this study that CT
reduced minor procedural complications compared with ICS in patients with intermediate pretest probability of CAD, and
the length of stay was shortened using CT instead of ICA. Minor procedural complications and shorter length of stay, is
reducing costs and a lesser burden for the patient and carers.
o Are there any areas that you find relevant as a patient or carer that are missing or should be highlighted?
As mentioned in the article the study was conducted in a single centre and the performance of CT may be different when
conducted in clinical routine, which is a clear limitation. What I really miss in the article, from patient point of view, is a
description how to implement the results of this study into practice or, what the next steps are after this study. Perhaps,
the next step is to scale up the study / to conduct the study in various centres and to take into account the difference of
CT performance conducted in clinical practice.
o Would the treatment, intervention studied, or guidance given work in practice? Is it feasible? What challenges might
patients face that should be considered?
It is a clear limitation that the study is carried out in a single centre (and not in various centres), furthermore I miss a
clear description how these study results are implemented into practice taken into account that CT performance is
conducted different in clinical routine.
o Are the outcomes that are being measured in the study or described in the paper the same as the outcomes that are
important to patients? Are there others that should have been considered?
Lesser minor complications and shorter length of stay is what every patient whish for, however it would have been
better to involve patient’s from the start of the study and to ask their opinion about the set-up of this study.
o Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper to make it more useful for doctors
to share and discuss with patients? Patient participation; why aren’t patient requested to give their view about this
topic? How did they research the patients’ whishes and their needs / focus for this research question?