Open peer review statement
The manuscript was reviewed by Dr. Tinh-Hai Collet, MD, Lausanne University Hospital,
Switzerland, who has no financial conflicts of interest to declare.
General comments for the Editor and the Authors
This well-written manuscript reports a detailed analysis of dietary fat intake and the
association with CVD and cancer mortality among participants of the NHS and HPFS
cohorts who self-reported diabetes. The analysis is well done and the manuscript gives a
balanced account of the methods, results and conclusions, while the discussion puts very
well the study in perspective with other studies.
I feel that this manuscript would be interesting to the BMJ readers, after minor revision
and comments below. I hope the authors will find them useful:
1. I find the modeling of “fat replacement” with carbohydrates or other types of fat very
interesting, however one should not forget this is a model and not an actual replacement
of dietary fat as in an interventional RCT.
I understand the abstract is limited in words, but the terms “isocalorically replacing”
(P2L26 = page 2, line 26), “replacement” (P2L19, P3L2), the abstract conclusions (P3L5-7)
and the “What this study adds” box (P4L12) should be carefully rephrased to avoid giving
the false sense that this was an intervention study. These are only associations.
2. I suspect (and hope) that there can be major changes in lifestyle after a CVD or cancer
event, contrary to the statement in the methods (P7L18-19). For example, people who
suffered a CVD will undergo cardiovascular readaptation, dietary advices, increase their
physical activity and other changes, so all these interventions will change behavior and I
am not sure that assuming no change in dietary fat intake is correct.
Specific comments
- Abstract P2L20-21 “comparing extreme quartiles”: Please clarify whether it was Q1 vs
Q4, or Q4 vs Q1? In other words, which quartile is considered the ref group?
- Methods P5L14-15 “after the exclusions”: It would be easier to follow this paragraph by
showing the flow of the study participants in a figure. This would also inform the reader of
potential biases in those who did not fill all data.
- Results P10L12 “on average older”: Following the age row in Table 1 (NHS section), it
does not look like a linear trend, because Q2 and Q3 were actually younger (not
significantly) than Q1. So this looks like a U or J-shaped curve.
- Results P10L16: “were” to replace by “are”.
- Table 1: It would help readers if the range of PUFA intake were indicated, similar to what
is done in Table 2 but in the column heads.
- Table 2: To follow the text and Table 2 more easily, it would make sense to show data on
PUFA first, then MUFA, then saturated fat, then trans fatty acids.