I like this paper and it has a good face validity !

a few important issues to address:
One of the main findings is that 'The unadjusted rate of safety alerts and recalls for devices approved first in EU was
27% (62/232) versus 14% (11/77) for devices approved first in the US'. There is a stong conclusion based on this.
However, this might be related to the threshold to issue alert rather than evidence of safety. To ensure this is correct
one should do good systematic review on all products but that would be a huge task.
Still we know that FDA is less likely to issue alert and more likely to issue request to investigate the signals-- are these
taken into account? also in some instances Europe has better system of registries to generate safety signals-- can you
please research all of these? i'm worried that this conclusion will be misleading..
other conclusions are justified.
the authors cite a paper on TAVR related to non-operable patients but summarized it wrong-- the citation 6 -- 'for
example, transcatheter aortic8valve replacement was developed as an alternative to aortic valve surgery for treatment
of symptomatic aortic stenosis, and has been associated with higher rates
of survival than surgical aortic8valve replacement' -please correct this statement.
the authors site many examples of device safety issues found recently in this statement 'The recent emergence of safety
issues involving implanted devices in Europe9,10,11 and the US12,13,14 has renewed calls to revisit the appropriate
trade-offs between device access and risk.
I'm surprised they don’t cite the analytic papers on metal on metal failure in BMJ, lancet and editorials for them
highlighting the failures of regulation and policy.
there is a statement about 'The European Society of Cardiology and others have called for a centralized system for
evaluating high8risk devices; stronger and more transparent clinical data requirements that incorporate expert medical
advice; and public education on the limitations of the CE mark6.
We advocate for registry of innovations within IDEAL initiative. I can supply reference for this. the IDEAL is international
leader in promoting publishing failed innovations and should be cited-- http://www.ideal-collaboration.net/steeringgroup/.
the statement 'Given poor trial publication rates, patients and clinicians need greater regulatory ransparency to make
informed treatment decisions' the most important conclusion in my opinion.