Dear Editor
Thank you for asking me to review this paper on the "Risk of hypoglycaemia in users of
sulphonylureas without and with renal impairment: a population based cohort study". The paper is
well written but I am afraid I do not think the paper has any original or novel findings which would
affect or change clinical treatment in type 2 diabetes.
1. Originality
The study compares whether treatment with sulphonylureas only in patients with renal failure is
associated with a higher risk of hypoglycaemia when compared to metformin only users with more
renal function.
It is already well established in the field of type 2 diabetes from multiple studies that hypoglycaemia
risk is greater in patients with sulphonylureas (SU) than metformin. It is also well established that
renal failure is an independent risk factor for hypoglycaemia in patients with and without diabetes.
Therefore in my opinion this study is not original or novel.
2. Importance of Work
There are 3 main conclusions from the study
a. Hypoglycaemia events are more common in SU users than metformin users is well established in
patients with normal renal function and therefore the work adds nothing new to this area.
b. Use of SUs with caution in renal function is well established given the association between SU and
hypoglycaemia and the association of renal failure with hypoglycaemia and so the study does not add
anything new to this area. Particular caution of hypoglycaemia with glibenclamide is well known and
glibenclamide is not recommended to use in older type 2 diabetes patients because of its well
established risk of hypoglycaemia. Again therefore there is nothing original in this study.
c. Finally the authors do suggest that the SU gliclazide may be associated with a higher risk of hypos
than previously reported when compared to other SUs but only hypoglycaemic events reported to the
general practitioner are reported in the study and so self recorded hypoglycaemic events are not

recorded in the study and a breakdown of severe versus minor hypoglycaemic events is also not
included and so it is impossible to be definitive about any conclusions about gliclazide and
hypoglycaemia risk.
3. Overall Design of Study
Well written, clear and easy to follow and read.
Large numbers of patients with long follow up
Criticisms of the study would include lack of detail in relation to the reported hypoglycaemic
episodes; only included hypoglycaemic episodes recorded by the GP.
Information on dose was missing in a large proportion of patients which is unfortunate but something
outside of the control of the authors.
4. Participants Studied
Well described with significant detail in relation to their concomitant medication history which
potentially could predispose wot hypoglycaemia events.
I would have liked to have seen a breakdown of the glycated haemoglobin result in the SU only
group as per dose of SU used including the group with no information on the dose.
5. Methods
Study methods are well described and the authors use the well established UK Clinical Practice
Research Datalink
6. Results
a. More hypo events in SU users compared to metformin only, as mentioned this is not surprising but
does answer the research question of the authors
b. Higher the dose of SU greater the risk but information is missing in respect to dose in a significant
proportion of patients
c. The authors comment that CV disease was more prevalent in SU users but SU use was more likely
to be used in patients with lower renal function than metformin. Renal impairment is in itself a risk
factor for CV events. Therefore is the higher risk of CV events observed due to SU use or the renal
impairment. I would have liked to have seen this discussed further in the discussion section of the
paper
d. Limitation of the results is the reporting of hypoglycaemic events, self recorded or self treated
hypo events were not necessarily reported in the study and so the finding in the study that gliclazide
use did not coincide with a significantly lower risk when compared to other SUs has to be interpreted
with caution.
8. Interpretation and Conclusions
All sections of the paper are well written and I commend the authors for this. My criticism of the
paper however is the lack of originality of the findings and the novelty of the paper. As a clinician it is
not surprising to see SUs associated with more hypos than metformin, this is well described. It is
also not surprising to see the hypo risk is greater the higher the dose of the SU, again this is not new
and that the risk of hypos increases as the renal function deteriorates, again this would not come as
a surprise to the practicing clinician.
9. References
I would include the UKPDS study which clearly higher hypo rates in newly diagnosed type 2 patients
on SU compared to metfornm
I am surprised to see a reference quoting uptodate (reference 7)
10. Abstract/Summary well written