Dear Editor and Authors,
I’m pleased to review this interesting article entitled “Appropriate personal protective equipment
protects healthcare professionals from COVID-19”. Authors conducted this study to investigate the
protective effects of PPE against COVID-19. They found PPEs were effective. The topic is interesting and
I have some questions.
1. Is this study prospective or retrospective? If it was a retrospective design, how many HCWs were
recruited to Wuhan? A selection bias may exist because HCWs got infections would stay in the hospitals
to receive treatment, quarantine, and may be critical that they wouldn’t response to study. There is an
obvious difference of infection rates of HCW between present study and previous studies (o% vs 29%,
etc). Appropriate PPE may not be the only reason. Infected HCW who were symptomatic were still
hospitalized thus not returned to their original places.
2. Shortage of PPEs is an important issue during pandemic. The study enrolled HCW worked in Wuhan
during 24Jan~07Apr. A brief description of PPE supply status in present study and previous studies will
help us understand the differences of infectious rates.
3. It would be clearer to summarize the timeline of sampling (3 times of pharyngeal swabs and how
many times of blood tests?). It’s also meaningful to demonstrate the period between first exposure, last
exposure, and tests.
4. The authors declared the patients were severe or critical cases. Did you care patients with mechanical
ventilator in general wards? The standard PPE were the same in regular wards and intensive care units
(Table 2). What’s the differences of regular wards and intensive care units? Patients’ severity? PPE? HCW
to patient ratio? Working hours for each shift?
It’s meaningful to list the HCWs in intensive care units and general wards independently.
5. Did you reuse the PPEs? How about the frequency of changing PPE? In regular wards, all HCWs wear
surgical mask and N95 at the same time? It’s interesting to know your practice in the pandemic. If the
PPE used were different in regular wards and ICU, it’s also helpful to provide some photos to know the
meaning of adequate PPE.
6. Table 1 is confusing. What did you mean by AGPs 100% and non-AGPs 100%? For cumulative
operations, how did you calculate it? For example, the sum was not 100% for tracheal intubation. What
were the numerator and denominator?
7. When we evaluate the effectiveness of PPEs, fluorescent markers were used in previous studies. The
surface of PPE was also positive for nucleic acid tests in previous reports. These tests were not
performed in present study and may be added in the discussion.
8. It’s good to have positive and negative controls of antibody test. It’s also helpful to summarize the
duration between sampling and exposure or illness. Although figure 1 was clear, it seemed there were
less than 80 values in the positive control group in the figure. Therefore, it’s also appreciated to add the
mean and standard deviation of the antibody level. It’s also helpful to calculate the p value between
these groups.
Thank you! Thank you all for combating COVID-19 and I am looking forward to the end of the pandemic.
