The paper is very well written and the analyses well described. The authors have done a very good revision from their
earlier version, and in particular responded well to the truly superb review by Efthimiou. I have some further suggestions
for improvement, though these are relatively minor except for comments about ORs (See below) which need detailed
thought/justification. The analysis methods appear entirely appropriate and in keeping with the current literature. It is
an immense piece of work and very well reported, with excellent appendices.
Major
1) ORs are provided, and I think used to translate back to the absolute risk scale (assuming a particular baseline risk).
The authors are therefore assuming that ORs are close approximation to RRs. But the event %s appear quite high. I
therefore worry that this is not appropriate. Please can the authors justify this, or revise accordingly.
2) Why are ORs relevant here, when the studies have different follow up lengths? Surely hazard ratios would be
preferred. Indeed, the authors often refer to rates, but simply give %s, which are not rates but risks. I worry they are
confusing the two here. They say “The primary efficacy outcome was prevention of advanced metachronous neoplasia,
within 3-5 years of the index colonoscopy” – therefore, it could be that ORs for 3 years are very different to ORs for 5
years? If follow-up length was different for different agents, then this might aversely bias the comparisons? Can the
authors address this please, either as a limitation, or to justify why ORs were used and what time-point they exactly
relate to.
We certainly need to know the time in each study when the OR was measured.
3) A related point, when the absolute risks are presented: what time-point is this the risk of an outcome by?
4) ORs require all patients to be followed until the time-point of analysis. Therefore, how were patients handled who
were censored before the time-point? I don't know whether censoring was an issue or not, but with 3-5 year follow up it
is possible.
Minor
1) SUCRA is an unusual term for the BMJ reader, and the abstract would benefit from either explaining its meaning in
more detail, or removing it.
2) Introduction says: “Network meta-analyses combine direct and indirect evidence to
establish comparative efficacy and safety across a network of RCTs of all agents used in a particular condition” – the
authors should note the assumptions at this point also. We gain more by assuming more.
3) The authors put most of their an analysis description in the supplementary appendix. I strongly suggest this is moved
to the main paper. That is, integrate the ‘emethods’ stats analysis section to the methods of the main paper. There are
many assumptions and explanations therein that are important, and deserve to be in the paper. The BMJ has no word
limit.
4) Figure 1 – why are the number of studies with direct evidence not simply added to the lines?
I hope my comments help the authors improve the article going forward.
Richard Riley, BMJ Statistics Editor.