BMJ-2019-050565
Impact of minimum unit pricing on alcohol purchases in Scotland: a controlled interrupted
time series analysis for 2015-2018"
Many Thanks for the opportunity to review this paper by O’Donnell et al [1] on the initial
impact of MUP in Scotland. I found the paper concise, elegant and very encouraging for
the public health messages that it conveys, particularly around the largest reductions in
purchasing being in the heaviest drinking households. My comments to redress are
relatively minor and restricted to 5, which I have re-pasted below for convenience:
1. Regarding KWP data, it would be of interest to learn how genuinely representative the
socio-economic breakdown of participating households was reflective of the UK population
at large?
2. It would be also be useful to know if there was any differences in particular between
Scotland and England in the participation rate or attrition rates for eligible households, or
at the very least, the checks that were in place to monitor this?
3. In testing for autocorrelation, was the value of the Durbin Watson statistic found to be
exactly 2.0 (which corresponds to no autocorrelation), or in the range 1.5 to 2.5
(considered relatively normal)? [2].
4. For Figure 5 in which the largest apparent increases in price per gram of alcohol
published are seen in the lowest purchasing quintile the differences are not statistically
significant however and fluctuate across income groups, so presumably this simply reflects
low numbers of purchases overall in this group?
5. In Figure 8, within the two highest purchasing quintiles, there appears to be reduction
in weekly expenditure in the highest income groups. It would be interesting to speculate
on whether this might be a result of pre-MUP stockpiling in those with higher disposable
incomes?
I have listed my detailed feedback by section below and very minor suggested edits at the
end. :
Introduction:
The introduction is well written and comprehensively researched, with the most up to date
relevant findings from the UK and internationally that make up the policy backdrop to
minimum unit pricing. These have been well publicised since Stockwell et al’s publication
of the impact of pricing legislation in Canada [3] and subsequent econometric modelling of

the impact of an hypothetical MUP for Scotland by the Sheffield Alcohol Research Group
[4] which as the authors note, the resulting benefits are likely to be conservative.
The aims of the report are timely and well suited for the time period covered, the impact
of MUP on purchasing being the first realistic verifiable check on whether the policy is
having the expected impact. The secondary objectives around differential impact by
beverage type or household income also directly address the key questions and frequently
raised concerns around the potentially regressive economic impact which is
disproportionately borne by more economically disadvantaged consumers.
Methods:
The strengths and safeguards which are built in to the use of Kantar Worldpanel data are
well documented in the methods and provide reassurance for the unfamiliar reader about
the internal validity checks and the broad social representativeness of the survey sample.
Given the monetary-equivalent incentive however, it would be of interest to learn how
genuinely representative the socio-economic breakdown of participating households was
reflective of the UK population at large?
Since the central methodological component of the paper is the interrupted time series
analysis, I have found the checklist (Box 1: Quality Criteria for ITS Designs), from Ramsay
et al [5] to be a helpful guide in reviewing this section and have addressed each of the
quality criteria in relation to the paper below:
1. Did intervention occur independently of other changes over time: Given the short time
frame of the post-intervention study period and effective three year baseline as well as
adjustment for seasonal effects, it is reasonable to conclude that the intervention is the
major change for the period studied, in looking at the differences between household
purchases in Scotland and England.
2. Was intervention likely to affect data collection: The safeguards around the collation of
Kantar data, as outlined by the authors, provide sufficient reassurance that data collection
is unlikely to be affected by the intervention.
3. Was the primary outcome assessed objectively: Again, based on data collection
methods there is no reason for any lack of objectivity in the process.
4. Was the primary outcome was reliable: For the checklist, this is primarily focused on
agreement between different raters / observers, which is not applicable here, but
confidence in the reliability of the impact of changes in purchasing is enhanced by the
close comparability of the results in Table 1, looking at the overall impact and the outputs
of robust analysis 1 and 2 as well as the sensitivity analysis for North of England, the
latter being comparable in terms of socio-economic profile. The North of England
comparison also provides reassurance about the lack of any dilution effect from
cross-border trading.
5. Does data-set cover at least 80% of eligible participants? While safe-guards around the
criteria for inclusion in Kantar data do provide reassurance on completeness of reporting,
it would be useful to know if there was any differences in particular between Scotland and
England in the participation rate or attrition rates for eligible households, or at the very
least, the checks that were in place to monitor this?
6. The shape of the intervention was pre-specified: while this was not made explicit in the
methods, the expected direction of the impact on purchasing was self-evident from the
background and policy context.
7. A rationale for the number of data-points was described: Mean weekly household
purchases for a period of 208 weeks is a reassuringly significant length of time to be able
to detect any consistent underlying trends in the years preceding the introduction of the
MUP policy in week 174.
8. Was the analysed appropriately using time series techniques? Since the major threat to
validity with relatively long time series studies is positive autocorrelation, the authors
have tested for this and found it to be absent (using the Durbin Watson test). It would be
useful however to report the value of the Durban Watson statistic in the results section.
Was the value found to be exactly 2.0 (which corresponds to no autocorrelation), or in the
range 1.5 to 2.5 (considered relatively normal)? [2].
Results:

The results section is notable for the many seemingly dramatic effects of the MUP on
comparable alcohol purchasing patterns with the most striking illustrations of this being
Figures 1 and 2. The steeply increasing trend after the initial impact in Figure 2 however
does raise the very real question about longevity of the effect, which is appropriately
picked up in the discussion section. For the analyses which are stratified according to
income and purchasing quintiles (Figures 4 to 8), the results are largely in line with what
would be expected given the well-established higher price-elasticities for lower income
groups in other commodities, who for the most part are the most responsive to the price
changes. The largest reductions in alcohol purchased seen in the highest purchasing
quintile (Figure 4) is particularly encouraging.
A number of apparent anomalies in these results are worthy of comment:
In Figure 5, the largest apparent increases in price per gram of alcohol published are seen
in the lowest purchasing quintile and the largest increase within this group is seen in the
lowest income quintile. The differences are not statistically significant however and
fluctuate across income groups, so presumably this simply reflects low numbers of
purchases overall in this group?
In Figure 8, within the two highest purchasing quintiles, there appears to be reduction in
weekly expenditure in the highest income groups. It would be interesting to speculate on
whether this might be a result of pre-MUP stockpiling in those with higher disposable
incomes?
Discussion:
The points highlighted around the successful impact of the policy in terms of targeting
cheaper higher strength beverages are well supported by the results in the paper. In lines
51-52 on page 9, the authors state that: “..lower income households were nor
differentially affected by greater expenditure on alcohol” Is the explanation for this that
these groups were spending the same amount, but simply buying less? If this is the most
likely explanation, it would be useful to spell that out.
On the strengths of the paper, I agree completely that changes in price per gram of
alcohol and in grams of alcohol published makes for a powerful combination in appraising
the impact of MUP in Scotland. Regarding the restriction to off-trade sales possibly leading
to an inflated effect in lower income groups, the authors are justified in concluding that
this is likely to minimal, given the predominant likely impact of MUP on the off-trade.
The concerns over whether economically deprived heavy drinkers may divert household
budgets from essential items in order to maintain (higher priced) alcohol consumption are
very valid and will no doubt continue to form the basis of describing MUP as a ‘regressive
policy’, so this will be an important follow up for the more in depth purchasing studies
which are described as currently planned or ongoing.
Finally the seven months is of course a short-time interval and it will be important as the
authors maintain to monitor the longer term impacts on purchasing patterns and
ultimately on health outcomes.
Minor edits (lines from left column in margin):
Page 4
Line 7:
missing ‘a’ in to ‘a’ wide range)
Line 11: …series of meta-analyses has confirmed rather than ‘confirm’
Page 10
Line 33/34: Data were obtained as opposed to are obtained
References
1. O'Donnell A, et al: Impact of minimum unit pricing on alcohol purchases in Scotland: a
controlled interrupted time series analysis for 2015-2018. BMJ Submission 2019.
2. Field AP: Discovering statistics using SPSS: and sex and drugs and rock ‘n’ roll., 3 edn.
London: Sage; 2009.
3. Stockwell T, Auld MC, Zhao J, Martin G: Does minimum pricing reduce alcohol
consumption? The experience of a Canadian province. Addiction 2012, 107(5):912-920.
4. Purshouse RC, Meier PS, Brennan A, Taylor KB, Rafia R: Estimated effect of alcohol
pricing policies on health and health economic outcomes in England: an epidemiological
model. The Lancet 2010, 375(9723):1355-1364.

5. Ramsay CR, Matowe L, Grilli R, Grimshaw JM, Thomas RE: Interrupted time series
designs in health technology assessment: lessons from two systematic reviews of
behaviour change strategies. Int J Technol Assess Health Care 2003, 19(4):613-623.
John Mooney
June 2019
