Overall I felt that this paper was relevant and accessible to patients and their carers. Diagrams and tables were clearly
annotated, citations were well referenced, and the flow of the manuscript was structured in a logical and readable
manner.
The aims of the study are admirable - to reduce the incidences of over-treatment as a result of inappropriate use of
post-cancer imaging, when this does not improve the disease specific survival (DSS) rate. Knowing when to treat and
when to apply "watchful-waiting" reduces harmful exposure to repeat surgeries and treatments with their attendant
risks.
With that said, I am a little concerned that the tone of the paper appears to suggest that there should be a reduction
or cessation of all methods of imaging, even though it states that there is an improvement in DSS with the use of
RadioActive Iodine (RAI). I would be interested as to what the rationale for recommending against an imaging
technique that has been shown to improve DSS is.
A second consideration is that although some patients may prefer to be treated once and then discharged, some other
patients may prefer to be followed up later. The recommendation against follow up imaging would appear to leave
these patients somewhat abandoned, and although there is a good argument to be made against ultrasound and PET
scanning, the same does not appear to hold true for RAI. Do the researchers feel that they have considered the cohort
of patients that would prefer to have follow up adequately, when their own data suggests that RAI is both sensitive
and specific enough to differentiate between recurrence that needs treatment and pathology that does not?
Otherwise, I feel that this paper proves very effectively that there is a case to be made that excessive monitoring can
lead to unnecessary interventions, and is a step in the right direction in redressing the balance of harmful overtreatment. The question moving forwards is how to find the balance that will produce optimal results for the
individuals affected.