The meta analysis by Louisa Sukkar et al investigates the clinical effects of ischaemic conditioning
in people undergoing invasive procedures such as cardiac surgery and per cutaneous coronary
intervention.
Is the article important? Yes this article is important as in my opinion it summarizes well the sum
of evidence regarding this topic.
Will it help our readers to make better decisions and, if so, how? I am unsure whether this article
will help doctors in their usual clinical practice. So far ischemic conditioning is not recommended in
any patients care and it has been mostly investigated in therapeutic strategies to prevent
myocardial ischemia reperfusion injuries during heart surgery or PCI for myocardial infarction
reperfusion. The results and conclusion of this article merely encourage researcher to conduct
future large scale clinical trial with robust methodology to investigate hard clinical outcomes. It
may be more appropriate in a journal focusing on research in this field.

Will the article add enough to existing knowledge? This is questionable as all recent large published
clinical trials investigating ischemic conditioning (myocardial conditioning and remote conditioning)
failed to show any convincing clinical benefit. The novelty of this meta analysis are the weak
signals observed by the authors regarding stroke and AKI.
Does the article read well and make sense? Does it have a clear message? Yes the article reads
well and makes sense. The message is clear. In my opinion supplementary analysis investigating
and comparing the effects in sub groups of patients with high ischemia reperfusion assault such as
PCI for acute myocardial infarction versus lower assault such as planned cardiac surgery may be
interesting. (see comments below)
Originality — does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what
does it add? Please cite relevant references to support your comments on originality. The major
originality of this article is the systematic review and meta analysis encompassing a large variety
of trial reporting clinical outcomes. It gives the opportunity to analyse data on a very large
population 14.014 participants. This is a major reason to see this article published.
Importance of the work to general readers — does this work matter to clinicians, researchers,
policymakers, educators, or patients? Will it help our readers to make better decisions and, if so,
how? Is a general medical journal the right place for it?
In my opinion this work won't change anything for everyday clinical practice. It is very interesting
for clinicians and researchers involved in the field of ischemic conditioning and cardioprotection
that may conduct future clinical trials. It may also be of value for doctors involved in making
recommendation that may be asked to state whether ischemic conditioning should or should not be
part of future clinical practice in cardiac surgery for exemple. The results of recent clinical trials
(involved in this meta analysis) showed not significant benefit with remote ischemic conditioning.
This work may find a larger audience in a journal specialized in cardiovascular research.
Scientific reliability
Research question — clearly defined and appropriately answered?
Yes
Overall design of study — appropriate and adequate to answer the research question?
Yes
Participants — adequately described, their conditions defined, inclusion and exclusion criteria
described?
Yes
How representative were they of patients whom this evidence might affect?
Participants are those previously enrolled in the clinical trials selected for the meta analysis
Methods — adequately described? Main outcome measure clear? Is the study fully reported in line
with the appropriate reporting statement or checklist (these are all collected and regularly updated
at http://www.equator-network.org/)?
Yes
Was the study ethical (this may go beyond simply whether the study was approved by an ethics
committee or IRB)?
No ethical problem with this meta analysis
Results — answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
Yes
Interpretation and conclusions — warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data?
Yes although the authors may want to compare their results between patients subjected to large
ischemia reperfusion injuries such as reperfused myocardial infarction wit patients exposed to
smaller injuries such as planned cardiac surgery with controlled ischemia duration, use of
cardioplegia to protect the heart, use of isoflurane as cardioprotective agent, ... Previous reports
clearly demonstrated that their was a correlation between initial size of the area at risk (quantity of
organ jeopardized by the ischemia reperfusion injury) and potential benefit of ischemic
conditioning on final damage.
Discussed in the light of previous evidence? Message clear?
yes the results are in keep with previous evidence from the largest clinical trials reporting clinical
outcomes
References — up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
No problem with the references
astract/summary/key messages/what this paper adds — reflect accurately what the paper says?
Yes
Documents in the supplemental files eg checklists for reporting statements eg CONSORT, PRISMA,

and STROBE (see http://www.equator-network.org for other examples and for extensions to
existing statements); and the protocol for an RCT. Do these properly match what is in the
manuscript? Do they contain information that should be better reported in the manuscript, or raise
questions about the work?
i am fine with supplemental files. The PRISMA list is provided.
Additional comments for the authors: Since the authors intended to publish this article in a journal
with a large readership that may not be confident with the physiopathology of ischemia reperfusion
and ischemic conditioning. A brief paragraph regarding the importance of the ischemia reperfusion
process as well as the importance of the area at risk may be helpful for the non specialized reader.
I insist that ischemic conditioning may reduce ischemia reperfusion injuries not ischemia injuries
alone as suggested in the introduction section. In addition the mechanisms involved in the
cardioprotection processes (such as those targeting mitochondria) may be of interest. The authors
could also mention in their discussion that other protective strategies are being investigated in the
same clinical settings such as pharmacologic conditioning.
Minor points : typographic error in table 4 where several studies have no name.
Figure 1 and 2 legends are missing