Tuesday, January 01, 2019
John Fletcher, MB BChir MPH
Associate Editor
BMJ
Fiona Godlee, MD
Editor-in-Chief
BMJ
Dear Drs. Fletcher and Godlee,
Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to review the submission titled
“Long-term Risk of Recurrent Venous Thromboembolism After Stopping Anticoagulant
Therapy for First Unprovoked Venous Thromboembolism: Systematic Review and
Meta-Analysis” by Khan et al.
The authors assessed the risk of recurrent VTE after cessation of anticoagulation within the
first year, and at various subsequent time intervals. The provided subgroup analyses per
sex, and sensitivity analyses by exclusion for some specific patient subgroups. Their results
largely adhered to their previously published study protocol. They concluded that “In
unselected patients with a first unprovoked VTE, the long-term risk of recurrent VTE after
stopping anticoagulation is substantial, reaching 9.7% within the first year and 35.6% at 10
years, with 3.8% of recurrent VTE events being fatal.”

The authors have addressed a very important and clinically-challenging issue. Many of the
authors are among the leaders of clinical thrombosis research. The study methodology is
complex but –overall- well-described. The findings are interesting and will have direct clinical
relevance.
I commend the authors for their efforts and do think that this manuscript will be helpful to
the BMJ readership; including clinicians and investigators. However, prior to publication, the
manuscript will benefit from some modifications and clarifications. I have provided detailed
comments for the authors to consider in revising their manuscript. Once again, I would like
to thank you for giving me the chance to review this interesting submission.
With best regards,
Behnood Bikdeli, MD MS (2019)

TITLE
--According to the Methods applied, it appears that only symptomatic VTE events were
investigated. If so, please revise the title to indicate that (e.g. Long-term Risk of
Symptomatic Recurrent…).

ABSTRACT
--Please remove “unselected” from the Conclusions statement. Patients enrolled in
randomized trials (and even some registries) are highly selected. Also, please consider
trimming the Conclusions section.

INTRODUCTION
--In the section referring to the guidelines, please consider adding the ESC Consensus
Document for the diagnosis and management of DVT:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28329262 (some authors of this manuscript are
among the coauthors).
METHODS
--The authors state that patients with cancer were excluded. Please explain how this was
achieved. For example, if 40 patients within a study had cancer, I am curious how those 40
were excluded. Did the Khan et al request for a re-run of the analyses from the original
study authors?
--Please provide further information (and citations if possible), about the accuracy of how
the rates per 100 person-years were obtained. This will help the readers to understand the
methods. For example, let us assume a 2-arm trial with 200 patients in each arm, a median
follow-up of 2 years per arm, and 20 recurrence per arm in the first year after cessation.
Please explain how the rates were calculated. Since the main findings hinge upon this
methodology, this Reviewers wants to be assured that the methods were robust. I
appreciate the additional information on page 8. However, it is not yet completely clear.

--I commend the authors’ decision to provide sensitivity analyses for the sensitivity analysis
of studies where aspirin was used after cessation of anticoagulation.

RESULTS
--It appears that the pooled rates of recurrence were higher in men, compared with women.
Is there a possibility that the authors could run a age-sex interaction (e.g. with
meta-regression)? Or if not feasible, could this be discussed in the Discussion? It is clinically
relevant to better understand the sex differences in the rates of recurrence.
--Did the authors investigate the association between case-fatality rate and timing of the
recurrent event? For example, are recurrent events happening in the first year after
cessation of anticoagulation more likely to cause death, compared with events that happen
between years 2-5?
--It appears that there was significant heterogeneity (I2=80%) for the rate of recurrence
within the first rate. How do the authors explain the heterogeneity here?
--Does the authors’ analysis lend support to statistical comparison of the rates according to
the initial site (isolated distal DVT vs. proximal DVT vs. PE)?
--Did the authors also assess the 20-year rate of events, as suggested in the published
Methods paper?

DISCUSSION
--Please provide more discussion about the distinctions of this study, compared with the
prior pooled analysis in the BMJ in 2011. The former study was based on individual patient
data (not average effect results). Further, the focus of that study was a bit different. In
addition, when describing that study in the Introduction, please add further clarity about the
distinctions. For example, the study cohort for the 2011 publication comprised of 2925
patients not 1732 patients (in fact, 1732 were designated to have unprovoked VTE).
--May be worth mentioning why/how none of the studies from RIETE (one of the largest
prospective VTE registries in the world) qualified for inclusion. This may be related to the
Inclusion/Exclusion criteria of the authors and deserves a brief discussion.
--In the Discussion, the authors discuss issues about the net benefit for prolonged
anticoagulation. Long-term risk of recurrence after a first unprovoked VTE is supported by
the authors’ study and others. Looking at the data in another way, it appears that nearly two
thirds of patients will not have any recurrence despite lack of anticoagulation. What is an
estimated 10-year risk for use of anticoagulants? Deriving such numbers did not appear to
be the focus of the current study. The authors provided 10-year estimates from other
publications and suggested a small net benefit for long-term anticoagulation. However, the
estimated mortality benefit (1.44% by 10 years) versus harm (1.32% at 10 years) that the
authors reported are derived from two different methods. Benefits were directly studied and
harm was just quoted from other publications. The two numbers are derived from different
methods, and are yet very close. I would humbly encourage the authors to de-emphasize an
uncertain net benefit, but rather call for individualized treatment (as they do in next
paragraphs) and seek additional investigations.
--A couple of additional limitations may be worth mentioning in the Limitations section. The
authors did not extract the hemorrhagic events from the studies. This limits the net-benefit
assessments over time. Further, death for reasons other than PE is a competing risk for

subsequent VTE. Given the aggregate nature of the data, this cannot be addressed in a
meta-analysis but may be worth mentioning for the readers.
