Dear Wim and BMJ colleagues,
Thank you for asking me to review this novel, timely and important big data study aiming
to explore the hypothesis of NAFLD/NASH and associations with vascular outcomes
reliably. This builds on previous work from this collaborators looking at real-world data
revealing a diagnostic gap in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in some of these cohorts.
I think this is an area of importance in terms of uncertainties in existing clinical
management, so this would be of relevance to the BMJ readership. This multiple large
dataset project has been well conducted overall, incl. thoughtful analyses of available
factors for adjustment, so I would recommend for publication.
Some of my comments are hopefully to make the piece clearer in some areas.
Abstract:
I think the objective should make clearer about some of the uncertainty in this realm
across specialities, and lack of adjustment.
Can setting make clear dates of various cohorts and sizes?
Wasn't clear in participants whether s/e adjusted for? That may need some clarifying - it
seems practice was used as a proxy for would postcode/other be better?
Can numbers of outcomes be supplied in abstract to help clarify absolute risks?
Conclusions - probably sound statements, but perhaps something to highlight the size of
this study and the ability to adjust for conventional risk factors in more detail?
Summary box:
multidirectional is a bit bland - what does that mean?

what this study adds - size/numbers/power, multiple healthcare datasets, availability to
adjust for majority to more reliably answer the question
Intro (page 5):
line 5 - needs a neater intro about the purported burden of NAFLD and uncertainty about
vascular risks of it
line 24 - would change 'hard' events to 'clinical outcomes'
line 34 - point on variable and incomplete adjustment well made
line 47 - s/e class mentioned but not really dealt with in adjustments etc.?
page number 6
line 4 - MI and stroke are obvious outcomes - what about vascular death and hen ce
composite APT outcome (MI, stroke, vascular death). Is there data from the studies on
what proportion of deaths are vascular ie overall mortality?
Methods
Line 30 - Well described overall but there are some biases related to NAFLD/NASH coding
in these different populations and they seem to have looked at sensitivity to assess those
with the available data. Are there data available for comparison of other liver aetiologies
eg, alcoholic liver disease, viral hepatitis etc. to ensure there isn't miscoding. Are there
any cirrhosis codes or the like as these are the most severe phenotype?
Line 47 - ethnicity and s/e don't seem to be on list for adjustment?
Page 7 Line 10 - I wondered about fatal stroke and other vascular phenotypes eg, sudden
cardiac death? Are these available or too small.
Line 16 - it sounds like a lot of other variables are available - did low platelets/albumin or
other factors eg, smoking play a role on outcomes - statistical methods are well outlined
but could multivariate analyses be done to understand the independent risk factors rather
than just adjust alone?
Page 8; Line 41 - I was surprised about no PPI involvement - doesn't strike me that this
would too hard to include on this question.
Page 9 - Line 10 - striking result to me was the smaller relative number of patients in THIN
compared to others despite it being the largest population - can authors present % too?
Started getting lost in Tables etc. but Table 1 prob needs % to help understand variation
Table 2 shows some marked differences by some cohorts by factors eg, smoking (17 vs
11%) or DM (20 vs 9%) in IPCI so there may still be some residual confounding despite
adjustment...
Line 34 For the outcome incidence rates, could the authors put in the overall amounts, and
ideally also the absolute risk - this wasn't clear to me until I looked at Supp Table 1. Supp
Tables 2-3 are quite full and difficult to disentangle; which gives the sense there are some
hidden confounders.
Page 10 - Line 10 structure for incident AMI clear - does this also include fatal MI?
Line 34 - similar pattern for incident stroke - what about stroke subtypes
as mentioned, consider a composite outcome.
Figures may need some work to get to BMJ standard. Can absolute risks be clearer? Also
weighting of squares to numbers contributing. The difference of HSD from others quite
striking but may be related to coding/CV risks.
The multiple supplementary figures present the same trends but show the authors are
trying to adjust for some of the surrounding issues eg, NAFLD/NASH, subsets.

Discussion: page 11 line 5 - perhaps include number of NAFLD cases and outcomes to put
study into context? first para highlights relevance.
line 25 - rather than a single cohort, this is a multi-cohort of European healthcare datasets.
This reduces role of chance but there appear to be differences in coding across Europe that
may bias results.
Line 37 - has stroke been validated in these datasets?
Line 42 - para is strong of methodological strengths - still prob needs some comment on
role of residual confounding for s/e for example. Is there evidence for use of practice code
as proxy in these datasets - if so reference?
page 12 covers biases/weaknesses well in particular staging/severity bias - there may be
variation in how many get a specialist GI/liver review for example. THIN/HSD differences
are accounted for and considered carefully by authors.
Page 13 - good finish - I would avoid acronyms though - whilst I suspect authors mean
SBP = systolic blood pressure, to gastroenterologists SBP means spontaneous bacterial
peritonitis.
Funding - there are several pharma employees on the authorship - doesn't their salary
need to be included in funding even if in COI?
I enjoyed reading this well written piece and hope the above comments improve it or can
clarify some small issues. I would be delighted to write an accompanying editorial if it
helps flag up the importance of where to place NAFLD in the context of vascular risk factor
management.
Kind regards
Neeraj
PS, Is the title correct on my version - should it be: "Recorded diagnosis of NAFLD and the
independent <b><I>evaluation(?)</I></b> of incident acute myocardial infarction and
stroke: findings from analyses of 18 million European adults