The authors used data from the Framingham Heart Study to assess the association between incident
atrial fibrillation (AF) and risk of death. The authors used 1) a cox proportional hazards model to
quantify a relative risk of dying in individuals with vs without incident AF including a comparison
between several epochs and 2) a case-control design to quantify an absolute risk difference in terms of
life expectancy with vs without incident AF.
Overall, the study is based on a large sample, it tackles an important public health issue, it uses
appropriate methods and is well written. However, following major issues have to be addressed:
Major issues:
1. Page 5, lines 38-59: the study design is quite complex, I would suggest a flow chart, representing
which individuals are from which cohort and including how many people were invited, have accepted to
participate, were included in the study, were lost to follow-up, were eventually excluded because of
missing data/have had data imputations for main variables. Furthermore, the sample sizes of the
selected epochs in table 2 do not correspond to the ones in Table 1, a flow chart may be useful in
displaying these (differences in) numbers.
2. Page 6, line 6: I would suggest that the authors explain a bit more extensively what they did when
they included AF as a time-varying variable: does this mean that AF was considered as a
confounder/mediator throughout the follow-ups? Furthermore, it is unclear whether the authors have
used a survival model adjusting for competing risks or if they have used a state transition model (table 3
refers to an illness-death model). If the latter is true, this should be specified in the methods section.
3. The authors used a marginal structural model (page 7, line 21), but it is not clear from the aim and
from the main text that the work aimed at causal inference. I would suggest that the authors be more
explicit on their choice of using a marginal structural model or that they give a more precise
interpretation of the coefficients from this model.

4. I would suggest that the authors give a more precise description on how they ascertained
newly-diagnosed AF:
- If the information is available, I would suggest the authors indicate what proportion was detected in
follow-ups of the study and what proportion from clinical practice (hospital records and Holter monitoring
I guess; page 6, lines 15-16)
- I would suggest the authors indicate who was mailed/called to identify AF, whether it is patients,
doctors or other (page 6, lines 19-10)
- I would suggest to indicated whether the doctors evaluating the available records were part of the
study staff or if the evaluation was part of a routine clinical evaluation and whether these evaluations
from two doctors were independent or part of an adjudication process (page 6, line 42)
5. I would suggest further sensitivity analyses
- Stratify analyses by AF detected in clinical practice vs AF detected at the study center. Both diagnoses
methods may differ in terms of the type of patients detected, because AF detection during clinical
practice could be due to previous symptoms and may represent more serious AF cases than the ones
detected during follow-ups at the study center.
- If available, adjust models for hypercholesterolemia, physical activity, socio-economic characteristics,
and multimorbidity (as suggested p.13, line 10-12)
Minor issues:
1. Abstract: the authors should define “atrial fibrillation (AF)” before first use.
2. Page 4, line 9: the authors should specify what region/country/continent they talk about when stating
that incidence and prevalence of AF is increasing.
3. Page 6, line 42: I would suggest that the authors give information on how mortality was adjudicated.
4. I would suggest that the authors specify what software and what packages they have used
5. Page 13, lines 3-4, I would suggest the authors to be more precise when talking about “declining
mortality” (=increased life expectancy?) or “reduction in hazard of death” (=premature death?), because
mortality and death cannot be reduced per se.
