General
This paper reports a before-after study of potential adverse outcomes associated with the transition
(either initial installation, or migration to a new) EHR, as assessed by 30-day all cause mortality,
readmissions and PSI events. The design is strengthened by the use of non-changing hospitals as
comparators in a difference-in-differences scheme, which removes many of the concerns of a simple
before-after design.
Major comments
1. Given that the majority of care delivery organisations have already installed EHRs, (the great majority,
at least in the US, anew), is this study even needed now? The horse is out of the barn. The notion that
we may have dodged the bullet is reassuring, but does anyone care now? This comment does not reflect
on the validity of the paper, but rather on its interest for readers.
2. The outcomes in this study are very distal, and may not be sensitive to disruptions in care processes

which are potentially hazardous but are compensated for by greater effort from the care delivery
organisations and front-line providers. The PSI measure in particular has been criticized as insensitive
[1].
3. Hospitals typically anticipate and attempt to compensate for the disruptions occasioned by the
deployment of a new EHR. That they are successful in this is laudable, but is not necessarily an
endorsement of the EHR; they could presumably similarly compensate for hurricanes or other anticipated
stressors. Similarly, front-line providers are sensitive and responsive to disruptions in care trajectories,
and often able to compensate for them [2]. Successful compensation tends to remove the evidence of
potential harm; the paper should acknowledge this problem. One can imagine an edict that caregivers
must always stand on one leg – doubtless mortality would not increase, but that would not be evidence
that two legs are important.
4. The paper compares admissions in the target hospitals to previous periods at the same hospitals, but
pointedly avoids comparison to the control hospitals, in contrast to the other comparisons in the study.
Since hospitals commonly reduce clinic visits, elective procedures, etc, in anticipation of a “big bang” golive, this comparison would be important. This shift in comparator tends to give the sense the authors are
favourably biased towards the notion of EMR installation as being a non-event; this may not at all be
true, but the paper should try to avoid giving that impression.
5. The detail in the appendices is a delight to reviewers – the authors should be commended for this
additional effort. It only adds to the credibility of the work.
References
1. Classen DC, Resar R, Griffin F, Federico F, Frankel T, et al. 'Global trigger tool' shows that adverse
events in hospitals may be ten times greater than previously measured. Health Aff 2011;30(4):581-589.
2. Smith MW, Giardina TD, Murphy DR, Laxmisan A, Singh H. Resilient actions in the diagnostic process
and system performance BMJ Quality & Safety 2013;22(12):1005 - 1012.
