Peer review report BMJ.2016.034309
Bob Siegerink, PhD
bob.siegerink@charite.de / bobsiegerink.com
To the editor and authors
I have read with great interest the paper by Nagendran et al with the title “Do randomised trials with very large
treatment effects make further trials unnecessary? An empirical assessment”, aka BMJ.2016.034309.
The authors ask whether a very large treatment effect (RR >5 or its inverse) in a trial can be seen as an indication of
no need for follow up trials. This question, linked to the day-to-day practice that small trials provide an “obvious
benefit” and therefore clinical equipoise is not applicable anymore, is a relevant question as it addresses concepts like

reproducibility of research, potential source of publication bias as well as introducing new treatments that potentially
could harm patients.
The authors use data from the Cochrane reviews to which they apply several methods to identify RCT with very large
effects and subsequent large trials that either refute or uphold that effect. The results indicate very large effects are
not a reliable marker for true clinical benefit. The authors even draw the conclusion that therefore these smaller trials
might better be skipped and that a new treatment should be investigated with a large trial at the end.
The paper is well written, clear in its approach, results well reported and the topic is both relevant as well as attractive
and relevant for readers of the BMJ. Nonetheless, I have several comments and question, which I will provide below in
a point-by-point fashion.
Please note that I have no conflict of interest with regard to this paper and that I am very happy to relinquish my
anonymity in this peer review process.
Bob siegerink
// Major comments.
1. relative risks vs absolute risks. All calculations, selections and definitions are based on relative risks. Even though
these measures are the most used measured to estimate the effect size of an intervention, they do not convey the
true impact of an intervention. For this, a form of absolute measure is needed, which can either be an absolute risk
reduction, number needed to treat or otherwise.
This is not only relevant to understand what “very large effects” indeed mean in clinical practice, but is also important
as the initial VLE trial and subsequent large trial can have similar RR while the NNT is different, and vice versa. The
figure below shows a numeric example, in which only the absolute risk and total number of persons in the subsequent
trials is changed. IN each of the subsequent trials, either the RR or the ARR is similar to the initial VLE trial even
though the other measure is then not the same. This shows that there is a problem in interpretation of the RR between
trials when there is no information on the absolute risk. It is not unrealistic to think that the subsequent analyses trial
could have a different absolute risk compared to the VLE trial, either due to chance, different inclusion criteria, change
in co-treatment over time periods, change in geographic location etc. I am not sure to what extend whether such
scaling of the RR indeed hampers the interpretation of the results provided by the authors. Details on the absolute risk
in both the VLE trials and subsequent trial (e.g. extra row in table 2) would help the reader to understand the impact
of this scaling problem.
<< please refer to pdf for table>>
In line with this question on the absolute risk, where the authors able to ensure that there was sufficient overlap in the
patient populations of the initial and subsequent trials (overlapping external validity?)
2. upheld/refute. The definitions of “upheld” and “refute” are unclear to me. The authors describe their two methods
on page 10 line 4 to 14. The first approach is clear, but the second approach is unclear, as it speaks of “agreed with
the index trial” in which agreed which is not defined. After repeatedly reading the second approach, I think the authors
mean that when multiple large trials are present, a meta analyses is performed and the result of this meta analyses is
checked based on the same criteria as the first approach (effect in opposite direction or non-statistically significant
effect). But if this is the case, does approach 1 not rule out that approach 2 is even possible?
The figures provide some indication on the definitions, i.e. that everything that stays significant is upheld. Although
understandably when it comes to clear definition, I doubt whether a statistical significant of RR 1.1-2 in a subsequent
large trial should indeed be seen as “upheld”. It is quite dependent on the research question (PICO) whether the
finding of this second trials should next to statistically significant also be seen as ‘just as clinically relevant” as the
finding of the index trial.
3. Selection bias. I wonder whether this analyses suffers from selection bias due to the definition of index trial. As is
stated at page 7 line 35 an index trial is a VLE trial followed by at least one large trial. If this is the case selection bias
might be introduced through this selection: consider all VLE trials that are possible. It is likely that the characteristics
of those who are followed by a large trial are indeed different from those VLE trials who are not followed by large trials
– and as such never reach the status of index trial-. Perhaps VLE trials who are followed by a large trial (i.e. index
trial) are more “disbelieved” by the medical community, perhaps due subject matter knowledge of problems with the
initial VLE trial. VLE trials who are not followed by a large trial are could indeed be more solid in terms of effect and
these are, as far as I can judge, not part of this analyses. If this is the case, it is no wonder that VLE in the index trials
are indeed a poor predictor of success in a subsequent large trial.
There is some information in the paper which makes the it not easier for the reader to understand what is going on,
being the reference in the flowchart which reads “index RCT not followed by RCT=2”. Does this mean that there are
only 2 VLE trials which are not followed by a large and therefore cannot be coded as index trial or is this referring to
the situation where the manual screening process have led to the exclusion of two VLE trials because the computerized
algorithm falsely categorized these as index trials? If the former if the case, the described problem of selection bias is
negligible, whereas the latter does not provide any information on the size and direction of this potential selection
bias.
// Minor comments
1. Is there information whether trials where stopped early for “success”?
2. PPV is a relevant and useful concept, but only introduced in the discussion section. Suggestion: Introduction of PPV
somewhat earlier in the text might be useful for the reader; provide it with confidence limits and explanation as the
use of PPV in this meta science concept might not be directly clear to all readers.
3. Page 13 line 40 ‘one case...’ this is unclear to me, perhaps also because the definitions used are not clear to me.
4. Page 17, last sentence “avoid small trials”: I would be a bit more cautious with this statement, especially of the
above described selection bias is present – the word perhaps is in my view not cautious enough. The analyses on small
trials with VLE do convey their point, but the reasoning mirrored to all small trials (including those without VLE) is not
warranted and therefore the conclusion should not be drawn so general? How about small trials that help to identify
those that will not have large enough of an effect to continue that line of research? (i.e. not VLE trials) also, how about
trials in the so-called ‘rare-diseases’ with only a couple of hundred patients available for trial participation worldwide?
5.
// Editing:
1. Page 18 line 34: new paragraph superfluous?
// Tables and figures:

Flowchart: It is unclear to me how one can have 45 cochrane reviews and only 44 forect plots. Where the presence of
forst plots not needed for the automatic screening process? does the answer lie on page 12 line 24-33?
Figures in general: please consider lay out that also is readable when plots are printed in black and white by using
different shapes.
Table 1: no comments
Table 2: interesting table. The comprehensibility would be increased if the definition of “uphold” and “refute” would be
repeated at this point. Next to this table, it would be interesting to see the refute table (perhaps as suppl file?)