The issue of discontinuation of statin therapy is an important one and this study throws new light on it,
particularly through its data on restarting rates.
The study is well designed and rigorous. My only criticism would be that the interpretation relies quite
heavily on exploratory additional analyses, and some of the conclusions I found controversial. For instance,
the conclusion that discontinuation amounts to an extreme form of non-adherence. Patients often make
wise and well-informed decisions to discontinue medication, or decisions that are not wise or well informed
based on secular publicity that is unfortunately invisible to a study such as this. The authors believe that
patient factors are more important as determinants of these behaviours but this study is not of course
designed to answer this interesting question.
The Abstract states the study period as 2002 to 2013, but the entry date of individuals will vary, some for
instance only reaching the minimum age for inclusion towards the end of this period. As a reader, I would
have liked to have been given a clearer idea of the median duration of follow up (given later) in this
Abstract. This is important, because an assumption is made that we can identify the ‘true stoppers’ – those
that do not restart, but of course some of these would restart if followed up for longer. The phrase in the
Abstract ‘59% remained on statins throughout the study period’ sounds like all of these patients were
followed up from 2002 to 2013, which I assume was not intended, they were simply followed from their
entry date to the right censor date, as I understand it.
The study reports many associations. The published protocol allowed flexibility and not all analyses used
were pre-specified. I couldn’t find reference in the protocol to use of 10% risk of discontinuing/restarting as
a threshold but this is the basis for much of the analysis regarding the covariate determinants of these
outcomes. A strength (and perhaps a limitation) therefore is that the study provides evidence on which
future work might be based, as the authors argue for instance over the relevance of ethnic minority status.
The findings related to COPD status were also very interesting, as was the 19% greater risk of
discontinuation with rosuvastatin compared with simvastatin in the secondary prevention group.
The authors also discuss the risk of over-estimation of statin use, as patients don’t always take the
medication prescribed, or even dispensed. This seems to be becoming an increasing problem in recent
years with the move towards automated systems of prescription repeats, and the finding of a patient
stockpiling medication that they are no longer taking simply because their pharmacy is unknowingly
reordering it repeatedly on their behalf seems (to me) to be increasing rather than reducing. Nevertheless,
this is a very important real world source of data highly suited to investigate this area of care.
Overall, I found this study to be well conducted, generally well written (apart from the issues mentioned
above), and a useful contribution to the literature.