The investigators have explored the consequences of the potential drug interaction between tamoxifen and SSRI
antidepressants that inhibit CYP2D6. This is a topic of considerable interest given the prevalence of breast cancer and
the widespread use of antidepressants.
General comments:
This is a well-written manuscript. However, I am concerned that the study’s validity is undermined by two important
methodologic limitations, both of which are acknowledged by the authors. The first is the very limited follow-up
(median 2.2 and 2.0 years in the two cohorts); this is important because most deaths attributable to SSRI-mediated
inhibition of CYP2D6 would be expected to occur later. (The delayed consequences of the SSRI-tamoxifen interaction
make it an unusual one; this is why in our 2010 study we commenced observation after the cessation of tamoxifen
therapy.) The second is reliance on the outcome of all-cause mortality rather than breast cancer-specific mortality per
se. I appreciate that this was unavoidable, but it can only introduce noise in the analysis. The sensitivity analysis
involving women with a prior diagnosis does not lessen this concern.
Specific comments:
The introduction is suitably brief but would be strengthened by the citation of studies that demonstrate the effect to
which CYP2D6 inhibition by SSRIs reduces endoxifen synthesis. (Here is a particularly relevant example
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26446141)
The methodology is well described and for the most part appropriate, notwithstanding the limitations noted earlier. A
few comments:
- the intention-to-treat analysis (p 6) could be described differently, since ITT analyses are primarily intended to
maintain the integrity of randomization in RCTs. (“As treated”, p8, is better.)

- the authors should outline which CYP2D6 inhibitors/inducers they included (page 7) and how these were accounted
for in the analysis.
- the propensity score analysis seems unnecessary to me given the general lack of channeling for most SSRIs, as
Table 1 demonstrates. It does not extinguish the possibility of confounding in any event.
- additional detail should be provided on the selection and fit of the Cox model, and on how the proportional hazards
assumption was tested.
Discussion:
On page 13, the authors note “It is also plausible that the degree by which tamoxifen is rendered ineffective due to
CYP2D6 inhibition varies by menopause status.” Perhaps I’ve missed it but I don’t find this observation in the cited
reference (19).
Tables and Figures:
The supplementary tables in particular are almost overwhelming. I suspect these could be reduced by at least 50%
with no real loss of information.