Overall, the paper is well written and logically structured. It provides a basis for the use of
network analysis and network theory in the monitoring of stakeholder networks tasked
with addressing NCDs.
Below are my main comments which are designed to strengthen the paper:
1.
In paragraph 1 the authors have done a nice job of articulating the burden of
NCDs before calling for global coordinated action to address NCDs. The paper would be
significantly strengthened if the authors could justify more explicitly why global and
coordinated action is required to address NCDs. For example, there is a substantive body
of literature that positions individual and population health and disease as manifestations
of systems (for example, Diez Roux 2011). NCDs therefore may themselves be viewed as
emerging from the functioning of complex systems. The determinants of NCDs span
multiple levels and are interrelated through complex and often non-linear feedback
process and interactions which give rise to an adaptable system. Tackling these
complexities requires commensurate and multipronged action across sectors, targeting the
multiple layers and domains of the system.
2.
Lines 41-44 are a little redundant and appear out of place here since the intent of
this paper wasn’t to provide guidance on “how best to effectively develop, manage and
maintain a national stakeholder network”. This text might work better if it were integrated
in the preceding paragraph which touches on some of the same challenges.
3.
The authors emphasize convincingly the importance of operationalizing
multi-sectoral partnerships as networks. It is a little unclear to me however, why this shift
to a ‘network’ perspective should be confined just to multi-sectoral partnerships. Couldn’t
all organizations benefit from considering their partnerships, whether multi-sectoral or
not, as networks, for all the reasons outlined in the paper? Afterall, such a shift in
perspective and a better appreciation for how their stakeholders and organization are
organized within a network may make organizations more aware of their tendency to
operate in silos, which may in turn encourage them to seek out other more diverse
partnerships across sectors? An emphasis on shifting the paradigm to networks across the
board, seems like a way to potentially address the traditional structuring and siloed nature
of organizations. It would also strengthen the transition from the “importance of
stakeholder involvement” to the “operationalizing multi-sectoral partnerships as
‘networks’” sections within the paper.

4.
The first paragraph under the “operationalizing multi-sectoral partnerships as
‘networks’” section could use some clarification. For example, how does operationalizing
multi-sectoral partnerships as networks promote sharing of information, knowledge and
experiences etc? Presumably, this sharing is already taking place irrespective of whether
these partnerships are conceived of as networks or simply just partnerships. It seems to
me that the main advantage of conceptualizing partnerships as networks are those
expressed in the second paragraph of this section.
5.
The authors state that network analysis “can shed light on the dynamic and
emergent nature of the relationships that offers us the chance to investigate how the
nature, roles and relations between stakeholders co-evolve and affect the implementation
of NCD prevention and management plans.” (lines 51-54). The paper would be greatly
strengthened if the authors could contextualize the discussion in the “Network
Intervention Approaches” section in terms of how intervening on the stakeholder network
might impact or inform the implementation and or effectiveness of NCD prevention and
management plans.
Other comments:
•
The authors talk about Granovetter’s Strength of Weak Ties Theory which argues
that indirect and weak ties are more likely to influence diffusion of new information
because they are usually not connected to the rest of the organization’s network. I think it
might be worth providing a little more context here by linking the notion of weak ties to
homophily – the tendency to chose friends or partner with organizations that are similar to
oneself. This is important because homophilous ties are more likely to be strong ties while
weak ties are more likely to exist between people/ organizations that differ in terms of
certain key characteristics. It is this diversity, as the authors touched on earlier, that is so
very important in information sharing and the diffusion of new behavior through the
network.
•
Many important mathematical parameters describing the network are described in
the “Role of Network Science” section. The authors might want to consider also touching
on clustering coefficients and community detection algorithms which use the density of
connections between nodes to identify groupings or communities within the network.
•
I’m not sure the last sentence (lines 14-16) on page 5 beginning with “This theory
is one of the most widely cited…” adds very much and could be removed.
•
Badham et al. reference is missing the year.
Reference
Diez Roux AV (2011) Complex systems thinking and current impasses in health disparities
research. American Journal of Public Health 101 (9):1627-1634.
doi:10.2105/AJPH.2011.300149
