SUMMARY: This is a concept piece which articulates several arguments that “big data screening” in the
future world of “precision medicine” will lead to massive increases in overdiagnosis (through both
overdetection of mild diseases unlikely to harm patients and overdefinition of disease states into the
normal spectrum). Several different arguments (empirical, mathematical, and theoretical) are brought to
bear on the central thesis of the manuscript. The conclusion is a grave warning about the future of
precision medicine. Aside from the warning, the authors argue that we should move more slowly with
technology implementation (“The degree to which big data will lead to overdiagnosis thus hinges on
whether implementation of technologies is rushed - or conducted with careful consideration and
patience. Large prognostic studies with 10-20 years of followup or more are needed to generate robust
evidence about the predictive values of new screening tests.”)
STREGNTHS: The conclusion that overdiagnosis is a major downstream risk of profligate screening using
“big data” applied to the entire population is likely true. This idea is important to share with people.
WEAKNESSES:
1) The message is very limited. The basic message seems to be that “fancy new screening tests with
poor test properties, when applied to large populations with low disease prevalence in a thoughtless
way, will lead to large amounts of overdiagnosis.” Certainly there will be plenty of false positives,
incidentalomas, and mild forms of disease that are unimportant to diagnose; if we further allow
ourselves to overdefine these as true diseases, then overdiagnosis will escalate rapidly. However, this
seems straightforward even without all of the detailed figures and online interactive application.
Ultimately, there is very little offered other than a warning. Two sentences suggest we should move
slowly and study new tests carefully over decades. I would have preferred to hear a more about how we
could protect ourselves more effectively. For instance, when might “big data” be appropriately used for

screening? What types of clinical scenarios or what parameter space would make it a good idea, rather
than a bad idea?
2) The figures are confusing. We generally look to figures to make things easier to understand, rather
than harder. The first three pages of text had me engaged, and I was following the logic. As soon as I
got to the sentence, “We illustrate the relation between overdiagnosis and screening in Figures 1 & 2,” I
became derailed. I spent a long time trying to understand Figure 1, and, other than in a very superficial
way, it still doesn’t really make sense to me. For instance, Group 1 represents patients “Defined with no
asymptomatic abnormality.” This is said to be a “definitional” process, but itself seems to be a form of
big data screening test that determines whether an asymptomatic abnormality is considered present or
not. The downstream options for these patients include negative and positive tests, but each has only
one theoretical state --- negatives may only be true negatives, while positives may only be false
positives. If the other states (false negatives and true positives) are not options, then this implies that
the group has only “non-disease.” But if Group 1 is patients with “non-disease,” then it should not be
defined based on the results of a definitional process, but instead on the basis of underlying “Truth” (i.e.,
“target disease actually absent,” rather than “arbitrary definitions of asymptomatic abnormalities
determine that disease appears absent”). Figure 2 was also busy and challenging. Then repeatedly the
manuscript referred me back to these figures, nominally to illustrate/clarify the text… but then I found
myself going through another cycle of trying to understand the figures.
3) Similar sentiments have been previously expressed elsewhere about big data and precision medicine
as risks to overdiagnosis. Here are two that I found with a quick Google search
(https://www.smh.com.au/opinion/precision-medicine-runs-risk-of-overdiagnosis-20180202-h0sike.html
; https://www.degruyter.com/view/j/cclm.2016.54.issue-3/cclm-2015-0762/cclm-2015-0762.xml). A lot
has also been written about the overdiagnosis-related consequences of new diagnostic technologies that
enhance sensitivity for finding asymptomatic “abnormalities” while sacrificing specificity for the diseases
that matter to patient health
(https://health.usnews.com/health-news/patient-advice/articles/2015/08/20/tmi-in-medicine-the-proble
m-of-overdiagnosis).
