This manuscript tried to describe and compare different new surgical techniques in the
efficacy and safety of BPH by applying frequentist network meta-analysis. I believed that
Authors should spend lots of time on data collection and analysis, while in my opinion, the
work still has no novelty in terms of methodology and conclusion. I do not think the manu.
should be suitable for publication in the BMJ. Anyway, I have some comments or suggestions
as following:
1. The updated searching date needs to avoid missing searches to the greatest extent(In the
manuscript, the searching date was only updated to Mar. 2018).
2. In Supplementary figure 2, the blank area is supposed to be yellow, indicating unclear risk
of bias? Maybe, authors are not familiar with the statistical software.
3. The authors mentioned the search strategy of grey literature by manual search in the
method part. However, the information was missed in the parts of flow diagram and results.
4. It seems that the authors selectively reported surgical outcomes, for the key outcome of
PVR was not included in the final analysis, while it was mentioned and planed in the protocol.
5. The authors have included IPSS and Qmax as the primary outcomes, however, it is
suggested that the primary outcomes should be consisted of both outcomes of efficacy and
safety. How about the primary endpoints of safety? Please describe in the context. In
addition, the total number of primary outcomes is suggested no more than three (see
Chochrane Handbook).
6. Patients and Urologists often face the challenge in selecting the optimal intervention
among various treatments of BPH, so GRADE approach is suggested to classify evidence into
different recommendation levels based on single outcome.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Hao Zeng
Job Title: Prof.
Institution: Department of Urology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 3
Recommendation:
