This is a very clearly written manuscript leveraging an extensive data set to determine if
Duloxetine use during pregnancy is associated with poor maternal and fetal/birth
outcomes. The rationale for the study is well described, including the relatively frequent
use of this medication for two common conditions (depression, neuropathic pain) and the
difficulty of obtaining pregnancy outcome data related to medication use via a pregnancy
registry. The statistical modeling is top notch and expertly described and presented. I have
some specific comments below primarily related to suggestions for improving the
manuscript, as well as one conceptual comment regarding implications of use of a Medicaid
sample for this research.
1. The authors provide a good rationale for doing the study, including the difficulties
obtaining adequate data via a pregnancy registry. Could the authors put that in context,
aren’t other pregnancy registries successful at gathering data? Does this suggest women
with the personal and financial resources to participate in a registry (or their doctors) are
not taking Duloxetine?
2. Page 5 line 50 exposure to known teratogen in 2nd or 3rd trimester included/allowed in
this study?
3. For hemorrhage, the relevant exposure is 1 month prior to delivery; how is delivery
defined? By preset time frame or when baby is born? If the former, miss earlier
hemorrhages. I assume the latter but pls clarify in writing, eg, baby’s delivery date.
4. Page 9, line 26, this sentence is unclear to me; women included in the study versus
those not (all in the Medicaid database) have higher rates of disability?
5. Especially for a European publication, it is important to put this study sample in context.
While approximately 50% of USA births are to women who receive their health insurance
through the federal and state supported Medicaid program, women receiving Medicaid are
quite different from those who have private, employee-based insurance. Women on
Medicaid are far more poor, and unhealthy, largely as a consequence of social

determinants of health factors as well as built and local environmental influences. This
raises a significant question regarding the generalizability of the results and, moreover,
how research with this patient group might influence outcomes. Specifically, rates of
preterm birth tend to be higher in poverty samples. Did this diminish the possibility of
finding an effect of Duloxetine on risk for PTB? One way to address this to compare the
base risk of outcomes in this sample to national norms in USA, Medicaid versus
non-Medicaid samples. For example, the PTB rate appears slightly elevated to the national
average.
6. Page 10, 53, suggest use of word fewer versus less
7. Consistent use of phrasing would be helpful for reader; sometimes wording is ‘congenital
cardiac malformations’ in the table, congenital anomalies.
8. Findings regarding cardiac malformations are minimally addressed in the discussion.
9. Page 16 line 1, the reasoning of why still births, losses, terminations, etc could not be
studied does not fully make sense as there are diagnostic codes for those pregnancy
outcomes, and these outcomes could potentially be important to consider in relation to
medication exposure.
