This is an interesting and much needed review. It is a timely topic and the authors have tackled the issues
extremely well. This review has several strengths, including the fact that it looks at both intention to
change and possible fatalistic behaviour. I believe I know the literature in this area well and, to the best of
my knowledge, the authors have captured all the important work to date.
The methods are solid (though methods is not my area of expertise).
I highly recommend publication. No major revisions required.
The following comments are only suggestions:
- More on how genetic risk information compares to other risk information.
- Some have suggested that there is too much emphasis on “risk information”. For example, nutrigenomic
information about how individual metabolisms react can be framed as something different that “disease
risk” (see http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0112665 - the authors include
this study but, I assume, characterize as “risk”). It has been suggested by some that information about
how food is metabolized may result in more behaviour change than “risk” information. While I am very
sceptical about these claims (indeed, I think they are likely wrong), it would be useful for the authors to
address or mention. This seem particularly important given the rise of wellness / lifestyle DTC companies
that rely on this kind of approach. Indeed, the frame is more “this is best for you” and not “you are at
risk”.
- While this may be beyond the scope of this paper, it would be interesting to explore the conflicts of
interest of some of the authors of the relevant behaviour studies (involvement with DTC companies, etc.).
- It might be nice if the authors tied their conclusions a bit more closely to the push for personalized
approaches to health improvement/public health. There have been many high-profile claims about the
value of genetic risk information. This work has important implications for this area. However, the editors
(and authors) may feel this kind of editorial comment is not appropriate in a review of this nature.