The authors have applied existing prognostic models for the prediction of the risk of developing
gestational diabetes mellitus to a cohort of women in the Netherlands.
* Originality - This work appears to be original and applies existing prognostic models to a
cohort in the Netherlands. The applicability of the models to other populations with different
disease prevalence is unclear.
* Importance of work to general readers - the ability to accurately predict risk is very important
to clinicians and patients. GDM has short and long term implications for the mother and baby
and the ability to identify women at risk may provide time for adequate prevention
interventions.
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - the research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered.
Overall design of study - adequate
Participants studied - well described
Methods - The methods are in general adequately described and follow the TRIPOD guidelines.
Could the authors clarify which diagnostic criteria are used in the Netherlands for GDM as this
has quite a significant effect on the rates for the disease.
The authors refer to a systematic review but provide no details of the databases searched, date
limits, search strategy, a PRISMA flow diagram is required to identify the output and exclusion
before the 14 models are selected, how the studies were selected. Please can authors provide
these details.
In the methods section line 158 please can the authors confirm that they are referring to the
authors of this manuscript. Line 170 please provide a reference to the Dutch guideline.

Results - results are appropriately reported. As it is not clear what diagnostic criteria is used for
this validation cohort it may be of interest to the reader to know if the models are affected by
different diagnostic criteria (WHO 1999 vs IADPSG 2010) for example.
Interpretation and conclusions - I could not identify any discussion around the economic
implications for early prediction of GDM. One of my concerns is the very low rate of GDM
reported in the study population (4.9%), especially as the authors reported missing data for
some patients in the validation cohort. The authors may want to consider this a little further in
their discussion. I acknowledge that the authors do discuss the risk of missing cases due to the
high risk strategy screening undertaken in the Netherlands.
In their introduction the authors appear to have suggested that some countries use an OGTT in
each pregnant woman whereas other countries use a selective diagnosis only using OGTT in high
risk women. I am not aware of any country that uses OGTT in all pregnant women. The authors
may be confusing the oral glucose challenge test for universal screening that is used in some
countries. I concur that some guidelines do not recommend the challenge test in high risk
women but instead these women are directed straight to the diagnostic OGTT. Please can the
authors confirm this and add in some references to the 'guidelines' to support their
assumptions.
References - Some references in the text need to be added (see comments above).
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - These sections adequately reflect the
content of the paper
The manuscript is generally well written and would be acceptable for publication with some
revisions.