Thank you for forwarding me this article for review. I very much enjoyed reading it. It is clearly
written, accessible and obviously timely. It raises issues of moral importance and contributes to an
important contemporary debate. I would recommend it for publication, although I do think it could
benefit from some refinements or qualifications.

I think the author needs to distinguish a little more carefully between the ethics of quarantine, and
the ethics of research in quarantine. I say this because the article seems to rest - this may not be the
author's explicit position, but it emerges from the piece - on the assumption that quarantine (almost?)
always involves not just rights restrictions - which is a statement of fact - but rights violations, which
would suggest that the quarantine is somehow unethical. When I think of those 14th century Genoese
plague ships making landfall in Sicily or Venice, the crew almost all dead, quarantine could possibly
have saved Europe from devastation. There are surely times when quarantine is precisely
proportionate and justified, however unpalatable or burdensome to the quarantined. This matters for
the article because the distinction between ethical or unethical, justified or unjustified quarantine
speaks to the author's concerns about whether data from research in quarantine should become part
of the scientific record. This seems to be one of the primary ethical concerns of the piece. But if the
quarantine is justified, and the research itself not unethical, the problem seems to me to fall away. If
the quarantine is punitive or involves serious rights violations, and/or the research unethical, then this
question does indeed come into play.
Understandably the author draws parallels between research on the quarantined and research on
prison populations. They are both subject to confinement and, potentially, coercion, and the author is
right that special care needs to be taken when involving confined people in research. But i did wonder
if there are not also morally important distinctions. Prisons have punitive purposes and hold the
majority of their populations against their will. If I had been exposed to an infectious disease and felt
that quarantine was reasonable, I would probably go voluntarily. I think many reasonable people
would. Further, if the quarantine were reasonable, and i went voluntarily, I would not be morally
troubled by the free and un-coerced offer of enrolment in research. Given the reasons for my
confinement, if I were given all the information necessary to make an informed choice, and was free
to decline, I would very likely consent - it would be an opportunity to contribute to a clear public good
during a generally miserable time. It follows that if the quarantine is unreasonable and I am not
offered the opportunity to provide full, informed and un-coerced consent to research - that i am
somehow coerced into both the quarantine and the research - things are far more problematic.
It just might enrich the article if the similarities and the distinctions were drawn out slightly further.
The author also draws on research on prison populations to suggest that in some way representatives
of the quarantined population should in some form be engaged in the oversight of the research analogous in some ways to the requirement for 'community engagement' in research. I am attracted
to this idea but did wonder how it might be managed practically, given the requirement for isolation
and non-contact.