This is a very timely systematic review with the recent publication of the results from the
VITAL study. Overall, the systematic review and meta-analysis are well conducted. While
there have been several other systematic reviews examining the effects of vitamin D
supplementation on mortality, this systematic review includes more recent trials than that
of Bjelakovic et al 2014 and Bolland et al 2014.
In terms of the effects of vitamin D supplementation on cancer mortality, the finding in this
systematic review is consistent with that reported in the systematic reviews by Bjelokovic
et al 2014 and Bolland et al 2014. In fact these two systematic reviews included a greater
number of cases than the current systematic review. It might also be useful for the reader
if the findings from those systematic reviews are also included in this part of the
discussion.

The results in eFigure 7 are quite important given that one of the main criticisms of the
VITAL study was that it included very few participants with circulating concentrations of
25(OH)D below 50 nmol/L. It is also consistent with much of the evidence from
observational studies suggesting that the higher risk of CVD and mortality are only among
participants with 25(OH)D below 50 nmol/L. I noticed that the mean 25(OH)D values
reported for the VITAL study in eTable 3 used the incorrect units – the mean values were
31 ng/mL which corresponds to a value of 77 nmol/L. Was the value of 31 ng/mL or 77
nmol/L used for eFigure 7? It may also be useful to double-check the other values of
25(OH)D in this figure and table.
In terms of the "timing" subgroup analysis that is reported in Table 2, would the subgroup
analysis allow for separating out the effects of daily/weekly supplementation (without bolus
dose) versus one or more bolus dose? This is because a recent individual participant
meta-analysis examining the effects of vitamin D supplementation on acute respiratory
tract infections showed a differential effect for daily/weekly versus bolus doses of vitamin
D.
Minor comments
The "RECORD" study is sometimes referred to as the "RECOED" study in some of the
supplementary files.
In terms of the studies that have been included in the systematic review, one of the most
important aspects is the number of deaths that each study contributes rather than the total
number of participants.
In Table 2, it would also be nice to the RR (95% CI) for the overall effect on mortality
presented here as well.

Was there scope in the systematic review to look at deaths from Ischaemic Heart Disease
and Stroke separately?
Did the authors think about conducting a subgroup analysis for the trials that
co-supplemented with calcium?
What was the rationale for excluding trials supplementing with 25-hydroxyvitamin D?
