The authors are treading a well-worn path having developed numerous risk scores from the QRESEARCH database.
Risk scores for blindness and lower limb amputation have been developed , internally validated and externally
validated on very large datasets.
The methodology is strong and the authors adhering to recommended practices in developing and validating risk
scores. The authors have also carefeully followed the TRIPOD reporting guidelines for prediction models.
My comments are minor.
Abstract. Make it clear that the patients come from the UK.
Page 9/Page 10: Multiple imputation. Some more information would be useful, whether in the main paper or in
supplementary material, that includes what variables were included, any transformations etc.
Page 10. Confirm that the Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve has been calculated for survival
data (and not for binary outcomes).
Page 10. Why are thresholds of 10% and 20% chosen? Is this for illustrative purposes only? If these are thresholds
recommended by the authors then some rationale would be needed. Alternatively, the authors could produce net
benefit curves (decision curve analysis, Vickers et al 2006; Med Decis Making) to examine this.
Page 11. Whilst missing data is mentioned for particular variables, how many of the cohort had complete data (or
conversely how many had at least 1 missing variable) in the development cohort.
Page 12. Whilst missing data is mentioned for particular variables, how many of the cohort had complete data (or
conversely how many had at least 1 missing variable) in the validation cohort.
Page 12. Whilst the authors mention the availability of the risk score at the start of the manuscript. It would also
seem a natural place to discuss this in the Results section, preferably with a brief explanation as to why the model is
not published in the paper. I know the reasons as to why this is the case, but the average reader won’t. The authors
are one of the few teams I am aware that actively maintain and update their models on an annual basis, and this
should be highlighted as it is a particular strength of these models/group.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Gary Collins
Job Title: Associate Professor
Institution: University of Oxford
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here: I led the development of the
TRIPOD guidelines for reporting clinical prediction models.

