I see a basic challenge in the concept of “fair” pricing as laid out in the abstract: For
many buyers, there won’t be a “sweet spot” between the affordability ceiling and the

profitability floor – they simply are too poor to afford even a price at marginal
production cost level.
This means that in their overall pricing strategy, sellers would need to
cross-subsidize from higher prices (charged to wealthier buyers) to loss-pricing for
the poor.
Another conceptual challenge lies in the fact that sellers vary a lot in the value they
add: in many developing countries, distribution and retail is fragmented and
overcrowded, leading to high mark-ups for bad quality services as individual
businesses don’t have the scale to invest into the systems and HR needed to offer
good services. What would be a fair price/margin for a business that doesn’t add
value? Shouldn’t we try to find solutions that eliminate such businesses rather than
rewarding them for their existence as such? Even at manufacturer level, if the
definition of “fair” means a decent profit that allows a company to continue to exist,
we would reward inefficiency or protectionism and reduce market pressures to
consolidate and invest into better processes, which could lead to lower prices for all,
as long as enough competitors remain in the market.
Having said all that, I still think the approach has value in stimulating a discussion
on medicine pricing that recognizes the complexity, reduces the influence of
ideologies and can lead to a better dialogue between policy makers and buyers /
sellers. Defining “fairness” may be impossible but talking about it puts things in a
continuum that covers all types of medicines (single source, multi source, high or
low volume and profitability). It could help develop a pricing policy framework that
gets us closer to a market in which buyers become more conscious of value (short
and long term) and sellers pay more attention to access/reach. On this background,
I would support publication of the article despite the perceived conceptual flaws
pointed out above.
