This study utilizes the US National Birth Defect Prevention Study (NBDPS) study samples for genetic analysis from
normal and congenital heart defect effected pregnancies with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) exposure.
This is an interesting study, but there are number of questions that should be addressed before publication.
Reviewer's report
----------------- Major Compulsory Revisions
Line 59-60. “Objective: To evaluate whether the association- maternal selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)
use increases risk of congenital heart defects (CHD) in offspring-is modified by…”
I am unfamiliar with this use of hyphens in the English language. Please rewrite the objective with complete ideas that

state the objective concisely.
Line 94. “…signaling molecule in cardiogenesis.”
If this is supported by reference 28, does this review support serotonin (5-HT) as a morphogen in the heart, in
mammals? Reference 27 is consistent with vasoconstrictors causing numerous and various birth defects but is there a
study that shows serotonin causes heart defects?
Line 102-104. Genetics should be included as a risk factor. The sentence indicates risk factors of behaviors and
metabolic pathways, but this is a genetic-drug interaction study for CHD risk.
Line 255-256. The manuscript indicates: “Case mothers were more likely to be overweight and obese than control
mothers (P<0.002).” (p8). In table 1B there is increased obesity in cases, but more overweight in controls for SSRI
Users. For SSRI non-users there are more overweight and obese mothers in cases. There are also differences in folic
acid usage between SSRI users and nonusers. Provide results and discussion on obesity and increased risk and folic acid
usage associated with decrease risk in SSRI exposed populations. Would unfortified populations be at a decreased risk
for SSRI-associated CHDs? Provide subgroup analysis with and without folic acid supplementation and associated genepolymorphisms, if possible?
Line 339-340. “...did not asses the effects of specific SSRIs.”
Please provide information on the limitations (power?) that prohibited subgroup analysis of individual SSRIs or
examination of gene:gene interactions. While the number of cases is low, subgroup does appear possible yet
underpowered.
Lines 420-421. Provide a reference that indicates the transsulfuration pathway has a role in the synthesis of serotonin.
Serotonin derivatives can be methylated via SAM, and tetrahydrobiopterin is used in 5-HT and salvage depends on
folate but neither of these depend on homocysteine, SAH, or transsulfuration.

- Minor Essential Revisions
Line 80-81. “…may increase risk of certain CHDs…”
This study calculates relative risk. Unless I am mistaken, the data in this study support an increased risk. This is not a
“maybe” or a “may increase”, so clearly state if you are supporting or rejecting the objective/hypothesis. Hypothesis
testing results in rejection or support, and this study supports an increased risk of certain genetic variants with SSRI
exposure and CHDs.
Lines 306-317. Sub Group Analysis (w/ Table 4)
It is unclear why only the heterozygote genotypes are discussed. Maternal homozygote GG for TRDMT1 (rs2038576)
shows a RR of 21.53 (4.84-95.45)! Does this indicate a rare defect of 1:1000, would have >20X risk, producing ~1:50
with the homozygote allele? I have never seen a gene:drug modifier this strong for birth defects. Why is this not
discussed? Likewise, maternal homozygote GG for TRDMT1 (rs2273735) shows a RR of 10.24 (2.79-37.21)! These
results are profound results, but they are not directly mentioned in the manuscript.
References are not formatted consistently.
- Discretionary Revisions
The first reference is numbered 19, why do the references start at 19 and not 1?
Line 88. “…is quite high.”
“Quite high” does not convey an actual magnitude or value. Use concise language (e.g. 10-15%), as “quite high” does
convey an opinion but does not convey useful or meaningful scientific information.
Line 153-154. It is unclear why Study Center is capitalized.
Consider discussion on serotonin and homocysteine as teratogens and risk factors for hypertension and vascular disease.
This is consistent with Reference 27 that indicates agents that cause vascular dysfunction (increased vascular
resistance, vasoconstriction, or hypo-perfusion) can cause birth defects.