This is an interesting and important trial adding to the growing body of evidence that
routine 3rd trimester scans do not improve outcomes, and increase interventions. I have
some questions about the methodology and comparisons made.
Abstract: great summary of the trial undertaken. Accurate representation of the
methodology and results.
Methods: Could the authors comment on the number/types of midwifery practices that
agreed to participate compared to those who did not. What proportional of all practices do
the 60 encompass.
Although the protocol has been published separately, and appendices are provided, it
would have been help for further description of the intervention and control arm in
methods.
Can the authors comment on why SGA was used as the outcome rather than FGR? SGA as
an outcome means that you include physiologically small babies and also miss FGR above
the 10th. Given dopplers are also used to determine late onset FGR, why was the primary
outcome not SGA or late onset FGR defined which would include AC crossing centiles and
CPR/UA doppler indices. This may have impacted the association between US and perinatal
outcomes reported. This limitation should be considered in the discussion. Do you have
doppler information on the babies referred to the obstetric care?
How was stupor/ decreased response to pain assessed.
Were all congenital anomalies assessed, why were congenital anomalies included in this
low risk population?
results:
Table 2: Medical indications post 24 weeks in the 2 arms. Can the authors comment on the
1000+ ultrasounds for other reasons in this low risk maternity population? If the control
arm all have 3rd trimester scans too then this is an important explanation as to why you
did not have any differences in outcomes.
Alcohol consumption is also very high for a low risk population? Can the authors describe
how low risk was determined in this study.
Did you explore whether accuracy was different by midwife U/S compared to external U/S?

typo line 34 2.3rd centile?