This is a well written manuscript from a very large prospective cohort study in China assessing the
association between the consumption of spicy foods and the risk of all-cause mortality.
The tool used for dietary assessment and the average length of follow-up should be briefly mentioned in
the abstract.
Methods- Assessment of spicy food consumption: please provide further details on the validity and extent
of the dietary measurement tool that you used. The current estimate that you are presenting
(Spearman's rho = 0.71) refers to repeatability not to validity.
Methods- Ascertainment of deaths:please provide an estimate of the comprehensiveness of your methods
to capture all deaths occurring in the cohort.
Specially among men, the proportion of current smokers was huge. Smoking is indeed a string
confounder in your analyses among men.
You may consider to more thoroughly adjust for smoking using the information on the number of
cigarettes/d in current smokers and the time spent since quitting among former smokers using further
dummy variables, and not only 3 categories. My guess is that this more careful adjustment for smoking
will strengthen your results and will lead to find a stronger inverse association.

You stated that the associations appeared to be less evident in men than in women. Do you have any
data on the differences in measurement errors for the diet between men and women in your cohort?
Do you have any information on biomarkers assessing the ingredients contained in species, so as you can
relate these biomarkers to the consumption of species in a subset of your cohort?
If you have available data, please indicate in table 1 the intake of sodium (or the use of added salt)
across categories of spicy foods and consider to additionally adjust for sodium intake (or added salt).
Do you have data on macronutrient and total energy intake? They should be added to Table 1 in case
they were available. However I deduce that you didn't collect these data after reading your sentence on
Page 17, line 48.
