Originality –
This study is original as SDM is used as the intervention in an RCT of patients with chest who may
be discharged from the ED or admitted to hospital. The study is based on a pilot RCT that was
published in 2012
Importance of work to general readers –
The importance of the issue is largely based on this claim: “As a consequence, low risk patients are
frequently admitted for observation and cardiac stress testing or coronary computed tomography
coronary angiography (CCTA). This results in unnecessary hospital admissions, false positive test
results, and unnecessary invasive downstream investigations, at an estimated cost to the
healthcare system of over 7 billion US dollars annually.” Reference 5 supports this statement in the
United States. This may be an issue elsewhere. References from other countries should be
included.
* Scientific reliability
Research Question –
The research question was clearly defined. There is a question about whether it was answered.
Overall design of study –
The primary outcome of the trial is patient knowledge. The main question for both clinicians and
patients is: Is it safe to send these patients home? The trial was apparently not powered to detect
differences in cardiac outcomes.
Participants studied –
Properly described.
Methods –
The trial is well described. I did not see a reporting checklist (e.g. CONSORT) but I might have
missed it.
Results –
The research question was answered. But the main question for patients and clinicians was not
clearly answered: Is it safe to send these patients home? In this trial, fewer patients in the
intervention group were admitted (37 % versus 52 %) but more patients in the intervention group
had heart attacks (4 versus 1). So after reading the manuscript I still wonder if this decision aid
should be used or not. A larger study might be needed. Perhaps I have misunderstood something
about the timing of these 4 heart attacks?
Interpretation and conclusions –
The conclusions are fairly positive about the invervention. Is it really true that there were “no
adverse events related to the intervention”?
References –
Up to date. There should be more references about the importance of the issue in other countries.
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds –

See the above issue about the four heart attacks.