Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript by Hess et al. on the value of shared decision making (SDM) in patients with low-risk chest pain presenting to an ED. In a pragmatic
interventional study, the authors enrolled 898 patients and randomized them to „usual care“ and
to „SDM care“. For the latter, the risk of adverse events was calculated during the ED visit, this risk
was communicated to the patient using visual support („Chest Pain Choice“) and the wishes and
decisions of patients were included for the further planning of chest-pain management. The main
results of this interventional study were that SDM facilitated by „Chest Pain Choice“ increased
patient knowledge, increased patient engagement, and decreased decisional conflict not affecting
physician trust. The decision aid visualizing risk of adverse events was found to be acceptable to
both, patients and physicians. While the need for further observation within the index presentation
was significantly reduced by SDM guided communication, secondary outcome demonstrated that
this management strategy is safe and trustworthy.
To my knowledge, this is the first randomized multicenter trial examining the value and safety of
shared decision making in chest pain patients with low-risk presenting to the ED. Possibly, some of
my comments could further improve the reading of this excellent manuscript.
1. The authors enrolled a low-risk group of chest pain patients for further evaluation. I believe that
more details of „risk evaluation“ using a web-based tool should be presented. This could be done
by supplemental material presented in the online-section of this ms.
2. I do not completely understand the paragraph on follow-up data (page 17, paragraph above
discussion section). Why was it possible to identify 4 patients with AMI during the index visit (3 or
4 of them in the „intervention group“) although those patients should have been discharged after
communication. Have those patients been hospitalized? Is there a possible risk that AMI would
have been identified in patients discharged for further ambulatory care? I understand that all
diagnosis and risk assessment has been done BEFORE enrollment of the study. Please clarify.
3. A study coordinator supported clinicians to obtain risk assessment. I would suggest a new
paragraph within the discussion section with a short vision, how „shared decision making“ could be
implemented in routine clinical care within the ED.