Nielsen et al. report about the effectiveness and safety of reduced dose direct-acting oral anticoagulants (NOAC) and vitamin
K-antagonist (VKA) warfarin. The authors state that the reduced NOAC regimens showed a differential safety and efficacy
outcome in comparison to VKA treatment.
The topic is interesting and of high clinical relevance. Data of large cohorts or registries are scarce for this research question.
Therefore, they conducted a record linkage study with propensity weighted analysis of a large cohort of anticoagulation naïve
patients with atrial fibrillation. I commend the authors for undertaking this important study that brings forth much needed
evidence for the field.
To further improve the comprehensiveness and readability, I have some issues which merit further clarification:
• The application of the propensity score is a powerful tool to overcome differences in clinical characteristics between groups.
Can the differences in outcome – both for anticoagulation specific and non-specific events – be attributed to differences in

socio-economic status and the quality of anticoagulation therapy between groups?
• Vitamin K-antagonists differ substantially with regard to pharmacological properties (e.g. half-life). It would be interesting to
see (if available), whether the incidence of outcome differs between short-acting and long-acting VKA (e.g. warfarin vs.
phenprocoumon).
• I wonder how the incidence of clinical outcomes differs between anticoagulation naïve and anticoagulation-experienced
patients (since this is relevant for the clinical setting) and would therefore encourage the authors to provide a sensitivity
analysis to further elucidate this issue.
• The difference in all-cause mortality between VKA and NOAC users is surprisingly high for rivaroxaban and apixaban for both
crude and weighted estimates. It would be interesting to see whether the causes of death differ by substance between groups
and what proportion of the deaths were attributable to bleeding or thromboembolism. In addition, I would encourage to
provide evidence of the incidence of myocardial infarction for the VKA and NOAC entities, which is often discussed in
comparison of clinical outcome between VKA and NOAC patients and might – at least in part – contribute to these findings.