Comment to the editor
The authors fail to use proper background information on hypoglycaemia. They use meaningless references and in
general have a lack of knowledge of hypoglycaemia from a clinical point of view. For instance, impaired awareness of
hypoglycaemia is not a problem for patients with type 2 diabetes that are treated with oral medication. They also mix up
prevalence and incidence of hypoglycaemia and they are not differentiating mild from severe hypoglycaemia which is
clinically relevant information. Although they might have provided a technically well performed meta-analysis they fail to
translate this properly to diabetes care. I do feel that this paper is not suitable for publication in BMJ.
Comment to the authors
Major comments:
Please provide a more balanced introduction about hypoglycaemia. There should be a clear difference between severe
hypoglycaemia and mild hypoglycaemia throughout the article. Severe hypoglycaemia is potentially life-threatening and
might be a cause for hospitalisation. Mild hypoglycaemia is an unwanted event for a number of reasons, but this is not
directly life-threatening.
Remove the part about hypoglycaemic associated autonomic failure and impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia from
introduction and discussion section. This is not a problem for diabetes patients with residual beta-cell function (all
patients that are treated with oral medication have residual beta cell function, otherwise they would need insulin). This
can also be read in Harrison, the textbook you refer to. Reference number 13 and 14 are meaningless and should be
removed.
Prevalence and incidence of hypoglycaemia are both relevant. Please, provide more details about the prevalence and
incidence of mild and severe hypoglycaemia in sulfonylurea or DPP4-treated patients. What are the estimates? Reference
26 is withdrawn by the Cochrane Collaboration. Please provide other references.
Hemmingsen B, Schroll JB, Lund SS, Wetterslev J, Gluud C, Vaag A, Sonne DP,
Lundstrøm LH, Almdal TP. WITHDRAWN: Sulphonylurea monotherapy for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jul 29;7
Study characteristics
Studies that permitted the use of insulin should be omitted from your analysis. Patients that are insulin treated have
different characteristics (less or no beta cell function and therefore have an increased risk of hypoglycaemia)
Meta-analysis
Please provide information on severe hypoglycaemia. Did patients in your selected studies have any episodes?
Minor comments:
Page 26, line 4-5
This meta-analysis found about a 50% increase in the risk of hypoglycaemia when DPP4-i and SU were associated in
type II diabetes. Please find another word for associated.