•
Originality — This work presents the rationale, methodology and results of a
prospective randomized single blind trials assessing the effects of 4 different
dose/duration regimens of Tai-chi in comparison to aerobic exercise upon a variety
of relevant outcomes in patients with fibromyalgia (FM).
The study is original as it provides a direct comparison between active
non-pharmacologic treatments for FM and tests different modalities of Tai-Chi
delivery. This was not made available by the two previous trails of Tai-Chi in FM.
The quality of the trial, especially regarding the careful control for potential
confounders also adds to its specific contribution.
•
Importance of the work to general readers — FM is a very common and
disabling condition in a variety of different medical settings and a difficult one to
treat. Although body-mind interventions have become popular among patients and
clinicians, this paper provides evidence of outstanding quality to support clinical
decisions in this field. I believe it belongs in a general medical journal of high impact
•
Scientific reliability
o
The research questions are well defined and appropriately addressed in the
introduction, by the methods and the discussion, being appropriately answered in
face of the data and recognized limitations of the study. Methods are appropriate to
the questions at hand, they are described in great detail and the authors were
extremely careful to identify and avoid every source of bias I could think of.
o
Participants are well defined. The setting of recruitment (a tertiary care
centre) may limit generalizability but this issue is properly discussed by the authors.
There are, in my view, no unaddressed ethical issues.
o
The results are well described and appear fully credible, although I would
require statistical review to be absolutely sure. Some specific words and expression
may deserve revision because they are unusual and may induce doubt in the
average reader (eg: “Treatments contrasts” to refer to treatment groups.

o
Interpretation of results appear to me as fully warranted by the data, and
presented with appropriate caution and critical appraisal? The author go beyond
boundaries when trying to provide potential biological explanations for the observed
effects: these are based in somewhat abusive extrapolation of data obtained in
other settings and could be totally avoided in this publication without harming the
core message.
o
The reference list is adequate and up-to- date.
o
The Abstract/summary/key messages/what this paper adds — do accurately
reflect what the paper says.
o
Documents in the supplemental files describe the checklist used for
reporting RCTs and the, previously published, protocol.
MINOR ISSUES
Some expressions my deserve revision, depending on a native English speaker
perspective:
Page 6, Ln4. However, many patients remain unfit and have difficulties performing
and adhering to exercise programs of high or even moderate intensity due to
symptom fluctuations.
Page 6 Ln32 -Patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis have also
demonstrated beneficial effects from Tai Chi.20-23
Page 14 Ln52: The interaction of time and each contrast provided the test among
the treatment groups.
Page 14. Ln 54. The primary outcome of change from baseline to 24 weeks was
assessed using the appropriate contrast from the longitudinal model.
Page 16.Ln3 The average SF-36 Physical Component score was about two standard
deviations below normal, indicating a cohort with poor health status. (Reviewer’s
comment: “normal” or “population reference values”?
Page 209.Lne32. Tai Chi, a multicomponent intervention that integrates physical,
psychosocial,
emotional, spiritual, and behavioral elements, induces effects on both body and
mind to promote and produce beneficial, meaningful health outcomes.
Reviewer’s comment: This sentence sounds like unsupported passionate statement
regarding Tai-Chi. I suggest … aims at inducing effects on both body and mind that
may result in beneficial health outcomes
Page 20, Ln 48. Similarly, Tai Chi practice may also modulate resting-state
functional
connectivity to relieve pain for subsequent analgesic effects for fibromyalgia.46
Page 20. Lines 41 to 51. This section establishes a relationship between Tai-Chi,
brain connectivity and pain control that are, in my view, neither well established in
the literature nor well explained in this text. I would advise a careful review and a
more cautious style.
Page 21 Lines 10 to 20. This section deserve a comment similar to that made just
above. Extrapolating observations regarding inflammatory and immune responses in
insomnia to a condition like FM needs extreme caution and careful wording.
End.