This publication deserves particular scrutiny and replication as feasible, because the conclusions support the
superiority of SurePath LBC over ThinPrep LBC cervical cytology for the prevention of cervical cancer. Moreover, the
data are observational and prone to confounding; in fact, the screened populations vary substantially in many regards
although all represent Dutch women. The authors have carefully considered confounding and attempted to control for
known possible factors. The possibility remains that some unknown factor differing between the regions using
SurePath and those using ThinPrep produced the results seen.
It would be financially impossible to conduct a randomized trial large enough to assess cancer as an outcome, in
comparing the two LBC methods. Before accepting the conclusions, it might merit a large RCT with CIN3 as the
outcome. If, in fact, more CIN3 is detected using SurePath than using ThinPrep, it follows that the differences in
cancer prevention are proven to be plausible.
In the U.S., ThinPrep holds the dominant market share by far. I am not sure of the global situation. Thus, it is
important to promote research to either confirm or refute the claims of this well-done and cautious analysis. The
trouble is how to arrange and finance such a head-to-head comparison of sufficient size to yield a firm conclusion.
This will require an independent public health expenditure most likely. And given the data presented in this article,
the randomization will have to presume that the data are insufficient so as to accept equipoise between the two
methods.
What do the authors propose should be done? They do not say, perhaps leaving that to an editorialist. If they believe
their conclusions to be firm, then do they recommend SurePath whenever cytology is done?
In many places, cytology is being replaced with HPV-based screening, with cytology relegated to either a co-test
status (U.S) of marginal extra utility, or a role as triage of HPV-positive women. Testing from the same medium as
the primary test is an important factor. The BD HPV test, Onclarity, is the only assay designed specifically for
SurePath. It is not yet approved for use in the U.S., although a registration trial has completed enrollment.
Therefore, the conclusions of this article would favor adoption of Onclarity tested out of SurePath, permitting use of
SurePath cytology for triage of positives. This has direct and significant financial implications for the companies
involved, which will surely take a major interest in the results.
I see no explanatory flaw in the data as presented, and point out only that with commercial stakes so high, it is likely
that some kind of trial perhaps co-financed in part by the competing companies is worth considering if it can be
arranged by a governmental evaluative group somewhere.