MANUSCRIPT: Cardiac safety of methylphenidate among pediatric patients with ADHD: a nationwide selfcontrolled case series study
SUMMARY: The authors used claims data from the South Korean National Health Insurance program (20072011) to assess the cardiovascular risk with recent new use of methylphenidate (within the past 12
months). In this self-controlled case series study, the population of interest are those diagnosed with ADHD
(measured by ICD-10) experiencing their first of any cardiovascular event (defined as arrhythmias,
hypertension, myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, and heart failure). The study appears to be clinically
relevant and thoughtfully conducted. In contrast to prior studies, increased risk was found for arrhythmias
(all risk periods considered), hypertension (only within the first week), stroke (only within the first week),
and heart failure (only after two months).
The authors used a self-controlled case series (SCCS) design to rule out between-person confounding e.g.
differing risk factor distributions between groups that use the drug vs. do not use the drug. The authors
state that prior literature did not use a case only design like SCCS, and they cite this difference as why
their study results diverge from previous studies. But there are other aspects of the SCCS design that are
relevant, which I will focus on here.
The issues surrounding SCCS designs and their target of inference can and should be addressed in the
Discussion as it is very relevant for placing this study in context. The issue about residual and unmeasured
time-varying confounding in this SCCS design can only be partially addressed, because symptoms and
precipitating factors are usually unmeasured in claims data. Nonetheless, the study could motivate future
studies with better clinical data.
MAJOR POINTS:
(1) The SCCS design changes the research question in an important way. By comparing exposure during
the case period and control periods, it focuses on the question of how these risk periods differ among
persons who ultimately developed the outcome. In the words of Malcom Maclure, it focuses on "why now"
instead of "why me" (see Maclure Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2007 Aug;16(8):850-3.) Thus, the study
really appears to be asking whether or not methylphenidate use is a triggering event among children who
eventually did experience cardiovascular events. This may not be the same question addressed in earlier
cohort studies: whether children who take methylphenidate have higher risk of cardiovascular events
compared to those who do not. It is important that the reader understand this difference.
(2) Another issue with comparing results from SCCS designs with those from cohort studies is that the
populations differ (not just the comparison of persons vs. times). In the SCCS design everyone experiences
a cardiovascular event. They may have already been at very high risk for cardiovascular events which begs
the question of whether the results apply to children who are healthier. To be clear, this isn't an issue of
bias but of generalizability. It's not possible to ascertain this population's cardiovascular risk from the
author's Table 1 because it does not report distributions of cardiovascular risk factors. We cannot tell
whether this population is high risk or even _how_ it differs from the populations that appear in earlier
cohort studies. The authors attribute their unique findings to between-person confounding, but it is very
plausible that both sets of studies are reasonably correct, but the populations have different distributions of
effect modifiers (i.e. which by definition must be associated with risk factors for cardiovascular events...see
VanderWeele TJ Epidemiology. 2009 Nov;20(6):863-71).
(3) As the authors point out, SCCS designs are subject to time-varying confounding. That is, risk factor
distributions differ between exposed periods and unexposed periods of time. Although their models control
for psychiatric diagnoses and co-medications, this is probably insufficient. There may be residual
differences in ADHD symptom severity (along with symptoms of other disorders), medication dose,
substance use, and precipitating factors.
MINOR POINT:
It was difficult for me to assess whether the SCCS design was bi-directional or unidirectional. Figure 1 did
not resolve this issue for me. Perhaps a bit more detail is needed, like those in Maclure et al.
Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2012 Jan;21 Suppl 1:50-61.