In this study, the investigators use the UK National Neonatal Research Database
(2008-2015) to evaluate whether among early preterm infants mortality and severe brain
injury is higher among upward transferred infants born in non-tertiary hospitals compared
to non-transferred infants born in tertiary hospitals. The subject matter is of major
relevance to the BMJ audience. I previously reviewed this study. This is a very well-written
paper. The authors have done an excellent job responding to reviewers and making
updates accordingly. I have a few new comments based on this revised version.
1) I found the findings from the comparison of the upward transfer group to the
non-tertiary care (non-transfer) group very interesting--in particular the large difference in
severe brain injury (OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.31, 0.53). According to the methods, severe brain
injury classification was based on clinical criteria from ultrasound and represents brain
injuries occurring during or soon after birth. Were these ultrasounds generally performed
at the care centre where the delivery occurred, before determination of eligibility for
transfer? If so, could this suggest that infants with brain injury were more likely to be
transferred and if so, did the authors consider making severe brain injury part of the
propensity score rather than an outcome?
2) For the primary analysis (3-way matched), upon exclusion due to missing survival data,
the sample sized dropped from 705 triplets to 571 and 593 triplets for analyses of death
prior to discharge and survival without severe brain injury, respectively. Is there any
concern regarding generalizability due to missing data? Slightly different numbers were
included in each analysis (including the sensitivity analyses). Each analysis contained
matched groups and thus within a given analysis infants were similar with respect to
measured covariates. Across the various analyses, were the samples similar with respect to
levels of the measured covariates?
3) Do you know many infants died during transfer and the average length of transfer? This
may have meaning given the conclusions of the paper. Also, is it possible that for some
care centres upward transfer would not be advisable in certain instances given the
distance/time required and severity of a given infant?
4) The authors note in the discussion “Through the application of careful matching we have
limited the potential for unmeasured confounders to influence the results”. This should be
revised. While careful matching can reduce residual confounding by measured covariates
(and potentially by unmeasured covariates highly correlated with measured factors), it
does not help to prevent confounding by other unmeasured covariates. Also, should
unmeasured demographic/socio-economic factors also be listed in the unmeasured
confounders section of the discussion?
5) I am still a bit concerned regarding the inclusion of death outcomes within the first 48
hours of transfer. While this approach may generate results that may mimic a real-life
setting, it is hard to know whether it may be imposing an immortal person time bias when
considering the theoretical randomized controlled trial the study is trying to emulate.

Infants in non-tertiary centres that die soon after delivery are not really ‘eligible’ for
transfer. Could this partially explain the stark differences noted in the sensitivity analysis:
“Infants who underwent upward transfer had no significant difference in the odds of death
before discharge (OR 1.06; 95% CI 0.92, 1.23) compared to controls…. Infants in the
non-tertiary care group had higher odds of death before discharge (OR 1.33, 95% CI 1.19,
1.49) compared to controls.”
6) The authors claim their findings from the sensitivity analysis (pairwise) were consistent
with the primary findings (3-way matched) but the odds ratio for severe brain injury were
quite a bit stronger in the 3-way matched analysis (OR 2.32; 95% CI 1.78, 3.06)
compared to the pairwise (OR 1.38; 95% CI 1.19, 1.60).
7) The authors interpret the following two comparisons differently: “Compared to controls,
infants who underwent upward transfer had no significant difference in the odds of death
before discharge (OR 1.22; 95% CI 0.92, 1.61)… Compared to controls, infants in the
non-tertiary care group had significantly higher odds of death before discharge (OR 1.34,
95% CI 1.02, 1.77).” However, my impression is that, based on the point estimates and
largely overlapping confidence intervals, these two results seem quite similar. Indeed,
when these two groups are directly compared, there is essentially no difference:
“Compared the upward transfer group, infants in the non-tertiary care group had no
significant difference in the odds of death before discharge (OR 1.10, 95% CI 0.84, 1.44).”