1. This manuscript addresses an important issue, which has significance in public health and has been addressed in very few
studies. I recommend publication after revisions.
2. I have several questions about the methods:
a) Page 6: There will be readers who want to compare their population to the one being presented. Other investigators
may have included some of the phenotypes being excluded. To facilitate that comparison, please add after each abnormality
listed as being excluded the number of affected infants, e.g. talipes equinovarus (n = ), etc.
b) Page 8: My reading of the literature on the malformations in infants of diabetic mothers (IDM) is that both anencephaly
and several heart defects were part of the associated spectrum of anomalies. See these two articles:
i)Ferencz C et al. Maternal diabetes and cardiovascular malformations....Teratology 41:319-326, 1990.
ii)Greene MF et al. First-trimester hemoglobin A, and risk for major malformations....Teratology 39:225-231, 1989.
c) Page 8: Please provide the basis for using the level of hgb A1C of 5.6 as the cut-off point.
d) Page 8: Twinning. It is noted on page 8 that the abnormalities included were “either acardiac or conjoined twins.” On
page 10, it is noted that twin-twin transfusion and the TRAP phenotype were excluded. The basis for that exclusion should be
provided.
e) Page 9: Minor anomalies. Many groups comparing their findings to those in their report will have excluded minor
anomalies. If infants with only minor anomalies were “included”, the total number of such infants should be specified.
f) Page 11: When to assign the diagnosis of VACTERL Association is open to debate. Please explain how this was done.
Was a specific number of the cardinal anomalies required?
3. DISCUSSION
a) Page 12-13: References 15 and 16 are listed as related to our hospital-based study in Boston to identify all infants with
malformations. I would omit ref. 15, as it concerns only a small subset (N=6,927) of the findings in a larger sample of 69,277
presented in reference 16.
b) On page 12-13, it is noted that the prevalence of major birth defects in this Utah study was 2%. For comparison, it is
noted that “using less restrictive criteria with inclusion of milder defects, investigators have reported higher prevalence
estimates,” listing our paper (ref. 15) as presenting a prevalence estimate of 3.6%. This is misleading. In the larger sample
of 69,277, the prevalence rate was 2.24% (see Table 1 on p. 20), which is more useful as the sample size was much larger.
Furthermore, our study, presented in ref. 16, did not “include milder defects.” We did several studies of minor anomalies, but
excluded them in the results in ref. 16.
c) Other studies support the fact that the prevalence rate of malformations at birth is 2 to 2.5%. Crucial to this rate is the

fact that the ascertainment was limited to malformations detected at birth. In comparing the findings in this Utah study to
those presented in ref. 14 and 16, each of which identified malformations only between birth and 3 days of age or 5 days of
age, respectively, the “time window” for ascertainment in the study being presented should be provided. Was there a specific
age beyond which a malformation identified after birth would not be included? If so, specify what that age was.
d) Page 15: The problems with using the ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes are noted. A comment on the evidence of the inaccuracy
of these codes should be added, as many epidemiologic studies of birth defects are relying on these codes.
e) Page 15: It is noted “that further research will discover more complex networks accounting for genetic and environmental
contributions...” Please include here, if possible, an example or two of an exciting possibility of that progress (other than the
relationship between folic acid supplements and neural tube defects).
f) Page 15: The impact of chromosome microarray technology and mutation analysis is noted. Did the availability of these
technologies impact the findings in the years of this study (2005 to 2009)? If so, were there changes over time that were
documented?
g) One issue in the surveillance of newborn infants for the prevalence of malformations is whether or not to include
abnormalities detected by prenatal screening by ultrasound, such as hydronephrosis. Were abnormalities detected only by
prenatal ultrasound, but not the examining physician, included among the malformations included? If so, please provide the
total number of these “ultrasound-only” malformations. Other investigators analyzing data, like these, would exclude those
findings.
When a malformation is identified by prenatal screening by ultrasound, the parents may choose to terminate that pregnancy.
If so, were those malformations included in this tabulation? Since some residents of Utah might go to other states to have an
elective termination, those decisions could affect the identification of those affected fetuses. It would help the reader to review
these issues which can affect this and all studies of the occurrence of malformations in newborn infants.
Lewis B. Holmes, M.D.
MassGeneral Hospital for Children
Medical Genetics Unit
175 Cambridge Street, 5th Floor
Boston, MA 02114
