This paper by Bao et al aims to assess the association of preconceptional potato consumption and the
risk for developing gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). To investigate this objective the authors
analyzed data of n=15 632 females participating in the NHSII study between 1991-2001 (n=854
reported GDM). Dietary patterns were assessed by a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) every four
years. The authors found a trend between number of potato servings per week and risk of developing
GDM. This association remained significant after several adjustment (only additional adjustment for BMI
attenuated this association however it remained significant).
i. To investigate the association between dietary patterns and risk for GDM is a rather interesting topic,
as changes in life-style at the beginning of pregnancy might help to prevent onset of hyperglycemia (and
hence might reduce the number of visits, interventions and costs). Therefore, the paper provides
important information for clinicians. However, the discussion of the paper is rather short and more a
summary of results and needs some extension (particularly pointing out the importance for health care
providers).
ii. The research questions are adequately defined.
iii. Study design: The time period between assessment of dietary patterns (FFQ) and pregnancy onset is
not clear. Study participants repeated their food intake every 4 years. Which questionnaire was used for
the analysis?
iv. Please provide a short comment on the criteria used for GDM diagnosis in the methods section. Of
course it should be noted as a limitation that there is no information on treatment of GDM provided

within this manuscript.
v. Statistical analysis and data interpretation: The methods are carefully described. Appropriate methods
were used for analysing the data. Moreover, data is adequately summarized in tables and the figure. In
addition appropriate confounder adjustment and analysis of possible interactions were performed.
(Although I missed the results of the interaction tests in the results section.) What was the reason for
categorizing BMI (i.e. nine categories) instead of including BMI as a continuous variable? The descriptive
character of this observational study should be additionally considered.
vi. Results section: “When we included the different types of potato preparations…” Meaning of the
correlation coefficient is unclear?
Priv.-Doz. Dr. C. Göbl
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Medical University of Vienna