This is a highly relevant study for primary care staff and organisations with relevance to wide
public health and hospital care. The study addresses a very important area of safety which has
received too little attention in primary care in the UK (and elsewhere). The paper demonstrates
that using data from routine electronic health records to describe clinical performance in a
timely manner and provide an indicative baseline against which success or lack of it can be
ascertained - is an effective means of influencing prescribing behaviour with a significant and
important impact on potentially unsafe prescription.
Background. The context and previous literature (and lack of it) is well described and and the
aims of the study clearly stated. The Methods are clear though I have one question of
clarification - is it possible for the authors to indicate the nature of the support that was given
to Arm1 practices to obtain search data on their performance - in other words was it possible
for them to generate a graph showing their performance against the best 25% - I suspect not
and the all the search might have generated would be their own practice data without
comparators. It would be helpful to clarify this without having to go and look it up in some
other article.
The Results, Tables and Figures are generally well presented and the Discussion was well
structured with a clear description of the strengths, weaknesses and implications of this
research. Unlike some previous studies this one did not look at impact on hospital admissions
for gastrointestinal bleeding (or specific or all cause mortality)and the study may well have
been underpowered for this (although earlier DQIP study by the authors did show some
reduction). It might be helpful if the authors could indicate whether they have any plans to look
at these outcomes or whether they considered the study unlikely to have sufficient power to do
this.
I have few issues to be clarified

1. In what period was the prescription counted - within the previous 3 months, 6 months or
some other period
2. In Methods again, I could not find a very clear explanation of the fact that this was a serial
cross-sectional study of an open cohort (ie that has people entering and leaving the cohort at
different time points) rather than a predefined cohort of the same people followed over time.
From the baseline denominator the numbers in all Arms increased (after taking account of
practices and patients withdrawn because of practice mergers) by small amounts 5-8/1000
which are similar across arms and unlikely to have influenced the results - but some
acknowledgement of this cross-sectional nature and any potential biases (or the lack of them)
that might result might be worth noting.
We dont know from this data how many people died (or were in long term hospital beds and so
may not appear in denominators and/or numerators so we are unsure if differential
'losses'might influence results.
3. The authors dont comment on why there was a reduction pre-intervention. Do they have a
view on this? Would the discussion of the study locally, for some time prior have had an effect or are there alternative explanations?
None of these comments detract from what is an excellent study deserving publication and
dissemination to a wider audience.