Effects of therapies for prophylaxis and treatment of COVID-19: living systematic review and network
meta-analysis
The authors have examined the effects of treating suspected or confirmed COVID-19 by systematic
examination of the literature and network meta-analysis of the few randomized controlled trials. This is
potentially important work. They have used elegant statistical methods to examine the data, but the
best they can find is 18 trials, and of all the more than 200 pairwise comparisons, the best they can find
is three results of moderate certainty, and a few of low certainty.
A major problem is that the only potentially life-saving treatment, dexamethasone,
[https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.06.22.20137273v1] is omitted from the analysis. This
is bad luck, but risks making the work useless.
I have set out comments on the presentation as it stands, but it would be sensible for the work to be
revised to include the results published in the preprint of the RECOVERY trial dexamethasone arm. The
paper will need to be assessed by a statistician.
Page 9/68
Background
Line 6: ‘Despite huge efforts to identify effective interventions for its prevention and treatment- which
have resulted in almost 1,500 trials completed or under way—evidence of effective treatment remains
limited.’ Please qualify as ‘scientific,’ ‘good’ or ‘robust’ evidence—a major problem is that, of ~1500
completed trials, you only found 18 RCTs for your meta-analysis, and they were largely unhelpful.
Line 18: please say what a ‘living network meta-analysis’ actually is.

Line 31: ‘Our living NMA will directly inform BMJ Rapid Recommendations4 on COVID-19 treatments,
triggered to provide trustworthy, actionable, and living guidance to clinicians and patients soon after
new and potentially practice-changing evidence becomes available.’ It will not do so as it stands. Please
update this to include the RECOVERY trial results for dexamethasone, or it will instantly be out of date.
Line 49: ‘suspected, probable or confirmed COVID-19 that compared pharmaceuticals or blood products
aimed at prophylaxis or treatment against one another or against no intervention, placebo, or standard
care.’ ‘The other studies will be included in NMAs for blood products and prophylaxis.’ Please confine this
paper to treatment of confirmed or suspected covid-19 by medicines.
Page 10/68
Line 36: Please clarify here whether your reviewers looked only at full text of those articles already
selected by title & abstract. [See page 12/69, line 47]
Line > 60: Please say why ‘viral clearance’ was chosen when ‘Outcomes of interest were selected based
on their importance to patients.’
Line > 60: ‘Because of the inconsistent reporting observed across trials, in the updates we will use…’
11/68 Line 14: ‘We update the data collected from included studies when they were published as
preprint or as soon as the peer-review publication becomes available.’ Line 41: ‘We plan to conduct
separate NMAs for prophylaxis and blood products.’ This is Comment, not Method.
Page 12/68
Line 4: gemtc seems to have been updated on 21st June 2020
[https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/gemtc/gemtc.pdf]
Line 38: This is a result.
Line 50: Nine publications had only appeared as preprints, but we do not know how to judge the value of
preprints. Three of the 13 RCTs had previously been published as preprints. Had there been material
changes from the preprint to the published results?
Line 51: Of the 21 studies that were registered, please say whether the protocol published at
registration corresponded with the methods published in the paper.
Page 15/68
Line 25: ‘the most effective interventions’ is an inappropriate phrase to describe treatments that yield a
small or trivial benefit of low certainty.
Line 42: ‘Remdesivir is the only intervention in which even moderate certainty exists supporting
reductions in both time to symptom resolution and duration of mechanical ventilation.’ Please say
whether: (a) the remdesivir data all come from company-sponsored trials; (b) whether the grading of
bias that you used included this as a factor; and (c) if not, whether company sponsorship, which is
associated with the publication of positive results, should be considered a bias?
[https://www.cochranelibrary.com/cdsr/doi/10.1002/14651858.MR000033.pub3/full]
Page 31/68
Please explain why the mortality of 330/1000 with standard care is ~three times the rate of mechanical
ventilation, when most control patients in trials would be expected to be ventilated before they died.
Page 47/68
Can it really make sense to publish results to 8 significant figures (145465.98) when the credible interval
(CI) is anywhere between 0 and 1.74E+19? An odds ratio between zero and several orders of magnitude
looks meaningless to a simple physician, and it might be better to throw away all the results with very

low certainty. Publishing them (except as supplementary tables, perhaps) could lead people to believe
that the odds ratios mean something.
