Wadhera et al. describe a retrospective analysis of all revisits after discharge in the US
HRRP. They show an increase in total revisits, with a decrease in readmissions. They reflect
upon the 'actual' effect of the program, and wonder if it has really improved the quality of
care - however they stay quite superficial when discussing. Readmission literature is
extensive and therefore often not 'sexy', the good thing is the authors have a large bulk of
data and the message is simple, clear and important. However, I do miss a more in-depth
discussion about the use of readmissions/revisits as a quality indicator (this paper yet
again shows the complexity around this - is getting readmitted always really a bad idea?)
and another caveat is the lack of comparing to 'before' the program. They did do this in
their JAMA paper. These facets might put the paper into a better, more balanced
perspective. Especially for the reader who is not very into the 'readmission literature'.
There is also a report from 2018
http://medpac.gov/docs/default-source/reports/jun18_medpacreporttocongress_sec.pdf?sf
vrsn=0 showing results of the HRRP, but giving more thorough explanations. It would be
interesting to see the authors reflections upon these.

Introduction:
- Is there other evidence whether readmission programs (in and outside of the US)
influence overall revisits? I cannot imagine there is no data on this (considering the bulk of
readmission literature). I would like to know 'what is new'. In the authors recent JAMA
paper discussing effect of program on mortality they do reflect upon this (33). Also the
accompanying editorial by Fonarow has cited relevant papers.
- It might be useful to explain a bit earlier why the authors chose to take two comparisons
(all revisits and singles, and within 30 days).
Methods:
- Why only patients above 65? I think in younger patients it is also relevant to see if they
come back or not.
Discussion:
Please see above earlier general comments. Discussion could be more thorough
and more reflective. As a reader:
Is it true? Yes, methods seem thorough.
Is it new? Yes, I think these results are but I am not 100 % sure about the other literature.
Does it matter? Yes, but it could be more clear from the paper why it matters.
