General comments
This paper uses a wide range of published data to compare a range of indicators of different aspects of
the performance of the UK National Health Service (NHS) broadly from 2010 to 2016 (and sometimes
over a longer 20-year period) with the health care systems of nine other high income countries with
which the NHS is frequently and appropriately compared. The authors’ primary interest lies in seeing
how well the UK system has withstood the challenge of sustained and unprecedented funding austerity
since 2010. The answer seems to be ‘pretty well, considering’ though this performance cannot be
guaranteed much longer. The UK needs to spend more on its health care system if it wishes to continue
to achieve comparable or better results in the future.

The comparisons are presented in a simple descriptive manner but tell a suitably nuanced and
interesting picture. Generally, the authors are careful in how they handle and interpret the comparisons
they make. They make good use of a wider range of sources than is commonly the case, including data
from the World Bank, IHME, Eurostat and the Commonwealth Fund International Surveys in addition to
the very familiar data from the OECD. This enables the UK to be compared in a variety of ways looking
at population composition, health care coverage, spending, inputs (workforce, beds, etc.), access,
utilisation, patient and staff experience, quality of care, outcomes, population risk factors and prevalence
of disease.
Though the paper scarcely tells those who follow debates about NHS performance much that they would
not already be aware of, it is handy to have a wide range of performance information brought together
in a brief way.
To improve the paper, I had some suggestions:
1. It would be helpful for the international reader to mention at the outset that the UK in this instance is
largely (though not exclusively) taken to be the performance of the NHS though there is a small
privately financed sector in which NHS specialists work part-time. It is mentioned at the end but it
would be worth mentioning at the outset that there are four NHSs in the UK with increasingly divergent
policies (plus variation in how long term care is subsidised) but performance is dominated by England
simply because of its far greater size.
2. Since ‘social care’ (sometimes referred to as ‘long term care’) is touched on at intervals, it would
probably be worth a sentence explain that this sector is separate from the NHS, public finance is
allocated after an income and asset test by local government on a variable basis across the country, and
the care is almost all provided in the independent sector. It would be worth explaining what ‘social care’
includes in the UK context. On page 11, the side-heading introduces the term ‘social spending’ without
definition and especially without differentiating it from the sub-set of ‘social care’ spending.
3. Greater care is needed in using terms like ‘outcomes’, ‘health outcomes’, ‘health care outcomes’ and
‘population health outcomes’. Conventionally, the term ‘outcome’ was used in health services research
to mean the consequence of a specific intervention applied at the level of an individual and thus
attributable, in principle, to the intervention. By contrast, entire populations were referred to as having
different levels of ‘health’ or ‘prevalence of disease’. In this regard, it is unclear what the phrase
‘population health outcome’ means even though it is quite widely used, unless there is an intervention
that is targeted at the entire population. Put simply, it would be better if the authors distinguished more
carefully between indicators of the health status of the population and indicators of the results of specific
interventions targeted at particular patient or population sub-groups. Thus on page 8, line 17, life
expectancy is referred to as a ‘valued health system outcome’. Life expectancy is the product of a huge
range of factors most of which act outside the health care, social care and public health systems. It
cannot be described as a ‘system outcome’, perhaps it could just about be described as a ‘societal
outcome’.
4. Given that none of the differences between the UK and the other countries were tested statistically for
significance, greater care is needed in some parts of the paper in how these differences are described.
For example, on page 27, line 21, ‘health service outcomes’ and ‘population health metrics’ are
described as ‘amongst the lowest in the group’ of ten countries. However, the differences between the
UK and the group average a small in each case.
5. The authors conclude that the UK needs to invest more in ‘factors that can reverse the decline of
health service and population health outcomes’ but without stating where this spending might be
directed within and outside the NHS.

6. There is a tendency to verge on blaming too many of the performance weaknesses of the UK health
care system on the effects of austerity. For example, the ‘poor comparative cancer outcomes
highlighted in recent reports’ are linked to recent funding cuts but are of longstanding. It is interesting
to note that throughout the period of austerity cancer outcomes have been improving rapidly, albeit that
they still lag other benchmark countries in ways we do not fully understand.
7. The conclusion seemed to me to be slightly overstated: ‘lower spending growth in the UK has had
important impacts’ (page 31, line 8). Given the design of the study, would it be more accurate to state
that ‘lower spending growth is likely to have had important (negative) impacts’?
Detailed comments
There are one or two pieces of jargon which may not be understood very widely such as ‘tariff
reimbursement’ (Page 5, line 9) meaning the English NHS’ system of DRG-style prospective payment for
acute hospitals.
‘empirical data’ (page 5, line 47) – aren’t data always ‘empirical’?
‘SHA’ (page 7, line 19) – needs to be in full at first use.
‘As many of the concerns of reduced growth in healthcare spending in the UK have centred around the
transformation of healthcare dollars to health care outcomes,’ (page 8, lines 11-12) – I don’t know what
this refers to.
‘the health care system included all groups whose primary intent is to improve health’ (page 8, line 31)
– if so, what was included and what was excluded, and which side of the line did long term care/social
care fit?
Table 1 private health insurance – it might be worth pointing out that what passes for PHI in terms of
scope of coverage varies greatly between countries.
If known, it would be interesting to know what the increased spending from private sources in the UK
has been devoted to (page 11, line 44)
‘practicing’ – ‘practising’ in UK English (page 14, line 2)
‘screening’ – missing from ‘cervical cancer’ (page 17, line 27)
The comment about non-medical determinants of health being above-average (page 24, line 21) is
incorrect when it refers to smoking where the UK rate is below the average for the other nine countries.
Is the proportion of the population over 65 years still a good way of showing that a country needs to
spend more on health care (page 27, line 40), given rising life expectancy, etc.?
The point on page 27 (line 50) about the higher proportion of the workforce reporting being out of work
or in part-time work because of caring responsibilities is fascinating and worth more emphasis by linking
it to pointing out the lack of any system of long-term care (social) insurance in the UK
The need to be careful with terminology persists to the very end of the paper where the term ‘social
services’ is suddenly used in the final sentence whereas previously the paper had used the term ‘social
care’ (without definition).

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Nicholas Mays
Job Title: Professor of Health Policy
Institution: London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/declaration-co
mpeting-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare them here: None

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
