In the article the authors utilize the Medical Birth Registry of Norway to study how
complications linked to placental dysfunction in term births are associated with the
risks of preterm birth in the subsequent pregnancy. The term complications include
preeclampsia, placental abruption, stillbirth, neonatal death, and
small-for-gestational age. The authors find that these complications at term are in
fact associated with risk of preterm delivery in the subsequent pregnancy and prove
the reserve association as well: Preterm birth in the first pregnancy is associated
with the aforementioned term complications. This article is original and important
given the sparse literature on these associations. It is wholly consistent with the
STROBE guidelines. Specific comments, questions, and suggestions are below.
1. In my opinion, the most important chart in this article is eTable 6, and it feels
like this article is burying the lede by not featuring it more prominently. Iatrogenic
preterm delivery in a subsequent pregnancy could very well be due to one of the
complications studied. Literature showing increased chance of abruption and
preeclampsia in women with history of them is robust, but literature linking term
disorders of placental dysfunction to spontaneous preterm birth is not. I would
suggest the following changes:

a. Include this chart more prominently in the main part of the article and center the
discussion on this link between the term complications and spontaneous preterm
birth.
b. Stratify by spontaneous and iatrogenic preterm birth, with iatrogenic including
both c-sections initiated prior to labor and the vaginal deliveries.
c. Re-calculate sensitivity analyses and the analysis with recurrences excluded to be
stratified by spontaneous/iatrogenic.
2. Were patients who had PPROM in the second pregnancy and then had their labor
induced labeled as spontaneous or induced preterm birth?
3. How did you establish your dating criteria? They seem to be discordant with
clinical practice (at least here in the United States). Assigned estimated due date
(EDD) is established by ultrasound instead of LMP with following parameters here*:
• Greater than 5 days before 9 0/7 weeks of gestation by LMP
• Greater than 7 days from 9 0/7 weeks to 15 6/7 weeks by LMP
• Greater than 10 days from 16 0/7 weeks to 21 6/7 weeks by LMP
• Greater than 14 days from 22 0/7 weeks to 27 6/7 weeks by LMP
• Greater than 21 days after 28 0/7 weeks by LMP
*Methods for estimating the due date. Committee Opinion No. 700. American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Obstet Gynecol 2017;129:e150–4.
4. Additionally, with regards to the IVF dating, are you just going 2 weeks back
from the transfer date? Or does your dating algorithm account for how many days
old the embryo was (i.e. Day 3 or Day 5)? If so, please specify that in the methods,
and if not, please explain why embryo age at transfer was not included in the EDD
calculation.
5. Why were the occasional smokers excluded from the analyses which adjusted for
smoking? I would suggest including them in the analyses.
6. There were multiple points in the article where “preterm” is used as an
independent noun, but it is a little confusing as a reader. I suggest going through
and specifying “preterm birth” (or delivery or labor, whichever is applicable)
throughout the entirety of the article for consistency.
7. I would suggest moving eFigure 1 out of the supplement and into the main paper
if feasible.
8. I am unsure of the house style rules with regard to statistical significance and
couldn’t find them when reading them, but I would suggest only bolding the
significant results or including another symbol to denote significance, as this would
make the tables easier to interpret at a glance.
