General comments:
Despite the fact that study under focus represents advance in terms of
similarity/transitivity, the greatest limitation of previous similar meta-analyses (including
one recently published in BMJ 2016 Apr 21;353:i1777, doi: 10.1136/bmj.i1777 ), which
results are based mainly on indirect comparisons, is still present here.

Specific comments:
- The term `severely ill patients` is not frequently used in rheumatoid arthritis papers. We
recommend replacing `severely ill` with `severely active rheumatoid arthritis`.
- Of the 3 basic principles of network meta-analysis, only transitivity/similarity could be
properly assured. Homogeneity and consistency could not be adequately granted due to
the lack of direct comparisons. I think that a better strategy would be being more inclusive
performing sensitivity analysis and metaregression analysis to handle risk of bias and
dissimilarity, respectively.
- The authors state that there are no language restriction. However, the authors do not
report searching articles in databases indexing articles in Chinese, for example.
- In methods, it should be made clear that studies including biologic-experienced patients
were excluded from the analysis.
- The authors included studies on anakinra, which is not recommended for RA in any
context, but excluded studies on rituximab, which is not considered a first line biologic, but
has also been tested in biologic naive patients. So, it is not clear to me theb reason for
excluding rituximab and allowing anakinra studies.
- When you start reading the study, in the abstract, you may have the idea that this is a
patient-level meta-analysis, but it is not. Patient-level analysis was made or remade by
the sponsors, and then send to the authors. This should be made clear in the abstract.

- The statement that DAS28 and ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response criteria are outdated
is a little strong and should be removed. However, is it adequate to prefer CDAI because it
is not influenced by ESR or CRP, which may altered by direct action of tocilizumab or
JAK-inhibitors.
- The author informed that `... the last search was conducted in February 2017`. The ideal
situation is that the publication occurs within 2 years of the last searching activities.
