This manuscript describes an umbrella review of the role of dietary factors in the
development of type 2 diabetes. It is thus a systematic review of published

meta-analyses. Information on the role of diet is important for evidence based
prevention efforts for type 2 diabetes and given the large number of meta-analyses
on this topic a systematic synthesis of the evidence is useful. My comments
regarding the manuscript are shown below.
General comments:
1). The Nutrigrade assessment of the quality of evidence for different dietary factors
is of key importance for the conclusions of the paper, but scoring for different
dietary factors for different components of Nutrigrade is not shown. This makes the
methodology difficult to replicate; for example why coffee consumption receives a
lower score than red meat consumption cannot readily be assessed based on the
presented data. More information on this scoring is essential for the transparency of
this review.
2. Earlier systematic reviews on dietary factors and diabetes risk have been
published last year (Schwingshackl L, Hoffmann G, Lampousi AM, Knüppel S, Iqbal
K, Schwedhelm C, Bechthold A, Schlesinger S, Boeing H. Food groups and risk of
type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective
studies. Eur J
Epidemiol. 2017 May;32(5):363-375. Micha R, Shulkin ML, Peñalvo JL, Khatibzadeh
S, Singh GM, Rao M, Fahimi S, Powles J, Mozaffarian D. Etiologic effects and optimal
intakes of foods and nutrients for risk of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes:
Systematic reviews and meta-analyses from the Nutrition and Chronic Diseases
Expert Group (NutriCoDE). PLoS One. 2017 Apr 27;12(4):e0175149). The authors
cite these papers, but should provide some more discussion on the existing evidence
and what this study adds to the Introduction section. The current paper does
consider a wider range of dietary factors that these previous efforts.
3. The main review does not include evidence from trials of dietary factors with
measures of glucose homeostasis as an outcome. This is an important source of
evidence, but it is understood this is difficult to include in the main review. However,
the authors should provide a more balance overview of the evidence from trials of
intermediary outcomes in the Discussion section. Currently, the authors do discuss
this for the foods with high quality evidence, but do not highlight any trials that do
not support effects. For eg whole grains there are several trials that do not show
any impact on markers of glucose homeostasis.
4. The internal inconsistency of findings may warrant some more discussion for
example for fresh red meat and total red meat. It is relevant for the public to know
if they should be avoiding all red meat or only processed meat. Currently, total red
meat receives a high evidence rating but fresh red meat does not which raises
questions for actual recommended eating practices. Similarly, if caffeinated and
decaffeinated coffee show similar associations with diabetes risk how can the
evidence for caffeine be just as strong? Some discussion on the integration of key
results would be useful.
5. In the 'what does this study add section' the authors conclude that the effects of
diet on type 2 diabetes risk are moderate. It should be noted, however, that the
Predimed trial showed a 50% reduction in risk with only dietary changes. Whether
effects of diet as a whole are moderate or stronger may depend on the contrast of
intakes that is examined in studies and how many different aspects of the diet are
targeted in combination.
6. The authors should be careful about the similarity in units of exposure when they
are comparing the strength of associations for different dietary factors. For example,
the units for hamburger vs bacon intake are rather different.

Specific comments
1. Abstract results: the authors present the percentage of dietary factors that were
directly, inversely, or not associated with T2D. The authors should make clear that
these are not inconsistent results, but are different results for different aspects of
the diet.
2. Avoid terms such as ‘increased risk’ or ‘decreased risk’ as you are focusing only
on observational studied comparing risk for different groups of individuals rather
that changes in risk in individuals.
3. The authors should explicitly discuss what level of evidence they believe is
sufficient to support dietary recommendations and discuss their findings for different
dietary factors accordingly. I am surprised they state that their findings support
recommendations for a Low glycemic index diet, whereas their evidence
classification for this is ‘Low’.
4. The authors state or imply in the discussion section that whole grains are low in
glycemic index (GI) and sugar sweetened beverages and sucrose are high in GI.
Please note that whole grains can both be high or Low in glycemic index so this does
not reflect the same dimension of the diet. Similarly, sucrose or high fructose corn
syrup have an intermediate GI as the fructose component has a Low GI.
5. The authors mention the fact that high quality evidence evidence was observed
for only 5% of examined dietary factors as a study limitation. Why would that be a
limitation of this study?