This is a well-written manuscript on an important clinical topic and I agree with the authors
that knowledge on the size of recurrent VTE risk is essential for the difficult decision on
whether or not to continue anticoagulation after a first unprovoked event. However, I am not
convinced that this meta-analysis will advance the current knowledge much further, for three
reasons:
1) the sizes of the risk that are found in this meta-analysis lie (obviously) in the range of
risks that have already been published. So the result of this exercise is at most to confirm
the order of magnitude of the risk that was already apparent from the individual studies. No
new information is obtained from combining these data. That the recurrence risk is lower in
women and in patients with distal DVT is also not really a new finding.
2) the patients’ characteristics included in the individual studies are not provided and
therefore the extent to which these results can be generalised is questionable. First of all,
the criteria that were used for ‘unprovoked’ are not consistent: for example, some studies
exclude patients with thrombophilia, or who take oral contraceptives, while others include
these groups and again others only exclude patients with surgery or trauma. In table 1, one
column has as a heading “Definition of Unprovoked VTE” where “ISTH” is filled in for almost
all studies. What does this mean? Can the authors elaborate on the different inclusion
criteria? Secondly, most studies concern RCTs. This implies that a selected patient
population was included, generally more healthy than the overall patient population. Thirdly,
the cohort studies included patients who had stopped. There must have been some clinical
decision making preceding this decision (in contrast to the RCTs) so these patients may
again not be representative to all ‘unprovoked’ VTE patients.
3) related to this, an important issue is that individual patients vary strongly in their intrinsic
risk of (a second) thrombosis. Calculating an average risk for a group is therefore not so
useful, considering the wide range of risks, as the decision making for the individual will not
benefit. I fully agree with the authors who state at page 16 that “the need for an
individualized, patient-centered approach in the long-term management of unprovoked VTE
is emphasized”. This is what we should aim for.
Some other points:
4) the calculation of the cumulative incidences is not completely correct for the longer time
periods as they cannot be directly estimated from the incidence rates over longer periods (>
1year) due to people leaving the cohort (denominator decreases exponentially). Therefore
an exponential estimation is to be preferred here.
5) the last 3 lines on page 7 and first 3 on page 8 do not seem to be correct
