Rational: while initially I wasn’t convinced that another meta-analysis was needed, they
convinced me that a new meta-analysis on this topic was useful given that the number of
trial participants had doubled since the last meta-analysis.
Overall, this is a well-written document. The methods seem solid. I have two minor
criticisms that should be rectified. The first one is that there is an emphasis in the
discussion on the fact that there are significant interactions, but it is overlooked that the
actual subgroup effects are non-significant. Secondly, nowhere in the discussion is spoken
about the quantification of the effect size or whether the effect sizes are clinically relevant.
This is important for clinicians in terms of decision-making.
Methods
Subgroup analysis: please add that you did tests for interactions.
Sensitivity analysis: line 136: inconsistency identified: etable5 talks about “high or
unknown risk of bias”, here you only mention “high risk of bias”. Same on page 10, line
169.
Sensitivity analysis: line 136: instead of “each domain”, maybe say “the different
domains”. I initially interpreted this as each domain combined. Also do this for each table
5.
Results
Page 10, line 166: remove the word “which”
Page 10, line 167: what are these P values? P value of the slope?
Table 2: please add that the P-value is a P-value for interaction.
In table 3: please add that the age and baseline vitamin D are mean values
E figure 7: please add that this is referring to baseline 25(OH)D levels. The X axis does not
contain units (nmol/L). Please add the P value to the figure, and make sure to indicate
what this P-value is.
E figure 8: X axis does not contain units (years). Please add the P value to the figure, and
make sure to indicate what this P-value is.
Discussion
First paragraph, last sentence (line 182-183: while you might have found a significant
interaction, neither subgroup was significantly associated with mortality, reducing the
importance of this finding. At a minimum, I would add something along the lines “although
neither were associated with a significant reduced risk.”
Please quantify your key findings where possible.

Line 184: here would add a quantification: “this meta-analysis suggested that vitamin D
supplementation reduced cancer mortality by 16%. In contrast, it had no significant effect
on cardiovascular mortality or noncancer, non-cardiovascular mortality.”
Line 188: maybe add the year of that Cochrane review.
Implications: line 209- 210: you conducted two types of analysis by baseline vitamin D
levels. The subgroup analysis showed a P-value for interaction of 0.98, while your
meta-regression analysis, where you examined baseline vitamin D levels as a continuous
variable, showed a significant interaction. How do you rectify these differentiating results?
Moreover, while there might be a significant interaction, the magnitude of effects looks
very small even for values as low as 20 nmol/L. It is important to comment on that as it
reduces the clinical relevance of the interaction and the advice you might give to clinicians.
Similarly, the effect size was significantly lower in trials with a longer follow-up, but again,
the magnitude of effects were so close to the no-effect line, that this finding seems
clinically irrelevant.
Line 227: you could also add the quantification of 16%.
