This manuscript describes an analysis of the Diet, Cancer, and Health cohort, examining changes
in alcohol intake and subsequent risk of both breast cancer and coronary heart disease.
Although the diction is awkward on occasion, the approach is delineated extremely well, and
thoughtful approaches to presentation of sometimes messy data are taken. I enjoyed the
focused discussion and measured length of the manuscript.
The results generally support a very extensive body of observational work, demonstrating that
individuals whose reported alcohol consumption increased between two study visits had higher
subsequent risk of breast cancer and lower risk of coronary heart disease. A number of
sensitivity analyses supported these findings.
From an overall standpoint, the findings elegantly portray the conflicting benefits and risks that
observational studies of alcohol appear to suggest. Although these types of analyses have been
conducted for other endpoints (including cardiovascular disease, as noted below), I am unaware
of the equivalent for breast cancer and hence the symmetry in the findings is elegant. Decisions
that were less clear to me include two omissions - men and mortality. While restriction to
women is entirely appropriate for breast cancer, consonant findings on CHD for men and women
could have bolstered the argument, albeit to a modest degree. Further, the authors note that
analyses of mortality would be a natural way to contrast the two endpoints, and clearly such
data is available given that mortality is used for censoring, and hence the absence of mortality
data appears a somewhat missed opportunity.
General Comments
1. The sample is large with a surprisingly broad degree of both absolute alcohol intake and
change in intake, particularly for women. I suspect few cohort studies would have similar power
for this type of analysis, given much lower drinking rates among women in other countries. As
such, this represents a particularly strong use of this cohort.
2. Cohort follow-up made use of well-validated registers with sufficient follow-up, ensuring large

numbers of both endpoints. Unfortunately, information on hormone-status of breast cancers
does not appear to have been available, information that might have bolstered the causal
argument (and potentially demonstrated stronger relative risks for subtypes most strongly
linked to alcohol).
3. Exclusion of abstainers to minimize concern about sick quitters is reassuring, but
supplemental tables with more of the sensitivity analyses would have been more reassuring still.
Strictly from a terminology standpoint, I do not view analyses that exclude the first few years of
follow-up as "sick quitter analyses."
4. The choice of confounding factors was made with obvious care, but perhaps could have been
more extensive. In particular, no diet data were included, despite administration of an FFQ, and
only smoking was adjusted using both the original and follow-up examinations. Since change in
alcohol intake was the primary variable of interest, variables whose value at the 1993-1998 visit
might have been associated with subsequent risk even conditional on 1999-2003 values should
seemingly have been included.
5. The analyses of baseline intake appear to use different scales - drinks per day for breast
cancer but drinks per week for CHD. If this is correct, it is not obvious why (and leads to some
confusion).
6. The approach to missing data is not entirely clear to me. The authors appear to have used
standard multiple imputation, but I cannot easily identify the number of imputations that were
made and whether standard approaches to combining hazard ratios across the imputations were
used. This may just require some additional information in the text.
7. The authors note potential issues with adjusting for baseline in analyses of change (their
reference 37). However, that reference deals with adjustment for baseline values of outcome in
analyses of change in that outcome (i.e., adjustment for baseline values of a biomarker in
analyses of change-in-biomarker as the dependent variable) and is inappropriate for this
question.
8. The authors fail to cite a few papers on change in alcohol and risk of CHD, although as they
note many were restricted to men. These include Arch Intern Med. 2000;160(17):2605-2612;
Am J Med. 2008;121(3):201-206; Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2004;11(1):48-55; and Heart.
2002;87(1):32-36.
9. The penultimate paragraph poses an interesting dilemma. The authors note that
recommending women stop drinking may be counterproductive because it could negate a CHD
benefit. However, their own findings are less clear on decreases than on increases in drinking put differently, they do not actually show an increase in CHD with decreased intake (in fairness,
they also do not show that breast cancer would decrease in that scenario). This suggests more
nuance may be necessary in trying to extrapolate to public health recommendations.