The REPOSE trial addresses an important research question, namely the potential benefit of insulin pump (CSII) therapy
compared to multiple daily injections (MDI) on top of structured training (DAFNE) in patients with type 1 diabetes with no
strong preference of treatment mode. The dilemma in most previous trials in this field is as pointed out by the authors that the
CSII patients often receive much more attention in order to take out the full benefit of this complex therapeutic option. The
question in the case of benefit of CSII is then whether it is explained by the treatment itself or by the training. The REPOSE
trial tried to circumvent this problem by applying a similar amount of training in both treatment arms. However, then the
question is: Did the CSII patients receive sufficient training and attention throughout the study to harvest the full CSII effect?
This deserves further attention in the limitations section of the discussion (see also pt. 2+3 below).
Overall, the trial is well-powered to assess its primary endpoint and the two-year duration is a further strength as it ensures
capture of potential exhaustion after an initial enthusiasm following a new intervention in subjects only moderately motivated
(applies particularly to the CSII group).
Given the resource consuming training program and subsequent randomized insulin intervention, the overall primary outcome
in the trial is rather disappointing and far from the therapeutic target for T1DM. The reason for this is probably that no insulin
titration was performed, emphasizing that educational efforts cannot stand alone in the strive for better glycaemic control.
As there are considerable numbers of patients with T1DM that do not reach glycaemic target despite structured education, I
find the study very important for clinical practice as the choice of the next intervention based on these data obviously should
be individualized.
The manuscript is well-written, but the conclusion needs reformulation. The authors attribute the general study result to the
DAFNE training which cannot be done as there is no control group for this intervention (could as well be a general trial effect).
A more appropriate conclusion in alignment with the title and the aims and supported by the data would be: There was no
difference in the effect of analogue-based MDI or CSII applied without titration when added to structured training in patients
without preference for any of these treatment modes.
In order to fully understand the results a number of questions need to be addressed and clarified in the manuscript:
1) What was the baseline treatment of the cohort? Specifically, how many were already on twice daily detemir?
2) How often were the patients seen during follow-up and were ad hoc contacts with the purpose of optimizing (particularly
CSII) therapy allowed? In other words: did the CSII patients obtain the full effect of the treatment?
3) In the same line: are there any data from device downloads to assess the actual compliance in the two groups regarding
carb counting and bolus calculation?
4) To understand the HbA1c outcome it is important to know the insulin dose at follow-up broken down to bolus and basal and
a description of the principles for insulin adjustments during the trial.
5) In addition, some data on glucose measurements would be of value, F-PG in particular.
6) Why did the trial include subjects (with HbA1c < 7.5%) that could not be assessed according to the primary endpoint? In
clinical practice such patients without strong desire of CSII treatment would only be considered for CSII in the case of
problematic hypoglycaemia – was this the case here? From a glycaemic perspective these subjects could contribute to
differences in hypoglycaemia but they are rather few and there are no power considerations in terms of hypoglycaemic
endpoints.
7) Regarding the hypoglycaemic endpoints, severe hypoglycaemia was defined according to the ADA guidelines, requiring no
confirmatory glucose measurement. The second milder hypoglycaemic measure, moderate hypoglycaemia likewise required no
biochemical confirmation. This is in contrast to the ADA recommendations that requires confirmation of all milder events in
trials. Finally, it would have been reassuring to have an estimate of asymptomatic hypoglycaemia based on self-monitoring or
blinded continuous glucose monitoring.

8) The authors state that participants had no preference for CSII or MDI. How was that assessed? And how large a fraction of
the population was eligible according to this criterion? It might be expected that most patients have some degree of
preference.
9) What was the rationale for only allowing detemir twice daily as basal insulin in the MDI arm? In the discussion is mentioned
a need for studies comparing CSII with “best MDI”. Do the authors consider detemir twice daily as the best basal insulin
therapy?
Ulrik Pedersen-Bjergaard
