This is an interesting paper on the association of spicy foods and mortality in a very large Chinese cohort
with carefully conducted analyses. I have a number of comments including one major concern about the
validity of the exposure variable.
The question used in this study to evaluated spicy food consumption asks participants “how often they
had consumed spicy foods in the past month”. However, the spiciness of a food is subjective and whether
a food/meal is perceived as spicy depends on other ingredients, other foods consumed at the same time
and short-term and long-term exposure of the individual to spiciness. It is not reflective of the content of
any potentially biologically active component. Furthermore the follow-up questions about consumption of
chilli are likely to bias participants’ answers towards reporting spicy foods referring to heat. However
spices are very diverse and although they include chilli they also include for example cinnamon, star
anise and cardamom. The question asked in the study on which the main outcome variable is based is
open to broad interpretation and susceptible to considerable bias and although reproducibility was
evaluated in the study, validity was not.
Because of the diversity of spices the analyses cannot answer questions pertaining to biology. They are
also not particularly useful for public health messages given the varied interpretations of “spicy”. I would
suggest that the authors change the focus of their paper to that of the secondary analysis carried out on
chilli consumption as this being a more homogenous food would be useful in informing biology.
Specific comments
Major comments

1. Throughout the manuscript the same variables are referred to by different names. The manuscript
should be revised so that terminology is consistent throughout to avoid confusion.
Introduction
2. “Spices” is a very diverse group. The authors need to be more specific about which spices and avoid
broad statements.
Methods/Results
3. Given that approx. 5% of the study population was excluded for various reasons, it would be
appropriate to carry out an evaluation of potential introduction of bias by these exclusions.
4. Methodology of measurement/estimation of covariates needs to be described.
5a. What is the rational for stratification by sex? Please present the p for interaction for sex. If there is a
clear rational then it should be described in the methods and the implications discussed in the
discussion.
5b. The main conclusions are based on the total cohort yet these analyses are secondary (included in
supplementary tables) to the sex stratified analyses in the manuscript. I would suggest restructuring so
that the total cohort analyses are the primary analyses and the sex stratified are secondary.
6. The test for linear trend across categories may not be completely appropriate in this circumstance as
the midpoint of the reference group is 0. This can lead to significant p-values for linearity that mask the
true shape of the association because of a consumer versus non-consumer effect. The presence of such
an effect is suggested in the results from the multivariate-adjusted analyses for all-cause mortality in
men for example: HR(95% CI): 0.90(0.83-0.98), 0.90(0.83-0.99) and 0.90(0.85-0.96) and p-trend:
0.001. Further analyses to evaluate the shape of the association should be carried out.
7. The analyses are not adjusted for energy intake, is it not available? Dietary analyses that do not
account for energy intake are likely to include a considerable amount of residual confounding. At the very
least there should be a discussion of the potential effects of not adjusting for energy intake in the
discussion.
Discussion
8. The strengths and limitations section would benefit from restructuring. A number of limitations
precede the sentence “This study acknowledges a few limitations that should be noted”.
9. A brief summary/discussion of the null associations is warranted. The authors should also consider
including a statement in the abstract. Concluding that spicy food consumption was associated with causespecific mortality is a little misleading as it was only with certain causes not all specific causes evaluated.
10. The conclusion could be more focused.
Minor comments
Abstract
Page 3 lines 19 and 23: The authors swap over and back between the terms all-cause mortality and total
mortality, and further on in the manuscript, total death. Using the same term throughout the article
would make for easier reading.
Page 3 line 38: “Inverse associations were observed for deaths due to cancer, ischaemic heart diseases
and respiratory system diseases.”
The inverse association with death due to respiratory system diseases was in both men and women but
the inverse association for deaths due to cancer and ischaemic heart diseases were in women only. The
authors’ sentence gives the impression of a more consistent result than the results in the main text
suggest.
Introduction
Page 4 line 19: reference 4 is an ecological study. This should be made clear in the text.
Page 4 line 26: “Moreover, spices exhibit antibacterial activity and affect gut microbiota populations,
which have been recently related to risks of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, liver cirrhosis, and cancer
in humans”
In which direction is the association with gut microbiota and in turn the diseases listed?
Methods
Page 5 line 7: Please define “lost to follow-up immediately”.
Page 5 line 26: For the option “other or don’t know”, were the participants given the opportunity to
specify the “other”? If yes, what was done with these data?
Page 5 line 33: Why limit the re-survey questionnaire to those who could complete it within an interval of
less than 1.5 years? Why not use all 4 years of data? This appears to be an unnecessary introduction of
bias.
Page 5 line 38: It is not justified to say that the results of the test for reproducibility indicated that spicy
food was reported “accurately”.
Page 5 line 57: “…grouped into seven major categories…”
This suggests that there were other minor categories but from further reading there does not appear to
be.
Page 6 line 10: What was the n for loss to follow-up? Given that death was ascertained through linkage
with disease and death registries and therefore not dependent on contacting the participant it is not clear
why would there be participants lost to follow-up? Please briefly detail the reasons for their loss.
Page 6 line 20: “potential risk factors”. Are these the same as the suspected risk factors in the abstract?
Page 6 line 30: “participants who reported fresh chilli pepper as one of their commonly used spices and
those who did not”. How did you treat those who were not given the opportunity to answer this question
i.e. those who were non-consumers or occasional consumers of spicy foods?
Page 6 line 34: Stratification of alcohol consumption into current regular drinker and not is susceptible to
bias from those who have quit or reduced their alcohol intake due to illness. I suggest categorising into

never, quit and current, or even low and high current consumers given the J shaped curve of the
association of alcohol consumption and mortality.
Page 6 line 35: these cut-offs for BMI are odd. I would have expected 25 and 30 or if you wanted to use
cut-offs specific for China wouldn’t these be 24 and 29? Please provide a justification and/or a reference
for the cut-offs used or re-do with more widely accepted cut-offs.
Page 6 line 36: Were the tests for interaction only carried out for all-cause?
Page 6 line 42: Stata not “the Stata”
Results:
Page 6 line 51: “Regions”, “survey site” and “rural residency”. It is not clear what the difference is or if
they are all the same.
Page 6 line 53: “those who consumed spicy goods less frequently” this appears to be a new undefined
group. Does this correspond with the never/almost/never/occasionally group? Do they correspond to the
<1/wk in the table?
Page 6 line 56: “more likely to smoke cigarettes” What about cigars, pipes? Does this mean smoking
status was defined on the basis of cigarette smoking only?
Page 6 line 57: “fresh and dried chilli peppers were the most commonly used types of spices among our
participants” This isn’t strictly true as the questionnaire preferentially asked about chilli consumption. It
would only be fair to say that fresh and dried chillies were the most commonly consumed chilli
preparation in those that reported consuming spicy foods >1-2 days per week.
Table 1: how was postmenopausal defined?
How was physical activity measured?
Was 0 used as the mid-point for never or almost never and occasionally for red meat etc? or did you
have different categories for these foods than you had for spicy foods?
Page 10 line 4: Saying 10 years of follow-up is a little misleading, listing the median 7.2 years is
sufficient. It would be more informative if you additionally included a measure of distribution (e.g. IQR)
around the median.
Page 10 line 22: there was no description of a test for heterogeneity in the methods.
Page 10 line 29: there was no mention of collection of these covariates in the methods.
Table 2: Was age adjusted for as underlying time-scale or in addition to?
“status with regard to a family history of cancer, heart attack, stroke, or diabetes in the corresponding
analysis of causes-specific mortality” What adjustment for family history was carried out for all-cause?
The footnote needs to include a description of the covariates and in what format they were included in
the model e.g. alcohol consumption (continuous/ categories?)
Why include level of physical activity when you have continuous METs?
What does history of diabetes refer to? Is this prevalent diabetes? Why adjust for prevalent diabetes but
exclude prevalent heart disease, stroke and cancer?
Did you do a test for power? I’m mostly concerned about the very low number of cases for infections and
whether it is appropriate to include this as an outcome.
Page 15 line 17: the HR (95% CI) for diabetes was not significant 0.72 (0.55-1.01).
Page 15 line 24: “which are rich in active ingredients such as … used spices” this would be more
appropriate to include in the discussion.
Page 15 line 42: The interpretation of this result is difficult given the strata inclusion criteria. See
comment for Page 6 line 34.
Discussion
Page 16 line 4: the associations were only consistent for all-cause. As this sentence directly follows a
conclusion for cause-specific it is misleading.
Page 16 line 13: Can you provide a reference for this?
Page 16 line 56: Beta-carotene is the form of vitamin A in fresh chilli peppers. Therefore it is not
appropriate to list both vit A and beta-carotene.
Page 18 line 4: Can you provide a reference for this?
Page 18 line 41: “the strengths…” this would be better placed in the strengths and limitations section
rather than the conclusion.
What is already known on this topic
Wouldn’t it be more accurate to say “a beneficial role of the bioactive components of spices…” given that
most of the studies cited have investigated capsaicin.
The use of the word surprising is a little emotive for scientific writing.
What this study adds
Why focus on the differential results for alcohol consumers here when it wasn’t included in the main
conclusion?
Figure legends
Page 25 line 35: introduces new terminology “any cause”, it would make for easier reading if the same
terminology was used throughout.
Figure 1
It would be informative to have p values for linearity included here.
Supplementary tables
Page 34: sex not gender in footnote