Dear Authors,
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review the manuscript. I have passed on my thoughts to the
editor.

Best wishes
Dear Editor,
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review the manuscript which address a clinically relevant
question. This is a well conducted study and also well written. However, there are a few aspects that I
wish to address. Please find attched my thoughts:
Aspect 1 : Patient selection could have been better. A total of 130 women in the study have had
previous failed IVF treatment.
Aspect 2 - All women were on an antagonist based protocol. Of course, I understand this was for
flexibility for an agonist trigger; however, we know that one size doesn't fit all, particularly when we are
dealing with a cohort of women with previous failed IVF treatment and also varying ovarian reserve.
Therefore, the findings may not be be generalized.
Aspect 3 - Methods section should include:
a. Please define for modified natural cycle?
b. Was ovulation induction tablets used?
c. Was injections used?
d. Or was it a combination cycle?
e. What was the cut - off for endometrial thickness in a frozen embryo transfer?
f. Was the embryo transfer performed with ultrasound guidance ?
Aspect 4 - Authors mention about accelerated endometrial deveopment with use of injectbale ovualtion
inducation medication. If so, how do they justify use of modified natual cycle for a frozen embryo
transfer?
Aspect 5 - Why was a natural cycle not used particularly in a group of women who are normo-ovualtory?
Why was a hormonal tablet based FET not used?
Aspect 6 - What was the criteria used for hCG trigger in a modified natural cycle?
For e.g. Size of follicle, Endometrial thickness, Dose of HCG etc.
Aspect 7 - Some of the text doesn't not match information given in the table.
Examples include:
a. What is a programmed cycle in Table 2 - Is this HRT-FET protocol?
b. Manuscript states that all transfers were single embryo transfer at blastocyst stage. However, table
suggests a double embryo transfer and also another transfer at cleavage stage.
c. More than 16 % of patients were transferred from a fresh transfer to a frozen embryo transfer group.
Was this group accounted in the fresh or the frozen embryo group in the final analysis?
Aspect 8 - Why was estradiol or any other hormone co-relation not done, particularly progesterone on
day of final oocyte maturation in fresh ET group?
Aspect 9 - Please mention blastocyst survival rates and also how many blastocyst were thawed-warmed
to aim for a single blastocyst transfer.
Aspect 10 - Can a sub group analysis be done for women who had their very first IVF treatment?
Aspect 11 - There are some typo errors. For e.g.
In abstract section - line 26 : Single

In results section - the paragraph should start ''The frequency of beta-hCG''
Kind regards,
Abey