In this matched, prospective, population-based, primary care electronic healthcare record
cohort study from the UK, the Netherlands, Italy, and Spain the authors evaluate whether
codes for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease can be used to make inference on the incidence of
fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction or ischemic and unspecified stroke. Participants were
matched by age, sex, practice sites, and visit recorded at six months of the date of
diagnosis. For each exposed participant up to 100 patients were matched. During a mean
follow-up of 2.1 to 5.1 years, the authors found a small increased risk of HR 1.17, which
entirely attenuated after further adjustment for diabetes, systolic blood pressure, total
cholesterol, study news, and hypertension. The authors conclude that the diagnosis of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in current routine care does not equate to a high
independent CVD risk.
Overall, the study is well conducted and the results of interest to a general readership.
Nevertheless, I have a few comments, that the authors may want to consider.
1. the primary outcomes of the study are fatal and nonfatal acute myocardial infarction
and ischemic as well as unspecified stroke. However, the authors make inference about
CVD. As in general other endpoints are also included in a composite endpoint CVD (such as
cardiovascular disease death), I suggest to focus on the primary outcomes.
2. I find the term "independent" problematic. This study shows that the association
between NAFLD and the primary outcomes are independent of the covariates that were
used for matching and were included in the multivariable models. Whether this means that
this association is entirely independent is a different question.
3. The authors conclude that the cardiovascular risk assessment in patients diagnosed with
NAFLD should be conducted in the same way as the general population. However, no data
are provided in this study to support the statement.
4. Patients are included in the study if they had at least six months of follow-up post
NAFLD diagnosis. I assume this was also true for the matched unexposed group and I
suggest to include this information into the methods section. Otherwise the study would
suffer from immortal-time bias.
5. I am unclear about the rationale for building the multivariable models ("progressive
adjustment"). Why were these variables included? What about other potential
confounders?
6. In the results section, the authos show one P value for the hazard ratio for incident
stroke. As no other P values for effect measures are shown, and information about 95%
confidence intervals are provided, I think this P value can be removed.
7. Only in the footnotes of the tables and the figures information about handling missing
values is provided (unless I missed it). Please add information on how missing values were
handled and what method was used to impute them.
8. Please discuss limitations by potential confounders for which no measurement were
available, such as lifestyle factors, nutritional factors, physical activity, and others.
9. The authors argue that their results may differ to other studies by better accounting for
social classes. However, this argument cannot be directly concluded from the provided
data. Why matching of a large number of referent individuals has some benefit, it may also
be problematic because of the distribution of covariates in the unexposed may be too
similar to the exposed and due not reflect the distibution in the general population.

10. I was not clear whether the factors used to match exposed and unexposed where
incorporated in the analysis or not.
11. I would recommend to not use the word "control" in this matched cohort study when
referring to matched unexposed. This is rather a referent individual and different from a
"control" in a case-control study.