The authors have performed a SEER-Medicare analysis comparing SABR with VATS-SLR for patients with lung cancer. Although
they should be commended on trying to focus the analysis on minimally-invasive surgery, the analysis has several deep flaws
that mar interpretation. The authors need to carefully evaluate their inclusion criteria, since a trivial number of patients with T2
disease (and apparently no one with a tumor above 2 cm, which doesn’t make sense) were included in the SABR population.
MAJOR COMMENTS:
A critical problem in these types of studies is the method of staging. SEER will provide the surgical T and N stage if there is
one, and the clinical T and N stage if there isn’t. Thus this analysis is comparing cT1-2 cN0 (SABR) with pT1-2 *pN0* (SLR),

which profoundly biases the results against SABR. The authors must try to adjust for this. They can adjust for PET-CT at
diagnosis between the arms. They should adjust for mediastinal staging between the arms (or at a minimum, report this
number). There’s just no way around it… the differences in the staging variables makes these modality comparisons extremely
challenging.
Secondly, the authors are hinging the uniqueness of the analysis on their focus on minimally invasive surgery. Yet their data
say the exact opposite thing. If you look at the hazard ratios of the PS-matched SABR vs surgery comparisons, there’s actually
a greater overall mortality benefit with all SLR (HR 1.96) than with minimally invasive surgery (HR 1.85), and profoundly more
cancer mortality with SABR in the all SLR comparison (SLR 4.25) than the thoracoscopic cohort (HR 1.77). These numbers
actually suggest that open surgery is a better oncologic procedure AND safer… so I’m not sure why they focused on the
minimally invasive cohort. If anything, these results suggest that the utility of minimally invasive surgery needs to be more
carefully examined before considering it the standard-of-care. Bottom-line: for this analysis to focus on VATS and claim
repeatedly that it’s better than open surgery and thus should be the comparator to SABR, the data should confirm this, and it
doesn’t…
SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
Introduction
1. "Radiotherapy has generally been considered a palliative alternative." This is a provocative and biased statement and not
held by many people in the radiation oncology community. At a minimum, it should be referenced and probably not included.
2. "SABR has emerged as a technology..." Sufficient data have emerged that it not just provides acceptable local control, but
overall survival.
3. Paragraph 2. Paragraph is a handful of non sequiturs. While minimally invasive surgery may limit some morbidity (mortality
certainly not established), that is unrelated to the failed RCTs.
Methods
1. What stage of lung cancer was included? Absolutely critical information not included.
2. Follow-up data for all patients or just surviving patients?
3. It’s questionable whether recurrences can be properly coded here. This population is very frail and so chemotherapy may
not be applied, especially in a local recurrence. This endpoint is exploratory, at best, and should be described as such.
4. Especially given the established imbalances in comorbidities, the authors should use the modified Klabunde comorbidity
index, using data from 1 year prior to diagnosis (thus limiting patients to age 66 or older). The authors may have been trying
to increase their numbers by not excluding the 65 year-olds, but the analysis requires this covariate to have face validity. Not
adjusting for this variable (in addition to or in place of the Elixhauser calculated comorbidities) is a significant omission (and
fixable).
5. Propensity score analyses are optimally used when there are few outcome events relative to the number of predictors. That
is not the case here, so I think that it adds relatively little to the analysis. It’s certainly fine to include the propensity matching
in the paper as a secondary analysis, but primary MVA using all the data will be more robust.
6. How were the multivariable regressions performed? Was a selection algorithm used? Were the regressions for the whole
cohort and PS-matched cohorts the same (they shouldn’t be…)?
Results
1. Evaluating the patient composition in Table 1 suggests some significant problems in the dataset. Why are only 15 (6.6%)
patients presenting with T2 disease? Secondly, why does the size top out at 20 mm? This distribution is not consistent with
other papers looking at SABR. For example, Shirvani et al (JAMA Surgery 2014) had 20% of patients T2, and 60% of patients
with T sizes above 2 cm. *Something must be wrong with the identification of patients for SABR.*
2. It is difficult to imagine that only 30 Medicare patients received SABR in 2007-2008. The authors must check their
programming. In the Shirvani paper, 156 patients were treated with SABR over that time. This discrepancy must be resolved.
A few patient difference here or there isn’t a huge deal… a 5-fold difference must be carefully evaluated. Similarly, in the
Shirvani paper, 168 patients were treated with SABR in 2009 alone… here it’s only 111 for 2009 and 2010…
3. Appendix Table 1 needs to be fleshed out further and report the specific, absolute differences between the matched cohorts.
These are large standardized differences with relatively small improvements with propensity matching. The composition of the
two cohorts needs to be made explicit.
4. The p value for CSP is > 0.05, and this was stated to be statistically significant. That interpretation needs to be changed.
5. It is interesting that the Cox regression showed CSP to be improved with surgery in the PS-matched cohorts, after the
univariable comparison (on matched cohorts) was not significant. What other covariates were in this regression? Was it just
the hospital level clustering? The PS-matched cohorts already account for the imbalances in the population… were baseline
covariates double-counted in this regression?
6. Table 2 should include the HR’s for all covariates included in the regression.
7. The follow-up imaging analysis seems out of place for the analysis. I’m not sure what it adds to the manuscript. It is much
more important to adjust for patients receiving pre-treatment PET-CT, to try to equalize the quality of the pre-treatment
staging.
8. With a median FU of under 3 years, the survival curves should end at 3 years. I find it very surprising that there was not 1
SABR patient with an event after 3 years… the authors should check their programming.
9. What is the 30-90 day mortality after surgery? Any difference between type of surgery?
Discussion
1. The authors claim that the cancer specific survival “appears modest but substantial.” Well, it was less than 4% and the p
value was 0.06. This is relatively trivial given the profound biases favoring the surgical cohort (in particular, using the surgical
stage rather than clinical stage for SABR).
2. Implications of findings section is a bit grandiose given the limitations of the analysis: “Our analysis helps form the basis…
other trials assessing the added benefit of novel immunomodulatory agents…” The authors should tone it down. This is a
hypothesis-generating study, and it needs to be framed as such. Why are these outcomes different from the other papers? If
the only difference is the minimally-invasive nature of the surgeries, then it would have been useful to show some type of
difference between the surgical modalities in this paper.
3. Limitations section… you are comparing surgical stage (SLR patients) with clinical stage (SABR)… this is a huge difference

between the arms. The authors were not clear in the Methods on the stage selection process, but presumably it was stage I.
This is an apples to oranges comparison with respect to stage, and the authors must mention this.