
A highly important and relevant paper which frankly draws together the role of
health systems in environmental degradation and social inequity. The division of the
discussion into three main areas (energy, food systems and homes and
neighbourhoods) is a useful structure, and the inclusion of case studies to illustrate
each area, establishes a positive vision for change.
However, I have some concerns about the article, and accordingly make the
following suggestions:
•
The key message of the article – that the health system, through its current
practices, contributes to environmental degradation and social inequity which
themselves harm human health (i.e. that current health systems are making their
own patients)– needs to be more clearly set out, particularly on pages 1-2.
•
Also, early in the article, the authors could note that they will be examining
this issue as it relates to three main areas. Currently the text moves abruptly from
the Introduction into ‘Sustainable Energy and Production’ (page 2, line 30). I would
suggest a couple of sentences here to ‘signpost’ the ensuing discussion for the
reader. For example: “In this article we discuss this issue in relation to three key
areas (‘Sustainable Energy & Production’, ‘Resilient Food Systems’ and ‘Healthy
Homes and Neighbourhoods for All’) and for each we provide examples of leading
initiatives from health systems around the world.”
•
In some instances, the emotive ‘tone’ of the article detracts from its
important message. For example, “To live up to our promises” could be re-phrased
as, “To be consistent with our responsibility” or, “To act in accordance with our
obligation”.
•
Although I understand that the number of references for Analysis articles
are limited, I am a little concerned that some significant assertions are not
referenced. For example: “the health care sector has contributed to an explosion of
diseases associated with our own industrial practices.” (Page 1, lines 43-45); and
“renewable energy… contributing to high quality jobs .. and significant financial
savings.” (page 3, lines 13-16).
•
Some terms need to be clarified. For example, will BMJ readers understand,
“industrial logic”? Currently the term is not addressed until the conclusion.
•
In addition to citing the English and US carbon footprints, you might like to
include the carbon footprint of the Australian health system (7% of their national
emissions) which was published in January 2018. See: Malik et al.: ‘The carbon
footprint of Australian health care’.
•
In my opinion, some of the text is too informal or colloquial. For example:
“biggest improvements” (Page 1, Line 40) and “Thanks to an $800,000 investment”
(page 6, line 50)
•
“..emerging as a meta-driver for global health.” (page 2, line 37) Should
this be “global ILL-health”?
•
Finally in my opinion, the paper (like most papers!) would benefit from
some final editing to remove superfluous words and ensure the text is as concise as
possible.
-Kate Charlesworth
