The authors have clearly worked hard to align their paper with our suggestions.
This makes the paper a long read, especially in the methods section, and we now
have most of the original analyses supplemented with the analyses that we
suggested. For example, the multiple imputation follows the description of single
imputation analyses, and the investigation of non-linear associations now follows
the standard linear assumption. So this is much to process for the reader. That
being said, the complexity is a fair reflection on how the findings were derived
and the order the methods were operationalised. I have a few main comments
remaining, which I’m sure the authors can address, and some minor ones.
Main comments
•
Results ‘Main associations …’ section. When the authors say ‘In model 1
…’ – I think it would help to remind the reader what this model is (specifically
what adjustment factors were included). Also, there is still no mention of

whether the proportional hazards assumption was sensible for the analyses
reported.
•
And, the linearity assumption is mentioned for the first analysis, but not
for the others. The spline plot is a very nice addition (I thank the authors for
doing this on the log scale now), and shows that the linearity assumption appears
sensible for this one outcome, but what about other outcomes of CHD and
Cerebrovascular disease?
•
The abstract focuses on hazard ratios. I think it would be beneficial to
also indicate how they translate to change in absolute risk by a particular
time-point. The hazard ratio appears small, and the impact on absolute risk may
be very small. This is an important point to convey to the reader. The results and
discussion may also benefit from this
•
In the discussion, can the authors discuss whether further research
might rather analyse the total amount of ultra-processed food eaten, rather than
as a % of the total diet? I am not sure if this would change the findings or be
relevant to the field, but to me, the absolute amount may be more important (or
also important) than %.
Minor comments
•
In the What This Study Adds: “An absolute increment of 10 in the
percentage of ultra-processed foods in the diet was associated with a >10%
significant increase in the risks of overall cardiovascular, coronary heart, and
cerebrovascular diseases.” I would remove the word significant in this sentence.
•
“Absolute CVD risks were 253 for 100000 person years in the whole
population: more specifically, age and sex-corrected absolute CVD risks were 242
for 100000 person years …” – I think CVD risks should be changed to CVD rates
in this sentence.
•
“More specifically, ultra-processed beverages (P=0.004) were associated
with increased overall CVD, ultra-processed fats and sauces (P=0.04) and meats
(0.05) were associated with increased coronary heart diseases, and
ultra-processed beverages (P=0.01), sugary products (P=0.05) and salty snacks
(P=0.04) were associated with increased cerebrovascular diseases” – I think it
would be beneficial for the p-values to be replaced or supplemented with HRs and
CIs here.
•
“In contrast, none of these food groups were associated with CVD risk in
their non-ultra-processed form …” – I think the authors are better to say that
there was no strong evidence for an association, rather than there is definitely
not an association.
•
Table 2: I still do not find the sex-specific quartiles easy to follow. I
would have thought there were 4 for males and 4 for females, but they seem to
be lumped together? Please can the authors clarify how these groupings are
created and analysed in their article?
•
“The association between ultra-processed food and overall cardiovascular
risk was also investigated separately in different strata of the population:
men/women, younger adults (<45y)/older adults (≥45y), participants with a high
lipid intake (>median)/those with a lower one, participants with a BMI<25
Kg/m2/those with a BMI≥25 Kg/m2, …” – as mentioned before, these groupings
are rather arbitrary, and a better approach would have been to look at the
interaction between the continuous covariate and the effect of ultra-processed
food (rather than creating groups and looking in them separately). But, at this
stage, I do not think it makes sense to ask the authors to do anymore work on
this specific point.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
