The authors present an extensive and exhaustive review and meta-analysis of the reliability
of several commonly used criteria (clinical examination findings, CT findings, TCD findings,
and optic nerve sheath diameter findings) to predict whether ICP is elevated above a
threshold of 20 mm Hg. The essence of the report is that none of these approaches is
sufficient to exclude the possibility of elevated ICP, nor are they sufficient to confirm normal
ICP.
A significant amount of work has gone into this analysis, and I think it is important work that
will inform future research. I would like to see it made stronger by being more specific in the
methods and more pragmatic in the discussion.
Methods
The manuscript is unclear on several of the variables. Individual comments are below.

1.
When was the reference ICP measurement obtained in each of the studies with
respect to the treatment of ICP? If ICP treatment had been initiated prior to the ICP monitor
insertion, which is a common clinical scenario, then a bias against finding ICP elevation
would be present in the study. The potential of such a bias should be discussed in the
manuscript. Additionally, what criteria were used to define the reference ICP measurement?
Was this a single measurement, such as an opening pressure or initial ICP, subject to
sampling bias, an average over time, or something else?
2.
Similarly for CT, TCD, ONSD and examination findings, when were they done with
respect to treatment <u>and</u> with respect to the reference ICP measurement? The
presumption behind the question being addressed by the meta-analysis is that all of these
findings should have been documented <u>prior</u> to ICP measurement. The manuscript
should describe whether this is true.
3.
What is meant by posturing? Does this include only extension posturing, or also
flexion posturing? Or does the meta-analysis consider both? Was this derived from the GCS,
or was it derived from specific clinical documentation? Additionally, did the analysis include a
motor score of 1, which is, of course, a worse motor finding than flexion?
4.
The manuscript uses the term mydriasis; however, I would recommend it use the
term pupillary dilation, as this is the language most commonly used in the literature and by
clinicians. Additionally, the manuscript does not address the issue of unilateral vs bilateral
pupillary dilation, the extent of pupillary dilation, or pupillary reactivity.
5.
For CT scans, particularly for those studies of ICH, was the presence or absence of
hydrocephalus considered in the analysis?
6.
Although I suspect I know what is meant by “TCD-ABP methods”, the manuscript
should be very clear in defining the specific method.
7.
For the CT scans, at what level was midline shift measured, and what structure was
used for the midline (e.g., septum pellucidum vs pineal)? This should be defined.
8.
For ONSD, the complication of facial or orbital injuries prohibiting this method is not
addressed. Also, the reference point for measurement is not indicated, i.e., the distance
from the globe to the point on the optic nerve where the measurement is made.
Discussion and Conclusions
Given that the manuscript appears to want to help guide clinicians who are in low-resource
practices (i.e., without access to ICP monitoring), the discussion is not adequate to guide
clinical judgement, and seems focused more on the individual analyses than on placing their
findings into the clinical setting and providing pragmatic advice to readers in light of the
absence of evidence revealed by their analysis.
For example, page 18, lines 23-33 state, “Therefore, the presence of any of these physical
signs does not independently indicate elevated ICP. Similarly, absence of any one sign does
not adequately rule out elevated ICP. Clinicians without access to any other further methods
of testing (e.g. in remote or resource-poor settings) should not solely rely on these signs to
guide initiation of treatment, or the decision to transfer the patient to a more expert centre.”
Similarly, page 20, lines 31-45 state, “Our study suggests that decisions related to the use
of monitoring should not simply be restricted to any one specific physical examination or CT
criteria, but rather a more comprehensive view should be taken, focusing on patient factors,
factors related to the brain injury, as well as clinical signs<sup>82</sup>. Given the
potential role for ICP monitoring to improve outcomes by avoiding further brain injury due to

high pressures, understanding its potential breadth of use has important implications in the
care of the critically ill<sup>83</sup>.”
While true, these statements are of little help to the clinicians they are advising. In their
minds, readers of this manuscript will be asking, “So what should I do?”
Specifically, the manuscript must address the conundrum of type-1 error (i.e., falsely
concluding that ICP is elevated when it is not) vs type-2 error (i.e., falsely concluding that
ICP is not elevated when it is). In fact, this is the critical clinical decision that all responders
in the ER and the ICU must address. In the absence of a reliable indication of the ICP, is the
risk of initiating treatment when ICP is not elevated greater than the risk of not treating ICP
when it is elevated?
I recommend the discussion of making decisions in the absence of reliable clinical indicators
of ICP be expanded and use the Type-1 vs Type-2 error approach.
With respect to type-1 error, at centers where ICP treatment can be initiated and then
followed by insertion of an ICP monitor, the risks of initiating treatment are limited because
if the ICP is found to be normal (both mean ICP and pulse amplitude), then the ICP monitor
can be removed and ICP treatment can be stopped. Of course, if ICP is found to be
elevated, then the monitor stays in place and treatment continues.
With respect to type-2 error, the question that should be addressed is how well, if at all, do
the variables studied exclude the possibility of ICP elevation. The risk of not treating ICP
when it is elevated is significant, and most clinicians would be worried about this as much as
the type-1 error issue, if not more so. In fact, I generally recommend initiating and
continuing ICP treatment until additional data can be obtained, or until the patient is
transferred to an institution where ICP monitoring can be performed.
The manuscript overstates the potential utility of ONSD sonography in the conclusion. The
results (page 16, lines 24-38) force the reader to go to the supplemental files, stating only
that various thresholds with various sensitivities and specificities are in the supplemental
tables. The discussion (page 17, lines 32-36) makes a similar noncommittal statement).
The potential utility of TCD-ABP methods in the discussion (page 20, lines 5-8) and the
conclusion (page 22, lines 18-22) are also overstated when compared to the supplemental
data.
Lastly, in several places, the manuscript describes that either the sensitivity or specificity of
a particular variable was not sufficient for detection of elevated ICP; however, nowhere in
the manuscript do I see a description of what thresholds would be adequate. Given that the
manuscript also wants to guide future research, such a statement would be useful for the
design of research.