Thankyou for the opportunity to review this well-written paper. This manuscript describes
a large population-based USA cohort study evaluating the association between adherence
to the 2018 US physical activity guidelines, and all-cause and cause-specific mortality.
Given that physical inactivity is a global problem, and a significant contributor to burden of
disease and premature mortality, this field of study is of considerable interest to broad

audiences spanning health & medical professionals, the scientific community and policy
makers. The impetus for this present analysis seems to be the recently published (2018)
second edition of the US Physical Activity Guidelines for Adults, which comes 10 years after
they were first published in 2008.
Although the paper argues this is the first study to evaluate associations between
adherence to the “new” 2018 Physical Activity Guidelines for adults and mortality, the
actual recommendations in the 2018 Guidelines (upon which the exposures in this
manuscript are based) remain unchanged from the “old” 2008 Guidelines. Given an almost
identical previous study (Schoenborn et al 2011) evaluated associations between
adherence to the 2008 US guidelines and mortality (also using NHIS survey data), the
findings of this study are thus not as novel as they first appear and instead, largely serve
to confirm the findings of Schoenburn et al. I note that the present manuscript found that
adherence to strengthening was associated with reduced all cause mortality, whilst the
former study did not. This may be related to the much larger sample in the present
manuscript (n=approx 480,000 compared with n=approx 242,000 in Schoenburn et al).
What explanations do the authors pose for these conflicting findings? I found the discussion
section comparing/contrasting results with other studies (pg 11 and 12) somewhat difficult
to grasp a clear “take home” message. Differences in how physical activity exposure are
measured across studies probably account for many of the variable findings, yet this was
not discussed.
The current manuscript seems to have missed an opportunity to build on/extend the earlier
findings by Schoenborn et al 2011. For example, the guidelines advocate either "at least
150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity OR 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity
activity". In this manuscript, authors classed people as adherent to aerobic activity if they
achieved either of these targets. Yet, for policy makers, clinicians and the general public, it
would be very helpful to know if associations with mortality differ depending on whether
you perform at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity OR if 75 minutes of
vigorous-intensity activity is enough. This is particularly relevant for the present
manuscript, as the definition of exposure does not strictly adhere to that of the Guidelinesthe NHIS ascertains participation in “light to moderate” PA, rather than “moderate”
intensity (mandated as in the Guidelines). This nuanced difference in definitions could have
important implications if the present data were to show that people who adhered to 150
mins or more of light to moderate PA also had mortality benefits- future recommendations
could potentially be broadened to “light to moderate” PA, which will allow for more
achievable (yet still beneficial) PA goals for the population. The recent meta-analysis
published in BMJ by Ekelund et al 2019 provides evidence for this, as the authors showed
that objectively measured light intensity physical activity resulted in improved mortality.
Another issue with exposure definitions is also evident with the muscle strengthening
activity. The Guidelines advocate “muscle-strengthening activities of moderate or greater
intensity and that involve all major muscle groups on 2 or more days a week” (with major
muscle groups specified as legs, hips, chest, back, abdomen, shoulders and arms), yet
adherence to this recommendation in the present study was ascertained via “how often do
you do physical activities specifically designed to strengthen your muscles such as lifting
weights or doing calisthenics….”. It is possible that the more generous definition used in
this manuscript may have inappropriately classed some participants as “adherent” if they
were performing strength exercises for only one or two muscle groups (for example such
as might happen after shoulder surgery), which could contribute to the weaker associations
of strengthening exercise with mortality (compared to aerobic exercise). Some discussion
of these issues this is warranted, including their implications for interpreting the study
findings with respect to the 2018 Physical Activity Guidelines for adults.
It was unclear to me if any of the participants in this study could have provided NHIS data
on more than one occasion over 1997-2014- given NHIS is administered annually. If so,
how were repeated measures of physical activity exposure handled in the analysis,

particularly for those participants who may have changed their physical activity adherence
from one survey to the next.
Minor comments:
-Fig 1 does not appear to add a lot of value to the results, given that it repeats data
already presented in Table 2.
-Abstract line 47 results: is it appropriate to say ”achieved additional survival benefits” in
the absence of Kaplain-Meier analyses? And “additional” relative to whom/what?
- discussion- can the authors offer any more nuanced discussion of the implications of
these findings specifically for clinicians and patients? Lack of time is consistently cited as a
barrier to adhering to physical activity recommendations- for patients who refuse to do
both aerobic and strengthening exercise, what advice should clinicians offer? Should
patients prioritise aerobic activity over strengthening exercise rather than do nothing at all?
