The title of the manuscript raises immediate curiosity on the content, where we obviously hope that the
answer to the question is yes, having in mind the overuse of antibiotics and the growing threat of
bacterial resistance to antibiotics.
The manuscript is easy to read and understand, and the conclusions are clear. As hopefully expected, a
lower prescribing rate is only slightly associated with infectious complications. Taken into account the
large number of participants in the study, the conclusions are credible and well founded.
Some comments to the manuscript:
1. Are diagnoses for hospital admittance part of the complication diagnoses recorded? If complications
with severe courses are not included, the safety of low prescribing rates may still be questioned. On the
other hand, there would probably be serious side effects from antibiotic use, demanding hospital
admittance.
2. Antibiotic prescribing proportion of 65% in the highest quartile and of 38% in the lowest quartile, with
an overall median of 51%, is still high concerning mainly self- limiting infections. Moving from the highest
quartile to the level of the lowest would still probably give a prescribing proportion for RTIs that is rather
high. In the perspective of antibiotics as limited resources, it would be of a greater interest to know how
a 15% or 20% proportion for RTI would affect the complication rate.

3. In a Norwegian study we found that the proportion of broad spectrum antibiotics varied even more
than the proportion of treated RTIs. Have the authors looked into the association between narrowspectrum antibiotics and the rate of complications?
4. The assessment of the consequences of a 10% reduced prescribing proportion of antibiotics is not
unproblematic. The individual GP that takes the decision of prescribing while facing the patient, has
individual attitudes and experiences that may affect the way the patient is treated and information given.
It is not obvious that a shift in prescribing proportion from high to low will give the same complication
outcome as the observed association found in this study. Only a randomised, controlled intervention
study will be able to verify that assumption.
This is a study of great importance, although with some limitations that the authors have stated. The
main conclusion is important knowledge that may contribute to lowering the inappropriate use of
antibiotics for RTIs, a target that is widely accepted as necessary in order to slow the progression of
bacterial resistance to antibiotics.