The investigators explore the potential drug interaction between tamoxifen and some SSRIs using a vast amount of data
from 5 US healthcare databases. This is an important topic.
They identified an inception cohort of women treated with tamoxifen, and created two cohorts: women who commenced
an SSRI during the course of tamoxifen therapy, and women who commenced tamoxifen while already receiving an
SSRI. SSRIs were dichotomized into CYP2D6 inhibitors and non-inhibitors, reasoning that the former are more likely to
interfere with the bioactivation of tamoxifen.
The manuscript is well written and succinct.
Some of my concerns include:
- The dichotomization of SSRIs as either CYP2D6 inhibitors or not is faulty. For example, duloxetine and sertraline
exhibit nontrivial inhibition of 2D6 (see PMID 12621382 and 9284850)
- The rationale for using all-cause mortality is not clear, and by design it seriously weakens the ability of this study to
identify a signal. In this age group, competing mortality is a very serious concern. Do the investigators have the ability
to examine deaths related to breast cancer?
- I am surprised by the relatively small size of the cohort given the massive datasets and long study interval. Perhaps
there is an explanation for this I have missed.
- The reference to an ITT analysis (page 6) is unusual in that ITT analyses are intended to maintain the integrity of the
randomization process in an RCT. There is no randomization here.
- While propensity score matching no doubt improved the balance in Table 1, I'm not certain it was essential (patients
treated with different SSRIs are, with a few exceptions, unlikely to be very different).
- Fluoxetine and paroxetine were on the North American market earlier than many of the SSRIs in the non-2D6 inhibiting
group. This introduces the possibility of temporal confounding (although I suspect this would operate to exaggerate any
differences between groups, assuming the care of breast cancer patients has improved over the past 20 years.) How the
investigators considered 'vintage' in their design or analysis is unclear.
- I have serious concerns about how SSRI-tamoxifen overlap was analyzed. The risk of harm from this interaction should
relate to the extent of overlap. Consider, for example, two otherwise comparable women both taking tamoxifen for 5
years, one of whom takes paroxetine for 3 months and the other for 5 years. Reasons for the differential duration of
SSRI therapy aside, the latter woman is effectively not taking tamoxifen and more likely to be harmed by this
interaction, if it is in fact clinically important (as I believe it is.) The investigators' approach to quantifying the degree of
overlap and its bearing on mortality (which I reiterate is not the optimal outcome) is not at all clear. What is described
under Sensitivity Analyses (page 8) seems to involve overlaps of 30, 60 and 90 days only. Unless I have misunderstood
what was done, this doesn't accord this issue the importance it deserves.
- The interaction between tamoxifen and CYP2D6 inhibitors is unlike most drug interactions in that the clinical
consequences (other than reduced flushing) are expected to be greatly delayed. As the authors note (p. 14), a mean
follow-up of 2.4 years is not likely adequate when the outcome is death.
In summary, I am concerned that the null finding here reflects limitations of the design and analysis rather than the
absence of an interaction per se. In my view the most serious limitation are 1) the choice of all-cause mortality rather
than breast cancer mortality as the primary outcome, 2) the inclusion of 2D6-inhibiting SSRIs in the non-inhibitor group,
and 3) failure to adequately model outcomes as a function of the degree of overlap between tamoxifen and SSRIs. I am
hopeful that some or all of these modifications are modifiable.
