Stats Report:
This manuscript uses medical and pharmacy administrative claims from a large
database to evaluate the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding found in new cases of
individuals taking dabigatran and rivaroxaban comparing against those found in new
cases of people taking warfarin. As there are important differences in the
characteristics of the individuals in each of these groups, the authors use Propensity
scores to obtain matched (1:1) samples between intervention and control. The
authors present results separately for the group with and without Atrial fibrillation
and find little difference overall but significant interactions with age suggest that
recommendations for treatment need to take Age into consideration.
After reviewing the authors’ replies to the reviewers of the original manuscript, I
believe many of the queries have been solved but unfortunately not all. These are
summarized below:
Main points:
Information in the Abstract – The data source quoted here, although not incorrect, is
misleading. The total population on which this analysis was based on is less than 20k
individuals for each comparison. Please correct/clarify. The “Main Outcomes” talk
about incidence rates and Cox proportional hazard ratios. However, the “Results” only
provide crude incidence rates of two of the groups (not for Warfarin) and no HRs.
Please give incidence rates for all groups with confidence intervals (not currently
provided) as well as the HRs (with CIs) for the main comparisons – Total bleeding by
NOAC by AF/Non_AF. I assume that the age interaction was part of the primary
objective and hence at least the most relevant HRs (e.g. for age 75+) should also
appear in the Results so that the current “Conclusion” is adequately supported.
No inclusion of mortality/effectiveness data: - A major issue arising from the
Introduction is that, within RCTs, evidence of equivalence in efficacy with extra rates
of adverse events has been identified. The manuscript presents evidence that in “real
life” there is no evidence of extra adverse events. However, the same analysis could
(should?) be done to determine if in “real life” equivalence of effect (in stroke and
systolic embolism) is found. From the data reported, although the authors do not
have access to mortality data, they appear to have access to stroke (as an event).
Presenting if the finding of equivalence in effect on stroke prevention in the present
data is maintained would therefore help to interpret the findings in light of the
evidence obtained from RCTs.
One-to-one matching:- Related to the issue of total sample size, the 1:1 matching
seems excessive as many of the warfarin cases are not used (more than 50% lost).
Given that in some of these comparisons there are borderline statistically significant
findings (“less GIB found in the dabigatran group”) it would have made sense have
tried for as many matches as possible. This needs at least to be mentioned in the
Discussion (excluded more than half of the information in the Warfarin group). This
has potential issues about generalizability of the findings to the overall population
somewhat mentioned in the Discussion when talking about o-t-c aspiring use.

Use of language about statistical significance:- In terms of reporting, the phrase
“dabigatran had a slightly lower risk of GIB” (Page 10, line 5) needs changing. Based
on the 95%CI there is no evidence of difference between the risks in the two groups.
Figures 2 and 3:- Please delete the multiple comparisons with the p-values associated
(presented as text in the graphs). These would need to be adjusted (bonferroni?) to
deal with multiple comparisons and in any case all the information is provided by the
graph with the point estimate and confidence intervals. It would be more useful to
instead provide the total sample for each of the Age groups by intervention.
New data:- The data for Figures A7 to A10 in the Appendix are not used/discussed in
the manuscript. There seems to be a considerable difference between these graphs
(A7 to A10) and what appears in Table 3 and Figures 1 and 2. Going through the
“response to reviewers” it is apparent that these are the crude event rates by age
group used to create Figures 2 and 3. Please add explanation to these in the
Appendix.
