Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting paper, on clearly an important topic.
I have been through this from a statistical perspective, and have a number of comments and
suggestions for improvement, as follows.
1) The authors should use PRISMA-NMA, not PRISMA
(http://www.prisma-statement.org/Extensions/NetworkMetaAnalysis.aspx)
2) I-squared is not a test of heterogeneity, and indeed is a poor direct measure of
heterogeneity. (Rucker G, Schwarzer G, Carpenter JR, et al. Undue reliance on I(2) in
assessing heterogeneity may mislead. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:79)
3) The authors use Stata and the mvmeta module; do they actually mean they used the
network module (which uses mvmeta in the background)?
4) If relevant, how were multiple intervention effects from the same study handled in the
analysis (i.e. was their correlation accounted for)?
5) What assumptions were made about the specification of the between-study variance
matrix components? E.g. were between-study variances made equal and correlations set to
0.5, as is standard?
6) Was a random effects meta-analysis used in the network meta-analysis, as in the
pair-wise analyses? Was the uncertainty of between-study variance estimates accounted for
when deriving subsequent CIs for summary results? E.g. using Hartung-Knapp
Sidik-Jonkman approach?
7) What estimation method was used for the network meta-analyses? REML?
8) STATA should be Stata

9) “We applied a 0.5 zero-cell correction only in the pairwise meta-analysis as a default of
the Stata meta command but not in the network-meta-analysis to obtain a more unbiased
estimation.” – I don’t think adding 0.5 in the pair-wise analysis is as appropriate as using the
Sweeting correction. (Sweeting MJ, Sutton AJ, Lambert PC. What to add to nothing? Use and
avoidance of continuity corrections in meta-analysis of sparse data. Stat Med
2004;23(9):1351-75)
Moreover, I do not think the 2-stage framework is correct when outcomes are rare, and a
1-stage model is more exact and appropriate. That is, the mvmeta module in Stata requires
treatment effect estimates and their variances to be calculated for each study, and these are
then pooled in a meta-analysis. However, when the event rate is low, there is a concern that
such effect estimates are not normally distributed and variances are poorly estimated. This,
a one-stage network meta-analysis that uses the exact binomial likelihood might be
preferred. Did the authors consider this, or evaluate if their conclusions are robust to this
issue?
See for example:
1. Riley RD, Jackson D, Salanti G, Burke DL, Price M, Kirkham J, et al. Multivariate and
network meta-analysis of multiple outcomes and multiple treatments: rationale, concepts,
and examples. BMJ. 2017;358:j3932.
2. Salanti G, Higgins JP, Ades AE, Ioannidis JP. Evaluation of networks of randomized trials.
Stat Methods Med Res. 2008;17(3):279-301.
10) Page 12: met-analysis should be meta-analysis
11) “We evaluated the potential inconsistencies… “ – more details are needed on what
criteria they used to confirm consistency or inconsistency. These results should also be
provided in the main text, as this is a fundamental part of a network meta-analysis.
12) It is not clear if the meta-regression described in the methods relates to the network
meta-analysis or the pair-wise meta-analysis.
Regardless, meta-regression is very prone to study-level confounding, so I would class these
as an exploratory analysis. In particular, the association of mean prostate volume and
overall treatment effect is at the ecological level – what we really need is the association
between individual prostate volume and individual treatment response.
This could only be ascertained from IPD and within-trial information, and so I strongly
suggest the meta-regression of prostate volume is downplayed.
A nice paper in the BMJ on this recently is Fisher (Fisher DJ, Carpenter JR, Morris TP, et al.
Meta-analytical methods to identify who benefits most from treatments: daft, deluded, or
deft approach? BMJ 2017;356:j573). Also see: Hua H, Burke DL, Crowther MJ, et al.
One-stage individual participant data meta-analysis models: estimation of
treatment-covariate interactions must avoid ecological bias by separating out within-trial and
across-trial information. Stat Med 2017;36(5):772-89. doi: 10.1002/sim.7171
13) Multiple time-points are considered. Was the correlation across time-points accounted
for? Or was a separate network meta-analysis done at each time-point? If the latter, then
were most time-points available in most studies, such that missing time-points is not a big
issue?
14) I find Table 2 hard to follow. Why are the authors using dichotomised values of prostate
volume here?
15) Sometimes in the text the comparator group is difficult to identify

16 We need ranking plots added, and information about mean rank and SUCRAs, to help
summarise the network meta-analysis results in more detail.
17) For the continuous outcomes, we need more details on whether the effect estimates
were appropriately derived from analysis of covariance (i.e. after adjusting for baseline) in
each trial, as this is the best method.[1] If not, then were effect estimates based on change
scores or final value only? And if so, how might this influence the findings?
Vickers AJ, Altman DG. Statistics notes: Analysing controlled trials with baseline and follow
up measurements. Bmj. 2001;323(7321):1123-4.
18) Abstract conclusion says: ““The efficacy of vaporization in large prostates seems
Questionable” – no results in the abstract relates to this point as far as I can tell? Also, see
my comment about the concern of meta-regression of prostate volume above.
19) Moreover, the definition of large is arbitrary. “In the large prostate group (mean PV >70
gm), … “ – we need to be looking at prostate volume as a continuous variable within trials
before making strong conclusions
I think this is a sufficient set of comment for the authors to consider going forward and to
inform the BMJ’s decision. I hope my comments are ultimately helpful to all parties going
forward, and will enhance the hard work of the authors to this point.
Best wishes, Prof Richard Riley
