I want to start by saying that I’m sceptical that the slow, expensive, and faulty process of
prepublication peer review will add value to this paper. It isn’t a paper that could be shown to be
“true” or “false.” It’s an opinion piece, and for me the more quickly it can be published and discussed
the better. And you are better qualified than me to decide whether it should be in the BMJ.
The paper covers a subject important to all of us and is clearly written and argued. It has extensive
references, and I can’t check them all. It’s likely that it least some of the 64 references don’t say
exactly what the authors say they say, but I can’t see that that matters.
I enjoyed the bluntness of the key messages and almost agreed with them. I do think, however, that
there is a case to be made for continuing to search for “more accurate mortality risk assessment

tools.”
1. I find it uncomfortable to stop any scientific search
2. Although I can accept that such tools may not be valuable to most, some patients and families
might like to have a more accurate prediction of when death will occur. Assuming that there are such
people, it would be more “person/patient centred” to provide the choice and the information
3. Such a tool if accurate could be useful for those planning and running health services
Other thoughts on the paper…
1. It seems to me that uncertainty is important not just towards the end of life but throughout life.
We may choose to try and deny or ignore it, or attempt to overcome it as best we can, but mostly
we learn to live with it.
2. And just as the authors argue in the paper, we might find uncertainty uncomfortable, comfortable,
or both. Not knowing what is going to happen can be distressing, but uncertainty allows the
possibility that the best rather than the worst may happen.
3. I thus wonder if the authors might want to reflect a little on uncertainty in a broader context.
4. I certainly agree that “the perception that uncertainty is an insurmountable challenge and a
barrier to appropriate person-centred care” is questionable, but are there really many who don’t
question it? Or have the authors set up a straw man (person)?
5. The authors write about “the relatively predictable illness trajectory” of cancer, but hasn’t this
changed? I recently saw a presentation from a palliative care physician in which he argued that death
from cancer was beginning to follow a trajectory similar to that of frailty—long an uncertain. I have
several friends with metastatic cancers that they have had for years. A less predictable trajectory
does, of course, mean more uncertainty.
6. There is an irony underlying the article in that Benjamin Franklin’s famous quote says that "'In this
world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes." So all else is uncertain, and the
phase that the authors are writing about is more certain than most.
7. Although I tend not to apply the stricture to myself, I believe that almost any piece of writing
could be shortened with benefit—and that would be the case here.
8. I wonder too if 64 references are really necessary. Indeed, a shorter’ less scholarly article might
attract more readers and prompt more debate.
Richard Smith
Chair, Patients Know Best
Former editor, BMJ