Summary
The manuscript evaluated the impact of the FCTC on global cigarette consumption using
interrupted time –series analysis (ITS) and event modelling. It concluded that FCTC did not
have an impact on global cigarette consumption using either models. However, stratified
analysis identified significant reduction for wealthy European countries with contradictory
increase in consumption in less wealthy Asian countries. The overall conclusion was that
ratification of FCTC in 2003 did not have a significant impact on global cigarette
consumption. Although the study findings are important, it would be useful to provide a
clear distinction and context for readers between an assessment of outcomes at a global
level regardless of possible confounding versus true effectiveness of a control policy. The
findings provide a useful basis for academic discussion and methodological issues around
evaluation of global health treaties. However, in terms of identification of factors or
pragmatic steps to inform future health strategies or legal frameworks, the scope is limited.
It would be useful if the authors could provide more in-depth discussion about the way
forward, beyond stating that the FCTC did not work based on the analysis performed. Please
find below general comments and suggestions for the manuscript:

To present a more balanced discussion, it would be useful to present a summary
table of the national level studies which have demonstrated the impact of the treaty on
implementation of tobacco control policies as well as reduction of smoking prevalence.
Background Pg 6, Line 19: Please provide clear evidence to support the statement
that quasi-experiments are the ‘best’ methods for analysing the impact of international laws.
A synthesis based on the complexities of the impact of international law in the previous para
should be supported by publications showing the strength of the method over another. If no
such methodological comparisons have been published, it would be difficult to justify the
statement since quasi-experiments are also subject to innate methodological deficiencies.
See below.
Results: There was no effect at a global level but there was a significant correlation
between implementation of FCTC and reduction in cigarette consumption in high income
European countries. This finding from stratified analysis should not be discarded in favour
of the null hypothesis without a clear discussion of its contextual implication. It would be
useful to provide a balanced discussion in terms of differences in implementation
contributing to the inability to detect an impact at the global level. Failure of implementation
or compliance does not mean an intervention or policy does not work or is ineffective. This
difference should be clearly highlighted and discussed throughout the manuscript.
Discussion Pg 10, line 28: ‘Although there is evidence that the FCTC accelerated the
formal adoption of key tobacco control policies, actual implementation of these policies
varied substantially across countries’
To evaluate the actual global impact of FCTC, would it be possible to include parameter(s)
which accounted for differences in implementation at a country level in the models?
Discussion Pg 10, limitations: Limitations of quasi-experiments need to be
highlighted. As discussed above, an effective intervention could still be found to be
ineffective if factors such as compliance or implementation are not considered in the models.
Association does not equate to causation but similarly, absence of association does not
equate to non-causation. This is an important limitation of quasi-experiments as they are
based on large aggregate data which may not reflect important nuances. The inadvertent
exclusion of unknown factors or confounders in both models could inadvertently lead to the
wrong acceptance of a null hypothesis. This point is supported by the finding that FCTC was
impactful in high income European countries. Could the effect of poor implementation in
Asian countries negate the overall effectiveness of FCTC when reviewed at a global level?
This should be reflected in the manuscript to mitigate over generalisation of the findings that
FCTC had no global impact based on the analysis performed.
