9Sept2015
General comments
This manuscript presents a Danish record linkage cohort study of oral contraceptive use and risk for major birth
defects. It is well written overall, the study approach is sound and incorporates modern methods, and the topic is of
considerable public health importance. The authors conclude that maternal OC use shortly before or during pregnancy
does not increase the risk for major birth defects, subgroups of defects, nor specific defects that have been suggested
in previous research. They note that this should reassure patients and physicians. These conclusions seem quite
reasonable given the presented data. Furthermore, while “negative” findings, it is important that results such as these
are published so that we can reassure ourselves and the public about commonly-used medications that do NOT appear
to convey risks when used during pregnancy.
Specific comments
No major shortcomings were identified, but improvements could be made to clarify some of the methods and results,
as noted below.
1. Abstract: Please spell out “oral contraceptives” at first use vs. OC abbreviation.
2. Methods/ Oral Contraceptive Exposure: Please clarify the definition of “never users”. The Methods say “those who
never filled an OC prescription since the introduction of the prescription register” and “The National Prescription
Register contains information… since 1995”. However, the Table footnotes say “who have never once filled an OC
prescription since the study period began in 1997” (2 year difference)?
3. Results/ 1st sentence: I suggest adding the prevalence on birth defects in this sample, 2.5% (22,013/880,694).
4. Results/ 2nd sentence: Among the 21% “never users”, have you examined the distribution by year of live birth? It
would be interesting to note what proportion of these were in the early study years and thus more likely to be
misclassified as “never” given the window started in either 1995 or 1997.

5. Results/ 5th paragraph, line 37: Please correct typo: “less ‘than’ 1.15”.
6. Discussion/ 4th paragraph: Considering the previous comments re: “never users”, the results among this group
might need some additional caveats in the Discussion. Rather than being a “highly select group”, it’s quite possible
that they’re just a mixed group, with some being true never users and some being misclassified given the study
methods.
7. Discussion/ 5th paragraph, limitations: Can you provide literature to support that the prescription register data is
“likely more accurate” than self-reported data? As you mention in the following sentence, you do not know if the
women actually took the filled prescription.
8. Table 1: Given the missing percentages provided in Table S2, please state (perhaps via footnote) whether these
Table 1 numbers include imputed values or whether the missings were excluded.
9. ALL Tables: Please see previous comment about clarifying the footnote re: “never users”.
10. Table 4/ Sensitivity Analyses: Were there not enough numbers to perform either sensitivity analysis for the
secondary outcomes (i.e., birth defect subgroups)? The results for smaller subgroups and specific defects would be
more meaningful than lumping all major defects together.
Thanks,
Cheryl S. Broussard, PhD