This is an excellent paper addressing an important clinical issue where there is much confusion. It is clearly of interest to the
wide readership of the British Medical Journal. The paper uses large “real world” databases which has both strengths and
weaknesses. The authors have discussed the weaknesses of the study in some detail however I do not feel that some of the
more important weaknesses have been emphasised sufficiently these will be discussed in more detail later in the review.
Finally, I am concerned about potential misinterpretation of the paper by the readers whilst the authors have concluded the
discussion stating “ further investigation is needed to ascertain whether ACEi/ARB associated changes in renal function unmask
underlying pathophysiology, or lead directly to adverse outcomes” this caveat is not borne out in the abstract. Readers may be

misled by the abstract into thinking that ACEi/ARB associated reduction in renal function should result in discontinuation of the
drug. It may be appropriate to make it more clear in the discussion that these results do not necessarily support
discontinuation of ACEi/ARB.
Page 4 line 24. I am not sure that there is any evidence that a perception that drug induced renal impairment is uncommon
leads to less adherence to guidelines. Is there any evidence that ACEi/ARB monitoring is less good than any other monitoring
of patients for example Lithium drug monitoring or thyroid function monitoring in patients on thyroxine.
Page 5 line 53 whilst the definition used for reduction in renal function seems entirely appropriate, the use of a 12 month
baseline and 2 month follow up creatinine has not been justified in the text.
Page 11 Line 2 I quite agree with this statement however there is some data supporting the hypothesis that some reduction in
renal function may have a long term beneficial effect particularly in the setting of diabetic and or proteinuric renal disease.
Page 11 line 30 The omission of proteinuria from this study is a significant weakness, particularly given the known strong
relationship between proteinuria, cardiovascular mortality and progression of renal disease. In addition proteinuria itself may
have been an indication for commencing ACEi/ARB. Therefore to refer to it as potential residual confounding is somewhat
understating this weakness.
Page 11 Line 55 Missingness is very unlikely to be random in this dataset particularly since the introduction of the QOF for
renal disease and diabetes.
