. The paper by Dukes et al. is not fit for publication.
2. The design is an "observational" study restricted to patients who had hospital care. In epidemiology the appropriate
design for identifying a risk factor (in this case switch from dry to wet county) could have been either a cohort study
or a case-control study. The authors however have chosen a mixture of cohort study and of case-control study as they
obviously applied logistic regressions.
3. They claim that in applying the factor of unlimited access to the purchase of alcohol by switching from "dry" to
"wet" gives a m ore reliable estimate of alcohol consumption than interviewing participants of their mostly ecological
study. However, my own experience with numerous case-control studies as well as publications from other
investigators on the subject of impact of alcohol on cardiovascular diseases tells quite another story.
4. The authors present in table 1 figures on percentage of diseases (CHD, hypertension, congestive heart failure etc.).
However, it is not clear, if they refer to prevalence or to incidence. It would have been nice to see in this table figures
on atrial fibrillation and myocardial infarction.
5. The authors don't present any data on cardiovascular risk factors. This might have been due to the fact that these
variables are not part of the Texas data base they are using as basis for their study.
6. As it is clear from table 1 there are major differences between "wet" and "dry" counties regarding age distribution
as well as ethnic composition. One would expect different nutritional habits in people of Hispanic origin compared to
American white people. One also would expect differences regarding social status. But any social indicator is missing.
7. It should be obvious that smoking is a paramount cardiovascular risk factor. As there is no variable regarding
smoking in the data base, one could have looked for lung cancer as an apt substitute to look for differing smoking
prevalence.
8. It has to be assumed that referral to hospitals might differ between counties. Thus hospital discharge diagnoses
might give a distorted picture of disease prevalence and incidence. It would have been nice if the authors had utilized
the county population data for disease incidence/prevalence figures.
9. The authors obviously analyzed their data in a case-control manner. However, it is unclear how they treated
patients who were treated for atrial fibrillation and myocardial infarction and heart failure either subsequently during
different hospital stays or simultaneously. In a data base of more than 1 million persons insured in 8 German sickness
funds we found e.g. a major overlap of myocardial infarction and heart failure. It is also not clear, if, when analyzing
the risk of myocardial infarction, they included cases with atrial fibrillation or heart failure into the group of controls or
treated them as missing.
10. In relying exclusively on hospital discharge data it has to be expected that the authors missed
a) patients who died from myocardial infarction at home or patients or
b) who had atrial fibrillation and were treated without hospital treatment at home.
11. The problem of possible impact on health in populations who have de novo unlimited access to alcoholic beverages
deserves a carefully planned epidemiologic study. Unfortunately Dukes and coauthors missed this chance.
Eberhard Greiser, MD PhD
September 10, 2015