This paper is extremely valuable for policy and practice, and deserves speedy publication.
Some points:
- Is it useful to contrast cancer with kidney disease as both seem understudied in LMIC
contexts? Point taken about the investment in R&D at least in cancer treatment.
- It is certainly true that ESRD and dialysis is not on the global health agenda, but it is
certainly on domestic health agendas, and among the first areas financed by incipient UHC

schemes. However, it is also extremely costly which entails huge trade-offs, and there is not
enough attention to primary prevention of ESRD. Should prevention be addressed in this
commentary?
- On the relative priority of ESRD in global health, is it worth mentioning that without more
attention to prevention and cost-effective treatment of ESRD, other global health efforts
focused on PHC will come to nothing, and the funding required for ESRD will eat the rest of the
budgets? I like that the authors show share of UHC spending on ESRD and share of people
affected, but should you mention share of non-salary spending as I’d expect that it would be
quite large. Also may be useful to provide some figures on how the spend is growing over
time?
- In the discussion of the three countries, can the authors say something more specific about
geographic inequities in access to dialysis given that we would expect that availability of
expertise and/or equipment would likely constrain HD supply in poorer and/or rural and/or
dispersed areas of the countries? Do PD countries do better than HD countries on this
measure? How has this issue been dealt with ex ante – in Thailand, the decision for PD was
precisely because of this geographic inequity in the availability of HD.
- PD may be more cost-effective than HD in the contexts which have been studied by the
authors, but one question is whether it is safe and feasible where there is not clean water
available in homes and health facilities? This has come up in conversations with officials in
sub-Saharan Africa, and represents an important difference from rural areas in Thailand, for
example. What are the authors views on this issue?
