In this study the authors evaluate the associations between higher consumption of
ultra-processed foods (UPFs) and mortality from all causes combined as well as from CVD
and cancer. This is an interesting topic with a potentially sizeable public health impact.
Classifying foods according to the level of food processing is not entirely new and several
classification systems have been proposed. The authors chose the classification as put
forward by Monteiro et al. in 2010. This classification is appealing and relatively simple at a
first glance, but there has also been some criticism as for example voiced by Gibney et al.
2017 (https://doi.org/10.1093/ajcn/nqx068). Nevertheless, the authors should be
commended for a thoroughly written manuscript that is both timely and relevant to further
discussions about diet quality and health outcomes.
Major comments:
1.
Definition of the exposure. The manuscript, specifically the introduction, would
benefit from a more thorough rationale as to why the NOVA classification was selected to
define UPF consumption and should give some advantages over other similar
classifications.
2.
Validity of the food-frequency questionnaire (FFQ) to assess UPFs consumption. It
is acknowledged that the FFQ used in the study has been repeatedly evaluated and the
authors discuss potential limitations of the FFQ with regard to UPF consumption in the
discussion. However, it would be more reassuring if the authors could give some indication
on how well the FFQ captures the exposure to UPFs. For example, the authors may indicate
whether the total of 34 items encompasses all possible food groups that may relate to the
UPF classification or how does the FFQ compare to dietary assessment instruments used in
other studies that assessed UPF consumption?
3.
Statistical analysis. Given the complex exposure, it would be interesting to
investigate associations separately by main food groups contributing to UPFs (e.g., the first
four main contributors). The authors may also motivate their choice of 3 knots for the
restricted cubic spline analysis and at what values of the distribution the knots were
placed.
4.
Confounding. Confounding by unmeasured confounders or residual confounding
due to incomplete adjustment for measured confounders is probably the main issue in the

present analysis. Clearly, the authors adjusted for a large set of confounders that were
available and confounding is a major issue for many exposures in epidemiological studies.
However, UPF consumption is a behaviour that seems to be so closely linked to other
strong risk factors such as smoking, physical inactivity, or other dietary factors. I would
suggest to investigate if possible a more refined adjustment for smoking or if sample size
allows in additional sensitivity analysis restricting analysis to never smokers only. Further,
adjusting for underlying dietary quality should at least be investigated in sensitivity
analysis. This could be done by adding the Mediterranean diet score or an alternative
dietary pattern. Using a propensity score for overall confounder adjustment could be an
alternative. This issue of confounding should also be discussed in more depth in the
limitations sections of the Discussion.
5.
Minor points.
The observed null association after excluding participants with prevalent hypertension is
intriguing. This could point towards higher salt intake being a main driver of observed
associations among the high consumers of UPFs. Maybe the authors want to comment on
this in in the discussion.
Statements such as “….associated with xx% higher risk of mortality” can be misleading
because relative risks in this setting are likely not equivalent to HR and should not be
interpreted in such way; suggest rephrasing.
The Introduction could be improved. For example, the authors could point towards the
25x25 actions of the WHO in the first paragraph. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the introduction
are a mix of definition of the UPF classification and other characteristics of it.
With reference to cancer risk associated with UPF consumption, specify the anatomical
sites or whether reference is made to all cancers combined.
Heinz Freisling