The study conducted very impressive and through MR analyses on sleep and breast cancer
risk. It draws on questions included in the UK Biobank cohort collected at 22 UK biobank
assessment centres between 2006 and 2010, on sleep and on the GWAS data from the
women in that study. It also analyses data form the Breast Cancer Consortium data set for
SNPS. The UK Biobank includes both prevalent cases of breast cancer (5036 cases diagnosed
before the collection of questionnaire data and DNA samples, and 2740 incident cases
diagnosed after the “exposure questionnaire data” were collected.)

The study conducted observational analyses using two case populations – 1) incident breast
cancer cases and 2) a combination of incident and prevalent breast cancer cases- and three
exposures - chronotype, sleep duration, and insomnia symptoms. The analysis of incident
breast cancer cases only found an inverse association with morning chronotype, which is
consistent with MR analysis, and a null association with sleep duration or insomnia symptom.
In contrast, MR analysis found a positive association with sleep duration. The questionnaire
assessments of sleep duration and insomnia symptoms were not good compared to other
epidemiologic studies of sleep duration or insomnia. Certainly ,they do not reflect the state
of the art for assessment of these as primary exposures of interest in a study of breast
cancer. Sleep duration was asked to report hours of sleep during 24 hours, including naps.
Given the hypothesis on sleep traits and breast cancer risk is about the circadian rhythm
disruption/misalignment, sleep during the night rather than the total hours of sleep during a
day is more relevant question. 8 hours of sleep but 5 hours at night and 3 hours nap during
the daytime vs. 8 hours of sleep at night are not the same “8 hours of sleep”. However, the
study cannot differentiate this. Furthermore, insomnia symptoms was based on one question
about difficulty initiating sleep or waking in the night. This is hardly a valid question to define
insomnia. Thus the study significantly lacked ability to measure exposures of interest
properly, and notable measurement errors are inherent in the questions used, which most

epidemiologic studies would try to minimize. Thus, by using an available data set with
limited exposure information on the primary measures of sleep traits the study has major
flaws and does not adequately address the validity and reliability or the time frame for these
measures of chronobiology in relation to breast cancer etiology.
A mix of incident and prevalent breast cancer is another significant limitation of the study.
Lifestyle and health behaviors of women with breast cancer (i.e., prevalent breast cancer
cases) are likely to differ from those in women without breast cancer. As shown in table 1,
women with prevalent breast cancer were less likely to smoke currently but more former
smokers (because they may quit smoking after cancer diagnosis), and less likely to work on
night shift (may be due to their cancer) than women with breast cancer. Women with breast
cancer are more likely to have sleep problems and or longer or shorter sleep (due to worry
or cancer treatment side effects). On the other hand, all sleep questions in incident breast
cancer cases were asked when women were free of cancer. The time of exposure
assessment in prevalent breast cancer cases is not comparable to those in incident breast
cancer cases. They should therefore not be combined together in analyses. Given that the
number of prevent breast cancer cases is twice as many as the incident breast cancer cases
(5036 vs 2740), the positive association between insomnia symptoms and breast cancer in
the multivariable logistic analysis was likely due to common sleep problems in breast cancer
survivors and not a real association. A properly conducted epidemiologic analysis would
address these issues more rigorously.
Although the MR analysis found that the morning preference was protective (inversely
related to risk) of breast cancer, it is not clear whether this is causal or not. Although genes
are related to sleep traits, there are also strong environmental/social influences, such as a
school and jobs, on sleep. Regardless of an individual’s chronotype or genetic make-up,
people have to get up in the morning and go to work. Often people with “evening type”
suffer more than “morning type” persons because they tend to go to bed late at night but
get up early to go to work, and so they experience more disrupted physiologic responses
that then result in health problems. Therefore, it may not the morning type prevents the
cancer (i.e., effect of gene), but people with morning type are less likely to experience
circadian rhythm disruption (i.e., less impact of our current environmental exposures).
Genes related to morning type could be a proxy for environmental exposure, not a casual
factor for breast cancer.
It is, however, equally impressive that the study has limitations from execution of
epidemiologic analyses including measurement of sleep and breast cancer risk. As the
authors have done many times before, they repeatedly highlight the strength of MR analysis
being less influenced by bias due to reverse causation, confounding, and measurement
error, which are noted as limitations of observational studies (Table 4). These are true, but
the study limitations due to exposure assessment for the sleep traits noted above. The
limited application of standard methods for epidemiologic analyses to address those issues,
and conclusion that they found a weak or null association in observational analysis does not
adequately address the limitations of the exposure measures they have used for the
observational analysis or the use of combined prevalent and incident breast cancer cases.
The inclusion of table 4 in a general medical journal highlights the overall challenges of this
paper as presented for the general reader. The table as presented does not help the reader
who is not familiar with MR as much of the analysis and methods are quite beyond the
average medical reader. A more complete discussion of the limitations of the sleep exposure
measures assessed by questionnaire would be more helpful than all the details currently
listed in table 4.
