This is an interesting and timely paper. The authors presented a thoughtful discussion of the
potentials of harnessing fiscal policy interventions to improve population health. They also chose
Health Technology Assessments (HTAs) and Public Health Institutions (PHIs) as the principal vehicles
for achieving this. By choosing these solutions, they were able to discuss salient aspects of their
proposals. To strengthen this paper further, I suggest the following: <br clear=all><br clear=all>
1. For a more balanced analysis of the topic, the authors should present opposing viewpoints and
potential downsides. Interesting questions left unanswered by this article include the following: What
are the potential downsides? How would/should these downsides be managed? What are the barriers
to implementing these suggestions? Can this work in every country? If no, what are the necessary

conditions for success? Are there examples (positive or negative) to lend credence to their
recommendations?<br clear=all>
2. Acknowledge and explore the role of politics in resource allocation decisions such as these. Here, it
would be good to know how the countries cited in the paper were able to successfully use HTAs for
fiscal policy decision making. Insights from these countries could strengthen the authors arguments
and also provide a road map for a reader interested in taking next steps. <br clear=all>
3. Include clearer descriptions of how HTA’s and PHI’s would be structured/modified in order to
perform the proposed new roles effectively. Should there be limits on the power they have? If yes,
where should the limits be placed?<br clear=all>
4. Sharpen recommendations in the paper to make the next steps for the reader crystal clear. For
example, the first recommendation asks governments to “recognize…” but it is not clear how that
translates to immediate real world actions. The third recommendation reads more like an observation
than a recommendation<br clear=all>
5. The authors give an example of HTA’s stimulating investments in certain areas and not others and I
wonder if there’s a role for HTA’s to play (as described in this proposal) in signaling investments in
fiscal policy research. It is true that there are effective health-related solutions in this space, but the
field as a whole has seen little innovation in decades. <br clear=all><br clear=all>
Overall, I think it’s a good paper. There is truly a need for a systematic approach to evaluating fiscal
policies for health and this is a good contribution to the discussion. I enjoyed reading it.