I read with interest this paper about the Life study randomised controlled trial, and have to commend
the authors on the great effort put in place to set up such a large trial.
However, some issues need to be addressed:
One of my main concerns is the need to distinguish between ‘physical activity’ and exercise in public
health messages about fall prevention among older adults.
Unfortunately many trials and meta-analysis have proved that it’s in fact exercise, particularly
exercise that challenges balance and not physical activity, that is effective in fall prevention and
injurious fall prevention. Also; in a meta-regression done by Sherrington et al (Effective Exercise for
the Prevention of Falls: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis, JAGS, 2008), they even proved that
fall prevention programmes that have a walking component are not effective in the prevention of
falls.
Which is unfortunate; the idea of physical activity also preventing falls would’ve been very appealing!
The authors do state this in the discussion, but I feel it should’ve been highlighted earlier in the
introduction, maybe even in the abstract.
This study had for main outcome the reduction in the risk of major mobility disability and not
injurious fall prevention, which explains why the intervention consisted of mostly walking exercises,
and only dedicated a small part to balance exercises.
(The CONSORT 2010 promotes publishing secondary outcomes along with main outcome, but I
understand how that would’ve been very encumbering).
Injurious falls being a secondary outcome may also explains other limits of this study:
-Absence of a prospective (recommended) method to ascertain falls such as the calendar card
method, this method would’ve considerably limited the risk of detection bias, that is present in this
study.
-The non-inclusion of other injurious falls (injuries due to falls that did not result in hospitalisation/
injurious falls resulting in medical care…). These injurious falls are rather common and also have
important consequences.
Other less major comments:
-The first three references are rather old, citing more recent epidemiological findings would be more
pertinent.
-Any fall or injuries due to falls that occurred during the programme should’ve been included in the
analysis (at least in a supplementary analysis).
-How was the fall detected within 1 week of injury? (second criteria to define fall-related fracture)
-In how many cases there was disagreement for ascertaining serious fall injury?
-What was the distribution of falls leading to restricted activity? If they were recurrent, than a
negative binomial model would be more adequate because it includes more than just one
event/participant.
-A supplementary analysis, that compares the rates of falls leading to restricted activity + serious
injurious falls, between the 2 groups with a negative binomial model would be interesting.
-There is no a need to compare baselines statistically in a randomised controlled trials (Senn SJ.
Covariate imbalance and random allocation in clinical trials. Statistics in Medicine 1989; 8:467-475)
-Was the percentage of men who discontinued the intervention similar to that of women’s?