* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what does it add? If not,
please cite relevant references.
The article describes an development and external validation study. The authors also compare their results to the current
national guidelines. To me it was especially appealing that the authors performed an external validation in an
independent cohort. As prediction modelling/risk scores are scarce for postpartum VTE, the work is original.
* Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or policymakers? Is a
general journal the right place for it?
Targeted prescription of thromboprophylaxis is important and could have to reduce the number of VTEs. The developed
prediction model can help to inform clinicians and patients on individual risk and guide decision making.
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
I would suggest adding a second objective: comparison with current guidelines.
Overall design of study - adequate
Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?

Page 5, line 32: I wonder why the authors choose to exclude patients with a history of VTE. Would the authors suggest
that this group of patients should have thromboprophylaxis anyway and is therefore beyond the scope of their prediction
model?
Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT for randomised trials ?
Ethical ?
In general, a lot of references to previous studies, with little information to guide the international reader through the
current method/study.
Page 5, line 27: what do you mean by positive predictive values of 84%? Please make this more explicit.
Page 5, line 48: “the personal identity …” this is a bit confusing. Is it correct that this is an explanation how the SMBR is
set up? Or is this linkage something the authors did theirself?
Page 5, line 59: “prescription data”: prescription of pharmaceuticals/thromboprophylaxis?
Page 6: “Defining VTE”: see the general remark. Can some information be added on the algorithm used? Is this
algorithm also suitable for the Swedish cohort? Are there any important changes in diagnostic tests over the years that
might have influenced the incidence of VTE? If so, please state this.
Supplementary Tables 1 and 2 are nice and informative, and will be very helpful for implementation or other external
validation studies.
Supplementary Table 1: Gestational length categories: normal/pro-longed (??weeks)/preterm (<37 weeks).
Page 6, line 37: why did you choose to exclude women with missing information from your validation cohort? Because of
the similar distribution of all others variables? Why didn’t you also impute your validation cohort as you did with your
development cohort?
Page 7, line 14: add reference for age at delivery in the model regardless of statistical significance.
Page 7, line 28: confusing. I would suggest to write the risk score as you did for the predicted risk.
Page 8, line 32: please specify which risk factors you were able to measure and which not.
What was nice?
- The sample size was calculated based on EPV per candidate predictor
- Full insight in all candidate predictors and their definitions
- Clear description of predictor selection
- Interval validation and shrinkage.
Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
- Please reflect on differences in predictor distribution in both cohorts.
- The calibration plots are nice.
- Table 1: please add VTE yes/no to the table.
- Table 3: Swedish data: 604,003 pregnancies and 464 VTE events. The text says (page 9, line 54) 521 women with
VTE. Table 4 for has another sample size of Swedish data, and supplementary table 4 has a fourth sample size number.
This is confusing.
- Page 10, line 7: please be more explicit on the overprediction as all risks in the figure are below <0.005. To me it
seems as there is overprediction in the one but last decile (also in figure 1a). Please explain how to assess
overprediction for readers less familiar with it.
- Page 10, line 23: this is vague.
- Comparing to guidelines: see the comment on implications for clinical practice. I would suggest adding decision curve
analysis.
- Explain why you excluded women who were prescribed pharmacological thromboprophylaxis.
Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data? Message clear?
Implications for clinical practice. Please discuss this in more detail. Reflect on the fair discrimination (I recognize the
model identifies more VTE events, but it also still misses a large number of VTE events). At page 12, line 14 the authors
state that the prediction model is supposed to function as a screening tool.
The trade-off between not wanting to miss any patients with VTE and avoiding unnecessary medication/prophylaxis is a
daily struggle for clinicians, the prediction model is supposed to guide this decision process. The authors applied two risk
threshold cut-offs (6% and 35% according to current guidelines), however, the optimum of the prediction model might
be somewhere in between and is completed missed with this strategy.
I would suggest to add a decision curve analysis for the comparison of current guidelines and the prediction model (this
might be instead of table 4). I also suggest to add a table with predicted risk categories (supplementary) and number of
events/non-events per risk category to gain more insight for clinicians, policy makers. In this way, readers will be
allowed to choose their own optimum cut-off instead of being forced to the 6% or 35% cut-off.
References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds – reflect accurately what the paper says?
The first sentence of objective could be removed, and the comparison with current guidelines can be added.
I would suggest the study is generally well done and used robust methods, after revisions it would be acceptable for
publication.