The article is very valuable but it may be good to look into some of the incoherence appearing in the
article:
- the title might need some adjustment as the article itself does not argue really for national strategies
to achieve health equity but rather health equity programs of action (at least this is my reading of it - if
this is wrong, it may need to be clarified).
- the article itself then needs to adjust its wording and terminology to be consistent with the proposed
terminology on health equity programs of action vs national equity strategies or other.
- Along these lines, the article could benefit from outlining the advantages of such programs of action vs
an integrated / mainstreamed approach (else one could argue that a national health strategy focussing
around health equity could be equally benefitial, so it would be nice to read why this would not be so
and why separate programs of action are needed - beyond the missing gap but as a policy instrument???
...). In addition, programs of actions are quite different from strategies and it may be good to clarify this
difference or else stick to one of the two.
- the article starts of with the SDG 'leave no one behind' but then without further mentioning of the
SDGs moves towards the MDGs and challenges in line 39 ("The MDGs illustrate the insufficiency of
targets based solely on aggregrate indicators"). I am not sure whether the focus on indicators are the
problem here or other. It seems that a more differentiated view might be good given that the authors
also later in the article call on measures, incl targets, timelines, baselines and indicators.. So the
problem may not be just indicators but beyond as the author say ("not solely") but also the quality of
the indicators and the focus on metrics. In this regard, the question on the value of qualitative data, esp
re ti inequities might be worthwile to raise. This also does not appear in the section on measurement
and data - so is this a consideration or not at all? or is the argument here only on granular data? How
realistic is granular data gathering in LICs, even if a program of action or a strategy is in place?
- The guide to the programs of action with its seven suggestions can be quite useful but it may be worth
differentiating what is part of the programs of action or other actions needed (e.g. some bullet points
refer rather to a mainstreaming approach).
- A little bit already mentioned above but it would be interesting to argue why ultimately a program of
action is a more valuable tool than a strategy or any other tool, and would then also include this in the
key messages at the end. The conclusions could also have this a bit more worked out - so going beyond
what is needed but also what are the benefits of it...
- re annexed table - check the top five which are classified "never" re coherence: e.g. Cambodia is
mentioned twice: once at the beginning and once towards the end of the table - so where should it be?