This manuscript considers the safety of using 10-year screening intervals with HPV based screening. Available analyses
considered shorter intervals. This is an important topic. The trade off between level of protection, cost and women’s
discomfort can change between countries. It is important to make good risk estimates available.
Results suggest that HPV screening every 10 years provides a protection similar to that provided by cytology every 5
year. The limited number of invasive cancers, despite the large study size, do not allow excluding an increased risk.
Authors correctly recommend strict monitoring of interval cancers when this policy will be implemented in the
Netherlands.
The study is based of a further follow-up of the well designed and conducted POBASCAM randomised controlled trial.
The follow-up, based on the nation-wide PALGA system is plausibly complete. Lack of review of histology can have
resulted in some misclassification. However this would at most lead to an underestimate of differences between arms,
not the opposite.
My main doubt on the methods of the present analysis is about the choice to compare the cumulative incidence of
invasive cancer “after two and three screening rounds, corresponding to 9 and 14 years after baseline, respectively” in
the women screen-negative at baseline in the two study arms. Rijkaart et al (Lancet Oncol 2012) compared the study
arms of POBASCAM as for the cumulative detection of CIN2+ and CIN3+ during the first and second screening round,
defining the first round as up to 4 years from baseline and the second up to 9. This was reasonable because the
interest was in detection. Indeed the assessment entailed in some case many test repeats and then diagnostic
procedures. Thus, the detection of cases diagnosed up to 4 years after baseline was plausibly, in almost all cases, the
result of the primary test performed at baseline. Aim of the present study is, conversely, to compare the risk of cancer
with HPV at 10-year intervals to that with cytology at 5-year intervals. For this purpose, the approach employed
implicitly assumes that no invasive cancer diagnosed up to 14 years after baseline would have been avoided by a test
done after 10 years, i.e. that all cancers diagnosed 10 to14 years after baseline in the HPV arm were already invasive
10 years after baseline. A relevant proportion of them could well have progressed to invasion later and have been
diagnosed because of symptoms. Same reasoning for cancers diagnosed 6 to 9 years from baseline in the cyto arm. It
seems me that the most natural comparison is between cumulative incidence at 5.5 years (considering that in many
women there is a slight delay in repeating) in the control arm and cumulative incidence at 10.5 years in the
intervention arm (of course only considering women test-negative at baseline).
Minor
Introduction page 4 line 12. The purpose of triage is not only to prevent overdiagnosis (for which its efficacy is not
obvious) but to avoid overreferral to colposcopy and overuse of biopsies (which triage proved to reach, see Ronco et al
Lancet 2014)
Methods pag.5 lines 34-37. Better saying that at the second round women were screened following the protocol of the
intervention arm and at the third round following the protocol of the control arm. Such protocols entail more than
looking at the result on one HPV or cytology test.
Discussion page 10 lines 37-38. “Ascertainment bias” is usually employed to denote the bias in estimates of sensitivity
and specificity deriving from the fact that not all study subjects had verification by the “gold standard” procedure.
Using local histological diagnoses can have led to misclassification, resulting in a dilution of true differences between
arms.