As a pain patient and consumer reviewer am concerned about the current climate where
healthcare providers are afraid to provide care to patients with chronic pain. I found the
data collected for this manuscript interesting but it raises many questions which can not be

answered from the data. As the focus on opioid abuse increases internationally it is even
more critical that accurate unbiased information be added to the public discourse.
Guidelines can often be helpful and thought provoking., When adopted as hard rules by large
healthcare providers they become an impediment to providing high quality individualized
patient care. The fact that opioid prescriptions were reduced by 37% can be viewed as
either positive progress or a crime against patients. Since important variables were not
collected such as whether the opiate cessation was voluntary or if the painful condition had
resolved makes it hard to draw supported interpretations. It should not surprise anyone
that unmanaged intractable pain will make an individual do things they would not normally
consider.
The manuscript left me pondering many questions including:
Was the continuation group monitored for dose reductions adjustments?. If not why?
What number of patients in the cessation group employed pain management treatment from
an outside provider or found street sources?
How many cases were voluntary, How many provider initiated?
How many cases did the pain run its course or was modified by surgery reducing the pain
severity?
Was the effect of developing opioid tolerance taken into consideration?
My fear is that it has become safer and popular for providers to be reluctant to treat or to
under treat chronic pain conditions and it is exacerbated by the fear of reprisals, censure, or
criminal charges for doing what the provider deems proper patient care.
While it is clear that a pain management problem exists I fear this adds fuel to focusing in
the wrong direction for a solution. Factual information on the influence of properly followed
patients of medically prescribed opioids as compared to non medically prescribed drug
sources would be useful.
