Firstly, I would like to congratulate that the authors accomplished such a fantastic Bayesian metaanalysis which comprehensively evaluated “all” available treatment options for ISR. Although
brachytherapy is no longer in use, and rota-ablation and cutting balloon had been already proved to be
inferior to plain old balloon angioplasty, those “old-fashioned” treatments are worth to be one of the
reference methods for contemporary treatment options such as DCB or DES.
I agree with most of the results which presented in the manuscript except one issue. Although they
included 2 more RCTs (SEDUCE, RIBS IV) which used everoloimus-eluting stent as comparative arms,
there have still limited evidences regarding 2nd or 3rd generation DES as treatment option for ISR. In
addition, the previous Bayesian meta-analysis of our group (Lee JM et al. JACC Cardiovasc Interv.
2015 Mar;8(3):382-94.) presented marginally increased risk of MI after DES implantation for ISR
lesion.

Actually, in their supplementary figure 4, which showed risk of MI in pairwise comparison among
POBA, DCB, and DES, showed insignificant trend of higher risk of MI in DES group, compared with DCB
group, mainly driven by results of indirect comparison (OR 1.73, 95% CI 0.85-3.52, p=0.128). The
tendencies of higher risk MI after DES implantation into ISR lesion were consistently observed
throughout the included trials, especially in trials with 1st generation DES was used. Furthermore,
even RIBS V, SEDUCE and RIBS IV trial which used 2nd generation EES as treatment option, the risk
of MI in EES arm was slightly higher in EES arm. For example, SEDUCE trial reported the incidence of
MI were slightly higher in DES group (0.0% vs. 4.0%, p=0.322) despite this result was from underpowered study with small sample size. In RIBS IV trial (TCT 2014 presentation slide) showed 4 cases
of definite(1 case)/probable(1 case)/possible(2 cases) ST in EES arm versus 4 cases of definite(2
cases)/probable(1 case)/possible(1 case) ST in DCB arm, although they did not present the risk of MI.
In RIBS V trial, the incidence of MI was 3/95 (3.0%) in DCB group and 4/94 (4.0%) in EES group
(p=0.68) at 1-year follow-up. In addition, it should be noticed that all 4 events of MI in EES group of
RIBS V trial were occurred during hospital stay (In hospital events of MI : 0.0% in DCB group versus
4/94 (4.0%) in EES group, p=0.06).
Since the efficacy (prevention of future re-stenosis after ISR treatment) was comparable between DCB
and DES group, the safety issue might be more important to decide which treatment should be used as
1st line treatment option for ISR. Although subgroup analysis, which included trials only with 2nd
generation DES was used, showed comparable efficacy between 1st generation DES and DCB and
significantly better efficacy on 2nd generation DES compared with DCB, we must remember that none
of previous trials, our previous Bayesian meta-analysis, or the current fabulous meta-analysis were
under-powered to detect potential difference of MI risk.
In this regards, the Reviewer strongly suggest that the authors provide explicit discussion regarding
this safety issue.
Finally, I would like to thank the authors for giving me the chance to read this interesting study and
hope to see fine revised version of the manuscript.
Joo Myung Lee, MD, MPH / Hyo-Soo Kim, MD, PhD
