This paper considers an important issue regarding the impactt of saturates and TFAs on mortality, CHD and T2D.
However, several points have to be clarified before publication.
1. The title should indicate taht the paper considers "cohort studies"
2. Along the manuscript, the origin of TFAs has to be clearly indicated, i.e. IP- or R-TFAs (of both as no
differentiation is possible). This important issue has to be documented for each paper cited.
3. Intro: why chocolate and cocoa butter are considered as animal products?
4. Intro: What is meant by "other processing techniques and cooking"?
5. Intro: the sentence "ruminant animalsbiogenetae vegetale oil" is wrong. Ruminants's diet included complex
lipids, not as oils (in general)
6.Intro: Trans palmitoleic acid is not a majot isomer in ruminant fat when compared to the whole 18:1 and 18:2
isomers
7. Intro: R-TFA intale is not "relatively low" as the maximum intake could be calculated in relation with dairy fat
intake and a maximal R-TFA content in dairy fat (due to ruminant 's diets)
8. Intro: other guidelines (see l17) should be included (see EFSA for Europe and Australia/ZZ recommendations
for example)
9. Methods: study selection: the authors have to document the analytical requirements for TFAs analyses. Old
studies (before 1980, see Gayet et al 2014) are not relevant for TFAs analysis
10. results: the assessment about t16:1 has to be developped as these are not major TFAs. Stataistical differnces
in cohort studies have to be discussed regarding the absolute values and the confidence interval of the reported
values.
11. Results p13: why "Removing jakoben et al..."?
12. Discussion p19, l54: See point #7: it is not relevant to consider that R-TFAs have no effect because they are
consumed at low levels compared to IP-TFAs. The maximum R-TFAs intake can be calculated and one could not
reach more than 2% EI (see Jakobsen et al / 5th quintile of R-TFA intaKe). same remark for the sentence p20, l
13 "when consumed across an equivelent intake range" and l 17 "related to their lower inatake".
13. As a general point for discussion, comparisons with data from intervention studies could be helpful. See Gayet
et al, 2014.