General comment:
The instruction to reviewers of Analysis articles states: “Analysis articles aim to stimulate discussion, raise debate, and
air controversies so it doesn’t matter if the author is presenting a one sided view so long as he or she is making a
reasonable case and acknowledges the opposing view.”
As per these instructions, I limit my comments to points where I feel the authors have obviously not acknowledged the
opposing view, provided a biased selection of references or examples, or are factually incorrect.
On several other points, I feel the authors do present a one-sided view and I disagree with many of their views
expressed in this Analysis article. However, I do not present alternative views, which would be outside the reviewer’s
remit.
Specific comments:
P3, L30-31: “…increase monopoly marketing time…”
The statement is factually incorrect. In the great majority of cases monopoly time will not be increased, given the
current EU legal framework for market exclusivity. Many industry representatives claim the opposite (and are therefore
cautious about the AP concept): the “exclusivity clock” will start ticking at the time of first (conditional) marketing
authorisation when the label is very limited. This may– in their views – have negative impact on overall sales during
monopoly time. The authors should either delete or explain the statement in light of the complexities of the EU
legislative framework.
P4 L8: “Reliance on observational data”.
In this section, the authors discuss and illustrate by way of example that observational data are error-prone. While this
is not in doubt, the reader may be led to believe that the alternative, RCTs, are not error-prone.
Are RCTs an infallible methodology that has never produced misleading, non-reproducible or contradictory results? If this
is the authors’ view they should say so clearly. If not, they should discuss all methodologies, pros and cons, in a
balanced way and quote relevant examples.
P5 L12: “ ‘Life-cycle management’ of drugs”
In this section, the authors claim and illustrate by way of some (dated) examples that industry’s commitment to, and
regulators’ monitoring of, post-marketing studies is dysfunctional. While there were obvious failures in the past, the
authors should present a balanced picture reflecting the situation in EU post implementation of the EU Pharmacovigilance
legislation. They neglected to cite or discuss other sources, e.g. [Blake KV et al. European Medicines Agency review of
post-authorisation studies with implications for the European Network of Centres for Pharmacoepidemiology and
Pharmacovigilance. Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety 2011; 20 (10): 1021–1029]
Hans-Georg Eichler
European Medicines Agency