The manuscript provides an important addition to the literature regarding key safety and regulatory issues for medical
devices approved in the EU and the US. I strongly recommend accepting it for publication after a few of the findings are
clarified. The article would be substantially strengthened with better clarity regarding the presentation of results. Specific
comments and suggestions are detailed below:
1. Page 5, Line 11-12:
Why were cardiovascular, neurologic, and orthopedic devices selected for study? This is justified briefly at the end of the
article, but why not at the beginning? Were these most likely to be “high profile” devices and have data available? Were
other specialties (e.g anesthesiology, surgery, gastroenterology/urology) considered? Additional clarification/support at
the start or end of the article would be useful.
2. Page 5, Line 49:
Small and medium-sized companies are classified as having gross revenues less than US$1 billion, but Figure 2 and
Table 2 only show Small (=US$1B) companies. Can we assume that medium sized companies in the figure/table are
lumped with the “small” group? Updating either the text or table/figure to make the company classifications consistent
would be helpful.
3. Page 7, Line 36-8 (“Of the 75 devices categorized as major innovations, a greater proportion…”):
While the 72% and 74% mentioned seem reasonable, it is unclear how 20/75 (27%) of devices approved through the
PMA pathway would constitute a “greater proportion”? Even if the denominator is 54 rather than 75, this is still not a
majority. Clarification or rephrasing is needed.
3. Page 7, line 42 Presentation of data are confusing
Rather than having a medium difference in approval time for all devices combined, it would make more sense to
separately analyze the 510(k) vs, the non 510(k) devices, since it seems that the 510(k) devices are cleared more
quickly in the US than in the EU, but all the others are approved more slowly in the US. Another alternative would be to
also look at the compassionate use devices separately, because there are so few of them and the standards are
different. Either way, within that group of non-510(k) devices, keep the analysis of each type of US approval pathway
separately, as was done.
4. In the presentation of the results, there is so much confounding between whether a device is a “major innovation”
and whether it was approved through the PMA, that it seems confusing to look at those variables separately. But if they
are looked at separately, it would be helpful to also look at both variables together, e.g. the results for PMA devices that
were also major innovations vs PMA devices that were not major innovations, vs. non-innovative devices that were PMA
vs. non-innovative devices that were not PMA. These variables have implications for safety alerts, delays in publication
of data, etc.
5. Page 10, Line 23-25:
As noted above, the fact that the chosen specialties represent a majority of clinically relevant devices in the U.S.
regarding patient safety issues should be mentioned earlier to explain a valid motivation for choosing these device
types.