This is a well-written, unique review on an important topic to all physicians and policy makers. The authors make use of a
newly available dataset in the United States (CMS Open Payments dataset), and link it to another dataset (CMS Prescription
Drug Event database for Medicare Part D enrollees) to find an association between pharmaceutical manufacturer payments and
physician prescribing patterns (grouped into 306 regions for analysis purposes). Their results support a long-presumed
association between payments to physicians and prescribing patterns.
Introduction: There is an adequate literature review and rationale or study.
Methods: The methods are very well described, including assumptions and reasons for particular assumptions. Inclusion /
exclusion criteria is well described. The supplemental methods are useful. The statistical analysis is solid, and a number of
covariates that may differ between HRRs are controlled for.
Page 6, Line 13-15: Please add how many payments were excluded due to not being linked to and NPI (3437 according to
supplement methods) and zip codes not being assigned a HRR; or indicate that this represented an extremely low percentage
of all payments.
Results:
The results presented are concise and focused on the main study objectives without superfluous data. The table and figures

represent the key data well.
Discussion:
The authors make explicit a number of limitations, which are well described. The main objectives of the paper are interesting,
and the results support the rationale, hypotheses, and conclusion.
The issues which should be addressed by the authors in the discussion include:
1. What is the economic significance of the statistically significant results? Specifically, can the authors comment on the
estimated incremental cost associated with additional days filled of the two classes of marketed drugs? Of course, this does not
take into account any savings that may result from use of certain drugs (e.g. no need for laboratory monitoring) and should be
acknowledged.
2. Could there be system-wide savings and benefits to patients in using newer marketed drugs in these two categories (easier
monitoring, fewer side effects, better compliance, etc.)? This is touched upon Page 14, Line 8-13 in which the authors state
that payments are not necessary harmful to patients, but worthy of further discussion.
3. Page 14, Line 20: The authors say that there is a potential negative effect on patients due to “inappropriate prescribing” or
“prescribing of more expensive … medications.” This is not technically a negative effect on patients; please reword.