1. It would be necessary to evaluate these results in more detail. In the present cohort LOS was reduced to
more than half (from 12.9 days-5.6 days) during the years of investigation. Therefore, I encourage the
authors to evaluate whether the association between LOS and risk of death is similar during the years of
follow up. Data for all years of follow up would be informative, using regression models and presenting both
unadjusted and adjusted associations. In addition, any interactions between LOS and the years of follow
up, with respect to death after discharge is warranted.
2. The SPARCS database would need some better description. Especially, the authors should describe the
accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of the diagnosis captured in this database with references. To give
some examples, from Table 1 only about 5% of the patients had dementia and about 3% had cancer at
diagnosis. Compared to hip fracture cohorts in the US or Europe this is extremely low, and is likely
resulting in residual confounding. Could the authors also gather comorbidities from other sources?
3. In the Discussion the authors mention that “care in New York State varies with location, and
socioeconomic factors,”. Yet, no estimate of socio-economic situation is presented. This would be of high
interest, and the results should be adjusted for this factor if available. Also, information would be of value
describing the different hospitals in this area. Are there important differences and how many are there? Are
all hospitals in this area registered in the SPARCS database, or is there a selection of patients that could
explain the very low prevalence of comorbidities?
4. Given the low prevalence of comorbidities it would also be of value to investigate whether the results are
similar according to subgroups. Given the number of hip fractures this seems feasibly from a power
perspective.
5. The risk of death should decrease with increasing follow up time. This will also influence the risk of death
for those discharged early. Therefore, additional analysis is of value taking this risk into account, this
should likely strengthen the associations found.
6. The Discussion needs more depth. There are several other studies that have investigated the association
between LOS and risk of death, both in hip fracture patients and other cohorts.
7. Covariates are usually evaluated towards the exposure not the outcome, although this will likely not
affect the conclusions. I can see the value also of the present presentation.
8. As mentioned above the risk of death is decreasing with increasing death after a hip fracture. This may
well also affect the proportional hazard assumption. A description how this assumption was tested, and not
violated should be added to the manuscript.
9. It would be of value if the authors can present causes of death. For those that die within 30 days of
surgery, the death should usually be regarded as influenced by surgery.