This is a well balanced review reflecting the current state of knowledge regarding the
relationship between diet and cancer. The overall conclusion seems that the effects of diet
composition are modest and inconsistent compares obesity, alcohol and tobacco.

It would benefit from showing the effect sizes of various aspects of diet on risk compared
with alcohol and tobacco use.
The review could be improved to make it more interesting by addressing gaps in
knowledge that might be attained by new technologies.
One of the limitations of the prospective cohort studies has been an inability to accurately
measure food energy intake owing to differential misreporting. Experimental studies in
animal show quite profound effects on several cancers of restricting calorie intake. Some
discussion of this limitation should be included and some consideration be given to using
better techniques to record/measure energy intake
While obesity is associated with increased post menopausal risk of breast cancer.
Premenopausal risk is more strongly associated with height and as the review points out
obesity seems protective for premenopausal breast cancer!

Cancer develops over many decades and in some cases the origins may be in early life
(e.g. testicular cancer in young men). There is also evidence to indicate that adult height,
which is determined during development, may increase risk of cancer. Indeed, there is a
debate on what is optimum growth in infancy and childhood for long-term health.
There is some discussion regarding the use of biomarkers of dietary intake and this could
be expanded as they may be more robust markers of dietary exposure than self-reported
food frequency questionnaires. For example, there is much public debate about the
potential adverse effects of exposure to chemicals used in agriculture and food processing
e.g. acrylamide. In particular, there has been much debate regarding endocrine disrupting
persistent organic pollutants such as dioxins, PCBs, brominated fire retardants that can
accumulate in the food chain.
A few lines regarding contaminants and cancer risk would be informative especially as
there is much public interest in contaminants such as acrylamide, which is formed during
browning of food during cooking as well as the putative benefits of organic food.
With regard to pickled vegetables, they can be high in nitrate which can under conversion
by bacteria used in the pickling process to form nitrites which in turn can react with
secondary amines/amides to form nitrosamines/nitrosamides.
Mutagens may also be present in drinking water. There have been concerns regarding
mutagens arising from chlorination of water in areas where the peat content is high. In
some parts of the world arsenic contamination is a problem as recognised by WCRF.
There are also a few relatively common conditions that interact with diet to increase risk
of cancer such as coeliac disease and lymphoma and haemochromatosis (as well as other
disorders of iron metabolism) and liver cancer. Red meat as it may be consumed
undercooked so might also be vector for transmission or viral or microbial borne diseases
which in turn contribute to cancer risk.
While obesity is discussed what perhaps is relevant is the extent of obesity and risk with
different cancers.
The review does not discuss physical activity. However, physical activity is strongly related
to energy balance. Some of the systematic reviews e.g. WCRF show consistent effects
compared for colorectal cancer and breast cancer.
There is some mention of herbs and spices. However, there is no mention of herbal
preparations taken as dietary supplements. There have been several cases of
kidney/urinary tract cancer related to the consumption of Astrolochia fangchi in Europe

including the UK (for review see
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24921086?report=docsum&format=text). The
origin report was in NEJM (Nortier JL, Martinez MC, Schmeiser HH, Arlt VM, Bieler CA,
Petein M,
Depierreux MF, De Pauw L, Abramowicz D, Vereerstraeten P, Vanherweghem JL.
Urothelial carcinoma associated with the use of a Chinese herb (Aristolochia
fangchi). N Engl J Med. 2000 Jun 8;342(23):1686-92. ). It would sensible for the review
to include a warning about the content of herbal teas and supplements sold on the
internet.