This manuscript approaches an important topic: the contribution of a combination of key lifestyle factors
and prenatal events (as indicated by birth weight and preterm birth) on the cumulative incidence of type
2 diabetes. While a lot has been written on both birth weight and lifestyle as risk factors of diabetes, this
manuscript provides substantial added value to previous literature by assessing the combined effect of
birth weight and key lifestyle-related factors (BMI, diet, smoking, physical activity and alcohol
consumption) in a very large combined dataset. The paper is systematically written and a pleasure to
read, and the presentation of data by population-attributable risk makes the findings more accessible for
a general reader. Although the data are based on self-report, they have previously been thoroughly
validated in these studies. Comments are mostly minor:
1. As rightfully acknowledged by the authors, a limitation of the study is that little data are available on
the background factors underlying birth weight. One key factor is preterm birth, and the authors present
sensitivity analyses demonstrating that that the associations hold also among those born at term, and
that those born preterm are also at an increased risk of type 2 diabetes (suggesting that both preterm
birth and slow fetal growth are important underlying factors, as suggested by previous literature).
Although information on preterm birth is available only for NHS and NHSII, these studies include ~88%
of the total number of participants. There is literature suggesting that adult born preterm undertake less
physical activity and may also have a less healthy diet than their counterparts born at term. It would be
important to expand this analysis by assessing whether a similar interaction as the authors show
between birth weight and lifestyle exists between the effects of preterm birth and lifestyle on T2D.
2. The main conclusion at the end of the discussion “The finding suggests that 91% of diabetes cases
could be prevented by..” would probably be appropriate in an epidemiological journal but sounds too
strong in a general medical journal also widely read by a lay persons. This should be more cautious:
“Theoretically..”, “All else being similar…” or the like.
3. The analyses of birth weight only use the group around the median birth weight, with a low risk, as a
reference group, whereas the combined analysis of birth weight and lifestyle categories uses the highest
risk group as reference. This could confuse a busy reader of a general medical journal. It may be helpful
to consider using either high or low risk groups for both.
4. Page 10, 2nd line, the definition of preterm “two weeks or more premature” could mean wither two
weeks before due date or two weeks before 37 weeks, the commonly used definition of prematurity.
Please clarify.