the paper submitted by Webb et al is about the treatment of the first manifestation of idiopathic
nephrotic syndrome in children. authors compared two regimens of prednisolone, those suggested by
the ISKDC in the late 70's (2240 mg/m² in 8 weeks) versus a heavier steroids exposure (3150 mg/m² in
16 weeks), i.e. the extended protocol. the results clearly show that the 2 regimen are equivalent in term
of delay of the first flare, prevalence od frequent relapsers at 4 years and prevalence of the need of an
immunossupresive drug at 4 years. The result is of major importance while all european teams are
currently using protocols overloaded in steroids except in th UK. This paper is one of the best paper I
ever reviewed in the last 10 years: outstandingly written, outstandingly analyzed, outstandingly
discussed.
as a clinician, I have some minor comments or suggestions that can be disregarded by the authors:
1- My feeling is that clinicians would be very interested in detail by the subanalysis according to age. As
soon as results are not significant, my suggestion would be to add the Kaplan-Meier curves and a short
comments including the different delays of 1st relapse as well as the prevalence of frequent relapsers in
the supporting data.
2- the demonstration of the cost effectiveness of the extended protocol is very convincing but the tools
that have been used are not truly familiar to standard clinicians and might deserve a more trivial
presentation and discussion, specially based on supplemental table 6 that is far more easy to understand
than figures 3 and 4 (Figure 4 that is not very "dynamic" might be skipped in the supporting data).
Figure 3 has certainly a place in the major results but a short trivial comment would be wellcome as
"5000 bootstrapped costQaly pairs" are not really an easy concept to apprehend by most clinicians (I
mean by those of the continent).

3- the paradox raised by the cost effectiveness of the extended protocol is quite provocative and might
be discussed in a more speculative way.