The authors have responded fully and very positively to all the reviewer comments made. With
one exception they have addressed all my concerns.
1. I pointed out that the plethora of confidence intervals and percentages to two decimal places
made the results much less readable. In response the authors have removed some of the CIs,
but the percentages all still have two decimal places. I have argued that generally speaking
percentages are best with no decimal places except when comparing very similar percentages
(see http://adc.bmj.com/cgi/content/full/archdischild-2014-307149). To justify two decimal
places the percentages would need to be equal to the first decimal place, which is never the
case. I encourage the authors to reduce the numbers of decimal places, either to 0 or 1
depending on the context.
Incidentally, the statement that CIs for AUCs allow the models to be compared ignores the fact
that CIs for the difference between AUCs would be more appropriate. Also, note that Table 2
refers to AUC 95% CIs which are no longer there.
2. The authors have added in Table 3 a net reclassification analysis. However I find both the
layout and the numbers in the table hard to follow. It refers to 10% high risk and low risk
groups, so the low risk group should be labelled as 90% of the total and the high risk group as
10%, with corresponding totals of 949333 and 105482. The denominator of 1054815 should
also appear in the title. Having decoded these numbers I have failed to calculate the NRIs labelling the cells of the 2x2 table as a-b-c-d in the usual way, what is the formula for the NRI?
The description refers to rates of events correctly and incorrectly reclassified, but does not
make clear which denominators apply. Also the rows within the low risk and high risk categories
are reversed, presumably corresponding to non-events and events for low risk, but the reverse
for high risk. They need to be labelled, and consistently. The table layout would be improved
with the NRI-ne row immediately below the low risk table.