I thank the authors for addressing my comments and toned down the claims fairly. However,
one of my comments was misunderstood:
No doubt that there is NO weak instrument bias, this is not what I meant with my comment.
Simply that if the instruments explained more of the exposure variance the authors could
directly explore non-linear causal effects using summary statistics only (by fitting non-linear
function to the outcome SNP effect vs exposure SNP effect scatter plot). Since this is not the
case, non-linear causal effects cannot be assessed by summary statistics alone and that is
why I was hoping that the authors (who would probably be best positioned to do so given
their previous publications) have access to data with both calcium and BMD/fracture.
Moreover, the UKB has just released serum calcium measurements
[http://biobank.ctsu.ox.ac.uk/showcase/field.cgi?id=30680], so such analysis could be

performed in a timely manner. Given the author’s previous paper
[https://www.bmj.com/content/362/bmj.k3225], which already showed no effect of calcium
intake from dairy sources having no effect on fracture risk, this current work seems to add
marginally.
My argument is that if hypothetically both too low and too high calcium levels could lead to
fracture, a simple linear causal effect model would give zero causal effect, but still people
with lower than “ideal” calcium levels could benefit from supplementation. Distinguishing this
situation from an overly simplistic linear model around the population mean would be a real
advance of the field. But it is the Editorial team who should decide whether they deem this
current work sufficient advance in the field.

Minor point:
A: Next, we would like to re-emphasize that small changes in serum calcium have large
biological effects. Serum calcium is a tightly regulated (for example, in large
population-based cohorts the minimum to maximum range is often less than 1 mg/dL
R: The scale is irrelevant here, instrument strength is expressed as explained variance
(0.77%), this is regardless of what 1SD of calcium variation represents.
