This manuscript presents a systematic review and a harmonised meta-analysis of the effect
of accelerometer-measured physical activity and sedentariness on all-cause mortality. The
topic is very important as current guidelines are often based on self-reported activity which
is known to be biased in several ways. As sensor-based studies are often limited in sample
size and age range, it is reasonable and necessary to combine results from several studies.
The review and analysis are well-conducted and presented in general. However, I have two
major concerns and comments:
(1) Maybe I got it wrong, but it seems that the quartiles have been constructed on the
single cohort level. This means the quartile ranges are different from study to study? If this
is the case, the authors have to explain, why they used this approach and why it is
appropriate to analyse the different cohorts together, even when the quartiles of each
cohort represent different ranges.
(2) Due to the limited studies available the sample is highly selected, indicated by the age
distribution and the corresponding high proportion of women. This have been discussed.
However, as this might highly limit the generalisation of the results, this have to be clearly
stated at every stage, including the conclusions (e.g. abstract and conclusion).
Further the authors only focus on one method to estimate physical activity (epochs, count
based). This should be mentioned (are there no other studies analysing PA and mortality
with other methods?) and discussed as there are also methodological issues, important for
the interpretation of the results (e.g. cpm-MET calibration).
As this is a systematic review, it is unclear to me, how the two additional (unpublished)
studies have been selected? It seems to be a bit arbitrary to me. E.g. did the authors
contacted all registered studies with unpublished data?
Specific comments
Page 3, line 16: from the previous sentence it cannot directly derived that underestimation
of PA is likely.
Page 3, line 35: „steep“ is imprecise, better give a number.
ABSTRACT
Page 4, line 47: age and sex distribution suggest that the studies are highly selected. This
limits the conclusion and should clearly be stated even in the abstract conclusions.
Page 4, line 48: for survival time the median is usually appropriate.
INTRODUCTION

Page 6, line 54: „...this study was to conduct...“
METHODS
Page 7, line 34: how did you select the sensors namely added to the search? Some sensors
are missing e.g. activPAL, axivity, physilog,...
Page 8, line 58 and page 9, line 3: is the wear-time of the studies comparable? If counts
per wear-time is calculated there is a strong assumption that the distribution of counts
across wear-time is comparable between studies. This have to be discussed.
Page 10, line 48: although the exclusion of early deaths have been widely used before,
there are concerns about this method (please see:
https://academic.oup.com/aje/article/146/8/672/71967). This should be discussed.
RESULTS
Page 11, line 41: see comment above. There should be more details about the age
distribution of the studies. Is the mean value appropriate here?
Page 11, line 43: see comment above regarding the mean follow-up time.
DISCUSSION
Page 13, line 44: regarding the selective sample the conclusions have to be drawn
carefully (e.g. for public health recommendations). Reverse causation might still be
possible.
Page 14, line 3: „steep“ is too imprecise.
Page 14, line 38: how was „more steeply“ defined?
Page 17, line 46: Regarding the limitations, the conclusion should be drawn more carefully.
Currently, the statement is very general.
FIGURES
Page 24, line 39: Explain why the two studies are only included in Figure 3e.
Table 1: as the age distribution seems to be very different and age is an important factor
for PA, this information should be included in Table 1.
Supplementary Table 1: information about wear-time would be interesting as well.
Supplementary Table 5: explain how the reference was defined.