This paper considers an area which is under-researched. The title is misleading as only FDA approvals are studied. it is
noted that this is because the USA represents the largest global market for medical devices but, inevitably such a
strategy excludes any reference to the substantial EU system for approvals.
The methodology and search strategies are sound, however, it is unclear whether the pathway through concept,
approval, clinical trial etc are common to the devices identified. Clinical trials may be rather different entities in the
USA and the UK/EU, and may be very small in a local and limited population or fully powered. Whilst of interest, the
data leaves many unanswered questions. it is acknowledged that these are difficult and may be impossible to answer
but the potential 'disconnects' and limitations should be acknowledged.
The results are interesting however they represent a somewhat historical 'snapshot' and, although reference is made
to the pathway for development, it is impossible for the reader to discern how many devices may have been conceived
in an academic environment and then further developed through spin-out companies. To the best of my knowledge it
is very unusual for development beyond initial concept and laboratory based proof of concept to remain in an
academic setting, although some devices in very specialised areas for individual patients may do so. Despite the word
limit, a little more context would be helpful otherwise it is easy to overstate the success of industry-led development.
My main concern relates to the diversity of devices and this is not captured. Numerically many industry devices are
targeted to low risk applications, wound dressings being a common example. First in human studies carry low risk and
there could be enough of these to skew the data. I note the distribution especially of instruments and implants but
there remain many 'others'. The classification of devices according to the EU directive is not mentioned and the
appropriate pathway for development of an active implantable device, a more traditional implantable that modifies

existing technology in a predictable way and that for a surgical instrument are very different which in turn impacts
directly on whether 510(k) is a suitable pathway for approval in the context of first in human studies. It would be
informative to either stratify the devices by classification or to limit those included to the higher risk and higher impact
categories so 'apples and pears' are not being compared.
The IDEAL pathway is mentioned and the value of this initiative is acknowledged, however, this is of relatively recent
origin and would not have impinged on the studies in the timeframe considered in the paper. Rather IDEAL is likely to
guide and facilitate device studies conducted within the NIHR portfolio of research and under the auspices of HRARES.
How this relates directly to the matter of FDA regulatory approval is not clarified. This comes across as an
endorsement of IDEAL rather than directly informative to the main message of the paper. The main message is
somewhat obscured by inclusion of IDEAL.