The authors of this manuscript have examined meta-analyses in Cochrane reviews that looked for
differences in the efficacy of interventions based on sex of the study participants. Overall the
methods are clearly presented and well-conceived. The topic is clinically relevant as it is important
to determine whether there are differences in response by patient sex to allow more precise
treatment. The findings are important from a clinical perspective and worthy of publication.
1.It would have been much clearer to have presented the data in some form of table or flow chart.
It was quite confusing to go between topics and trial definitions (RCTs with both men and women,
multiple RCTs, at least one RCT with both men and women, etc. ), and sex interactions. Starting
with 109 topics and 309 RCTs (160 with data men and women; 46 men only; 103 women only),
there were 8 topics with sex-based interaction. If one only includes 96 topics in the 160 RCTs with
data from both men and women, there were 6 topics with sex-based interaction and 15 RCTs
showing a sex-based interaction. So far, so good. But then the authors talk about 38 topics with
multiple RCTs and at least one RCT with data for men and women (assuming 102 RCTs as noted in
page 11, line 9). They say there were 2 topics with sex-based interaction, but then in the next
sentence (page 10, line 55), when they appear to limit the analysis to RCTs with men and women,
there were 3(!) sex-based interactions. So something is missing – or certainly unclear. Even trying
to add up the numbers was not possible. Please put this information in a flow chart or table so it is
clear to readers.
2.The discussion argues that there is no clinical relevance of sex-based differences based on the
guidelines. This argument assumes that guideline producers will know about sex differences,
although these differences have not yet been shown in trials or systematic reviews, so this
assumption seems a bit backwards to me.
3.In the US, any trials funded by NIH require ‘adequate’ analyses by sex and minority/ethnic
status. It matters not whether there is ‘clinical or biological credibility’. Because in most cases, the
sample size is insufficient, most trialists who conduct these analyses view them as exploratory. It
might be useful to note this requirement in the discussion and the implications of this law towards
this work.