
I thank the authors for the opportunity to review this article. This article is the first in a series
exploring the success and challenges of strategies that have aimed to implement Choosing Wisely
recommendations into practice. I completely agree that the Choosing Wisely campaign alone will not
change practice, and that identifying strategies to implement the recommendations into practice will
help the campaign reach its full potential. This series aims to summarise key lessons and clinical
implications of promising studies and strategies implementing Choosing Wisely recommendations into
practice. Depending on what is found, this series has the potential to help clinicians and policy makers
understand the most effective ways to implement Choosing Wisely recommendations and help
researchers understand where to put their efforts next. I commend the authors for their initiative.
The article is very well-written and follows a logical structure. However, I believe there are some
changes that could be made to improve the article.
- Line 77-78: the authors could mention the controversy regarding societies targeting their
recommendations towards other health professionals (see
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4104300/)
- Line 80-81: I don’t agree the growing number of Choosing Wisely recommendations will ‘bombard’
physicians. Recommendations are society specific; I think its unlikely physicians will be looking at
recommendations outside their specialty.
- Lines 96-98: please provide statistics to support this example. How large was the magnitude of
effect?
- Lines 53-55: the authors could further support this argument by citing the recent article on shared
decision making in JAMA which argued it is unrealistic to involve patients in every single healthcare
decision due to time constraints (https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2740056)
- Lines 161-163: can the authors provide any links to these awareness campaigns
- Lines 165-166: please include the number of participants that responded to this survey
There seems to be a subtle tone throughout the article of … “physicians are hard done by and should
not be expected to practice evidence-based medicine without the help of others”. While I agree help is
needed, suggesting its someone else’s responsibility could be detrimental. Here are examples I am
thinking of:
- Lines 78-81: Choosing Wisely campaigns around the world have generated thousands of
recommendations, and there is the risk that lists of recommendations are added to the dizzying
volume of guidelines, new research and information bombarding todays’ practicing physician.
- Lines 88-91: Asking for physicians’ time and energy to implement recommendations on their own
volition in these challenging circumstances is wholly unrealistic. Choosing Wisely campaigns have
helped set the stage by generating increased awareness about the campaign, but physicians alone
cannot put recommendations into practice.
- Lines 48-50: There is a perception amongst physicians that patients’ demands for unnecessary tests
or treatments drive overuse. These perceptions are valid and reinforced through a broad lack of health
literacy amongst the public and widespread health misinformation.
Word limit
- The word limit for analysis pieces is 1800-2000
Table 1
- Please include the English translation for the ‘campaign name’ in Israel, Japan, Portugal, France,
Austria and Denmark.
- Italy also has a Choosing Wisely campaign: https://en.choosingwiselyitaly.org/index.php/en
Box 1
- Add Choosing Wisely questions from other countries to Box 1.
