The aim of this article was to test the diagnostic accuracy of CTA or CTA + MRA (versus digital
subtraction angiography (DSA)) to detect a vascular malformation in a pre-specified patient group
presenting with a spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage. In this group of patients the authors have
shown that CTA alone identifies approximately ¾ of all vascular malformations identified by DSA.
The paradigm of investigation that the authors used involved an early CTA, a delayed MRA/ MR ( I
think that the authors should add MR to their text with MRA) and then a delayed angiogram if these
investigations were negative. This paradigm is not unique and is widely by neurovascular specialists.
I agree however that there is great variability in this, and I wonder if this is related to lack of robust
data about which patients should be investigated. As part of this study, the authors have robustly
defined a cohort of patients and investigated them in a standardised fachion and in so doing have
outlined a paradigm of investigation to help reduce this variability.
They have also identified that evidence of small vessel disease on a Non Contrast CT scan is an
important predictor of not finding an underlying vascular malformation which has not been
demonstrated previously. They have also developed a probability score based on clinical and
radiological characteristics to identify high, medium, and low risk of harbouring a vascular
malformation in their cohort. This will help clinicians make better informed decisions as to which
patients to subject to DSA which in this series was associated with a permanent morbidity in 0.6% of
patients.
The data presented here has clinical implications for Stroke physicians, Neurologists, Neurosurgeons,
and Interventional or Diagnostic radiologists, and therefore has a wide appeal and is suitable for a
general journal.
The research question is well defined.
The study is well designed with well-defined and rationalised inclusion and exclusion criteria to
answer this question. The CT and MR imaging protocols were standardised and could be replicated in
most imaging departments. It is noted that a number of patients with a negative CTA or MRA did not
proceed to angiography and angiography was not diagnostic in a number of cases. Outcome data is
well specified and defined, and patient follow-up continued for 1 year to pick up any clinical events
missed by imaging. Although this may mitigate against lack of angiography in all patients, follow-up
to pick up an AVM or DAVF related haemorrhage would be too short. The authors have alluded to this
in their discussion. This does not significantly reduce the impact of this paper. The number of CT
angiograms were deemed of insufficient quality in 7 patients, and it is not clear if the CT angiogram
was limited to the circle of Willis, or whether it included imaging from the skull base to the vertex.
This could be clarified in the text and if relevant should be highlighted as a reason for poor CT
angiogram quality. This has been a common reason for poor quality CT angiogram in our
experience.
The participants studied have been pre-specified. The authors have outlined this a number of times
and have been explicit about limiting interpretations to this group only. The number of 302 patients
recruited from 22 centres over a 6 year period even with the inclusion criteria seems a bit small. The
median ICH volume also seems small, and I wonder if this indicates that selected patients were
recruited? Do the authors have a screening log to give these figures some context?
The methods are adequately described, local ethical approval was sought, and patients were
recruited after informed consent.
The analysis is well documented with pre-specified determinants for the logistic regression model.
The results are well presented and easy to understand. The interpretation and conclusions are
warranted and sufficiently derived and focused on the data.
The paper overall is clear, well written and the abstract, summary, key messages, what this paper
adds accurately reflects what the paper says.