Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript. Please, find my comments regarding
the requested review items below.
Kind regards,
Dr Tobias Dreischulte
Lead Pharmacist Research and Development
NHS Tayside
* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what does it
add? If not, please cite relevant references.
Yes. The article addresses a topic of increasing importance in primary care. Although our group has
previously examined a similar research question using similar methods using Scottish data from
2007(Guthrie et al, BMJ 2011;342:d3514), this is a more recent study providing UK data. It allows a timely
estimate of the prevalence and variation of high-risk prescribing and monitoring in the UK and as such has
the potential to inform audit & feedback interventions on prescribing safety as well as providing valuable
data to inform sample size calculations for their evaluation.
* Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
Yes. The article addresses a topic of general interest.
* Scientific reliability - Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
The research aims i) and iii) are clearly defined but the significance of the relative variation between
practices (research question ii) could be more clearly stated. In particular, I suggest that the link between

variability and indicator reliability be made in the introduction.
Overall design of study - adequate?
Yes.
Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?
Yes.
Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT for randomised
trials ? Ethical ?
Generally yes. A few concerns/suggestions:
- The selection of indicators should be justified
- The explanations around the ICC are potentially misleading, especially the phrase “variability within
practices” and the juxtaposition of “variability within and between practices”. Variability within practices is
difficult to grasp by the less familiar reader, who may think that this refers to variability between individual
prescribers within practices. A perhaps less misleading way of explaining the ICC is the proportion in the
overall variation in high-risk prescribing, which is due to variation between practices.
Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
Generally yes. A few concerns/suggestions:
- It is not clear to me why the number of practices contributing data to each indicator varies. Does this
mean that some practices did not have any denominator patients for some indicators?
- The rationale for excluding P14-P15 from the prescribing composite is not convincing to me, since the
majority of indicators only apply to a subgroup of patients (eg those with asthma) and I therefore cannot
see why female gender is conceptually different
- The rationale for excluding the warfarin monitoring indicator could be explained a bit better, i.e. the
juxtaposition “different models of service delivery rather than differences in INR testing” is not clear. It
appears the most plausible explanation for the large ICC found for this indicator is an artefact of the data
set, in that differences in INR recording in bespoke systems not captured by CPRD leads to missing INR
data in some practices but not others.
- The importance of the finding that “List size was more highly correlated with the number of patients at
risk of a prescribing rather than monitoring indicator (linear regression ….) “ in relation to the research
questions is not clear.
Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data? Message
clear?
Yes.
References - up to date and relevant?
Yes.
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds – reflect accurately what the paper says?
Generally yes. A few concerns/suggestions:
- The abstract does not mention examining variability/reliability in the objectives or outcome measures
sections, but reports in the results section that “ICCs showed high levels of variation between practices for
some indicators…”
- The following statement (in the abstract) is potentially misleading for the same reasons outlined under
Methods (in relation to ICC): “For some indicators the high ICC levels demonstrate that variability in the
outcome arises more from between- rather than within-practice variability […]”.