The authors investigate the long-term association between PM2.5 and hospitalization of
stroke in China. I have some comments on this paper.
1. The study population could not represent all of China. This study only covered 30 cities in
344 prefecture level cities and 15 of 34 provinces in China. The study population did not
cover the west part of China. Due to the topography of China, the air pollution level varying
across cities, it seems unlikely that these results would holds for all of China. Therefore I
think the title should be changed to 30 cities in China.
2. In the abstract, the author used two scales to describe the same result, which I think is
somewhat redundant.
3. Are there differences in the enrollment of participants in different city and four
sub-project? Please show the distribution of study population in different city and provinces,
and explant how these distribution different affect the results.
4. This is a multi-city study conducted in 30 Chinese cities, however, the authors didn't
mention the city-specific analysis and the 2nd stage meta-analysis. Did the authors pool all
the data into one dataset? If this is the case, please describe more clearly you handled the
data. Was it prepared the city-specific dataset and then combined? Is there a special
indicator for city or geographical region?
5. What about the participant who changed the cities for living during the study period?
Were they excluded? The different between cities would affect the incident of stroke not just
PM2.5. How authors deal with other factors?
6. The expression of exposure assessment was unclear in the 7 and 8 pages. Is the
time-weighted average PM2.5 exposure from 2000 to 2015 for each participant used as
exposure? Then what’s the exposure for the participant who had stroke during 2000 to
2015? The follow-up would be ended at the time of stroke occurred, then the PM2.5
concentration during the end of follow-up and 2015 would not be the exposure.
7. How do the authors choose the exposure assessment? There were two comment
assumptions used as exposure: the 12-month time-varying averages of PM2.5 concentration
of each participant or the baseline yearly averages of PM2.5 concentration of each
participant. What’s the different between authors’ exposure and these two assumption?
Would the results be robust by different exposure assumption?
8. In the statistical analysis, the baseline is Jan 1st 2000 for the participant enrolled before
2000, but the baseline information of these participant were not collected at Jan 1st 2000.
The BMI, hypertension and diabetes might different between the time of data collected and
baseline.
9. Meteorological factors associate with the incident of stroke, therefore the study should
adjusted the time-varying meteorological factors such as temperature and humidity.
10. Did the results robust in two pollutant models each of the pollutants ( PM10, SO2, NO2,
CO, and O3)?

11. The association of ischemic stroke with air pollution may be different depending on the
stroke subtypes, such as cardioembolic, lacunar, and atherothrombotic types. Please show
the association between PM2.5 and stroke hospitalization according to subtypes of ischemic
stroke.
12. For the exposure-response curve, why the degrees of freedom was two? It’s two small.
Why didn’t used the cube spline as previous research Hart JE (2015).
13. The alignment of p-value in Figure 3 should be improved.
