Members of my family have heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) and I have thought quite a bit about risk
assessment for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. HeFH is a disease characterized by high risk of premature
heart disease, but the risk is highly variable, with some untreated persons suffering myocardial infarction as early as their 20s
or 30s and others not until late in life (e.g., 70s or older) or not at all. A number of studies have been done to try to discover
the factors associated with premature heart disease in HeFH, but no model has been developed that explains more than a
small part of the variance in risk and no validated risk calculator exists. As a result, most guidelines call for all HeFH patients to
be treated starting in childhood, which results in overtreatment for some patients.
In addition, I am familiar with some of the risk calculators available for the general population and have used them myself to
calculate my risk of an event (I do not have HeFH myself so am eligible to use most of these risk calculators). I have noticed
that the various calculators vary with respect to the predictive variables that are included and the endpoints being assessed, as
well as in the level of risk predicted. All in all, our ability to predict who will have a first cardiovascular event in the future is
limited, meaning that any person wishing to lower their risk of such an event through interventions such as blood pressure and
cholesterol lowering is rolling the dice in terms of whether they will benefit. I am also aware that many studies have been done
in recent years on the effect of adding additional predictors to Framingham or other commonly used risk calculators and that
the additional predictors usually only have a small additional effect, if any, over traditional risk factors alone. One possible
exception is coronary artery calcium, but its use is this context is controversial. My impression has been that this
unsatisfactory state of affairs is mainly due to the inherent unpredictability of the human cardiovascular system, rather than to
a failure of research methods and reporting. For example, acute myocardial infarction results from sudden plaque rupture and
clot formation, which partially or completely blocks the flow of blood through a coronary artery. Currently, our ability to predict
the timing of such a sudden event is quite limited. Improvement in our ability to predict such events is would be very helpful to
patients and their physicians as it would allow greater targeting of preventive interventions such as medications and lifestyle
changes, and less under and overtreatment.
The authors of this systematic review have made an attempt to survey the field of prediction modeling for cardiovascular
disease risk and outline some of the major shortcomings and difficulties in the field. They found quite a few, and make some
specific suggestions in terms of improving methods of modeling, reporting, and research focus. For example, they suggest that
the field would benefit from the formulation of a guidance with clear definitions of the relevant outcomes, predictors, and
prediction horizons. I find myself unable to form a definite opinion on their suggestion that less emphasis be placed on the
development of new CVD prediction models. In particular, my impression is that most validated models are based mainly on

Caucasion and North American or European populations and that models are needed for the less developed countries and for
non-Caucasian populations.
In general, this paper seems mainly aimed at researchers in the field of cardiovascular risk modeling. As written, I do not think
it will be useful to most patients or GPs. To make it more user-friendly, I suggest that definitions of technical terms such as
discrimination, calibration, and validation be provided. In addition, summary points would be helpful. A bit more explanation
for some of their conclusions is needed as well. Parts of the paper read like an editorial but I found myself relatively
unpersuaded by some of their points, such as the need to refrain from developing new models, but willing to listen if more
reasons were given. It also would be helpful to know more about how and why the current state of affairs developed, e.g., file
drawer effect, perverse incentives, funding priorities, etc.