The paper is interesting and has a sound study design. I suggest more attention for excluding alternative explanation
to the observed association in order to be more convincing in proposing an observational study for comparative
effectiveness. Screening programs are the best setting for these kind of studies, since their population based invitation
strategy definitely exclude any prescription bias, nevertheless the study needs other analyses (see below) to exclude
confounding of unmeasured characteristics.
Abstract
“72-month cumulative incidence” it is not clear if it a fixed follow up for all individuals (as often is computed for
interval cancers) or if it is an average or maximum follow up.
The term “screen-detected interval cancer” is a bit confusing. I would say that the cumulative incidence includes
clinical interval cancers and cancer detected at following screening rounds up to 72 months, I would say that the
recommended interval in The Netherlands is 60 months.
Introduction
Pag 4. line 14: “co-testing” is a term used usually for making HPV test and cytology in parallel. This practice is not
really advantaged by the LBC, since if you have to do both the tests in any case you can take two samples to al
women in the same appointment. The triage strategies (i.e. first cytology and HPV only for borderline lesions or first
HPV and cytology only for HPV+ women) are much more advantaged by the LBC since if you do not know in advance
which women will need a second test, therefore having a transport medium allowing both the test is a great advantage
and you do not need to collect thousands of samples that will never be used.
Pag 5 line 7: this definition of interval cancer is not correct. An interval cancer is not a cancer occurring “shortly after
the diagnosis”, but a cancer occurring during the interval between a negative screening test and the following
screening test. Nevertheless I agree that for cervical cancer what is really important is not the interval cancer rate, but
the cumulative incidence of invasive cancer after a negative screening, whatever it is a screen-detected cancer or an
interval cancer. I strongly suggest to avoid the term interval cancer for the cumulative incidence and to use it only for
those detected during the interval. The main outcome will include all invasive cancers.
Methods
The possible confounders reported in the methods are not the only ones and there are some others that can be even
stronger. I think that more attention should be given to the screening activities of the women: history of previous Pap

test and number of Pap test performed during follow up. These are so strong determinants that I suggest not only to
adjust for them, but also to make restricted analyses or stratified analyses. In particular a restricted analysis to only
women who had at least a second round Pap test would be much more convincing. An analysis restricted to women at
their first Pap, for example (if you have enough power) or restricted to those having had at least ne pap before. This
type of analyses can be reported only in the text as sensitivity analyses, but are necessary in an observational study
like this. For the moment there is only a mention in the discussion, but it is not sufficient since we do not know how it
has been performed (no mention in the methods) and we do not know the magnitude of this excess.
Also other analyses restricting the outcomes considered should be included: excluding (or considering separately if you
have numbers) adenocarcinoma and squamous (this analysis is important because the proportion of adenocarcinoma
is increasing in recent years as consequence of screening; the protection of Pap against adenocarcinoma is weak, if
the better performance of one test is mostly due to adenocarcinomas, you should explore the hypothesis of a
differential sensitivity for glandular cells or bias due to higher or lower prevalence of previous effective screening in
one of the groups); restrict analysis to only frankly invasive cancers, i.e. exclude micro-invasive, if possible or if you
have at least a proxy (for example those treated with conisation), this analysis is important for many reasons, it
highlights if the increase if for clinically relevant cancers or not and it could suggest some ascertainment bias
(microinvasive cancers can be missed by some pathologists).
Results
I suggest to report also cases in table 1. Please report also the number of women with at least on Pap test during
follow up and the mean (or median and interquartile range) for the number of Pap per women.
The curves of cumulative incidence suggest that the second round is not complete far all women even after 72
months: could you see if at least for the whole cohort there is a plateau after 72 months. It is important because the
cumulative incidence with an incomplete screening round can give biased results. This analysis should be not included
in the paper, but it would be important for trusting in data.
Pag 12 lines 14-18: I do not think it is important the significance of the difference in this context, we are interested in
a plausible difference that should be consistent with the increase in interval cancers (cancers after a negative test).
Discussion
First sentence: I do not think it is meaningful to present in the synthesis of the results the crude rates: if you think
that the real estimates are those adjusted, these are the main results to be highlighted at the beginning of discussion.
The difference between unadjusted and adjusted could be interesting and should be discussed for the presence of
residual confounding or for other hypothesis on the robustness of the estimates.
Pag 13 last lines: the reason for not having screening history should be reported in methods too.
Pag 14 first lines: excluding adenocarcinomas could be another way to reduce the potential bias for different screening
history.
Pag 14 line 18: please report these data in the results.
Pag 14 lines 22-25: actually the authors did find a difference between conventional and Surepath.
Pag 16 first paragraph: the attempt to estimate the impact of shifting from conventional to Surepath I think is not
useful and could be misleading for the same reasons that the authors report.
Pag 17 first paragraph: I think the ratio between CIN2+ detected and cancer prevented should be compared with that
of other studies, such as those on HPV screening or other pioneer studies on Pap. The ratio 10 to 1 I think is in line
with other results.
Pag 17 conclusions: I do not agree with the sentence “our findings urge reconsideration for the assumed lack of
difference in test characteristics between LBC and conventional cytology.” Your results confirm a substantial
equivalence, indeed the cytology performance is in between the two most common LBC commercial kits. The shift
from conventional to LBC should consider other factors and for sure the option of HPV testing. I think the major
consequence of these results is that it would be difficult to consider equivalent Thin prep and surepath and that the
tender for screening program should consider also this point in the future.