The authors investigated whether vitamin D supplementation is associated with lower
mortality in adults in a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled
trials. They used Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register until 26 December
2018. They included randomized clinical trials comparing vitamin D supplementation with a
placebo or no treatment. Data extraction and study quality were assessed by two authors.
Risk ratios were calculated using meta-analysis with fixed and random effects models. The
authors initially identified 21,425 reports and ended up with 52 eligible trials with a total of
75,454 participants. The authors found that vitamin D supplementation was not associated
with all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality or non-cancer, non-cardiovascular
mortality. However, vitamin D supplementation significantly reduced the risk of cancer
death. The authors conclude that despite decreasing cancer mortality, vitamin D

supplementation compared with placebo was not associated with all-cause mortality in
adults. The study is interesting and thoroughly done.
I have the following comments:
Major
1.
Why did the authors choose to compare vitamin D supplements at any dose? Were
there any differences across doses?
2.
The authors write that if other interventions were given (e.g., calcium), they had
to be the same in all groups. Why did the authors include studies with other interventions?
Were the results different if only the “clean” vitamin D studies were included?
3.
The authors base the decision of using fixed and random effects models on the
measured heterogeneity. I suggest that the authors base the decision of fixed vs. random
effects model on an a priori hypothesis of data rather than calculated heterogeneity.
4.
Did the authors take measurement method into account? Different levels of
vitamin D, vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency may not be the same when vitamin D is
measured differently.
5.

The authors write:

“Subgroup analyses found that all-cause mortality was significantly lower among trials with
vitamin D3 than trials with vitamin D2”
What are the potential implications of this?
6.

The authors write:

“Meta-regressions found that all-cause mortality was significantly lower in trials in which
participants with lower baseline 25(OH)D (P=0.03, supplemental eFigure 7) and in trials
with longer follow-up (P=0.04, supplemental eFigure 8).”
What are the implications?
7.
“Vitamin D supplementation was associated with significant benefit for cancer
mortality (RR 0.84, 95% 175 CI 0.74-0.95, I2=0%, Figure 3)”.
Was the effect of vitamin D2 and D3, dosage and duration similar?
8.
“The results of this systematic review and meta-analysis on all-cause mortality
differ from two previous systemic reviews published in 2014.5 8 9 A Cochrane review
found vitamin D decreased all-cause mortality in analyses of 56 trials with a total of 95,286
participants (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.94 to 0.99; P= 0.02).8 In parallel, an additional
systematic review by Bolland et al., including 40 trials with a total of 81,173 participants,
also suggested a small effect on all-cause mortality (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.00; P =
0.04).9 The previous reviews reached more optimistic conclusions as a result of differences
in trial selection and intervention definition. Compared with previous reviews,8 9 we
excluded more than ten trials totalling approximately 50,000 participants of vitamin D
co-administered with calcium, six trials72-78 of hydroxylated vitamin D or vitamin D
analogues, and one trial79 retracted in 2017. Moreover, this study additionally included 18
RCTs14-31 published after 2014, a feature that accounted for 50.3% (38,019/75,454) of
the total number of participants.”

I think this deserves more attention, e.g., was it the exclusions in the current study
(co-administered calcium, hydroxylated vitamin D, one retraction) that made the difference
or was it the papers published after 2014 that changed the conclusion?
9.
“In subgroup analyses and meta-regression analyses, we found that all-cause
mortality was significantly lower in trials in which participants with low baseline 25(OH)D,
in trials with long follow-up, and trials with vitamin D3 than trials with vitamin D2.”
This is important. Does it mean that the conclusion should be amended/is not definite?
Could it be that only vitamin D3 is effective or are the D2 studies just older with smaller
dosage and shorter duration and thus potentially unable to show an effect?
The D3 effect on all-cause mortality is almost statistically significant. The study was not
powered to examine the effect of D3 or D2 separately. The authors cannot exclude an
effect of vitamin D3 with risk ratio of 0.92 for all-cause mortality. This has to be included in
the conclusion, especially because previous systematic reviews have come to different
conclusions. I don’t believe that this is a positive study, i.e. that vitamin D
supplementation has an effect, but it is also not an unambiguously negative study. Several
questions need to be answered still, and the evidence may not be available at this time.
10.

What causes of death were included in the other causes of death?

Minor
11.

“systemic reviews” -> “systematic reviews”

12.
“did not significantly reduced all-cause mortality” -> “did not significantly reduce
all-cause mortality”
