The paper describes congenital limb deformities, of neurological origin, in a case series of 7 infants with
congenital Zika virus infection (ZIKV) referred to an orthopaedic and rehabilitation hospital in Recife,
Brazil.
Overall design and scientific reliability
It is encouraging to see a greater willingness, by journals, to consider case series. They can provide
important clinical information in a timely fashion. Nevertheless it is important to get some sense of the
homogeneity and representativeness (or otherwise) of the cases described so that a judgement can be

made about the reliability and applicability of the information. Thus I would like to be clear that the 7
cases indeed fulfil the WHO case definition for congenital ZIKV disease. Only 2 patients had IgM against
ZIKV and my understanding is that immunological diagnosis of ZIKV, as with other flaviviruses, can lack
specificity. We are told that they were drawn from 104 patients at the centre and this appears to have
been done systematically with other causes of congenital infection ( CMV, rubella, toxoplasma, syphilis
and HIV) excluded. The number of patients excluded should be given. Further there needs to be a short
account how patients generally are referred to the study centre. Is the centre publicly funded or private?
Does it draw cases from a defined geographical area? If so, what proportion of cases might the centre
expect to treat? Is it a secondary or tertiary referral centre? All this kind of information allows a reader to
reflect to what extent the paper is relevant to their own practice.
Methods
Evaluation of the cases is essentially by radiological methods and by nerve conduction studies. This
approach certainly appears both reasonable and comprehensive but I don’t have the specialist knowledge
to judge further.
Results
Results would be more useful if there was less text and the tables were expanded. Much of the interest,
surely, is in the observed combinations of symptoms and this is most efficiently represented in a line
listing of the cases with columns for each of the findings. I was intrigued to see that 6/7 patients had
dysphasia (p10, line 36). Should this be dysphagia?
Interpretation, Originality and Importance
The authors see the importance of their work as twofold. First, they consider that orthopaedic follow of
children with congenital ZIKV infection, even in the absence of deformities at birth, is important.
Secondly, they state that congenital ZIKV infection should be added to the differential diagnosis of
congenital infections and athrogryposis and imply that a better understanding might assist the
understanding of the pathogenesis athrogryposis more generally. To deal with these in turn, although
further follow up of patients with congenital ZIKV is wise, and will almost certainly take place, the paper
does not really provide the evidence for this. As for the role of infection, generally, in congenital
athrogryposis, I was not clear whether this was a new observation or not. Certainly in two places the
authors state that this had not been described before 2015 (p13, line 25 and p6, line 1, “What is already
known of this topic”). However, elsewhere, they refer to the 300 disorders that may give rise to
athrogryposis (p13, line 4) and speak of ZIKV adding, “to the differential diagnosis of congenital infection
and athrogryposis (p14, line 8). Regarding the association of ZIKV infection and athrogryposis this had
been noted previously, evidently, in reference 12.
Although Zika virus infection is classified by WHO as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern,
nothing in this article particularly argues for fast track publication. The article might be better as a more
concise case series in a more specialist journal aimed at rehabilitation specialists, for whom the clinical
descriptions here would be of most relevance.