First of all I want to congratulate the authors with this relevant, well designed, well executed
and reported study.
The relevance for conducting this (replication) study is undisputed. The single previous trial
evaluating antibiotic treatment for this subgroup of chronic back pain patients (Albert et al,
2013) showed very large and significant effects compared to placebo. That study gave high
hopes and expectations, but there were also questions and doubts (could it really be true?).
The present Norwegian study is the first replication.
I have a few questions and remarks:
1. a main observation and at the same time point of discussion is the predefined
between-group difference of 4 points on the RMDQ. This is really a large difference, and if
present there will be no discussion that that indeed is a clinically relevant outcome. The
question, however, is whether smaller differences are not clinically relevant ? In their study
protocol the authors themselves state that "the minimal important difference in mean RMDQ
between groups is not clear"! Subsequently they state that a change in RMDQ of 2-3 in
individual patients...is unlikely to be important and may present measurement error.
Subsequently they choose 4 as their cut-off point. We do, however, studies on group-level
and calculate mean effects, partly to get rid of measurement-error in individual patients.
More importantly there is some consensus to consider smaller between-group effects on the
RMDQ as being clinically relevant. For example the highly influential RCTs evaluating the
efficacy of stratified care using the Start Back Tool in the UK (Hill et al, Lancet 2011) and in
the USA (Cherkin et al, J Gen Int Med, 2018) used a between group difference of 2.5 points
on the RMDQ as being clinically relevant. A consequence of this smaller difference is of
course that we need larger sample size in our studies to test if this difference is present or
not..
2. Somewhat related to 1 is the observation that two subgroups of patients were included
MC type I and MC type II. This was well planned and motivated, but the sample sizes to
investigate the effect of antibiotic treatments were small and also varied within the trial.
Especially the number of patients with MC type II is relatively small.
3. Regarding the Bang blinding index I was wondering if in the placebo group the number of
patients guessing right (indeed allocated to placebo) was equally distributed over the MC
type I and MC type II groups?

4. I noticed that in one of the responder analysis (>30% improvement from baseline) the
results favored the antibiotic group. This may well be an artifact (due to multiple testing)
and can as such be discussed, but at present is does not get much attention in the paper.
These were my main observation when reading the study. In the light of these I wondered
whether the current conclusions were not too harsh? For MC type I a significant effect is
found which in (many) other trials would have been considered as a clinically relevant
difference. For MC type II indeed no effect was found (but this subgroup was not included in
the first RCT on this topic + the sample size of this subgroup in the present study was
relatively small)
All in all, a great study. The conclusion may need some consideration and nuance.
