This is a well written paper describing the predictive value of unexplained weight loss for a diagnosis of
cancer, accounting for a patient’s age, gender, smoking status and a range of clinical features including
symptoms, signs and results of commonly ordered blood tests in English primary care. I would have
liked to see the related paper (ref 1) in press at BJC to ensure this paper is sufficiently different in terms
of objectives and results.
The cohort is based on data from the CPRD linked to English cancer registry data. The strengths and
limitations of the CPRD are well described in the literature and briefly covered. Importantly the authors
briefly describe their previous validation work on coding of unexplained weight loss (UWL) in CPRD data.
It would have been useful to expand in the discussion why weight measurements in the electronic record
could not be used as an additional approach to GP symptom codes for UWL, and the validity of UWL
codes.
The cohort is large for a primary care study (68,973 with 908 cancer cases) allowing analyses to account
for a large number of predictive variables and to predict individual different cancer types. The analyses
are well described including a good justification for their handling of patients who had not had specific
blood tests.
I found the terminology about the time-frame for inclusion of clinical features a bit confusing in places; I
suggest throughout sticking to ‘clinical features in the three months before and up to one month after
the index date’ for clarity. The authors discuss the challenges of deciding which time-frame around the
index date to include; the pragmatic decision of this time-frame is well justified and seems reasonable in
the absence of good data to inform this.
The results are clearly presented, except Tables 4 and 5 with rankings of cancer site for each clinical
feature could perhaps be improved upon from a visual perspective. Box 2 suggests changes to NICE
guidelines for investigation of cancer in patients with UWL, based on the 3% risk threshold. This is of
course a very English perspective and somewhere it requires acknowledgement that, at least in other
countries, primary care practitioners may investigate patients at lower thresholds than 3%. Nonetheless,
the findings are of direct clinical relevance internationally particularly in the context of the assessment of
patients with non-specific symptoms such as UWL, and the implementation of multidisciplinary
diagnostic centres. I think the authors could make slightly greater emphasis (perhaps in the abstract) on

the negative likelihood ratios for normal blood tests which cannot be used as good rule-out tests for
patients with UWL. This is another important clinical message.
