Amit Kaura and colleagues performed a comprehensive retrospective cohort study in an
unselected patient group where they investigated the association between various troponin
levels and all-cause mortality across different ages. They also stratified the analyses on
patients with versus without ACS, and looked at the impact of revascularization. In brief,
they found an inverted U-shaped association between troponin level and mortality in all
patients, which reverted to non-linear positive associations after stratification of ACS and
non-ACS patients, respectively. They conclude that an elevated troponin should be taken
seriously in all age groups, and their findings can help inform clinical practice and contribute
to risk stratification algorithms in the future.
Overall comments:
I like this paper. It is original and contributes to the growing field of research on troponins
and intriguing associations with future risk, this time in a wide and unselected patient
population. I think the general scope of BMJ is a suitable place for the paper. It seems
scientifically sound and the overall design and methodology is impressive. Moreover, it is
excellently written and easy to follow despite an intricate study design. The results are
presented nicely with various informative graphs (although I have some comments that will
be found below). I believe that the interpretation of the data and the conclusions are fairly
sufficiently formulated and definitely derived from the data, and not anything else (also have
some comments regarding the conclusion below). The supplemental files including the SAP
and description on how the data was handled makes it even easier for the reader to
understand how the study was performed. The authors should be congratulated for their
impressive work.
The most important limitation is that the authors were not able to determine why the
troponin test was taken, which would have been helpful to further interpret the clinical
significance of the troponin test in a given specific scenario. The authors already discuss this
in the limitations section in a satisfactory manner. Another limitation that I think deserves
mention is the fact that the authors were not able to discern whether the troponin increase
was part of a chronic increase (e.g. perhaps chronic myocardial injury) or an acute elevation.
There are, of course, numerous disparate reasons for an increased troponin value, the
authors should adress this a little bit more in the discussion (the second paragraph is a good
start). See https://heart.bmj.com/content/103/1/10 by Chapman et al for a good review on
the topic.
I have some specific comments that I would like the authors to adress:
1. In the SAP the authors report that they planned to set the uppermost troponin band to be
”>10,000 xULN”, however looking at the methods section in the manuscript it seems that
the uppermost band was >1,000 xULN. Why the discrepancy?
2. The splines were adjusted for patient age, gender, haemoglobin, creatinine, white cell
count and C-reactive protein. One can think of other important confounders such as a history

of various heart disease. Did you not have the data to adjust for comorbidities (e.g. previous
ICD-10 diagnosis codes, or other sources)? If you had the data, why did you decide not to?
In line with my reasoning above, it may be especially interesting to investigate the
troponin associations in patients without a prior history of heart disease (and possibly even
excluding those who were admitted and discharged with cardiac ICD-10 codes). I recognize
that this was not the aim of the present paper, but it is something that I encourage the
authors to think about for future substudies.
3. Why did the authors investigate Kaplan Meier survival curves in the three different age
categories instead of the decade age groups described in the SAP? Too many figures?
4. Can you please present the number of patients (n=) in each age category, either in the
baseline table, or even more preferably, directly incorporated in graph 2A.
5. Perhaps the results section has a bit too much reasoning (e.g. the paragraph at page 16,
line 10). Normally, I would prefer if this was incorporated in the discussion. Can the authors
elaborate on why that is not the case here?
In fact, after reading your discussion, the reasoning is already there in the discussion. I
would therefor suggest removing the aforementioned paragraph from the results altogether.
6. Supplemental figure 3B: I don’t understand how the hazard ratio for all-cause mortality in
the acute coronary syndrome group is significantly below 1.0 throughout almost all levels,
how can this be the case? What is the reference here? Some mathematically derived
troponin value? Please explain what the reference point is and how it was determined.
7. Comment adds to the above: After reading through your paper carefully, I think you
should clarify the methodology (e.g. how and where HR=1.0) in all splines so it is easy for
the reader to understand. For instance, in figure 4 you present ”A, Unadjusted and B,
adjusted association between troponin level and the hazard ratio for all-cause mortality
using restricted cubic splines.” It leaves me wondering, what point was set to HR=1.0, and
why was it put where it was? You should elaborate more on this in the methods section,
”Fourth, we used mathematical modelling to model the relationship between troponin level,
on a continuous scale, and mortality.” is a bit too cryptic.
8. Another comment on the splines. Could you consider adding marginal plots to inform the
reader of the distribution related to the troponin levels? As they are presented now, it is hard
for the reader to understand where the bulk of the test values lie.
9. Figure 1C: I see no Y scale here. Please add one as it is informative.
10. Discussion, page 17, line 18 reads: ”Patients of all ages in routine clinical practice who
undergo troponin measurement have a high mortality.” Don’t you mean Patients … who have
a positive troponin? I don’t see any comparison with patients who did not have troponin
testing performed.
11. Discussion, page 20, line 52 reads: ”Angiography, followed by coronary revascularisation
with PCI or CABG, when appropriate, has been associated with an improvement in clinical
outcomes, including cardiovascular mortality in ACS.” I don’t think it’s correct to call this an
association. I would formulate it as follows: ”Angiography, followed by coronary
revascularisation with PCI or CABG, when appropriate, improves clinical outcomes, including
cardiovascular mortality in ACS.” The benefit is established.
12. In the final section of the discussion, before the limitations subsection, the authors
comment on the associations between troponin levels and poor outcome in non-ACS
patients. They reflect that these patients may have hidden underlying significant coronary
artery disease, however I miss a small discussion segment on the role that non-CAD heart
disease, e.g. structural heart disease, may play. Can the author’s elaborate a bit on other

presumptive causes of troponin elevations in the non-CAD group unrelated to hidden
coronary artery disease? Once again, I recommend the authors to visit
https://heart.bmj.com/content/103/1/10 by Chapman and colleagues.
13. Conclusion, page 23, line 13 reads: ”Although revascularisation was associated with
lower cumulative mortality across all troponin bands, in both ACS and non-ACS patients, it is
currently not known whether it would improve survival in some non-ACS patients with a
positive troponin who may have a missed or concurrent ACS and are currently managed
conservatively.” I would suggest reformulating this to suggest a more wide cardiac
investigation instead of just revascularization. Troponin elevations can reflect other
aetiologies than coronary artery disease as I have previously discussed. I suggest that you
change the aforementioned text into something more general (to not lead the reader into
thinking that anyone with a positive troponin should undergo invasive coronary
investigations): ”Although revascularisation was associated with lower cumulative mortality
across all troponin bands, in both ACS and non-ACS patients, there is currently no consensus
on how to properly manage non-ACS patients with troponin elevations who may have
significant underlying cardiac disease that is not adequately adressed” Or something similar.
