Comments to the Editor:
This is an important paper and observation in view of the great interest in Zika virus and CNS congenital
developmental abnormalities. It is well illustrated and documented. Publication would add greatly to the
understanding of congenital Zika syndrome (CZS).

Comments to the Author:
There are serious problems with English as a second language. The editor may be able to help you with
this). There are also minor errors that should be corrected before publication.
Page 8 Line 50: Symptoms are subjective, arthrogryposis is a sign
Page 8 Line 51: Should be “which may be associated with different disorders”
Page 8 Lines 51-52: Previous congenital viral infection have been associated with arthrogryposis (see
references 1-2). So it would be better to say: “Although congenital infections have been associated with
arthrogryposis previously, well documented series are rare.
Page 9 Lines 12-13: It would appear that 104 cases of Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS) were reviewed
with 7 cases of arthrogryposis identified. This means 6.7% of CZS cases have arthrogryposis. This can be
stated up front.
Page 9 Line 31: The number is missing for XX.
Page 9 Line 44: Arthrogryposis by definition is congenital and the “congenital contractures must be in
two body areas” (“not corporal segments”).
Page 9 Line 52: Should be “Molecular studies were done” and “to confirm the diagnosis and eliminate
other causes”.
Page 10 Line 20: It would be particularly helpful to compare these 7 patients to the other 97. For
instance, were other CZS patients premature? What percent have microcephaly? What is the sex ratio,
etc?
Page 10 Line 28: Is it possible to be more specific about the timing of the rash during pregnancy. Was
this 2-4 months since last menstrual period (i.e., 6-14 weeks of embryonic development)? And were
there any other pregnancy complications in any of the cases—bleeding, cramping, etc?
Page 10 Line 50: What is chirodactyly?
Page 11 Line 11: What types of hemangiomas—nevus flammeus or elevated hemangiomas?
Page 12 Line 12: What eye changes were seen?
Page 12 Line 39: “Regular” should be “normal”.
Page 12 Line 44: The timing of the infections is very important to define. Do you mean prior to 5 months
or inclusive of 5 months? Embryonic timing or pregnancy timing?
Page 14 Line 6: The common thread in arthrogryposis is decreased fetal movement. All forms have fetal
akinesia which may be secondary to CNS, peripheral motor neuron abnormalities, etc. Thus in CZS, 6.7%
of cases have sufficient neurologic damage to lead to sufficient decrease in utero movement such that
they to develop congenital contractures.
Page 16 Table 1: Is head circumference measurement at birth?
Page 19 Line 34 and abstract: Rare and unusual are the wrong terms. Arthrogryposis always has
contractures. The ones reported here are pretty typical. Only 1.5% of CZS have arthrogryposis—so it is a
rare finding.
References:
1. Pike MG, Applegarth DA, Dunn HG, Bamforth SJ, Tingle AJ, Wood BJ, Dimmick JE, Harris H, Chantler
JK and Hall JG. Congenital rubella syndrome associated with calcific epiphyseal stippling and peroxisomal
dysfunction. J Ped 116:88-94, 1990.
2. Hall JG. Arthrogryposes (Multiple Congenital Contractures). In: Emery and Rimoin's Principle and
Practice of Medical Genetics. 6th edition. Rimoin DL, Pyeritz RE Korf BR eds. Churchill Livingstone: New
York, Chapter 161, p.1-161, 2013.