Very interesting paper, taking advantage of the strengths of IPD meta-analyses. These results are important for daily practice
and may reduce the reluctance of some clinicians to prescribe betablockers to older patients.
I have the following remarks:
One can discuss whether the cut-off of <0.45 is the best choice. Below 0.40 seems a reasonable alternative. This should be
briefly discussed. Was a sensitivity analysis restricted to patients with EF<0.40 performed?
As mentioned in the introduction the reason for the alleged differences between middle-aged and elderly patients in the effect
of betablockers could be differences in LVEF (typically less reduction in EF with increasing age). It would be very useful to also
include in this manuscript whether there is interaction by (i.e. effect modification by) LVEF (apart from age and gender). It
would also be interesting to see whether the, limited, interaction by age on the outcome HF hospitalizations is explained by
LVEF. This analysis could be included.
A number-needed-to-treat of e.g. 23 per 1.3 years is in my view not a very useful number. Why not present the number of
patient-years needed to treat (i.e 30)? This also makes more sense because many patients will be treated much longer than
1.3 years and also because the authors apply Cox regression, which can model different models no follow-time for individual
patients. I suggest to substitute the NNT by the number of patient years needed, also in the tables.

To define tolerability as “as the dose achieved as a percentage of maximum target dose, according to the particular betablocker and specific trial design” is not very accurate; tolerability is / can be much more that just the dosage. Moreover dosing
regimens differed between the trials. It is more accurate to call it what is actually is: dose achieved as a proportion of the
target dose (and not use the term tolerability here).
“We prespecified adjustment in Cox models for age, gender, prior MI and baseline NYHA class (I/II vs. III/IV), LVEF, heart
rate, systolic blood pressure, diuretic therapy and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) or angiotensin receptor
blockers (ARB)”. Why was this done: because all trials were large and randomly allocated patients at an individual level,
adjustment seems not necessary and could be done only in case of incomparability in potential confounders between the
betablocker and placebo group. Why was this decided in advance?
Moreover, only the adjusted analyses are presented, and not the crude analyses. Did the effect materially change after
adjustment? Some information on this would be useful.
One could argue that a random effects model rather than a fixed effects model should be the primary analysis. I could find the
sensitivity analysis presenting the random effects model in the supplementary material, albeit that the presented results were
very limited. Reassurance from the authors that the conclusion regarding (the lack of) effect modification by age and gender is
similar when a random effects model is applied, would be useful.
“As the follow-up periods in individual studies varied, data were censored at 1200 days
(3.3 years) from randomization”. I do not fully understand why this was done: Cox regression can deal with individuals with
varying follow-up times and there is no need for truncation. This implies that important information was thrown away. Further,
why was 1200 days chosen?
“Interactions were assessed in all models according to best practice”. This is too vague; surely several effect modifiers for
which interaction was assessed must have been identified in advance. Please explain in more detail what was done here.
The authors mention that there were missing data (as in virtually all studies). How did they handle missing data? Last
observation carried forward (LOCF), multiple imputation, or some other type of imputation?
“Our assessment confirms that irrespective of comorbidity, patients in sinus rhythm benefit from beta-blocker therapy, a novel
and important finding that informs clinical practice and underpins the applicability of current clinical guidelines”. This conclusion
is too strong in my view. This analysis focused on effect modification/interaction by age and gender. The fact that with age also
the prevalence of certain comorbidity increases doesn’t mean that this study shows that betablocker therapy is effective
irrespective of comorbidity. A similar study focusing on major comorbidities is required for that and some comorbidities (eg
dementia) are poorly represented in the trials. This conclusion should be rephrased and focus on age and gender.
I suggest to include the quartiles for age in the tables 2 and 3 and, gender specific, in table 4. Consequently, Table 1 could be
deleted.
(Vey) minor remark: Abstract: “Prospectively designed IPD meta-analysis”: please delete the word prospectively, because it is
non-informative
Arno W. Hoes, MD, PhD, FESC