The study by Cerani et al. entitled “Genetic predisposition to increased serum calcium,
bone mineral density and the risk of fracture: a Mendelian randomisation study” uses
mendelian randomisation (MR) to evaluate whether increased serum calcium had an effect
on bone mineral density (BMD) as well as the risk of fractures. Using the 6 calcium
associated SNPs identified in previous calcium GWASs, Cerani et al. showed that genetic
evidence show little support on the effect of calcium on estimated BMD (eBMD) or risk of
fractures. The findings in some way challenges conventional wisdom and warrants clinical
attention, given that calcium supplementation are commonly recommended in treatment
guidelines for osteoporosis and diseases related to bone health; while a previous MR study
also shown an adverse effect of calcium on coronary artery disease. The manuscript is well
written with the overall message clear to the readers. The statistical methodologies used
were solid and comprehensive. I personally found the comparison of genetic predicted
changes in calcium with those attainable via supplement to be particularly useful for
clinicians to understand the utility of MR to draw compatible causal inferences. Finally, I
commend the authors for putting in reasonable effort to ensure that issues such as
pleiotropy on specific SNP(s) had been adequately addressed through sensitivity analyses.
Below I outline several comments/suggestions for the authors to consider.
Introduction:
1) At the end of the 2nd paragraph, “Nonetheless, MR studies are limited by potential bias
due to pleiotropy, where the genetic variant influences the outcome, independently of the
exposure,”
given the description, I assume the authors meant “horizontal pleiotropy” instead of
pleiotropy in general?
2) At the last paragraph, I wonder whether “genetically predicted higher serum calcium” is
a more appropriate term than “life-long higher serum calcium”? given the genetic
predisposition is whats being evaluated directly.
Methods:
3) 1st para :Might be helpful to emphasis that the first MR assumption require that SNPs
must be STRONGLY associated with the risk factor. Perhaps also useful to clarify that the
1st assumption is met by design, since the study also uses genomewide significant SNPs?
4) 2nd para: “VKORC1L1 locus, that failed replication as defined by the authors” – unclear
whether that refers to i) the locus failed replication in a study done by the authors? Or ii)
the locus failed the replication criteria “defined” by the authors. Will be helpful to reword
this sentence for clarity.

5) 2nd para: Perhaps easier as well as more convenient to define what “functional
plausibility” for the VKORC1L1 meant, in the following sentence (instead of having the
description much later).
6) The acronym “eBMD” is used before being defined in the 2nd sentence of 3rd para.
7) How heritable is eBMD, to be considered highly heritable? Perhaps quote the h^2
estimate if that is available.
8)Suggest rewording “426,824 individuals from UK Biobank of White British descent” to
“426,824 White British individuals from the UK Biobank.”
9) Paragraph 5, It appears that the log(OR) approximation formula were used to convert
BOLT-LMM estimates which assumes that the outcome of interest is continuous. However,
this is shown to be less accurate for scenario where the case-proportion (mu) is very small,
which deflates the estimated log(OR) values. Have the authors investigate the
heterogeneity between study cohorts for the individual SNP-estimates (esp. the calcium
SNPs) on fracture? (i.e. whether there’s some outlier from certain studies with small mu?)
10) For paragraph 7, Might be useful to state the average genomic inflation factor? Or
directly cite the Trajanoska paper (https://www.bmj.com/content/362/bmj.k3225).
11) Similarly at the end of paragraph 7 “extracted from the fracture meta-analysis”, useful
to clarify whether the fracture meta-analysis refer to the one in Trajanoska et al., or is the
revised version used in this paper? Or neither?
12) For the paragraph on Pleiotropy,
“While pleiotropy that influences the outcomes independent of the risk factor violates MR
assumptions, horizontal pleiotropy does not. Horizontal pleiotropy is defined as the
association of a SNP with more than one phenotype in the same biological pathway”
I think the authors meant “vertical pleiotropy” rather than “horizontal pleiotropy”, given
that horizontal pleiotropy refers to the association of SNP with more than one biological
pathway independent of the exposure?
13) Sensitivity analyses, given that there’s only 6 SNPs in use, will MR-Egger be powerful
enough to assess directional pleiotropy?
Results:
14) Result - The authors mentioned that “we performed an additional analysis by excluding
rs1801725(CASR) which contributed the most weight in the IVW primary meta-analysis.” It
might be helpful to state alongside how much variance on serum calcium is being tagged
by this SNP (although I understand that can be mathematically derived from the total
r^2), which may help us interpret the findings for the leave-one-out analysis w.r.t. power.
Perhaps that also be achieved by running a MR power calculation at various pragmatic
cut-off for total SNP r^2 on calcium?
15) Result - The CYP24A1 gene is known to be associated with serum 25(OH)D [vitamin D]
concentration. I am surprised this had not been picked up by the author’s eQTL scans. Is
there a reason to suspect a potential “balancing of pleiotropy” effect coming from the
CYP24A1 variant which attenuates the overall estimate to null, given (if present) its
pleiotropic effect on vitamin D might explain its association with eBMD. Can that be
elaborated in the discussion, or will the functional interplay between vitamin D and calcium
be too complex to disentangle?
16) Result:MR analysis serum calcium on eBMD, 1st sentence – I think there was a typo:
mmol/l should be mmol/L

17) Is there a reason to be worried bout the point estimate for CARS and CYP24A1 being
at the opposite direction from the others with a relatively larger effect size on BMD? By
eye, it is alittle hard to work out whether those 2 variants cumulatively explain the same
amount of variance as that single strongest CASR SNP without the distribution of r^2 per
instrument. This is perhaps a follow-up question from (Q15). The Cochran Q-test might
also be informative here.
18) Result:MR analysis serum calcium with fracture, 1st para – The reference to Table 1 is
slightly misleading as it refers to the SNP assoc for the six SNPs, but does not contain the
IVW estimates (those are in Table 3).
19) Table 4 cannot be found. Potentially a typo?
20) In paragraph 3. The MR Egger-intercept seems unexpectedly small with a 95% CI
spanning 1.00 to 1.01– can the authors clarify whether this is based on a 1SD change in
serum calcium (similar to the other MR estimates) or any other nominal scale (e.g. unit
increase in mmol/L? although wouldn’t that make the estimates even larger?)?
Discussion:
21) Discussion, 1st paragraph: “This suggests that widespread efforts to use calcium
supplements in the general population for long periods of time are unlikely to have any
significant effect on bone health outcomes.” The word ‘significant’ is slightly hard to justify
as the effect can be small but still significantly different from none. Will ‘Substantial” be a
better word?
22) Suggest replacing :we have recently demonstrated that the same genetically-derived
increase in serum calcium is associated with a clinically-relevant increase in risk of
coronary artery disease” with something like “we have recently demonstrated that
genetically predicted increase in serum calcium derived by similar instruments is
associated with a clinically-relevant increase in risk of coronary artery disease.
23) Suggest replace “are unlikely to be offset by beneficial effects …” with “may counteract
the beneficial effects..”
24)Discussion 2nd paragraph: The following needs to be reworded for clarity “..thereby
breaking associations with such potential confounding factors”
25) Suggest replacing “Further, our MR results consistently support those of the
aforementioned observational studies, numerous RCTs and RCT meta-analysis” with
“Further, our MR findings are consistent with those of the aforementioned observational
studies, numerous RCTs and RCT meta-analysis.
26) Limitations: The authors mentioned “ we have tested this linear effect only in
individuals from the general population who do not have hypocalcemia.” but the study did
not perform any formal test for linearity. Perhaps this can be reworded to avoid ambiguity?
27) Limitations: “The majority of individuals studied for BMD and fracture outcomes did not
have osteoporosis..” Might be useful to quote the percentage (80%? 90%? 55%?) for
completeness.
28) Limitations: Are the genetic architecture for fractures in Asians different from
Europeans? Can that be used as an argument to defend against the ~1% of sample being
of Asian ancestry affecting the results? The clean assessment will be to check for
robustness of MR findings from cohorts that are only European, but I understand that can
be hard if access is restricted to summary data only.

29) Discussion: Is there any potential overlap between discovery and target sample in the
MR analysis? I don’t think a small degree of overlap will bias the findings, but for the very
least that should be acknowledged as a limitation.
30) Suggest rewording: “Thus, the results presented here can provide insight into the
expected effects of calcium supplementation via effects on serum calcium.” With something
like
“Thus, the results presented here can provide insight into the expected outcome from
calcium supplementation via MR inference of the effect on serum calcium.”
31) Discussion: The last sentence of the discussion is slightly confusing, perhaps break it
into two parts?
“Further, the genetic predisposition to increased serum calcium used here was of sufficient
biological relevance to be associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease”
32) The term “Favourable risk to benefit profile” is slightly ambiguous. Better to spell out
and be more specific.
