This is an excellent review and metaanalysis of pooled data from a broad variety of
prospective cohorts, mostly derived from RCTs. The research question is of utmost
importance for clinical practice. The results provide relevant guidance for councelling of
patients with VTE. The methods of aggregating outcome data are transparent and valid. The
topic of the manuscript and the type of analysis are very well suited vor BMJ.
Minor comments:
1) The placebo arm of EINSTEIN extension and the placebo and aspirin arms of EINSTEIN
choice are included. The placebo arms of RE-SONATE (follow-up 18 months for 171
patients), of AMPLIFY extension (follow-up 12 months), and the 3 mo anticoagulation
stratum of HOKUSAI VTE (follow-up 9 mo) have not been included. It could be of interest to
add a table in the supplement displaying the reasons for exclusion of individual studies.

Many readers recall quite a couple of them without in-depth recherche and would like to
understand why they are not part of the analysis.
2) Discussion section: P14L12 states "the risk for recurrent VTE … is high". This implies a
valuation rather than being descriptive. By contrast, the abstract has the wording
"substantial" which seems to be more appropriate in the first line. Later in the discussion
section there is a very well balanced scope of different risks which allows assignments of
valuations like "high" or "low".
3) A very consistent result of the analysis is the decrease of the annualized risk of
recurrence with increasing time elapsed from the index event. Readers may speculate
whether this natural history fact of VTE defines a "bread even point" after which the
constantly increasing cumulative risk of bleeding outweighs the risk of recurrence. The so
called "catch up phenomenon" has been documented after 6 or 12 months of anticoagulation
but not after e.g. 5 years. However, the difference between 5 years of anticoagulation and
lifelong anticoagulation may be huge in quite many individuals. It would be helpful to explain
why the alternative is 3-6 mo or lifelong despite the marked decrease in the risk of
recurrence.
