Table 1 reports the baseline characteristics of the propensity score match cohort. It’s usually good
practice to report baseline characteristics of the unmatched and matched populations, along with a
metric to show balance across each of the baseline characteristics (i.e. an absolute standardized
difference; not P-values).
The Methods are somewhat vague. More information is required on the matching procedure. Simply
saying it was 1:1 is vague, what was the caliper width, did they use a greedy matching algorithm etc…No
mention is made in the Methods (under ‘Propensity Scores’) as to how balance was assessed after
matching. There are 7.6 million courses of penicillin, did the authors not consider 1:2 or 1:3 matching, to
make use of more data?
I could not see any mention of missing data/data completeness. There are lots of covariates (Table s2).
How was missing data handled? Presumably they were omitted, which may be a concern. But we have no
idea how many were omitted.
The unit of analysis is course of fluoroquinolone/penicillin, not at the patient level. So how many patients
did ~2 million courses cover? So in Table 1, if N is number of courses and not number of patients, what
is ‘Male sex’, because won’t there be over counting (i.e. if one man has 5 courses, has is this counted in
the number of men in Table 1, as 5 or 1?), because of multiple courses per patient? Similar comment to
age. The analysis uses appropriate methods for multiple courses per patient (i.e. the GEE analysis), but
I’m unclear as to whether one needs to balance at the patient or the course level. I think the reader
needs to be reassured that the two populations are comparable. Can the authors clarify.
The two countries are quite different in terms of prescribing. Sweden had nearly double the
flouroquinolone courses than Denmark, but the reverse for penicillin (Denmark had over double the
number of courses compared to Sweden). Does this matter for balancing? Can the authors comment on
this, and satisfy the reader that this is not a concern.