Dear Editor,
In this manuscript, entitled ”Appropriate personal protective equipment protects healthcare
professionals from COVID-19”, Liu et al. found that none of 420 HCPs, heavily exposed to SARS CoV-2
while working at four Wuhan hospitals from Jan 24 to April 7 2020, contracted covid-19.

Infections were excluded by the abscence of typical clinical features, repeated negative SARS CoV-2 PCR
tests during a two-week quarantine upon return from Wuhan, and subsequent serologic testing showing
the abscence of SARS CoV-2 specific IgM and IgG antibodies.
The HCPs received training in proper use of PPE prior to their assignment and were equipped with
”proper PPE” which here meant access to medical suits, isolation gowns, aprons, gloves, eye protection,
hair cover, and respirators (N95) or surgical masks. The mainpart of their assignment meant working
with critically ill covid-19 patients which included caring for patients during aerosol generating
procedures.
The authors provide important information in showing that working with severily ill covid-19 patients can
be safe provided that ”adequate” PPE is available and staff is trained to use it properly. We are in the
early phases of learning more about this new virus, and for health care workers it is of paramount
importance to feel safe while caring for patients hospitalized with covid-19.
The manuscript is well written and clear but has some minor grammatic issues that I have not addressed
Major comments
Regarding PPE: Although encouraging that access to PPE can greatly reduce the risk for HCPs caring for
patients with covid-19, the terms ”proper”, ”adequate” and ”appropriate” PPE in the manuscript need to
be clarified and put into a context. WHO, CDC, and ECDC, although providing slightly varying
recommendations regarding PPE, and depending upon clinical situations, generally suggest a more
moderate use of PPE than have been the case in this study. What are the Chinese recommendations? To
what extent are the PPE in this study in line with national/international recommendations? What are the
main modes of transmission, and what are the most essential PPEs for providing adequate protection
against covid-19 in various health care settings/situations? All this needs to be discussed in the article.
This is specifically important since there is a well known lack of PPE in many parts of the world and
recommending ”everything always” may not provide a helpful solution. There was an obvious
catastrophic lack of PPE in the beginning of the epidemic both in China as well as in Italy, where many
HCPs seem to have been infected while caring for patients also outside of the hospitals, and using very
basic or no PPE at all. It is important to not to jump to a conclusion that covering your hair, or using a
medical suit covered by a long sleeved gown, is equally important to prevent infection of HCPs as is the
use of eye protection, surgical mask/respirator and an apron/gown. It is therefore of great importance to
discuss what appropriate PPEs means in the context of international guidelines and based on what is
known about modes of transmission.
Since the term ”apropriate” PPE is included in the title of the manuscript and ”proper” PPE is included in
the main objective, this is at the moment problematic without a thourough discussion regarding the
definitions of these terms.
Table 2 states what type of PPE that could be/ was used during different clinical settings. Some choices
seem to have been optional. Surgical masks or N95 respirators were options also while an AGP was
performed. Since several AGPs have low evidence of being truly infectious AGPs, mainly extrapolated
from scarce data from the SARS epidemic, it would be of great interest to know the proportion of HCPs
using N95s vs surgical masks, and specifically while performing various ”AGPs”. If a substantial part of
HCPs who cared for patients during AGPs wore a surgical mask instead of an N95 respirator, this would
provide valuable information.
Minor comments:
When describing available PPE the term ”medical suit” needs to be clarified. Was isolation gown used in
stead of a medical suit or in combination? Perhaps pictures of the various PPEs could be helpful.
In Methods - Were activities at the ward, including caring for patients during AGPs monitored on a daily
basis? If so, it should be included here. If not - how was the actual number of various AGPs assessed for
each HCP??
The reliability of various serologic tests for SARS CoV-2 have been questioned for a while now, and I can
not verify the accuracy of the specific test used here (CLIA assays Kit, YHLO). However, the inclusion of
both positive and negative controls provides an acceptable validation of the test.
Table 1 – The number of female doctors (28), and male doctors (88) add up to 116 but the number of
total doctors stated in the Table is 103.

Adding the number of female and male nurses (258 + 46) makes 304 in total but the total number given
in Table is 317. Needs correction.
I recommend the use of one digit decimals in Table 1.
Kind regards
Ulf Karlsson, MD, PhD
