Although the field of alcohol brief intervention (ABI) has achieved an unstoppable momentum in both
research and practice, it is no exaggeration to say that it now faces a crisis of evidence. Due partly
perhaps to the apparent unwillingness of GPs and other healthcare professionals to adopt ABI in their
routine work, there has been a tendency to oversimplify the evidence on ABI and to present too rosy a
picture of what we know about its benefits for clinical practice and public health. This over-optimistic
consensus now shows signs of breaking down due the failure of research clearly to demonstrate effects of
ABI in real-world practice settings. This article, by the two leading researchers and the most critical
minds in the field at present, is an important and timely correction to this tendency. It provides for the
general medical reader an incisive and insightful analysis of all the major issues in research and practice
at this time and is likely to be widely cited and influential in the future, particularly in relation to the place
of ABI in general medical practice. It fulfils all the criteria for an Analysis article and is accessible to the
general reader. Criticisms are all relatively minor, as follows:
p.2, line 7: Is there good evidence that practitioners have been ‘sceptical’ about embracing ABI in their
work, rather than merely uninterested?
p.2, lines 31-5: Does the evidence cited of lack of legitimacy of ABI among patients generalise to primary
health care or is it relatively specific to pharmacies? There are several publications. of which the authors
will be aware, claiming to show that patients do not mind being asked about their drinking by their GPs.
p.3, lines 21-41: The editorial by Saitz (ref #12) was a response to an earlier article reviewing evidence
on the efficacy-effectiveness distinction in trials of ABI and I think it remiss of the authors not to cite this
earlier article. For one thing, it presents a somewhat different interpretation of this literature - that,
rather than showing that most trials are efficacy trials, which they demonstrably are not, the literature
shows that research has failed to proceed in a logical fashion from efficacy to effectiveness trials and that
this has caused the difficulties in interpreting the evidence to which the present authors refer. Secondly,
the prior article was the first to criticise the scale for measuring efficacy-effectiveness (or clinical
representativeness) used in the Cochrane review and to suggest improvements to this measurement in
future meta-analyses. Thus, coming from one of the authors of the Cochrane review in question, the
prior article shows that not all researchers are 'too heavily involved' in their own work to be objective, as
the authors imply. But despite this disagreement on detail, I accept the authors' main conclusion here
that 'to characterise the
primary care brief interventions literature as demonstrating effectiveness ..... appears an unsafe
inference.'
p.3, lines 52-7: These two NHS trials produced null findings, not negative findings.
p.4, lines 22-4: I’m not convinced there is ‘a widespread recognition of the limitations of this evidence
base’. There are still plenty of prominent 'gung-ho' advocates around.
p.8, lines 5-7: While largely in sympathy with the authors' key messages and recommendations for
research, I wonder whether the statement that '‘We do not know whether brief interventions do work in
routine practice’ is too baldly stated and might deter interest in ABI from policy-makers and researchfunders. ("Oh, we know that ABI, though all very well in theory, doesn't work in practice"). What about:
'There is uncertainly from research as to whether brief interventions work in routine practice'. True, this
is mere semantics but semantics are sometimes very important in the real world.
Nick Heather,
23/5/16