This randomized controlled trial describes the effects of a novel fortified food (NEWSUP)
on executive functions in children at risk of undernutrition. The results showed that
NEWSUP caused a marked, significant improvement in working memory among children ≤
3.9 years; it also caused large increases in cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen
metabolism, especially in children consuming > 75% of the supplement ration, increased
hemoglobin in anemic children, and supported preferential growth of lean tissue rather
than fat. Compared to traditional formulations, the benefit of NEWSUP is an improvement
in cognitive function in young children living in communities where undernutrition is
prevalent, suggesting that improved brain structure and function is possible up until at
least 4 years of age. As indicated by the Authors, maybe the same beneficial effects could
be tested also in other population with cognitive decline so further analysis is necessary.
Relevant methodological pitfalls are present and should necessarily be clarified:
• Multi-nutrient composition and rationale: the Authors describe EPA and DHA as relevant
structural components of myelin. Nevertheless, neither autopsy studies (Farquaharson et
al. Infant cerebral cortex phospholipid fatty-acid composition and diet. Lancet. 1992 Oct
3;340(8823):810-3 and Martinez M. Tissue levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids during
early human development. J Pediatr. 1992 Apr;120(4 Pt 2):S129-38. ) neither EFSA
approved claims indicate EPA as relevant component to this aim.
• The study is designed for children at risk of undernutrition but a description of
nutritional status of subjects enrolled is missing. How many children are malnourished?
Please specify the diagnostic criteria used to define this data.
Specifically, page 10, line 24: “Exclusion criteria were the child having severe-acute
malnutrition (wherein they were referred to a malnutrition clinic)..”: please define
“severe-acute malnutrition”.
Anthropometric measures are reported in Table 2 but a clear representation of the
population regarding the nutritional status is not described in the manuscript.
• Page 8, line 36: “This randomized controlled trial compared NEWSUP and FBF as a
provided breakfast meal five days per week with a provided isocaloric Control breakfast in
young children”
Based on which rationale it was decided to provide the food supplement 5 days for week
and not all days? Please better explain. How was breakfast the other days? Was that
information recorded?
• Have the Authors considered possible differences regarding food consumption during the
rest of the day (excluding breakfast of course) as possible bias? Have at least food
questionnaires been collected?
