BMJ-2020-054657, "Nutrition approaches to support healthy cognitive ageing and reduce dementia
risk”

The authors discuss strength of the evidence of the association between food and brain function,
undertaken to enable prevention strategies for dementia to be elaborated. I understand that this is a
commissioned piece but I have reviewed as I would a paper submitted through normal channels.
I have four major concerns and comments on specific sections.
Major comments
1. The authors need to clarify how the manuscript adds to recent review papers, e.g. Scarmeas et al,
Lancet Neurol 2018; and other papers: PMID: 27116239; PMID: 26959055; PMID: 31313074; PMID:
25405316; PMID: 22874455; PMID: 23228285; PMID: 19834324. The review by Scarmeas et al. is
recent and comprehensive, do we need another review?
2. It is important that the authors address the issues raised by Ioannidis in recent papers on nutrition
research. These papers (a few listed below) highlight the methodological weaknesses of research in
this domain, some examples of such papers:
Ioannidis JPA. Neglecting major health problems and broadcasting minor, uncertain issues in lifestyle
science. JAMA. 2019
Ioannidis J, The Challenge of Reforming Nutritional Epidemiologic Research. JAMA 2018
3. A 2019 paper published in JAMA used a lifecourse approach to examine midlife dietary patterns and
dementia and found no evidence of an association. I am a co-author on this paper, and surprised not
to see it in this current opinion piece – how did the authors chose their papers?
Akbaraly TN, Singh-Manoux A, Dugravot A, Brunner EJ, Kivimäki M, Sabia S. Association of Midlife
Diet With Subsequent Risk for Dementia. JAMA. 2019 Mar 12;321(10):957-968. doi:
10.1001/jama.2019.1432.
4. The manuscript would be stronger if it included an explicit consideration of reverse causation as an
explanation of many of the findings in observational studies. Neuropathological changes are known to
be present 15 to 20 years before clinical diagnosis of dementia. This preclinical period is also
characterised by changes in behaviours, taste, and smell. Most prospective studies (some examples
are references 14 to 18, 45, 52, etc.) have a follow-up of less than 10 years, making the findings
prone to reverse causation bias.

I have listed further comments on the following sections in this manuscript.
Key messages
The authors highlight the lack of curative solutions for dementia, and state that “improved eating
behaviour” holds tremendous potential to reduce the risk of dementia. This statement is not
supported by the evidence presented in the manuscript or by the scientific literature in this domain.
It is a pity that the multifactorial aetiology is reduced to “multiple dietary components” rather than a
wider framework that considers social, behavioural, and biological risk factors.
What interventions are available to improve cognition and reduce dementia risk?
The authors describe how a third of AD cases are attributable to modifiable risk factors and then state
that “many of these are nutrition dependent. This is inaccurate. The 7 risk factors are: diabetes,
midlife hypertension, midlife obesity, physical inactivity, depression, smoking, and low educational
attainment.
Midlife obesity is “nutrition dependent” but physical activity is likely to be important too, more so
given our increasingly sedentary lifestyles. I don’t see how the other risk factors are nutrition
dependent (smoking? education?).
The findings on a healthy lifestyle imply consideration of “lifestyle”, a collection of behaviours.
Drawing conclusions on the importance of a healthy diet when the analyses are based on a healthy
lifestyle is tricky.

Overview of nutrition and cognition
The statement “Evidence of an impact of nutrition on brain function is stronger for whole foods,
medicinal foods and healthy dietary patterns” needs references to support this statement. What are
“medicinal foods” and where is the evidence?