Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting article. The research presented
represents a huge undertaking, and there is much to be commended here, not least for
getting this much data together to address this question, and by looking at the association
between inactivity and dementia at different lead times. I do feel that there are areas that
could be strengthened and there are a number of queries, as follows
- My main question is where does the 10 year cut-off come from? Specifically, why does
looking at activity levels at > 10 years remove the reverse causality issue? Why not 9
years, or 11 years, or 5 years? What is the clinical rationale for 10 years being a safe
time-point?
I wonder whether the authors would be better (or at least it would be more complete a
picture) if they report may time-period results, say 0-5, 5-10, 10-15, 15-20 etc to see if
the trend is gradually reduced, rather than just choosing the 10 years value? Perhaps they
are limited by the information about activity levels in the available IPD.
Regardless, this issue needs to be addressed, justified, or noted clearly as a limitation.
- Did the meta-analysis account for the uncertainty in the estimates of heterogeneity,
when deriving confidence intervals? There is strong evidence that approaches such as
Hartung-Knapp improve coverage of confidence intervals from meta-analysis (including
IPD meta-analysis), and can be implemented as part of the 2nd-stage of the analysis. See
the refs: 1 2
- I-squared is a poor measure of the size of heterogeneity and be misleading (see Rucker
et al. 3) – better to focus on the estimate of heterogeneity and even prediction intervals
(though i do see there is no estimated heterogeneity it seems)
- What was the estimation method used to fit the meta-analysis models?
- It is not clear to me how proportional hazards are examined within and across studies
– the comment “We examined whether the hazard ratio for physical inactivity is stable over
the follow-up using flexible parametric proportional-hazards for censored survival data” is
quite vague. The authors say later that the HR does change after a few years, which
support their decision to split at 10 years, but this seem contradictory to use 10 years as
the split and not 2 years. “As shown in figure 2, the associations of physical inactivity with
dementia and Alzheimer’s disease varied over time, being strongest during the first few
years of follow-up and then attenuating to the null. This non-proportionality of hazards
(departure from proportionality p <0.0001 for dementia and Alzheimer’s disease)
supported our decision to split follow-up period into two; the first 10 years of follow-up and
from year 10 onwards.” In short, the explanation of proportional hazards and use of 10
years cut point needs more justification and expansion.
- “To address regression dilution bias due to measurement error … “ – measurement error
does not always leads to dilution of effects; for example if the error is larger in those with
certain levels of the variable than others.
- How was missing data handled, for example for adjustment variables?

- One notable limitation is the categorical definition of physical activity, which I assume is
due to using existing studies and inconsistent definitions and coding across studies. Can
the authors explain this further, and why a continuous scale was not possible / used?
- Figure 2: it is not clear if this is for the physical activity measured before 10 years or
after 10 years?
- The abstract might mislead reader to think 9741 studies are used from the ‘data sources’
– so perhaps state that 19 of 9741 studies provided relevant data in this section too.
- Dementia definition requires full diagnosis – maybe miss people who are in the early
stages? Thus the outcome may be underestimated – could this be a limitation and, if so,
how may it impact upon the findings.
- A key finding noted in the abstract and results is “There was an imprecisely estimated
excess risk of dementia following cardiometbolic disease in physically inactivite versus
physically active individuals” (note inactive and cardiometabolic are mis-spelt by the
authors). The authors are inferring that the HR is different for those with and without
cardiometabolic disease. However, I do not see an interaction test (and indeed estimate of
the difference in) for whether the log hazard ratio is different for those with and without
cardiometabolic disease. The authors refer to Figure 4, but cardiometabolic is not
mentioned in this figure.
In summary, this is a very interesting piece of work that has much potential for
publication, but there are some issues that need to be clarified and addressed to help the
BMJ make a decision. I sincerely hope my comments help the authors going forward.
Best wishes, Prof Richard Riley

1. Hartung J, Knapp G. A refined method for the meta-analysis of controlled clinical trials
with binary outcome. Stat Med 2001;20(24):3875-89.
2. Cornell JE, Mulrow CD, Localio R, et al. Random-effects meta-analysis of inconsistent
effects: a time for change. Ann Intern Med 2014;160(4):267-70.
3. Rucker G, Schwarzer G, Carpenter JR, et al. Undue reliance on I(2) in assessing
heterogeneity may mislead. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:79.
