Having read the paper, these are my answers to the questions posed:
• Are the study's aims and the issue and questions that the paper addresses relevant and important to
you as a patient? Do you think it would be relevant to other patients like you? What about carers?

I find the objective of both interest and importance. As a person with a chronic illness, I am interested in
receiving the best care. If outcomes are better for patients with the routine use of advanced technology
(in this case ultrasound imaging), that is important to know and recognise. Any study which addresses
ways to improve patient care is of relevance to improving the health of patients and reducing the burden
on carers.
• Are there any areas that you find relevant as a patient or carer that are missing or should be
highlighted?
See comment in outcome question below on pain, stiffness and fatigue.
• From your perspective as a patient, would the treatment, intervention studied, or guidance given
actually work in practice? Is it feasible? What challenges might patients face that should be considered?
As the trial concluded that integrating ultrasound imaging in routine practice provided no or little added
benefit, the answer to this question is of less relevance. The intervention is feasible though in all
likelihood patients would not wish to be having numerous ultrasound scans a year and extra injections
into their joints based on the results, unless absolutely necessary. For trial design I can see why this is so
but if it were implemented in practice, it would no doubt be scaled down.
• Are the outcomes that are being measured in the study or described in the paper the same as the
outcomes that are important to you as a patient? Are there others that should have been considered?
The outcomes measured are important to me as a patient. I would have liked a greater emphasis on
measuring pain, stiffness and fatigue as the outcomes seem to primarily be around disease activity
scores (which I am aware incorporate these components to some extent) and functional disability.
I believe patients should have been involved with the design of such a large trial as there appears to be
quite a large burden on participants in terms of the number of visits, tests/investigations, assessment
scales to complete and the potential for additional intra-articular steroid injections.
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper to make it more
useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients?
I feel the ins and outs of the paper would be beyond the comprehension of most patients, however, the
abstract provides a nice summary which is easy enough to share with and be understood by patients.