I very much appreciated the opportunity to review the work by Professor Nielsen and colleagues regarding the effectiveness
and safety of lower dose non-vitamin K-antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) versus warfarin.
The safety and effectiveness of lower doses of NOACS (apixaban 2.5 mg bid, dabigatran 110 mg bid, rivaroxaban 15 mg daily,
as studied by the authors) is of significant scientific interest. As mentioned by the authors, apixaban 2.5 mg bid and
rivaroxaban 15 mg have been studied in small samples in RCTs. This is a novel and important analysis performed from the
well-established Danish registry.
The authors performed an analysis comparing users of apixaban 2.5 mg bid, dabigatran 110 mg bid and rivaroxaban 15 mg
daily each to warfarin as a comparator through the use of inverse propensity weighting as a method to adjust for significant
baseline differences in risk factors.
The authors conclude that apixaban users had a trend to higher rates of stroke and systemic embolism, a finding that was
statistically significant in those over 80 years of age. Users of dabigatran had lower rates of bleeding.
The results are important given the limited data on safety and outcomes regarding the lower doses of NOACs, particularly
those without significant data from RCTs (apixaban 2.5 mg and rivaroxaban 15 mg).
The primary limitation of this analysis is its retrospective design, limitation to a single European country and reliance of ICD 10
coding data to categorically adjust for patient risk and propensity for drug prescription. There is surely significant “off-label”
use likely and authors lack measures of renal function to limit the analysis to those on lower doses appropriately.
However, the primary limitation is my concern for residual confounding due to significant differences in baseline covariates. For
example, users of apixaban were significantly older with higher comorbidities and had shorter duration of follow-up.
Additionally, it is not clear to me that using a warfarin comparator in this group of patients is valid unless you select them
based on similar prescribing parameters (age >80 or renal dysfunction). As a result, the warfarin population was MUCH
younger (71 years vs 84 years in the apixaban group). I am not sure that this difference can be adequately adjusted
statistically and raises the risk, as highlighted by the authors, for residual confounding. The authors do a nice job of
acknowledging these limitations that are well-known for claims-based studies.
I would have preferred to have limited the analysis to patients over 75 or 80 years of age as I suspect that many of the
patients receiving warfarin would not have qualified for a lower dose NOAC.
Nonetheless, this is important data. The analysis is very well-written and the data nicely presented. The authors should be
commended.

The finding of a trend to higher event rates with apixaban 2.5 mg is interesting as it is the largest proportional dose reduction
(50%) from the standard dose
I have a few additional comments, questions and or suggestions for the authors:
1. Given the vast differences in baseline characteristics, I would consider not reporting the crude events rates in the abstract,
but would rather focus on adjusted outcomes event rates and/or HR.
2. Consider citing the 2016 ESC atrial fibrillation guidelines in the introduction.
3. In reviewing the codes, the authors appear that they do not account for stable CAD and some CV codes (I24, I25). As a
result, CAD is not listed as a baseline covariate in Table 1. The authors also do not account for prior procedures as a way to
account for dx of ASCVD (CPT codes) in their model adjustments / weighting.
Can the authors comment as to whether they fully accounted for CAD as a comorbidity and whether they also surveyed for the
performance of major cardiovascular procedures during this surveillance period as a way to both identify CAD and to adjust for
patient comorbidities.
4. There is the concern that the introduction of each new drug would influence patient selection in a time-dependent fashion.
For example, the early dabigatran patients might be different than patients prescribed dabigatran after the introduction of
apixaban (4 agents to choose from). Should the authors consider a sensitivity analysis including only patients after the
introduction of apixaban?
5. It is unclear to me as to the benefit of performing a subgroup analysis for patients 80-84 and then older than 84. I would,
for simplicity, consider limiting this to only those 80 years and older.
6. Discussion: please clarify the # of apixaban 2.5 mg in ARISTOTLE. My understanding is that it was 428 subjects.