It is a question of a randomized trial of patient controlled analgesia ( PCA) vs routine
care ( opioïd analgesia IV and oral or parenteral morphine ) in the Emergency
departement (ED) in patients with moderate to severe non traumatic and abdominal
pain. Data were collected over a 12 h period
The study comprised two contemporaneus multi-centre open-label randomised trials .
Context
The originality of the UK study is to treat pain in the EDs and following hospital
admission
The authors pointed out that there are few studies regarding the use of PCA in the
context of the emergency [ ref 17-20] , but these studies do not concern the
management of abdominal pain.
In final, the previous studies that have been conducted in this area provide limited
evidence of the short-term utility of PCA in emergency patient
The authors are interested in the cost effectiveness of treatment with PCA beyond the
emergency department, but it is not a true cost-effectiveness study. The authors do
not discuss this possibility. Cost- Effectiveness analysis are used when trying to
determine the strategy that will generate maximum efficiency for a given cost; or
when seeking to achieve a given objective medical at the lowest cost. The
effectiveness should be measured by a clinical outcome measure or an objective health
status indicator. These add to the decision makers more information on the efficacy
supplement obtained through an additional cost
I would suggest to debate in the limitations that the study is not an economical study
The introduction outlines the problem of pain in the emergencies departments
in Eds accross UK , the nurses have "anticipated protocols" to treat patients with
severe pain . This technique is safe and effective but requires time when repeated
doses of morphine is required (based on evaluations of the EVA) This observation is
often made to emergencies and in other European countries ( cf Guide line 2012 )
Vivien B, Adnet F, Bounes V, Chéron G, Combes X, David J.-S, Diependaele J.-F,
Eledjam J.-J, Eon B, Fontaine J.-P, Freysz M, Michelet P, Orliaguet G, Puidupin A,
Ricard-Hibon A, Riou B, Wiel E, de La Coussaye J.-E. Sédation et analgésie en structure
d’urgence (Réactualisation de la Conférence d’experts de la Sfar of 1999). Ann Fr
Anesth Réanim 2012 ; 29(12) : 934-949
One solution could be given to deliver opioid analgesia via a patient controlled

analgesia ( PCA ) : 1 mg morphine and lock out period of 5 min
Authors should describe the medical equipment (morphine pump). The same
equipment is it used in each center?
The objectives are well described the primary outcome and secondary outcomes
The introduction is a bit too long P 3 L 55 -L60 and P 4 L 1-L4 these could be discussed
in Section Discussion
Method:
This is an open therapeutic trial ( label trial) to compare technical (PCA) and a drug
treatment ( intravenous or oral morphine) this trial must be completed by a blinded
adjudication of events (blinded observer who measured the primary outcome) : p 6 L
28-29 “ blinding … intervention “authors should explain this type of study in the
presentation of the method. The groups are almost homogene (n = 99 vs 97 Allocated
to PCA to traitement as usual (TAU) ( cf flowchart) to maintain the homogeneity
between two groups
The analysis of the study is carried out "intention to treat approach"( P 6 L56) and the
primary analyzes were adjusted (stratification factors) (P 6 L58-59) Within each strata,
the individuals are homogeneous for these defined characteristics
P 7 L7 , L23. The primary statistical analysis is an analysis of covariance ( primary and
secondary outcomes measures ) Covariance analysis (multivariate family): to explain a
quantitative dependent variable by independent variants (predictor) some of which are
categorical (nominal or ordinal) and other quantitative
P7L35-36: The satisfaction analysis was studied by logistic regression. The risk
estimate is expressed in the form of Odd Ratio
Sensitivity analyses for analyses of the primary outcome measure :on 4 levels : score
“0” for periods of sleep ( sensitivity 1) , “missing pain score” ( sensitivity 2), 4
excluded participants in hospital ( sensibility 3) and 35 patients with a pain score after
randomisation ( sensitivity 4 )
Sensitivity analysis lets discuss the robustness of the estimate of the effect of
treatment found. It is a question of using several statistical techniques and / or several
different models on the same data or use several different data sets
The authors report in this paper the results of the clinical trial about adults patients
with nontraumatic and acute abdominal pain. It is unfortunate that the detailed study
protocol is not described, but the authors refer to ref 22 ( for example centers and
randomization sites are not clearly identified : general hospitals, university hospitals,
other? )
"on the wards" the authors do not specify, is it a unit short hospital stay (post room –
emergency or short hospital stay unit in French ) or a conventional medical service ?
please clarify this work
P3 31-32 the type of medical device (PCA) should be specified : biomedical equipment,
firm etc ….
P3 L 31- 39 This paragraph is to put in the material and methods section
P4 L 36-37 Eligible patients with non-traumatic abdominal pain requiring IV opioid
analgesia …… the definition of severe abdominal pain requiring the use of opioids
should be given to readers (VAS> 60?)
“admission for a least 12 h from the time of enrolment”
P 4 L 37 when patients were admitted to the emergency room and treated did not have
a monitoring 12 H, is they came out of the study?
P4 L40 the exclusion criteria do not specify whether cognitive disorders, the language
barrier, or the patient who can talk are excluded (ref 22)
P4 L 46 study recruitment : it is a multicenter study about 5 centers
the organizational description of these structures could help the reader: flow or
passage number / year to emergencies, academic center or general hospital, public or

private structure, proportion of abdominal pain compared with others causes of
admission in ED
we assume that the research nurse performs the initial assessment of pain and then
randomizes and performs inclusion. But that's another nurse who assesses at follow-up
and administers treatment. authors should clarify that
P4 L52- 54 “ patients …. Given” what is the interest in the study?
P4 L57-60 “after informed consent was obtained , the first study pain score was
recorded using à visual analogue scale, and the participant randomised to recive either
PCA or routine care ”
which means that randomization is made before the first evaluation of pain?
P5 L9-10 a representation of the EVA can be given in illustration
P 5 L22 the results report the analgesics administered before (<24 h) the admission to
the ED (table 1)
P5 L48 ‘research nurse” the authors do not specify whether the research nurse is
independent or if she is involved in the routine care
P5 L53-56: the addition other analgesics (paracetamol, NSAIDs ...) should be
considered and analyzed in both groups
P6 L5-6 “ a graph of VAS pain against time and calculating the area under the curve (
AUC) for each participant “ However an example ( graphique ) would allow a better
understanding of the results
P6 L 13 what is the bibliographic reference chosen to determine this threshold EVA>
44 mm?
P6 L9 Secondary endpoints are many, and patient satisfaction should not be confused
with other criteria (effectiveness of analgesics) Patient satisfaction is multimodal and
likely to be confused with the pain relief ( ref ? )
P 6 L32-34 ( cf P6 L5-7) repetition of sentence?
P6 L36 -41 This paragraph should be written in the discussion of the "method" section
P7 L8-L9 : statistical analysis “ trapezoidal” rule a figure is recommended to facilitate
understanding
P7 L15 when the patient was discharged or self discharged, her EVA was scored zero .
This decision is quite surprising, a discharged patient does not mean he no longer has
pain but these conventions were agreed with TSC and DMC
Some methodological details are lacking (ref 22 ???)
Results :
P 8 L 6 : 370 eligibles patients , or 363 patients asked to participate ( figure 1)
P 8 L27-28 This slight difference is it significant? It does not appear
P8 L36-42 We propose to recall sensitivity levels ( ) in the text : :” including the data
from the fifth hospital (sensitivity 3) slightly increased the magnitude of adjusted
beetwen-group difference” , whilst excluding the data from the 35 participants with
more than five minutes between time of baseline pain score and time of randomisation
( sensitivity 4) did not change the magnitude of the between-group
or we propose to simplify the sentence : for the level 3 of sensitivity, the magnitude of
the difference between groups was increased; for the sensitivity level 4 (exclusion of
the 35 randomized patients beyond 5 minutes between time of baseline pain score and
time of randomization ) the magnitude of the difference between groups was not
changed but the result was not significant for the 5% level
P 8 L 54 : where is the figure 2 ?
P 9 L2-L4 “on average , participants in the PCA group spent less of the study period in
moderate or severe pain ( with pain VAS > 44 mm ) compared with participants in the
TAU group …..
It is necessary to announce Table 3 in the text : These results are summarized in Table
3
Table 3 : the patients in the PAC group have consumed more morphine (23.6 vs 10.7)
(p <0 .001), this may have influenced their satisfaction degree (73/88, 83% vs 57/87,
66%). Also PCA group participants have a shorter period of moderate to severe pain
(32. 6 vs 46.9), which may also influence
Discussion

The discussion is quite short compared to the presentation of the method and the
complexity of the statistical analysis
The discussion described briefly the main results obtained if the objectives of the study
were achieved, especially the main objective
- P 6 L1-L7 the primary outcome measure was the total pain experienced over the 12
hour study period , as captured by the hourly completion of a visual analogue pain
rating scale ( VAS) ( table 2 : primary outcome of total pain experienced (
standardized AUc) : primary and sensitivity analyses )
- P 6 L10-14 the secondary outcomes measures ( table 3 : secondary outcomes )
The authors emphasized the originality of the research ( combined emergency care (“
in the ED” ) and continuing care ( "patient was admitted to hospital ward”)
The authors have exposed the limitations of the study
This is an open therapeutic trial ( label trial)
The sensitivity analysis (4 levels) allowed to respond to criticism: too few patients for
inclusion in the center 5 and inclusion of the 35 randomized participants beyond 5
minutes after the baseline pain score "with more than five minutes between time of
baseline pain score and time of randomisation" ( P8 L39-40)
These patients should have been excluded from the study ( figure 1) : the study
protocol clearly indicating that the first study pain score was to be recorded at thetime
of consent and prior to randomisation
P 14L 37-L40 : but this result is known only retrospectively
Table 3 : the patients in the PAC group have consumed more morphine (23.6 vs 10.7)
(p <0 .001), this may have influenced their satisfaction degree (73/88, 83% vs 57/87,
66%). Also PCA group participants have a shorter period of moderate to severe pain
(32. 6 vs 46.9), which may also influence
These results should be most discussed, in particular because of the subjective
satisfaction
P 14 L42 :Comparison with other studies and implications of this study : the authors
compare their results with only one study of PCA doses variations vs standard
treatment with opioids
The discussion is limited to the discussion of the main results
but she could be (for example)
- The under-treatment of abdominal pain in emergencies
- On the method and the pain assessment by nurses
- Other scales of pain
- Other pains contexts different from moderate or severe abdominal pain
- The difficulties of repeated evaluations, at follow-up in the ED (P 14 L 57-58), and
the causes of under-treatment of pain in the ED
- The results of the study do cannot be extrapolated to the target population
- The authors said take an interest in cost-effective but not argument, especially the
cost in time nurse training at the PCA
The discussion deserves to be enriched and the authors could produce other
references
Conclusions
P15 L9-10: The conclusion is too short PCA is more effective than routine care in
managing pain in the ED and during the following in hours of hospital admission , in
patients with non-traumatic abdominal pain.
Authors should propose new research perspectives on a subject where the references
and studies seem to miss multicenter for example study on a larger scale
Indeed, this study provides a pragmatic response to the difficulties of repeated
assessments of pain
Harel D, Delorme C, Thibon P, Leroux C, Labidi M, Juret C, Lamoureux J-É. Enquête sur

la prise en charge de la douleur aiguë dans les services d’urgences adultes du réseau
régional douleur de Basse-Normandie. Douleurs: Evaluation - Diagnostic – Traitement
2005 ; 6(3) : 131-139
Mission nationale d'expertise et d'audit hospitaliers (MEAH) : Améliorer la prise en
charge de la douleur aux urgences. Rapport intermédiaire Novembre 2008
Salhi N, Hammad M, Baron A-F, Maillot M-C, Bozon F, Hachelaf M, Desmettre T,
Capellier G. Prise en charge de la douleur aux urgences : nécessité d’une poursuite de
la démarche qualité afin de cibler les actions. Journal Européen des Urgences 2007 ;
20(1) : 65
Todd KH, Ducharme J, Choiniere M, Crandall CS, Fosnocht DE, Homel P, Tanabe P;
PEMI Study Group. Pain in the Emergency Department : results of the Pain and
Emergency Medicine Initiative (PEMI) Multicenter Study. J Pain 2007 ; 8(6) : 460-6
Tables or figures
Legend for tables with abbreviations is recommended ( examples please introduce
abbreviations: SD, IQR, ED, …. TAU , PCA )
Figure 1 is enough, it is not necessary to include this information in the text
The Figure 1 can be simplified: consented and randomized participants (n = 209)
specify the legend at the bottom of the figure
Table 1 Baseline characteristics :
The center 1 : 127 participants are representing 64, 8% of recruitment
this results could imply a "center effect"
Table 3 : secondary outcomes : there is a writing font problem in the 4 th column
On average , participants in the PCA group spent less of the study period in moderate
or severe pain ( with pain VAS > 44 mm ) compared with participants in the TAU
group
Figure 2 : shows the frequency of opioïd –related out of range vitals signs in the two
group …. Where is the figure 2 ?
Table 1 shows a relatively uniform distribution in the 2 groups (TAU) vs (PCA) medical
diagnostic (with a slight difference for participants with renal disease or ureteral and
gynaecological pathologies ) This can be attributed to the effect of randomization by
random by computer system (P 4 L 59-60) using a secure web-based randomisation
system . No adjustment or balancing groups was performed ?
P 8 L 33 “ this primary analysis , with adjustment for centre …. “ but the adjustment
by center allow correction of this effect
why not combine the renal or ureteric pathology ( stone passed and others )
The median time from arrival in the ED to randomisation was 152 min ( > to 2H ) the
median time for randomization is long enough, patients not receiving analgesic
treatment during this period
In conclusion
the subject of this randomized ( label trial) study is interesting: the treatment of
abdominal pain by nurses of emergency services, comparing PCA and routine care
(morphine IV and orally) during 12 hours
The originality of the study is exposed
The authors have relatively well-developed method of analysis, although the sensitivity
analysis is quite complex
The limitations of the study are clear
The discussion should be expanded
Some points should be more argued, debated and discussed.
One reference is not sufficient to compare the results obtained
Tables and figures should be revised and supplemented: abbreviations, legends
I thank the authors for this work on the pain in EDs
I invite you to revise and resubmit your manuscript

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: ASSEZ
Job Title: Emergency physician ( MD)
Institution: University Hospital LILLE FRANCE (CHRU de Lille)
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them
here:
END
Date
30-Mar-2015
Sent:

