The conclusion that high quality, structured self-management is critical to the management of diabetes substantiates many
previous studies. It is not a surprise that with a good training program, equal patient contact, and the use of bolus calculators
in both groups that there would not be a difference in A1c levels between the two groups. This is an important paper, and a
large randomized trial that needs to be published and is of the quality to be published in the BMJ.
There are some details about how the study was conducted that should be clarified in the report, particularly related to the
training and management of subjects assigned to pump therapy. This study was conducted at very experienced diabetes
centers where the standard of care is to use MDI therapy. The DAFNE program is an excellent, well established diabetes
education program for teaching the principals of diabetes management and insulin dosing for meals based on carbohydrate
counting. Prior to this study it is unclear whether the standard of care involved using a glucose meter which included a bolus
calculator. Since this is a major study which will have significant impact on the ability of patients to obtain coverage for pump
therapy, it is important to understand how well pump therapy was also managed during the study. Since pump therapy is
used in a small minority of patients in the UK, it is critical that the patients and health care providers were providing state of
the art pump education and management. There is no description of the specific information and training provided to the
pump group in this paper, or the paper referenced on the study design, or in the study protocol that was attached. It is
difficult to evaluate the differences in therapy between the two groups without a description of the education and selfmanagement skills provided to the pump group. This is particularly important since the MDI group was not a typical MDI
group since they used a meter with a built in bolus calculator which included CHO:I ratios, correction factors and active insulin
calculations. These are many of the features that often distinguish pump use from MDI use (particularly the active insulin
calculation). It is therefore important to understand what was taught to the pump group which distinguished the pump
therapy from the MDI therapy. Specific questions are:
1) How were basal rates determined - were there systematic 3 AM glucose checks to help determine overnight basal insulin
delivery;
2) How were basal rates determined during the daytime since there may be varying insulin sensitivity throughout the day with
diurnal patterns; i.e were meals withheld, or were non-carbohydrate meals consumed to determine daytime basal rates in the
morning, afternoon and evening
3) What was the recommendation for ketone testing to assess for infusion site failures;
4) What was taught on how to detect an infusion set failure: i.e. testing of serum ketones, failure to correct by 50 mg/dl in 1
hour with unexplained hyperglycemia?
5) Were subjects given blood ketone meters;
6) Were subjects taught how to download their meters and pumps into CareLink;
7) Were subjects instructed on how to deliver dual wave boluses for meals with high amounts of protein and fat, or meals
traditionally associated with delayed absorption (such as pizza, burritos, etc.). In a dual wave bolus, how much was given as a
normal bolus and how much as an extended bolus and what was the typical duration of an extended bolus. Was this
determined based on the protein and fat in the meal?

8) I assume CHO:I ratios were determined based on the DAFNE program. Was there systematic testing of results following a
meal with a known carbohydrate content? (In the results they could provide the differences in CHO:I ratios at breakfast, lunch
and dinner between the MDI and pump groups.)
9) What was the teaching for exercise to deal with prolonged suspension of insulin delivery and what was the recommended
insulin dosing for “exercise carbohydrates”; and
10) What information was giving about issues with wearing an insulin pump and intimacy?
The other major question for those receiving pump therapy was how was each pump visit conducted? Was the CareLink report
downloaded and reviewed with the subject so both the subject and physician reviewed the reports looking at: summary
statistics, the modal day, pump settings, and daily details to determine how well correction doses and CHO:I ratios were
working and if adjustments needed to be made to basal rates and the approach to exercise. Did each center download and
review reports before each visit. Was there a difference in which Carelink reports were used at different centers, or was this
standardized?
1) It would be helpful to know some of the basics of the insulin pump therapy provided in this study: 1) How many basal rates
did patients typically use each day?; 2) what was the basal to bolus insulin ratio; 3) How frequently were infusion sites
changed (data from the pump download, not by patient report); 4) what was the usual active insulin time and how did this
differ when compared to the MDI group; 5) what were the typical number of pump suspensions each week?; 6) what were the
mean number of boluses each day for the pump group compared to the MDI group, and was there a difference in the number
of correction boluses between the two groups; 7) Were pump and meter recommended insulin doses overridden? 8) What
were the insulin sensitivity factors and blood glucose targets throughout the day and night. Did they differ between the MDI
group and pump group?

All of the data mentioned above is available in a typical CareLink download.
In the US the TID exchange reports that pump use in adults is now over 60% whereas in the UK pump use is at 6%. Were
there any centers that had a high level of experience with pump use, i.e. with over 50% of their patients on pumps? Was
there a center effect between centers who had high pump usage compared to those with low pump usage?
The higher rate of DKA in the first year of pump therapy which resolved by the second year of pump therapy may indicate that
subjects could have benefited with more extensive training on detection of early infusion set failure at the onset of the study.
This may relate to health care providers being relatively inexperienced with insulin pump therapy which may have potentially
biased the study. This potential bias is not addressed in the paper.
In the US there are many support groups for pump users both virtual and through social media. Was this social networking
also available to the pump users in this U.K. study? Is this something that naturally developed as a result of the DAFNE
training groups?
To compare the two study arms one of the most important factors is the frequency of blood glucose monitoring in each study
arm. This could be provided in a table which would include some glycemic outcomes, such as mean blood glucose, % of
readings <70 mg/dl. Were any subjects using a continuous glucose sensor?
One area where pumps may be of benefit is in the reduction of nocturnal hypoglycemia. Currently the best way to assess
nocturnal glycemic control for insulin dose adjustments, and for the incidence of nocturnal hypoglycemia is with continuous
glucose monitoring. For a randomized clinical trial a periodic week or two of blinded CGM wear can provide important statistics
on mean blood glucose levels, and % of glucose values in range, and in the hypoglycemic range, and daytime and nighttime
control can be separated. An A1c does not capture hypoglycemic risk, and the number of events may be significantly
underestimated in those with hypoglycemic unawareness, and in those with nocturnal hypoglycemia. Was any consideration
given to using a blinded CGM in this study, or in a subgroup of the subjects?
