By excluding the talents of good people and demotivating the oppressed groups that suffer
prejudice, prejudice is a social and organisational evil which damages society and the organisations
in which it exists. Prejudice needs to be reduced and stopped where ever it can.
This article is certainly quirky (as it was intended to be). It emphasises the problems of female
medical academics in the US to get promotion. It does that by imaginatively using “the Moustache
index”. This is a sort of desperate plea, but needs more substance.
I am afraid the paper is too farcical to make any impact. Maybe the paper in an edited form could
form a letter, maybe using the title as a grabber, but emphasising that the real purpose of the
study is to show the continuing prejudice against female medical academics and the need to make
changes to overcome the prejudices.
* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what
does it add? If not, please cite relevant references. I think so
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately
answered? somewhat confused. It would be better to make it clear at the beginning and say the
objective is to publicise the inequality of opportunity for females in the leadership of US medical
academia
* Overall design of study - adequate? Needs more substance
* Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined? Yes
* Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT for
randomised trials? Ethical? So far as I can say
* Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented? Yes, Within the authors
limited remit.
* Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data?
Message clear? Not really convincing
* References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions? Ok
*Abstract/summary/key messages - reflect accurately what the paper says? No, not all claims can
be supported by the study

David Allen

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: David Allen
Job Title: retired lecturer
Institution: Manchester University Medical School
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here: none
Reviewer: 3
Recommendation:
