This is a generally well-designed and executed study but I think the interpretation of the findings require
clearer interpretation and analysis.
There is an important difference between the phenomenon of concern, QT prolongation leading to
torsade de pointes, and a much larger range of what is being counted (ICD-10 codes):
I47.2: Ventricular tachycardia
I49.0: Ventricular fibrillation [or] flutter
I49.3: Ventricular premature depolarization
I46.0 Cardiac arrest with successful resuscitation
I46.1 Sudden cardiac death, without conduction disorder or myocardial infarction
I46.9 Cardiac arrest, cause unspecified
R96.0 Instantaneous death (Sudden unexplained death in adult)
R96.1 Death occurring less than 24 hours from onset of symptoms, not otherwise explained (Death
known not to be violent or instantaneous for which no cause can be discovered)
This casts a broad net by describing conditions that could conceivably represent torsade de pointes but
probably do not. The signal to noise ratio is very low. The authors need to acknowledge that numerous
observational studies based on population or administrative databases have failed to detect a relationship
between unequivocally proarrhythmic drugs and serious cardiac arrhythmias in the past. Specifically,
studies of cisapride and terfenadine, which have been removed from the US market because they clearly
cause rare but life threatening Torsade de Pointes-type ventricular arrhythmias, illustrate such failures.
In fact, none of eight observational cohort studies conducted to evaluate the cardiac safety of cisapride
or terfenadine showed an increased risk with either drug (See Darpo B. Detection and reporting of druginduced proarrhythmias: room for improvement. Europace 2007 Sep; 9 Suppl 4:iv23-36; Layton D, Key,
C, Shakir SA. Prolongation of the QT interval and cardiac arrhythmias associated with cisapride:
limitations of the pharmacoepidemiological studies conducted and proposals for the future.
Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf 2003;12(1):31-40; and Hanrahan JP, Choo PW, Carlson W, Greineder D,
Faich GA, Platt R. Terfenadine-associated ventricular arrhythmias and QTc Interval prolongation. Ann
Epidemiol 1995;5(3):201-9). The authors must be very clear that their findings do not mean that torsade
de pointes due to fluoroquinolones is not occurring, only that it is uncommon (likely less than 7 events
per 10,000 treatment years or 16 per million one-week treatment courses) in an average risk
population.
Such a conclusion also requires strict comparability between treatment groups. If the underlying risk in
the penicillin-treated group is higher for any reason then the absence of a higher observed risk from
fluoroquinolones will be less meaningful. For example, if the expected incidence rates without antibiotic
treatment were 3.0 per thousand person-years in the fluoroquinolone group and 4.0 in the penicillin

group, then there would be an observed risk of 0.4 from fluoroquinolone treatment.
The only situation where we can be sure that two groups have the same expected rate of events in the
absence of the variable of interest is randomization. Observational studies always involve comparing
groups that have reasons to be different from each other. Propensity score matching may make the two
treatment groups more comparable but are they comparable enough? One of the biggest problems with
propensity score matching is that it creates the illusion that the comparability of the propensity score
matched groups is similar to groups created by randomization. When randomization is done, the
observation of balance between groups for known potential confounders provides reassurance that there
is also likely to be balance between groups for unrecognized confounders. Propensity score matching
actually works against this kind of reassurance. This is because, in the real world, drug prescribing
decisions are not made by random assignment; there is some reason why penicillin was prescribed and
not a fluoroquinolone (or vice-versa). If there is a balance between groups of observed potential reasons
to prefer one drug over another, they must differ for unobserved reasons. One can only hope that that
those reasons are unrelated to the outcome of interest. In this study I would be particularly concerned
about channeling bias. Did prescribers choose to avoid fluoroquinolones in patients who were at higher
risk for arrhythmias? This is a situation where multivariate adjustment is a useful alternative or
complement to propensity score matching. If the unadjusted risk were higher in penicillin users than
fluoroquinolone users, particularly if the difference diminished or reversed when adjusted for known risk
factors, there would be good reason to suspect channeling bias. Even with adjustment, I would still be
suspicious of residual bias due not only to factors not included in the model but also limitations to the
adjustment due to mismeasurement (due to diagnostic or reporting errors) or under-measurement (due
to lack of information about severity) of factors entered in the model;, these factors may well be the
reason for drug choice rather than randomness. The authors claim that diagnoses in their datasets have
a high degree of accuracy but this applies to specificity (risk of false-positives) rather than sensitivity
(risk of false negatives). A substantial number of risk factors may not have been recorded and these
omissions may bear some relationship to drug choice.
One way to get an idea on how much these issues may have affected the results would be to take all of
the variables used in the propensity score model as explanatory values in a logistic regression model
where the outcome is not chosen treatment but “serious arrhythmia” and apply that model separately to
1) all penicillin patients, 2) penicillin patients that were matched, 3) fluoroquinolone patients that were
matched and 4) all fluoroquinolone patients. If the model has good explanatory power (i.e., high ROC
area values), especially for 1 and 2, then the two matched groups are in the primary analysis are
probably comparable.