BMJ-2019-04876 REVIEW
Abstract. Well written. The fixed-effect beta factor may not be familiar to a good number
of readers. It might be clearer to also quantify the impact of NEWSUP on
cognition—something like…there was a #-fold improvement in executive function following
NEWSUP.
Introduction. Very well written. At some point in the paper the authors should consider
newer evidence for neural plasticity and improved function beyond assumed critical
periods early in life, though their data do not support much improvement beyond age 3.9
years. Levi and colleagues report substantial improvement in adults with amblyopia
following an intervention known as Perceptual Learning:
https://journals.lww.com/optvissci/Pages/articleviewer.aspx?year=2012&issue=06000&ar
ticle=00004&type=Fulltext
Sponsel and colleagues argue that glaucoma is a CNS disease with retention of visual field
under central control:
https://www.eyeworld.org/article-the-jigsaw-effect--how-the-brain-preserves-binocular-vi
sion-in-glaucoma
Methods

The basic Control, noted to be a traditional breakfast, was white rice only. This is
presumably a reference to the particular study population. Is this supplemented with milk
or anything else? I understand there was another condition with the fortified additive.
The working memory task involved identifying the color and/or pattern of small opaque
cups with hidden stickers. My biggest concern is that 8% of males and 1/200 females
have hereditary color vision deficiency (CVD) which certainly could be a source of
systematic error in this study, since CVDs are not likely to perform as well particularly
when color is the sole cue. This may have been addressed by using patterns only or
possibly including screening for CVD. The authors should comment on this.
Statistical analysis
It is stated results for continuous data were evaluated by linear mixed models, and the
models are subsequently described. While this seems appropriate it would be nice to
more simply quantify the improvement in cognitive function (as was done for cerebral
blood flow and oxygenation) other than just the beta value for each model.
Results
Clear and well done. Again, some statement about the magnitude of the increase in
cognition would be as informative as the beta values—perhaps more so.
Were the Z-score comparisons based on populations with comparable ethnicity—if not
could this be a potential source of variability?
Discussion
Overall excellent but in the section on polyphenols the authors note their anti-oxidative
effects but fail to note more immediate improvement in central and peripheral blood flow
via activation of nitric oxide—please add this important effect of cocao and related
polyphenols/flavanols. Please consider commenting on the color-coded nature of the
cognitive test and potential influence of hereditary color vision deficiency in your
limitations section.
Overall, a great paper!
