This is an important study exploring the efficacy of Tai-Chi compared with an aerobic
exercise intervention in patients (predominantly female) with fibromyalgia. To date,
the evidence for drug treatments in this context is not strong, and a
multidisciplinary approach to care is encouraged. However, there needs to be a
broader understanding of the effectiveness of alternative therapies for this condition
before they are routinely recommended to patients. The rationale for carrying out
this study is strong and the present gaps in the literature have been clearly
identified in the introduction. The study itself is well-designed and the novelty here
is that it compares Tai-Chi with a commonly prescribed treatment intervention,
aerobic exercise, and has also taken into consideration frequency and duration of
the intervention. So I congratulate the authors for exploring this. I have a few
suggestions for the authors to consider.
I note that participants assigned to Tai-Chi were generally more concordant with the
treatment than their counterparts assigned to aerobic exercise. Is it possible to
carry out a sub-group analysis to see whether there were between group differences
among those participants who attended at least 50% of prescribed sessions (aerobic
or Tai-chi)? It also appears like the groups differed at baseline with respect to the
pharmacological treatments that they were receiving. For example participants
assigned to the aerobic exercise intervention were more likely to be on NSAIDs,
narcotics and benzodiazepines at baseline than their counterparts assigned to
Tai-Chi. Could this have influenced concordance with the intervention – i.e. greater
reliance on pharmacotherapy and less inclination to participate in study treatment
among participants in the aerobic exercises group? I feel like this might reflect,
more broadly, what happens in actual practice and so some discussion around this
area might be useful.
The other issue which I think could be covered in the discussion is around cost to
the patient. How accessible/affordable are these interventions to the average person
and what could be done to facilitate timely and affordable access to this intervention
among patients who need it? In the long run, is it likely to reduce the burden
associated with long term use of opioid analgesia and benzodiazepines? What are
some directions for future research?
