
The manuscript is significantly improved from the previous version and the authors have
carefully addressed the concerns i expressed in my original review. The reporting of results
with and without the RECORD Trial is critically important. I would encourage the authors to
read the Senate Finance Committee report that includes internal e-mails at GSK indicated
that they considered the RECORD trial seriously flawed. Some additional suggestions:
1) The Introduction is very long and could be shortened moderately by moving some of the
commentary on data sharing to the discussion.
2) It might be useful to point out that Type Ii error is a problem in all of the analyses of
rosiglitazone because many of the studies enrolled low risk patients, did not systematically
collect cardiovascular events, and were short in duration. This is most evident in Table 3 in
which MH ORs ranged as high as 1.25, but with lower CIs not exceeding 0.99. With
>20,000 patients in trials, there still aren't enough events to yield ORs with narrower CIs.
3) In the discussion, it would be useful to mention that the rosiglitazone controversy
resulted in an FDA Advisory panel in 2008 during which I proposed a two-staged approval
process for diabetes drugs that ultimately was accepted by FDA leading to the current
requirement to rule out an upper CI of 1.3. It would also be useful to point out that the
current analysis generally shows upper CIs that exceed the threshold of 1.3 required for
marketing of diabetes drugs. That is the most significant outcome from the controversy.
Overall, this is a fine effort, a massive undertaking. However, given the sparse number of
events available for analysis, some critical insights such as the effect of rosiglitazone on
risk of MI cannot be resolved. We can only point out that every analysis, using every
method for meta-analysis, with and without continuity correction, show a point estimate
>1.0. As the authors appropriately point out, analyses of pioglitazone generally show
cardioprotective effects (except for CHF). Fortunately, despite the FDA's misguided
exoneration of rosiglitazone, the medical community around the world came to the correct
conclusion, resulting in little or no use of this drug.