
In the present meta-analytic study, Stevens and Coll summarized the association of blood pressure
variability (BPV) with adverse outcomes using three different types of BPV, long-term (clinic), short-term
(home or day-by-day), and very short BPV (within 24h or ambulatory).
The authors should be commended for their effort in presenting accurate data on this topic which led
them to exclude a large amount of published material. A drawback of this approach was the very low
number of studies included in the analyses after all exclusions so that in some instances only one study
remained eligible after applying the authors’ criteria.
The authors claim that by considering more metrics of BPV this meta-analysis was able to include a
larger number of studies than previous work. This may be true but this approach also represents a
methodological limitation because different parameters of BPV may have a different pathophysiologic
meaning or a different clinical impact.
The data from the ABP-International study are missing (Hypertension 2014). This study highlighted the
clinical significance of night-time BPV and thus confirms the positive results found in the present study.
However, it showed negative results for daytime BPV which would likely affect the overall results of the
present meta-analysis for all outcomes. The results of the ABP-International study were obtained in a
very large sample and can not be omitted.
The results of the ABP-International study can also provide an answer to the question raised by the
authors on line 330, because this is the only study that provided a quantitative result as to the predictive
value of BPV for events compared to other risk factors.
Table 1 should be better organized. Studies should be listed separately for clinic, home, and ABPM,
according to year of publication. If studies contributed data to two items, they should be repeated in each
of the three sections.
The authors should be aware that negative results are usually not published, so that what appears in the
literature often can be mistakenly interpreted as overwhelmingly positive results thereby creating a
publication bias.
Minor points
Were the results balanced for the sample size?
Line 317. The authors refer to “short term” BPV. However, according to their classification short term BPV
would be day-by-day BPV and this is not affected by postural changes. They should be more precise in
their comments when recalling the different types of BPV.
Line 342 and above. The authors refer to ABPM variability as hour-by-hour BPV, but ambulatory BP is
almost always measured every 15 to 30 minutes.