The report by Elmore et al assessing the impact of second opinion strategies for improving breast Pathology reporting
is a continuation of the same work carried out by the same authors and published in March 2015 in the journal JAMA (
JAMA 2015;313(11):1122-32). In that study they have assessed diagnostic agreement among pathologists reporting
breast biopsies and their publication in JAMA has needlessly undermined public confidence in the practicing community
of breast pathologists. There are several limitations in the study methodology that create serious concerns about the
generalizability of the study results:

-The study environment was artificial and restrictive: rendering diagnoses as a participant of a research study without
clinical implications is remarkably different from the performance of a pathologist in actual practice. Only one preselected slide was reviewed per case, and cases were enriched for borderline lesions that are known to have the
greatest disagreement. Interpretation in clinical practice is based on examination of all slides of a case and with
appropriate clinical context. For the assessment of borderline cases, pathologists often use auxiliary techniques
including extra-levels and immunohistochemistry. Cases of this nature are often the subject of discussion at
multidisciplinary meetings and consultation with colleagues as part of the routine reporting process rather than a
formal second opinion as envisaged from the current article.
-Important pathological information is missing. The diagnosis and management of atypia varies between core biopsy
and excision specimens. Grade of DCIS and the contribution of microinvasion were not considered in the analysis
despite being important in this context.
- Discordance in the reporting of atypia may not mean disagreement. In real practice the same diagnosis in different
institutions may trigger vastly different actions. Conversely different diagnoses may result in identical treatment.
Hence the discordance does not equate to right-wrong diagnosis nor necessarily harm to the patient.
-Grey areas exist in all fields of medicine and publication of such article in BMJ is expected to increase public concerns
regarding the performance of breast pathologists in routine practice and undermine their valuable contribution to the
management of patients with breast disease. Addressing the limitation of the study in the same manuscript or in
separate letters to editors will not eliminate the unnecessarily and unfounded anxiety the publication of the article will
create.
The paper is very much suited for a pathology journal addressing this important topic to the breast pathologists who
are the right audience for such articles rather than going to the readers of BMJ