BMJ.2014.023279.R1
Birthweight and later life adherence to healthy lifestyles in predicting type 2 diabetes: a prospective study
The authors have responded to many of the points made by the peer reviewers and editors.
I have several comments concerning the manuscript.
The headlines from the manuscript are based on the calculation of the population attributable risk, which they
state to be 91%. This is quite sensational, and I have concerns about it from several directions.
1) First, is that it is based on the concept that it would be possible for everybody to achieve the baseline lifestyle
and birthweight categorisation. In the cohorts studied, only 1.91% of participants actually were in this category. I
imagine it must be the least likely category to be in. Thus it is rather naïve to consider that this is possible –
particularly to adjust birthweights and to reduce your BMI. It would be much more appropriate for the manuscript
to consider the magnitude of reductions which could be achieved by interventions rather than consider a rather
fanciful idea that all risk factors could be removed.
2) Second, despite the many comments from the reviewers, the authors do not seriously discuss the possibility
that the relationships observed could in anyway be causal. They are clear that they are making an assumption of
causality, but do not venture into discussion as to how likely it is that this could be the case.
3) Third, the analysis of the event rate in the baseline category is based on little data with few events – there are
confidence intervals included, but it is wise to note that it is based on only 19 events across all the cohorts.
4) Finally the authors present data (Table 4) which make it clear that BMI is the dominant factor which is driving
the lifestyle relationships – adding BMI as a requirement for a healthy lifestyle increases the percentage
attributable risk from 57.2 to 91.2 – thus it represents nearly 40% of the observed attributable risk. This certainly
needs profiling and discussion – currently there is no mention of it in the text.
5) I would also point to the strange use of “confident intervals”
