Reading this analysis, I feel as if I am experiencing déja vu, as I remember reading a
similar piece in the not-so-distant past: an independent review of clinical trial data which
hinted at the potential for harm to children with the introduction of new vaccine to a
tropical disease recommended by SAGE of the WHO. Scott Halstead and co-authors penned
a letter to Lancet Infectious Diseases in 2016 “The risks behind Dengvaxia
recommendation” (1) in which they argued, based upon data showing increased rates of
hospitalisation for dengue in vaccinated seronegative children, for a more cautious
approach to introduction of the vaccine in the Philippines. Time would show Halstead’s
worry to be a valid one, as long-term study data reviewed after the commencement of the
immunisation program suggested an increased risk for severe dengue in subjects
vaccinated prior to an initial natural exposure to the dengue virus. Coupling this data with
numerous reports from the public of severe dengue, including fatal cases, of children who
had received the new vaccine led to revocation of the vaccine from the Philippine market
and federal subpoenas for numerous persons within the public health program. Most
tragically, public confidence in the vaccination program has been damaged, and the
Philippines is current in the throes of a serious measles resurgence.

Within this analysis Aaby and colleagues have reviewed clinical trial data for the RTS,S
malaria vaccine which hint at the potential for harms to children, in the form of meningitis,
cerebral malaria, and an increase female all-cause mortality. ”The WHO advisory groups
and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) concluded that all of these described safety
signals may have arisen by chance.” The largest concern of the authors is the SAGE
recommendation for a decision on general roll-out of the vaccine after only 2 years of the
pilot program, given the decreasing effectiveness of the vaccine and the increasing risk for
cerebral malaria and female all-cause mortality after booster dose at month 20.
To support their argument, I think that the authors could address a number of
topics/aspects.
The Framework for Policy Decision (FPD) document referenced in the Analysis contains the
following Annex 34, entitled “Expected timing of availability of pilot implementation
evidence”; the authors could incorporate further discussion / comment on the calculations
provided there.
"Based on the assumption that the mortality rate is 8.5/1000/year, and the size of each
cluster is as described in the protocol with an assumed annual birth cohort of 4000, it is
expected that enough events will have accrued by month 24 to have about 90% power to
exclude the female:male mortality ratio being 20% higher in the RTS,S/AS01 arm than in
the control arm (if there is no interaction by sex) (using the method for power calculation
for interaction described by Cheung et al.,Tropical Medicine and International Health
13:247d In, 2008).
Using a similar method, comparing between arms the differences in rates in vaccine-eligible
and noneligible age groups within clusters, and assuming rates of 0.4/1000/year for
meningitis, and 2/1000/year cerebral malaria, there is about 80% power to rule out a
3-fold or greater increased rate of meningitis associated with introduction of RTS,S/AS01
vaccine (if RTS,S/AS01 does not increase the risk of meningitis); and about 90% power to
rule out a 2-fold or greater increase in risk of cerebral malaria (if there is no effect
(increase or decrease) on cerebral malaria incidence), by month 24. There is over 80%
power to detect a 30% reduction in severe malaria by month 24 by country, or a 10%
reduction in mortality by month 24 across all countries combined. "
Second, if possible, a discussion of any biological hypotheses to explain the observed harms
would be potentially supportive. A Review of the public assessment report of the EMA (2)
revealed the following: “The applicant provided information on immunological hypothesis as
well as a hypothesis on increased permeability of the blood brain barrier. All the hypotheses
were very unlikely to explain the safety signal meningitis.” It is very unfortunate that these
hypotheses have not been shared by the EMA. Furthermore, there is no mention of these
hypotheses in the WHO position paper nor the FPD document.
Finally, the argument of the authors could be bolstered by a discussion of the status of
vaccine post-marketing surveillance infrastructure in the pilot countries. Important lessons
were learned from the implementation of MenAfriVac which were described in a publication
by Diomandé et al., most specifically, the minimal ability of the vaccine pharmacovigilance
infrastructure to monitor late-onset AEFIs.
“AEFI passive surveillance during the 10 days of the mass vaccination campaign was the
responsibility of the EPI, but the NRA was responsible for AEFI monitoring during the
subsequent 42 days. This dual leadership for the same activity caused many difculties in
the allocation of resources and coordination of activities. Indeed, in most instances,
nancial resources were almost entirely allocated to EPI, leaving few resources for the
vaccine regulatory authority to monitor late-onset AEFIs. This disparity in resource
distribution had a signicant impact on the detection and reporting of AEFIs. “

Small specific comments:
”The pilot studies aim to demonstrate that routine RTS,S is associated with an expected
lower child mortality, as well as disprove the three important potential risks identified
during the Phase-III trials that led to the approval: increased incidence of meningitis,
cerebral malaria, and female mortality.”
- The aim of the studies is probably more correctly states to “…further investigate or
explore” rather than “disprove”
”Given the identified important potential risks, meningitis, cerebral malaria and female
overall mortality, it is not surprising that EMA’s risk management plan emphasises…”
- In EMA-language, these are “Important potential risks”. The three different cateogries
within the Risk Management Plan are Important identified risks are different category within
the Risk Management
References
1. Aguiar M, Stollenwerk N, Halstead SB. The risks behind Dengvaxia recommendation.
Lancet Infect Dis. 2016 Aug;16(8):882-3. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30168-2.
2. World Health Organization/SAGE 2019.
https://www.who.int/immunization/sage/meetings/2019/april/1_Session_7_Framework_for
_ Policy_Decision_on_RTSS-AS01_-_MALARIA_VACCINE_(for_print).pdf (assessed 26 May
2019).
3. Assessment report. Mosquirix™ International non-proprietary name: Plasmodium
falciparum and hepatitis B vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted) Procedure No.
EMEA/H/W/002300/0000
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/medicine-outside-eu/mosquirix-public-assessm
ent-report_en.pdf. Accessed 21 July 2019.
4. Diomandé FV, Yaméogo TM, Vannice KS, Preziosi MP, Viviani S et al. Lessons Learned
From Enhancing Vaccine Pharmacovigilance Activities During PsA-TT Introduction in African
Countries, 2010-2013. Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Nov 15;61 Suppl 5:S459-66. doi:
10.1093/cid/civ599.
