I thank the authors for their detailed response. On reading their
response and the revision, some further statistical issues and
clarifications have arisen for them to address going forward, as
follows:
Abstract: the Design section needs to mention how the cohort study
was set-up or obtained (e.g. prospective, database study, etc),

years of follow-up, representativeness, and that propensity score
matching was done, and briefly how.
Abstract and main results: to translate to absolute risk, in addition
to giving the absolute rates, could we also have the probability of
survival at 7 days for each group, and their difference? This would
help the reader know the probability of death is very low.
Abstract: give the total number that died.
Methods: I cannot see the full list of baseline characteristics given
that were used in the PS approach. It just says: “the PS is the
probability of receiving haloperidol as opposed to one of the three
atypical antipsychotics estimated by logistic regression, given the
baseline characteristics described above.” – but the latter need to
given explicitly, as I can’t find them ‘above’. Do you mean to refer
to Table S1? I think adjustment factors are crucial, so should be in
the main paper, not the supplementary material.
Methods: “We assessed potential confounders for the planned
analyses using information from hospital admission to the day
before antipsychotic initiation.” – how were these assessed?
Statistically? Clinical judgement? Etc
Results: I do not follow the comment that “The PS distributions
were largely overlapping with a c-statistic of 0.65” – I think you
need to explain to the reader that the c-statistic is for the logistic
regression model that produces the PS values. It is not a measure
of separation of the PS values for those treated and untreated (I
think? Indeed, if it was, this would be cause for concern, because a
C of 0.65 suggests considerable distinction between groups). So this
sentence should be split; explain the PS model and its C-statistic.
Then says that PS values were largely overlapping (perhaps a figure
in the sup material to show the 2 distributions for the groups?)
Results: In response to my previous comment about the need to
check for non-proportional hazards, it is an important new finding
that there is strong evidence of non-proportional hazards. “The
time by exposure interaction coefficient was statistically significant
(p=0.008), suggesting that the proportional hazards assumption is
not met in the model”. However, the implications of this are only
briefly mentioned in the results and reference given to the
supplementary material. I think more details are needed in the main
text, with results shown for the HR in day 0, 3, 5, 7. 10 as in S4.
Indeed, what is rather striking, and worthy of discussion, is that the
HR is close to 1 by day 5, and then becomes < 1 by day 7 and 10,
with almost a significant result in the opposite direction at day 10.
If this is genuine, what are the implications?
I think the issue of non-PH should be given more prominence in the
paper, e.g. what this study adds and the abstract.

Subgroup analyses: It is not clear why age, CCI, exposure have
been dichotomised. This is not a sensible analysis strategy, and – if
the covariates are of genuine interest – a more powerful and
meaningful analysis would be to consider them on their continuous
scale (at the very least, in addition to the analyses done). This
comment was also made in my earlier review but not addressed as
far as I can tell.
Results: “Comparison of HRs between patients who were in the ICU
(HR=1.11, 0.68-1.81) on the index date and those who were on the
medical ward (HR=2.01, 1.44-2.82) suggests that there might be
effect heterogeneity (p=0.04).” Was ICU / medical ward part of the
PS matching criteria?
Discussion: “The potential adverse effect of haloperidol appeared to
be the strongest during the first few days following initiation,
suggesting an acute harmful effect of haloperidol” – I would tone
down the implied causal language here to something like: “The
association of haloperidol with increased rate of death appeared to
be the strongest during the first few days following initiation, which
if the association was causal, would suggest an acute harmful effect
of haloperidol”
In response to my comment about missing data, the authors say
there is not any missing data in ‘the strict sense.’ So, really no
missing data in any of the variables used in the PS matching model?
I find that hard to believe based on my personal experience, but if
so then this should be added, i.e. that there was complete data for
all individuals. However, in one subgroup analysis they say: “It
should be acknowledged, however, that there is an increased
likelihood of residual confounding in this analysis due to potentially
incomplete baseline information.” Is this just the subgroup analysis
where there is missing data then?
I hope these additional comments can be addressed by the authors,
and help improve the article further.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
