I thank the authors for a very detailed and clear response to my original
comments, and for revising their manuscript. In particular, for going back and
doing extra work, in terms of removing crude estimates and for establishing the
methods of adjustment in the original articles, and for defining a core set of
adjustment factors needed. I think the paper is much clearer, and summarises
well this field and the evidence (and issues) therein.

However there are some issues remaining, as their responses do not match the
revised PDF version. So further, important comments remain, which will require
further review. Especially see my point number 4 – it seems their submitted PDF
of the final version is very different from their revised (marked) Word version
submitted. This has confused me, and made it hard to review. I am unsure which
I was supposed to review. After point 4, I decided to use the Word version as I
fear the PDF is the original submission.
1) “ Of these meta-analyses, 35% reported a decreased risk, 19% an increased
risk and 46% found no association between diet and risk of T2D.” – how were
these defined? By statistical significance? Not clear in the abstract
2) When doing their random-effects meta-analyses, the authors use the
Dersimonian and Laird approach for estimation. This is not the best method. See
recent work. I would recommend the authors rather used REML following by
confidence intervals derived using the Hartung Knapp approach.1 This is more
robust. But if not done, the authors should mention this as a limitation and that
new meta-analyses in this field should use this approach to pooling.
3) The authors now provide predictions intervals AND dispersion around the SHR.
But the latter is just a poor approximation of the genuine prediction interval, so I
do not see the benefit of this.
4) In their response, the authors say that I was right about the effect measure
being hazard ratio, and so they now use summary hazard ratio, and not
summary relative risk throughout. Yet, the revised article still uses relative risk! I
cannot see the word hazard ratio anywhere. A related point. The authors say
that they changed multivariate to multivariable – but this is not the case in their
revision. I am unsure why this is some disconnect between their response to me
and the actual revision I am reading.
Similarly, the I-squared and heterogeneity issue has not been addressed,
although they say it was in their reponse.
Upon further investigation, I can see a Word version is attached with track
changes nicely shown, which is the correct update that links to their response.
But the PDF version is some hybrid, or even the original version? I’m very
confused. I will therefore read the Word version with track changes here
onwards.
5) “. If more than one published meta-analysis on the same association was
identified, we chose only one meta-analysis for each exposure to avoid the
inclusion of duplicate studies. In that case, we included the one with the largest
number of primary studies”
- but what if the one with the larger number of primary studies also was the one
with the lowest quality?
6) “For each exposure the meta-analysis was recalculated using the maximally
adjusted hazard ratios of the primary studies included in the published
meta-analyses.” – this is an example of where it looks like the authors are
pooling across meta-analyses. Change to: “For each exposure the chose
meta-analysis was recalculated using the maximally adjusted hazard ratios of the
primary studies included in that meta-analysis.”
7) Was the proportional hazards assumption evaluated in the original
meta-analyses (and primary studies) at all? This remains unaddressed from my
first set of comments

8) “There was no association between low-fat dairy products, high-fat dairy
products, milk, low-fat milk, high-fat milk, cheese, cottage cheese, fermented
dairy products, cream, sherbet, eggs, poultry, unprocessed red meat, total
fish/seafood, lean fish, shellfish, fish, butter, refined grain, wheat germ, rice, soy
products, legumes, nuts, fruit and vegetables, total fruit, citrus fruits, total
vegetables, green leafy vegetables and cruciferous vegetables and risk incidence
of T2D” – when the authors say no association, it is probably that they mean no
strong evidence of an association? E.g. it is more likely they have low power or
wide CIs, than to include there was no association. I would be cautious and
clearer what this means.
9) “As for the 95-% PIs, only 5% of the meta-analyses excluded the null-value,
namely the high vs low analyses of healthy dietary pattern, unhealthy dietary
pattern and breakfast skipping and the dose-response analyses of apples and
pears, total coffee, artificially sweetened beverages, ligh, moderate and high
wine intake and magnesium. That indicates that it is expected that findings in
future studies on these exposure will point to the same directions. However, for
the majority of the findings, it is likely that the estimate obtained in a future
primary study might result in a null finding”
- this is hard to read. Prediction intervals do not consider where a future
ESTIMATE will lie. So the last sentence is wrong. They predict what the
underlying true effect size will be. So, if the interval is wide and includes the null,
then in some further studies or populations, the true effect may be small or be
none at all in some populations. However, if the interval contains mainly values
in one direction, that reassures me that – despite the heterogeneity – most of
the evidence suggests an association in a particular direction (Even if the
magnitude varies).
These are the main comments I can see for now. But as mentioned, this will
need further review when the authors send a clean, final version of their article
that matches the changes indicated in their response. Apologies if they did
already send this, but the PDF I have available on the system is definitely an
older version, and I cannot see new Figures and tables
Reference List
1. Langan D, Higgins JPT, Jackson D, et al. A comparison of heterogeneity
variance estimators in simulated random-effects meta-analyses. Res Synth
Methods 2018.
