The authors are commended for the analysis proposed and contribution to this field of research. The
approach presented in this manuscript improves the knowledge of the relationship between
benzodiazepines and dementia by using pharmacy dispensing data as a measure of exposure as well as a
clinical diagnosis of dementia. The authors also design the study to address reverse causation, a known
source of bias in pharmacoepidemiologic research. I believe this manuscript should be accepted with
minor revisions and is of high importance to the area of aging brain pharmacoepidemiology.
I submit only two comments and suggestions for the editor and authors to consider:
1) There is potential for variability in the exposure calculation between this study and that of Billioti de
Gage (2014), the most closely related literature describing the relationship between benzodiazepines and
dementia. Suggest the authors add a comment about such differences between their approach and Billioti
de Gage in the discussion (page 12, line 37-57). The authors note credible reasons for differences found
between studies, but this particular difference should emphasized as the measurement of the exposure
variable is critically important and this study represents a new method. The use of pharmacy
dispensing/claims data is indeed novel, but with conflicting results published in using these data, future
work will need to determine merits of the exposure definitions to reproduce or refute these results.
2) The authors approach to CASI scores with sensitivity analysis using IRT is commendable. However,
CASI, as with other cognitive screening tests, is less reliable among those with higher cognitive function
(sensitivity and specificity are established for diagnosis of dementia with very acceptable characteristics).
The authors report in this study a population without cognitive impairment at baseline and use an
outcome of dementia, with little validity to compare the intermediate phases of mild cognitive
impairment. Certainly the CASI analysis is a credible attempt to address such changes, however the
discussion section could be improved by an additional comment addressing limitations of cognitive
screening measures in the transition from (and between) normal cognition, MCI, and mild dementia.