This paper summarizes recent trends in several reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent
health and nutrition (RMNCAHN) indicators for 138 low and middle-income countries and Panama. I
found the overall narrative of the manuscript informative and compelling and appreciate the
corresponding call to action. My primary concerns, however, relate to the presentation and
interpretation of data, which I describe in detail below.
1. The authors claim that the indicators for the most recent period (2014-2018) “come at the
one-third mark of the time frame for achieving the SDGs” and represent “a snapshot of [the] current
status.” These statements are an overreach though. None of the data for these indicators come at the
1/3 mark (2020), and several of the indicators are lagged as a function of how the data are collected
(for example, measures of antenatal coverage or skilled attendance at delivery may refer to births
that occurred within 3-5 years prior to the survey.) At best, then, the data reflect a time period
shortly after baseline.
2. The authors briefly allude to missing data for several of the 138 countries of interest on page 7, but
it would be useful to address this limitation earlier in the manuscript and provide some indication of
the number of countries that are missing data for Figures 1 and 2, and the types of indicators that are
most likely to be missed. I realize that some of this information is presented in Tables 1 and 2, but I
think it’s an important limitation to draw attention to. Also, it might be helpful if the authors can
speculate how countries without data have fared. For example, are countries with missing data, on
average, more likely to have lower values/coverage?
3. Relatedly, while I see the value in a revised continuum of care chart, does the focus on content
data gaps (e.g. indicators for children ages 5-9 and adolescents) diminish the focus on data collection
and monitoring of basic indicators for countries with missing data? Can countries with no or limited

data realistically carry out monitoring exercises that include these additional proposed indicators?
Again, it seems like there should be a parallel emphasis on data gaps among countries with no data at
all.
4. The content in the sections on Steps 1 and 2 needs to be more speculative. The measures used are
bounded by uncertainty intervals, and, as stated above, there is little to no data for some countries.
5. The evaluation of changes over time is helpful in placing the data from the most recent period
(2014-2018) in context. However, I question how changes in indicators are being assessed (Table 2).
For example, the interval between the two time periods of interest is not uniform across countries.
Perhaps this is less of a concern when the data are aggregated, as was done in Figure 2; however, it’s
hard to discern what is a “true” increase (or decrease) between the time periods. These trends,
therefore, should be cautiously interpreted. A better approach would be to standardize these changes
in some way by taking into account the different interval lengths. I believe this is what the authors try
to do by estimating the average annual percentage points of the coverage gap closed, but this is not
clear. Could the authors instead consider a country-specific average annual measure of reduction, and
then take an average of this measure?
6. The calculation of the CCI in Step 3 seems to be based on any available data from 2010-2018— a
time period that encompasses the two “time buckets” used to assess trends. The text does not state
how multiple measures over time (within countries) are used. Is it the most recent available data? The
authors should add additional clarification about how data were selected and/or aggregated in this
time period, and the text should explicitly state that the estimated composite measures could pertain
to any of the years in the time period.
Minor comments:
pg. 4, lines 21-22: “Three interventions have either shown no improvement….” List all three
interventions.
pg. 8, lines 6-8: It wasn’t clear that the data shown in Figure 4 were not real until I read the footnote
at the bottom of Figure 4. I would make this clearer in the text. Also, it would be helpful to visually
highlight which indicators are missing from the current continuum of care chart.