Originality
The prescribing quality indicators contained within this paper have been cited in other articles -the authors
themselves point this out. The novelty of this paper is that it takes the work from the experimental setting
of the PINCER trial etc and applies it to a large observational database, in this way to ascertain if the
prevalence of safety indicators from PINCER etc are generalisable in UK general practices. Given that CPRD
does contain outcomes data linked to prescriptions by a common patient identifier it would have been
greatly strengthened by analysing the clinical outcome as well .e.g for those patients theoretically at risk of
bleed -was there a bleed? This would have reinforced the credibility of the indicators -although most would
agree they are sensible it would have been good to have hard data to show how the theory is reflected in
practice.
Importance of work to general readers
Prescribing safety is a matter of utmost concern to health professionals, policy makers and patients. A
paper that highlights that prescribing safety, albeit a theoretical construct , remains an issue in general
practice adds to the general body of knowledge and should prompt prescribers to reflect on their own
practice and encourage audit and review. I do have some concern about the suggestion from the authors
that this compound indicator set could be linked to professional review -there is a world of difference
between a health care professional holding up a mirror to their own practice and how a piece of research of
this nature could cause ambiguity as a policy document -league tables of prescribing performance spring to
mind as one obvious way policy makers may wish to use this. Such bald tables and policy would not reflect
the careful caveats placed on the work by the authors. One could imagine how a combination of league
tables and media coverage could cause concern in the public domain and diminish the public's perception of
the competency of their doctors.. This is not to say safety issues should not be properly addressed or aired
publicly, just that they always require necessary context. In summary, there is value in this work but also
risk in the interpretation. With this in mind, whether a general journal is the right place for it is a finely
balanced argument. The issue is important ,but the analysis and interpretation are relatively complex with
statistical terms most likely unfamiliar to the general reader -such analyses are mainly found in
epidemiological or specialist journals such as Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety.
Scientific reliability
the science behind this is robust, with the research question defined and answered.
Overall study design
CPRD is a credible representative database. Some fields available -such as identifying training practices which may have helped explain some variability have not been utilised, but this is not to the overall
detriment of the work.Statistical methods have been appropriately applied. The online supplementary
information helps greatly with the understanding of some elements of the paper.
Interpretation and discussion
This is not an easy paper to read -that is no criticism of the authors ,rather a reflection of the subject
matter. The discussion is comprehensive, and whilst it necessitates a deal of toing and froing to the results
tables (which one could argue is only proper!) the authors do highlight the possible ambiguities of the data
and postulate explanations where relevant eg INR testing and warfarin. For me , what was most startling
and that did not come out as clearly as i had hoped in the discussion was hat some of the highest
prevalences were for very simple indicators, such as gastroprotection. perhaps more could have been made
of the implications of this in the discussion -is it that these simple messages are still not getting through to
some prescribers or are review procedures and practice systems still not robust enough to stop patients
getting missed in this way. or is it just a function of time and priority -concentrating on the immediate
pressures and not having the time to review chronic care,particularly for the elderly?On p9, lines 19-20 it
would be helpful to a casual reader to explain fully why patients with increasing repeat medications are at
lower risk of monitoring errors supports their hypothesis.
References
Up to date and relevant.
Abstract
The abstract is a good summary of the work, explained clearly