Review of Manuscript BMJ.2015.025481 (on secondhand smoke and dental caries)
Overall this seems to be a very well-designed and conducted study, with a good write-up. The suggestions below are
all relatively minor.
1. To provide more context in the Introduction the authors should say that there is no community water fluoridation in
Japan (perhaps citing as a reference for this: Furukawa et al in J Oral Sci Sept. 2011). Similarly, they should say what
proportion of toothpaste used in Japan (or ideally the study area) is fluoridated (and then subsequently why this
variable was / was not included in the analysis – since toothbrushing was included).
2. For this journal, the authors should ideally use English English (eg, fix “etiology”, “behavior”, “utilization”, “anemia”,
“neighbors”)
3. The correct style is to capitalise the first letter of “streptococcus mutans”.
4. On page 5 – “mental status of the mother assessed by a picture-face scale” – could benefit from more explanation.
5. The use of propensity scores seems appropriate – but note that this reviewer does not have great expertise on this
approach.

6. In the Discussion section it states “10 out of 11 studies found significant associations”. It would be useful to clarify
the direction of the association – ie, was SHS exposure related to increased caries prevalence?
7. In the Discussion section in the sentence using refs 18 & 19 – it should be clear that this is about dental caries in
the offspring of the women who smoked in pregnancy.
8. In the Discussion section – the use of the term “pedodontists” is perhaps somewhat archaic as the term “paediatric
dentistry” is more current (and understandable to readers).
9. In the Discussion section – when considering the generalisability of the results – it could be noted that in
jurisdictions with community water fluoridation – the size of the impact of SHS on dental caries might be reduced.
Then again in settings with higher per capita sugar and sugar-sweetened beverage consumption than Japan – the
impact might be even greater.
10. Some references are not in Vancouver style as required by the BMJ (eg, inclusion of months)
11. Table 3 footnotes – should the word “multifetal” be changed to “multifetal pregnancy”
12. Supplementary Table 1 – the authors should indicate where there were any statistically significant differences
between the included and excluded groups (this applies also to Supplementary Table 3). Also the reason for the
exclusion should be noted in a footnote – or cross-linked back to Supplementary Figure 1.
