This is an important topic – both in terms of the direct harm and also the perceptions
associated with the activity.
I am not clear if the aim is to estimate the risk of commuter cycling (page 3, line 42) or
whether it is to compare the risk of commuter cycling to the benefits of commuter (which is
how things are framed later on).
The authors have not convinced me that this dataset (and the methods) is the best way to
address the first question. It strikes me that individual-level data are not necessary to
estimate risk – and they can be done using STAT19 and travel survey data (indeed this
approach allows more informative analyses than those presented here using risk by age and
sex, and or looking at road type: https://www.bmj.com/content/348/bmj.g425;
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001457518301076; from which more
informative public health messages – e.g. about risk modification can be derived)
More should be done to compare to existing literature, and place this paper in context of
previous work – both in the introduction and discussion.
The strength of this dataset might being able to directly compare benefits (CVD, mortality)
against harm (injury) as the authors do, but that felt like more of an afterthought than the
core purpose of the paper. Whilst this may be a strength of the study, I am still unconvinced
about the merits of this study versus a modelling approach – which a) puts harms and
benefits onto a single comparable scale (DALY) and b) gives more granular information in
terms of age, sex (e.g. see Fig 2 Woodcock et al, London cycle hire scheme published in the
BMJ).
I was unsure why the injury models were adjusted for things like diabetes, cancer,
hypertension. What is the rationale for these being confounding factors, i.e. in what way is

hypertension both associated with cycling AND a causal risk factor for accidents? It looks as
if all the same co-variates have been included from previous work, rather than carefully
choosing appropriate co-variates based on the outcome of interest.
Minor comments
I agree with the sentiment that benefits outweigh risks (although it more equivocal at
younger ages – see Woodcock) but I don't think the conclusion was clearly
evidenced/explained. You have compared injuries with mortality – and these are different
things. It might be helpful to spell out the increased risk, e.g. an additional 2.7
hospitalisations for injury per 1000-person (and what this would be for a life-long cycle
commuter, e.g. if you commuted for 50 years it would be 0.13 injuries) with a 40% decrease
in mortality (and whatever that is in days of additional life). This may help your public
messaging and put things in context.
On page 10, line 37 the authors make reference to the breadth of phenotyping – I am not
sure what is meant by ‘broad’, but the phenotyping of most behavioural characteristics in
biobank is limited. Exposure in terms of distance cycled is very crudely captured.
It would be interesting and informative to see sub-analyses by age, as age is both a
determinant of CVD and a determinant of injury risk.
Is cycling as a leisure pursuit recorded – and does this give an opportunity to provide
separate estimates for those who are leisure cyclists (i.e. probably more experienced/skilled)
compared to those who are not?
Page 9, line 14, please add ‘+4 hospitalisations’, add for injury
Page 9, lines 32-39, Should you also mention reduced speed limits in this paragraph, e.g.
20mph zones
Page 10, line 7. I agree that traffic calming measures, etc are needed – but I was unclear
why your paper suggested that. Are you arguing that level of injury you observed is high and
therefore things need to be safer; or that the level of injury is not high but fear of injury
deters people and thus you need to address people’s fears
Page 11, the phrase ‘overall disease’ risk, what is meant by this do you mean ‘overall risk of
CVD’ or an overall measure of several diseases together (and if the latter were you including
injuries in your definition of disease)?
