I recommend this article for publication with a few changes. My main concern is the
entirely theoretical nature of the piece, which does not give any guidance as to
WHEN and HOW the theoretical framework for self-care should be implemented by
either WHO or UN member states. This leaves the entire concept somewhat
unmoored and vague. Also, it is unclear then what the actual purpose of the paper
is, other than announcing that WHO will, in the future, work out a normative
guidance for self-care in health. How will it be normative? And also, how normative
will it be? Will these concepts become elements of national legislations? What will be
the control mechanisms for compliance? Or will this be detailed in a next paper? All
of this is a little unclear.
Another curious aspect is how the paper misses out on mentioning and/or
incorporating the patient perspective. There are many local, regional and global
patient organisations and coalitions that already promote and facilitate self-care often because they have no other choice if they want to make sure that their
constituents have any healthcare at all.
I miss a precise theoretical framing and integration of the concept self-care in the
current paradigms of healthcare. To what extent will self-care be the solution, and
when is the point when it becomes another vehicle of oppression of the poor by
saying that "you should do it for yourself, the state is not with you anymore". There
is a risk of explaining away the lack of solidarity and any welfare services provided
by the state.
Some detailed comments:
P3, L9: Please move the later explanation of SGDs up here.
P3, L16-17: My impression is that these interventions not only may "exacerbate
inequalities" but will definitely do so. It would be more reasonable to be honest
about it up front.
P4, L36-54: Please include an explanation for Figure 1. Why is this a figure? This
could just as well be a bulleted list.
P5, L31: Maslow's HON theory is not only contested by contemporary scientific
literature but there are also some very valid points of critique against it, the main
one being that it is overly mechanistic and fails to consider that people may have
needs on all levels of the hierarchy simultaneously at any one time. This does not
make the self-care paradigm any less interesting or relevant, but I wonder why the

HON paradigm is chosen when there are so many other, more advanced frames of
arguments.
P5, L43: Please note that task-shifting and task-sharing are concepts that are widely
discussed and considered in patient advocacy and contemporary feminist literature.
Maybe an excursion into these disciplines may be useful.
P6, L9-30: Figure 2 is super interesting! I wonder how it plays out in resource-poor
settings.
P7, L20-21: I see some risk in the emphasis on personal agency and autonomy as
these concepts are recognised as values in individualistic societies primarily. What
about any social orders other than the competitive capitalist state? (Which are also
eventually WHO members, hence under the remit of the future guidance.)
P11, L7-40: I frankly don't understand Figure 3 at all. Some more explanation would
be useful.
P12, L3-16: How are these objectives implementable? What will WHO or the UN do
in order to enforce (implement?) these principles? Or will this be described in an
upcoming paper?
All in all, an interesting but very generically theoretical piece.