Reviewer´s comments
Ms. No. BMJ.2016.033419
Ms. Title: Fetal RHD screening can safely guide targeted anti-D immunoglobulin prophylaxis: a prospective cohort
study of a nation-wide programme in the Netherlands
Authors: de Haas M, Thurik FF, van der Plough CBP, Veldhuisen B et al.
In this manuscript the results of the first 15 months of nation-wide fetal RHD screening in the Netherlands are
described. The aim of the study was to determine the accuracy of non-invasive fetal RHD typing in gestational week 27
and administration of anti-D prophylaxis only to those carrying an RHD positive child, as part of an antenatal screening
programme. The conclusion of the paper is that fetal RHD typing in week 27 is reliable and can be used to target both
antenatal and postnatal anti-D Ig administration.
General comments:
National implementation of fetal RHD screening and targeted anti-D prophylaxis is currently discussed in many
countries. The group in the Netherlands has many previous publications in this field. In this paper their routines with
fetal screening in second trimester, including omitting cord blood typing, is described in a large material of 32222 RhD
negative pregnancies. The test performance (sensitivity, specificity, false positive and false negative results, technical
errors) reporting algorithms and compliance of the programme are discussed. The results are of general interest, for
those planning to start fetal RHD screening and for others as comparison to other set-ups.
Specific comments:
Abstract:
Participants and Results: Does the material include 32222 pregnant women or 32222 pregnancies?
It is not clear if cord blood typing was omitted before this prospective study or after, based on the result of the study?
Are inconclusive results interpreted as fetal RHD positive? Maternal genes also as fetal RHD positive?
Introduction:
Page 7, Line 36-39: Clarify why it is important to detect the RHD pseudogene and RHD*DVI in a screening situation?
The maternal gene and the fetal gene? Consequences?
Methods:
Page 9, line 8-9 Blood samples were collected at a local laboratory. What was the transport time? Criteria for

maximum transport time / acceptance of samples? Were the results of the maternal RhD type available for Sanquin?
Page 13, line 35 Is an aliquot plasma from each sample freezed?
Page 9, line 30-33. Reference to red blood cell immunization from cat. DVI? During pregnancy?
Data collection and analysis
Page 10 line 55-58. …July 1st and June 29th 2012? Should it be… July 1st 2011 and June 29th 2012?
Results:
In Fig.1 it is not clear where maternal genes/inconclusive results fall?
The algorithm of how to report results is not clearly explained and motivated. Table 1 and 2 are detailed, but it seems
confounding if a clearly distinguishable maternal gene is reported as fetal RHD positive? If the newborn then is blood
typed RhD negative it may cause insecurity.
The false negative and false positive results from screening are presented and discussed and followed-up adequately.
Conclusion:
The manuscript describes a centralized automated fetal RHD screening procedure including reporting algorithms
introduced in the Netherlands. The information in the manuscript is of interest, since many nations/laboratories plan
introduction of fetal RHD typing in RhD negative pregnant women, as part of antenatal screening and prophylaxis
programs.
