This well-conducted systematic review and meta-analysis by Odor and colleagues
summarizes existing evidence pertaining to perioperative interventions for preventing
postoperative pulmonary complications. This is a well-written manuscript that addresses an
important clinical issue for perioperative medicine. All my comments are relatively minor.
(1) As the authors acknowledge, the definition of what constitutes ‘lung protective
ventilation’ is not entirely clear. Issues with the literature include questions as to whether
the control arms represent contemporary care (i.e., do the findings simply mean that 10
mL/kg tidal volumes are bad?), whether frequent recruitment maneuvers are needed or
helpful, what constitutes ideal PEEP, and whether ‘protective ventilation’ should be guided
by driving pressure (as proposed by Neto et al.). Consistent with these issues about the
ideal components of ‘protective ventilation’, the statistical heterogeneity in pooled analyses
was at least moderate (I2 values of 78% and 57%). I would encourage the authors to
therefore moderate their statements on these analyses – even if GRADE methods suggest
that the evidence quality is moderate.¬ If anything, the data suggest that ‘modifications’ in
mechanical ventilation might prevent PPCs, but further trials are needed to define the
optimal mode of ‘protective ventilation’ and assess its true efficacy.
(2) I would encourage the authors to comment on the plausibility of the pooled treatment
estimates. Since PPCs are multifactorial in etiology, it is likely that interventions with actual
efficacy will have, at best, a moderate sized treatment effect (relative risk reductions of
25% to 40%). Thus, the pooled risk ratios for some interventions (such as ERAS) are likely
implausible overestimates. Related to this, did the authors assess for publication bias with
even straightforward methods such as funnel plots? This would seem to be an important
component to include this meta-analysis.

(3) Based on the pooled estimates, are there any interventions that likely do not merit
consideration? For example, the lower 95% CI for incentive spirometry and high FIO2 (for
the outcome of PPCs) excludes a relative risk reduction of 20%. Acknowledging the
limitations of the evidence based, these seem to be interventions that do not merit clinical
application or further study.
(4) The pathophysiology of lung resection surgery with respect to mechanisms leading to
PPCs is likely different from non-thoracic surgery. Indeed, the last systematic review on
preventative interventions for PPCs by Lawrence et al. excluded thoracic procedures. What
was the authors’ rationale for including thoracic procedures in this present study? The
authors should justify this choice and consider subgroup analyses to ensure that there is
no treatment effect modification by surgical procedure type (thoracic vs. non-thoracic).
(5) On page 5 (paragraph 1), the authors indicate that PPCs are the second most common
postoperative complication. This statement is open to argument and likely not necessary.
The paper cited to support this statement is not contemporary (2004 publication), and
others might argue that myocardial injury occurs more frequently. Most importantly, the
relative incidence of PPCs compared to other complications do not negate the importance
of preventing PPCs. These complications occur often enough that they matter. I would
strongly recommend removing this statement of PPCs being the 2nd most common
complication.
(6) The sentence (page 6, paragraph 1) that “This mortality effect persists…” implies that
PPCs have a causal relationship to long term mortality. As the authors no doubt are aware,
this interpretation is highly limited by unmeasured residual confounding. That is, sicker
patients get PPCs, and are also more likely to die 5 years after surgery. I would
recommend that the authors moderate this specific sentence to address this limitation.
