This is a very interesting and very well written paper that examines the effect of menu
labeling in 3 chain restaurants in the southern US. Though including a control group would
have strengthened the design, the use of sales data rather than consumer surveys, and the
long study period are strengths of this study. The methods are very clearly described, and
the numerous sensitivity analyses are also a strength. The authors do an excellent job of
contextualizing their results and in recognizing some of the key limitations of their approach
as well. Overall, I think this is an excellent manuscript and this is a study that makes an
important contribution to the literature about the potential effectiveness of menu labeling.
That said, I do have a few specific comments and questions:
Line 84-85: could say more about why these small reductions could be expected to have
important effects for population level calorie intake.
Lines 87-89: is it also important to examine the effect of menu labeling outside of large
cities in the US because consumers might have fewer options/substitutes in those localities?
Line 105: so the authors do not have actual individual transaction data, rather aggregated
weekly data for total transactions and # of each item purchased. If this is the case, the
abstract is somewhat misleading in describing per-transaction calorie reduction.
Line 137: why were desserts included in sides?
Line 138: how did the authors categorize the 2 beverage types? SSBs are not their own
category in Menustat. Were all beverages with >10 calories/serving considered SSBs? How
did the authors contend with missing data for serving size?

Table 1: it would be helpful to include the percentage of the total that each of the 5
sub-categories of items comprised so the reader can easily see if the distribution is similar in
the pre and post intervention periods.
Table 2: the calories from sides seems strikingly low. Do the authors have an explanation for
this?
One larger question I have about this analysis is what the potential for change in
calories/transaction was. What was the variation in calories available on the menu of these
particular restaurants? If all entrees are relatively similar in calories, even with labeling,
there may not be a good low-calorie substitute to order if a customer was so inclined. Some
more information about the range of calories for the sub-categories of items on these menus
in each year would provide some useful context given that the trends in calories per
transaction look pretty flat, and that main result is a very small, and not sustained change
after labeling was implemented.
