Thank you for the opportunity to review this revision. In general, this appears a
very thorough study that considers various models and sensitivity analyses to
examine the association of ultra-processed food intake and CVD risk. The paper
is very dense, and I do not have the expertise to know whether the definition of
ultra processed food is correct or meaningful. Nutritional ep studies are
notoriously difficult to undertake well, and indeed interpret clearly (e.g. here, the
definition of processed foods is broad, and it is hard to know whether it is the
class or specific types that are the issue). It is good to see that the paper comes
with an extensive discussion of the potential limitations. The authors have
responded well to the initial set of comments, but their revision has triggered a
further set of comments from me, below.
1) “A 10% increase in the proportion of ultra-processed foods in the diet …” –
this is not clear. I think the authors mean a 10% absolute increase in the
percentage of ultra-processed foods in the diet. If they want to use the
proportion scale, then it would be a 0.1 absolute increase in the proportion of …
- If my re-worded is indeed correct, please address this issue throughout the
whole of the paper.

Similarly “For each subject, the proportion (in weight, % g/day) of
ultra-processed foods in the total diet was calculated” – change proportion to
percentage.
Also, I see that in some places the HR is referred to as a 10-point increase. Point
is again the wrong word.
2) The non-linear spline function is a useful addition, but is presented on the HR
scale rather than the logHR scale. Therefore, it is hard to establish whether there
is a linear trend or not from the figure itself. Indeed, it appears curved, but this
may simply be due to the scale. I also recommend that this curve (and figure) is
presented in the main paper as a key analysis, alongside the linear trend
assumption, for complete transparency. The relationship is an important part of
the paper, and if it is indeed linear, then showing the spline plot would be
reassuring to see.
3) More details are needed on the multiple imputation: what variables were
included (was the outcome included as recommended) and how many
imputations were done, and how were results combined across imputations?
4) “Tests for linear trend were performed using the ordinal score on sex-specific
quartiles of ultra-processed food” – I do not follow this sentence
5) Could region or city have been included as an adjustment factor? Would that
have made any difference?
6) “The association between ultra-processed food and overall cardiovascular risk
was also investigated separately in different strata of the population:
men/women, younger adults (<45y)/older adults (≥45y), participants with a high
lipid intake (>median)/those with a lower one, participants with a BMI<25
Kg/m2/those with a BMI≥25 Kg/m2” – If changes in the findings across different
strata are of interest, then it should be examined with the continuous variables
left as continuous, and not dichotomised arbitrarily. The authors should
reconsider this.
7) Perhaps the most pressing issue – how can we be reassured that diet is not
changing over time. Do we have any information on time-varying diet from the
included subjects? This is touched on the discussion, but should probably be
expanded on in a separate paragraph (Rather than buried in that very long
limitations paragraph).
8) Also, the conclusion of the abstract reads very much like this is a causal
relationship, and I wonder tone this down, with a mention of some of the
potential limitations also.
9) The results section would benefit from being broken into sub-sections, to aid
the reader with the flow.
10) Page 11: “The later associations were more specifically observed for
angioplasty …” – I do not follow this. Are the authors saying that there is a
difference in the HR for different sub-types? I do not think they can evaluate this
or formally compare the HRs
11) Table 2 and sex-specific quartiles. How can the quartiles be sex specific, but
then results not presented for males and females separately? I find this
confusing, as then you cannot interpet the results (as the % values are not
consistent). Surely it would make more sense to simply present the results for

continuous variable first, and then provide results by quartiles of the actual %
scale, so that the quartiles are meaningful (and consistent) when both males and
females are in the same analysis.
I hope these comments help refine the article for the BMJ, and that the authors
find them constructive in going forward.
Best wishes, Prof Richard Riley
