The response and changes to my previous comments are generally very clear, thank you. I
especially thank the authors for now also providing the absolute risk at 7 days as
requested. The difference in survival probability by 7 days is tiny, 0.93 versus 0.94, which
is very important for the BMJ reader to appreciate.
My main remaining comment relates to the missing data. I asked the authors about the
amount of missing data, but the response is not satisfactory. Is there missing data or not?
I cannot identify a clear answer to this. They note the database is considered high quality,
and have added the following to the paper: “It has been reported that there is less than
one percent of records that have missing information and less than 0.01 percent of records
that have missing key elements (e.g. demographics, diagnostics).” This is great, but the
use of ‘it has been reported’ suggests the authors are referring to previous work that uses
this database. I want to know, is there missing data in the data they obtained for analysis
in this paper? If so, how much, and how was it handled (e.g. complete case analysis?).
They also say: “In administrative databases, there are essentially no missing data in the
conventional sense (in contrast to cohort studies with ad hoc data collection for example).”

– but I work with administrative (routinely collected) databases regularly, and there is
routinely missing data. For example, smoking status is not recorded for some patients, or
BMI is not available, etc.
Lastly, Figure 1 does not suggest an interaction between the HR and time. Yet this is a key
finding; i.e. the HR gets smaller after the first few days. I can therefore only assume this
graph is produced using the proportion hazards assumption, even though there is strong
evidence that this assumption is not correct. The graph should be corrected accordingly. Or
rather, include a second graph with the cumulative incidence estimated based on the
non-proportional hazards approach.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
