BMJ.56995 Appropriate personal protective equipment protects healthcare professionals from COVID-19
Stats Report
The current manuscript presents analyses of evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in a target group of 420
health care providers that were directly treating COVID-19 patients while wearing substantial (defined as
‘appropriate’ by the authors) protective equipment; and two controls: i) 77 health care providers that
were not in contact with COVID-19 patients, and ii) 80 recovered COVID-19 patients.
The tests to evaluate evidence of infection were: RT-PCR (based on nasopharyngeal swabs) for active
infection, and IgM and IgG (based on serum samples) for historic exposure to SARS-CoV-2. Results
from all three tests (RT-PCR, IgM, and IgG) are reported only for the target group (exposed HCP with
‘appropriate’ protective equipment). Only serology results (IgM and IgG) are available for the controls.
The results show no active infection (RT-PCR) or historical exposure (IgM or IgG) in the target group.
The control group of non-exposed HCP show no evidence of historical exposure (all IgM and IgG results
below a predefined threshold), while for recovered COVID019 patients, the IgG levels all suggest past
exposure. For this group, findings for IgM are equivocal, with only 5/80 showing levels above the
diagnostic threshold.
These findings suggest that the protection used was indeed adequate. However, there are substantial
gaps in the reporting to make sense of a) the intervention (‘adequate protective equipment AND ways of
using it’) and b) the baseline infection rate expected.
a) Intervention
Some of this information is likely to be better suited for supplementary material but we need to have a
much better description of the intervention. Please have a look at the TIDieR checklist (doi:
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.g1687) for guidance of the level of information required. In particular,
further information not only of the protective equipment but also of the training given for its use would
be highly relevant. If possible, please provide either documents or other material (e.g. video) to describe
this. The objective would be for someone reading this paper to be able to replicate this.
b) Baseline infection rate expected
We need to be able to understand if these comparisons (exposed vs. controls) are meaningful. For this,
we need to have greater detail about particularly about all groups on their characteristics regarding at
least age and gender (all three groups). Also, for the group of recovered patients, please provide:
• Some measures of use of health care system while identified as infected: basic information of
treatment and if they were hospitalised and where
• Some measure of severity of illness (e.g. ventilators, etc.)
• Time between confirmed active SARS and serology tests
Although not currently included in the manuscript, information of what were the infection rate in health
care practitioners WITHOUT appropriate protective equipment, would be very useful. It might be
possible to get an estimate of this from historic records before the SARS-CoV-2 infection was recognised

(and hence protective equipment were not being used). This will likely be an underestimate but it would
help understand the baseline infection rate expected.
Other Issues:
Reporting of tests. Please provide how many of the tests reported valid results (all tests) and in case of
invalid/missing please explain what approach was taken (complete case analysis, imputation, etc.).
Discussion: please comment on the lack of community transmission in in your health care provider
groups (exposed and non-exposed). Where they living in areas not normally exposed to this? Other
reasons?
Table 1 : please convert this into two separate tables. One providing characteristics for all groups (see
point above). A second one providing information of AGPs operations carried out. This last one might be
useful as supplementary material instead of main text.
Figure 1: Is the reference range, red line, the threshold as specified by the test supplier? If not, please
provide thresholds are based on test supplier data.
