Statistical review
The authors report a randomised controlled trial comparing four different “dosages”
of Tai Chi with aerobic exercise in patients with fibromyalgia. The paper finds
beneficial effects of Tai Chi over aerobic exercise.
I list several points below which the authors need to address. The paper is very
positive about Tai Chi (I cannot identify a single negative comment about it), and I
have some concern that the authors’ enthusiasm for the intervention perhaps has
led to an overly positive spin on the findings.
1)
In comparisons of a standard treatment (here aerobic exercise) against a
novel treatment (here Tai Chi) there is always a concern that participants who have
tried the standard treatment before and not found it satisfactory will have “resentful
demoralisation” if they receive an allocation to this treatment again. It was good to
see that the investigators were aware of this as they mention in the discussion, but
it would be helpful to have more data about the participants’ prior exposure to both
interventions. Did the authors collect this, and if so could they please include it in
the baseline characteristics table.
2)
The paper describes the trial as single blind. IN fact only one of the
secondary outcomes reported in the paper was measured by blinded assessors, so
this claim is not justified. The description of “personnel being blinded during
enrolment” is not clear – were they blinded throughout the study, or only during the
enrolment visit(s)?
3)
There are many more outcomes listed in the protocol than reported in the
paper. This will be interpreted by readers as a risk that the authors are selectively
reporting outcomes. Could the authors please fully report all outcomes to avoid this
issue?
4)
There is no detailed reporting on the analgesic drugs which have been used.
Again please fully report this data.

5)
And there is no reporting of the adverse events, beyond the SAEs. Please
report this data.
6)
The protocol Includes a helpful description of the primary outcome measure.
It would be useful to have this included in the manuscript here too. Can you be
clear who completes this scale?
7)
There is nothing to help a reader judge whether the differences observed
between groups on primary and secondary outcome scales are clinically important.
Could the authors please include more information on minimally clinically important
differences (MCID) for the measurement scales used, with references where
available, particularly for the primary outcome. It would be helpful to include
indicative changes in primary and secondary outcomes in the sample size calculation
where currently only standardised effect sizes are quoted.
8)
The randomisation scheme is poorly described. Was it created with any
blocking or was it simple randomisation? Were envelopes sequentially numbered
and opened in the right order? These details matter.
9)
Why was the change in each outcome measure used in the analysis rather
than including baseline as a predictor in a regression model (which is known to be
the most powerful way of dealing with this sort of data)?
10)
The protocol states that “last value carried forward” methods would be used
for those who drop-out from the study. Was this employed? If not, how were
missing outcome values handled in the primary analysis?
11)
Following 10) If only observed data were included in the primary analysis, is
this not the same as using a “complete case” method at each time point (i.e. only
those who had baseline and 24 week data were included in the 24 week outcome
analysis)? My reading of the model is that it included time x group interactions
with time and group as factors means that the all- important interaction terms are
only estimated from observed data. Am I correct? If so, the claim that the ITT
analysis is based on all 226 participants is not justified, and a more nuanced
description of the numbers who contribute to the analysis is required. Table 2
currently implies that all the changes are estimated on the original number
randomised which can't be true (I presume that the correct n's are actually given in
the study flow figure - this should be mentioned in Table 2).
12)
I was surprised that the authors did not elect to include a Bonferroni
correction for the multiple group comparisons which they are undertaking.
13)
Once the MCIDs have been indicated for the outcome measures, the results
section should include consideration of the observed magnitude of the effects
against the MCIDs
14)
It is notable that the only time point where comparison of the 12 week vs
24 week Tai Chi intervention shows a difference is at 24 wk. It is well known that
the effect of most interventions drops after the intervention ceases, and it would be
appropriate for the authors to raise this as an explanation for this observation. The
difference between 12 and 24 weeks does seem to be overly positively spun – most
outcomes are not showing a difference.
15)
Similarly the impact of the missing data, as revealed by the multiple
imputation analysis is not well reported in the text. The authors claim that the
“changes were not consistently in any one direction”. My reading of Appendix Table

4 is that the comparison of Tai Chi and Aerobic Exercise on treatment differences
was totally consistent in reducing the magnitude of the treatment difference by
20-25% at all time points, for both the overall comparison, and the comparison
restricted to the matching intervention length and frequency. Similarly the authors
state that MI “did attenuate the effects of a few of the treatment comparisons,
including the primary outcome”. They omit to mention that the statistical
significance of the differences for the overall comparison disappears at all time
points. A more complete reporting and frank discussion of the impact of missing
data is certainly required.
16) Figure 2 is impossible to make sense of without error bars. Please at least give
the reader a sense of the magnitude of the uncertainty in the estimates in this
figure.
