This study examined the association between ultra-processed food intake and the
risk of cardiovascular diseases in a web-based sample. The study found that higher
proportion of ultra-processed food intake was associated with higher risk of CVDs
and the sub-types (CHD and cerebrovascular disease). The findings provided some
useful evidence for the prevention of CVDs. However, some problems are needed to
be addressed in this study.
Major comments
1.
According to the objective of this study, the main hypothesis would be that
the ultra-processes for foods would increase the risk of CVDs due to a poorer
nutritional quality, a wide range of additives, and neoformed contaminants. To
address this hypothesis, it is needed to compare the CVD risk of ultra-processed
foods to those of “unprocessed or minimally processed foods” of the same types
(e.g., meat). The control group (non-exposure) should be unprocessed or minimally
processed foods in the same type, but not unprocessed or minimally processed other
foods. The proportions of ultra-processed foods for each individual type of foods
should be calculated. However, the authors compared the CVD risk by different
proportion of ultra-processed foods in total foods. Such comparisons could not get
the independent association of the “ultra-process” itself (A) from the ultra-processed
(A) foods (B) due to different “B”. Therefore, the unfavorable associations between
ultra-processed foods and the CVD risk might be (at least in part) explained by the
specific types of foods rather than the ultra-processes. In this case, the main
hypothesis was not well-addressed, and the conclusions might mislead the readers.
2.
The total amount of ultra-processed foods was calculated by adding the
weight in eating form for each food directly. However, the densities of different
types of ultra-processed foods are quite different (e.g., salty snacks vs. beverages).
Although there is no ideal method to calculate the total amount of ultra-processed
foods, sensitivity analyses are needed by using different methods to pool the total
amount of ultra-processed foods, and discuss the strength and limitations of the
method selected for the conclusion.
3.
The case ascertainment was based on participants’ reports and the
medico-administrative databases of the SNIIRAM. The validity of these methods
depends on the compliance and ability of the participants, and to what extent the
participants’ data can be found in the databases. To address the first problem, the
authors might compare the incidence of CVDs by different compliance groups (by
days of dietary records). The second problem depends on the proportion of subjects
provided their ID number, the coverage of the SNIIRAM databases, and the
proportion of emigrants to other countries not covered by the SNIIRAM databases.
The validity of the method for case ascertainment needs to discuss.
4.
As mentioned in the text, the study population is a volunteer-based sample.
What risk factors of CVDs were differed from the target population? And how did
these factors influence the association and generalizability of the finding. Is there
any difference in the age- and sex-standardized incidence of CVDs between the

study population and the source population according to the SNIIRAM databases?
More detailed discussion is needed.
5.
In cohort studies, some feedbacks or advices are needed for the participants
at each data collection. The participants’ dietary behaviors may thus be changed due
to the relevant feedbacks or advices. To clarify the influence of this issue, it is a
need to conduct a sensitivity analysis by limited to those participants with the similar
proportion (e.g., the Z-score of the changes in proportion ranged -1 to 1) of
ultra-processed foods during the whole follow-up period.
Minor comments
6.
Although the study size is large, the sample size is not large enough to
obtain a precise association (particular for the individual types of CVDs) due to
limited follow-up time. So, the strength of the large sample size is not valid in the
discussion.
7.
Appendix 7, the findings showed that the total association was mainly
accounted for the subtypes of beverages, fats and sauces, meat, fish and egg,
sugary products and salty snacks. In the section of title, discussion and conclusions,
only “ultra-processed foods” were mentioned. It might be misunderstood to all
ultra-processed foods. It is needed to discuss this issue the Discussion section.
8.
Table 2, a crude or minimumly adjusted model is usually required.
9.
Page 9, line 15: A whole range or interquartile range of follow-up time
might help the readers to understand the cohort.
10.
Page 9, line 16: TIA accounted for 47.8% of the total CVD events in this
study. Usually, TIA is the lightest CVD events, and there is no strong objective
evidence for the TIA diagnosis. If TIA can be included as a CVD event, why not
included angina? Was the proportion rate of CVD events in the study population
comparable to those in the source population? More details are needed.
