The authors credibly addressed my comments. I have a few additional remarks:
RE “R18: We have added an event study of the primary outcomes in Appendix Figures 3-4.
As noted, we have also added risk-standardized graphs of the primary outcomes over time,
which shows the parallel trends in the baseline period (Figure 1-2). We also direct the
reviewer to our opening point in this letter in which we outline the change in results.”
Table 3 shows that unadjusted baseline spending for BPCI hospitals is $18,995 compared to
$18,949 for non-BPCI hospitals. Appendix Figure 1 suggests that baseline spending for BPCI
hospitals is about $15,700 and $17,200. This is a big difference from unadjusted results,
both with respect to the relative differences and the fact that the adjusted results are so
much less than the adjusted results. It makes me question the adjusted results shown in
Appendix 1.

Appendix Figure 3 and Figure 4, the CIs are massize. This doesn’t seem right given the
tightly estimated point estimates elsewhere.
RE “R22: Thank you for this comment. We are using Huber-white corrected standard errors
in a GEE semi-parametric design. These standard errors are robust to heteroskedasticity that
the reviewer cites, and using a market level cluster would increase type 2 error (reducing
power) since the number of treated units would effectively drop. Because the program was
NOT implemented at the market level, but rather the hospital level, we have retained the
hospital-level clustering with robust standard errors using the Huber-white correction. This is
also uses the same inferential approach as all relevant prior literature on BPCI, which
enhances the comparability of the results. We do appreciate the reviewers point, however,
and have added a point to the limitations to acknowledge this tradeoff (Page 19).”
Given this choice, the authors should provide evidence that errors are not correlated across
hospitals within markets.
Appendix Table 5, COPD point estimate looks positive in the figure but is reported to be
negative (-1.8%).
