This prospective cohort study examined the associations between ten-year changes in PA
and mortality. The study includes a large sample of adults (n=~14,500; men and women
combined) from the EPIC – Norfolk study that were assessed at baseline, and at 3 and
10-years after baseline. Individuals were then followed by ~12 years for ascertainment of
all-cause, CVD, and cancer mortality. The benefits of physical activity are well established
but most of what we know comes from studies that used a single time point assessment;
usually among individuals aged 50-60yrs. The authors make a good justification for the
current study and the need to examine the mortality benefits of changing activity over long
periods of time (e.g., 10 years). My overall impression about this manuscript was very
positive except for a few minor concerns that would need to be addressed.
1(Page 5) The authors did a nice work describing the gaps on this topic, in the second
paragraph of the introduction. The current descriptions in this section can still be improved
by specifically describing that the few that we know about trajectories comes from studies
with either men or women (mostly men), and in several occasions, limited to samples of
older adults. The inclusion of this detail is also helpful to match some of the sensitivity
analyses that authors did (e.g., by sex) and can facilitate direct comparisons with other
studies.
2(Page 7) The use of calibrated estimates from the PAQ is a unique feature of this
study and hence deserves a bit more description of how the calibration was done. The
authors provide some detail on the second paragraph of page 7 but it is still not clear how
calibration was accomplished (e.g., regression calibration). The authors should also
emphasize that calibration was done using a subset of the current sample (i.e., internal
calibration) which is another valuable aspect of the measurement methodology that was
used.
3(Page 9) Please add indicate the ICD codes that were used to classify CVD and
cancer mortality.

4(Page 10) It would also be important to include additional examinations of reverse
causality using the information collected at 3yrs follow-up. Please include additional
examinations excluding individuals with conditions reported at 3 years post baseline. This
might also help reinforce the finding that changes in PA were independent of health status
and results can maybe be added to Figure 1 (individuals with vs without conditions). I have
one more comment about this later in my review.
5(Page 16) In the discussion section, the authors make several analogies to the PA
recommendations issued by the WHO, more specifically, to reinforce the continuous benefits
of PA at high amounts. The authors should be careful making direct comparisons considering
that the WHO dose recommendations come mostly from studies where measurements were

limited to leisure-time PA. The current study assessed total physical activity (e.g., including
occupational PA) that can arguably make a small contribution to the total but enough so that
absolute amounts are not directly comparable. I would suggest either refrain from making
these statements or instead provide descriptions limited to leisure-time PA and describe how
those compare with the current recommendations. I also recommend the authors to revisit
the paper from Arem (2015) that found similar dose-response to what is being described
here and can help reinforce the message about the benefits of PA at higher amounts (at
about 20 MET.hrs/week or 3-5x recommended PA).
Arem et al (2015). Leisure Time Physical Activity and Mortality: A Detailed Pooled Analysis of
the Dose-Response Relationship
6(Page 18) The first paragraph describes the results independent of risk factors and
mediators. This is another valuable aspect of this study considering that there is still a gap in
the literature about the role of mediators in the association between PA and mortality.
However, the current design and timing of measurements are likely to provide limited
information about the mediation process. Health conditions were assessed 3 years
post-baseline which is rather a short window of follow-up for inferences about mediation.
The authors need to be more careful about the interpretation of mediation results and
instead acknowledge that the period between baseline and assessment of conditions was
rather short and might well reflect un-diagnosed prevalent conditions instead. My
interpretation of this limitation is also related with my comment on number 3.
7(page 18) The variability in methodologies used across PA change studies
complicates direct comparisons with the existent literature however the discussion would still
benefit if the authors commented on sex and age-specific results. This would help the reader
understand how the results might compare with existent studies that mostly assessed men
or /and older adults and how the current study expands our knowledge on this topic.
Addressing what I think are mostly minor concerns, would improve the quality of the
manuscript.