Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting piece of work. The topic is clearly important and
the authors have undertaken a considerable study. I have reviewed this from a statistical perspective,
and have some comments for improvement and clarification
1) The analysis methods (propensity score matching) are seemingly well done, with lots of confounders
adjusted for in Table S1, although residual confounding remains a concern. I wonder, how missing data
(e.g. in the confounders) was handled (e.g. multiple imputation?), as I expect there to be missing data
for some covariates for some patients.
2) I did not see that hospital (Facility) was adjusted for directly. Why was this? The authors may have
covered this by other factors such as region, number of beds, etc anyway, but I would like to know if it
would have made any difference. Perhaps this is what is meant by the random-effects model to adjust
for differences in facility and practice patterns?
3) The main the outcome is in-hospital mortality by 7 days. But, is there a competing event of discharge
BEFORE 7 days? E.g. it says: “In the ITT analysis over 7-day followup, the absolute rate of death per
100 person-days was 1.7 for haloperidol initiators and 1.1 for atypical antipsychotic initiators.” These are
in-hospital deaths; but could there be people who leave before 7 days?
Indeed, the authors exclude 1688 with an in-hospital stay of 3 days (Fig S1). But what about those who
left between 3 and 7 days? If they are censored at discharge (which it seems was the case), then the
%s relate to an artificial world where people can only ever die in hospital. (%s will be too large). Rather,
competing risk methods would be required.1 This will also effect Figure 1.
4) I think the authors should examine statistically the proportional hazards assumption, by including an
interaction with time, rather than just plotting the log(log) plot and visually summarising it. This holds
for the 7 day analysis, as well as the 30 day analysis. It seems that the HR is coming down over time,
and this needs better explanation and reporting. For example, what is the change in the HR for each day
increase? This could be plotted, and the HR over time given properly, rather than is done in Table 2,
where separate analyses are done for each time-point. I expect this will make the HR at later days, say
25 to 30 days, not significant anymore.

5) More details on how the PS was created are needed. For example, was a logistic regression model
used?
6) Figure 2, subgroup comparisons. We need the authors to quantify the actual difference between the
groups (not just present each group separately), and give us a CI and p-value for the difference. In
particular, is the difference between 2 days and 1 days exposure beyond chance? The CIs overlap
considerably, so potentially not. Same for ICU versus medical ward. I also do not like categorisation of
variables, like age at 75 and 85, and CCI at 4. This loses power, say to keeping continuous, and
potentially considering non-linear relationships.
7) Figure 1 (ignoring the competing risks issue) suggests that there is a statistically significant difference
between the groups, but in absolute terms this is very small. The baseline hazard is low, and the study
is large, and thus we could small p-values, even when the effect (HR = 1.5) is not necessarily important
clinically. Would the authors respond to this please?
8) Is the sample generalizable? Lots of patients were excluded, e.g. authors excluded 17,434 patients
that used an antipsychotic on the first and second day of admission. I find this a considerable omission,
and am struggling to understand the justification. It limits the relevant population to which the results
here apply.
I am pleased to see that the authors note that “residual confounding cannot be completely excluded as a
possible alternative explanation despite careful study design and adjustment for a wide range of
potential confounders.” In summary, I hope my comments help the authors going forward.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
