BMJ - 2020- 059483. Risk Compensation: a zombie idea threatening public health in the era of
Covid-19? Mantzari, Rubin, Marteau
Reviewer’s comments
I have a reputation as a picky, tough, fair reviewer. In a previous life as editor and in my current role as
Associate Science Editor I have been responsible for choosing reviewers. As is often done, many of my
choices are influenced by those the authors' include among their citations (references). Given that two
key references cite papers I have written on this topic (and neglect some others), it may seem that I
would be inclined to acknowledge a favourable bias. This paper strongly reflects what I have published
on the topic. But, as will be seen, I have several concerns despite my conclusion that it undoubtedly
deserves publication in the BMJ.
I begin my review by acknowledging that my earlier judgement as cited in the conclusion of this paper,
was wrong. Regrettably, risk compensation (RC) (or homeostasis) is not a dead horse. It continues to be
dredged up - even by otherwise reputable researchers when it helps foster their agendae. Mea culpa.
Whether that qualifies it as a zombie is a matter of which metaphor we prefer. Not being familiar with
zombies I checked the definition. Wikipedia says, "A zombie is a fictional undead corporeal revenant
created through the reanimation of a corpse." If we accept that meaning, my dead horse might still
qualify.
All that aside, this is a timely, important, and well-conducted contribution. In general, it is well written
although there are some passages that would benefit from a second look to ensure the meaning is clear.
For example, the phrases "reduce the chances" in the following sentence, is confusing: "Concerns have
been raised, however, that wearing face-coverings might reduce the chances that the wearer engages in
other protective behaviours." The WHO example is helpful but to avoid confusion it should be stated that
this was a view held by the WHO only at the start of the pandemic. Further, the wording of the final
sentence in the paragraph explaining risk compensation, beginning "Instead, the implicit assumption
seems to be that the general phenomenon of risk compensation is well- accepted ..." might only be
interpreted as intended if the reader pays close attention to the phrase 'have not provided evidence that
such effects exist." Finally, in this critical scene setting section, the introduction of the assumption that
any compensation need not be 'complete' will puzzle those who do not bother to read reference 13. The
sentence in a later section making the same point does not succeed in helping the reader comprehend
the notion of partial RC. I am curious too in what sense the test of RC used in this report is
'conservative'. Does it hinge on the phrase 'any change'?

In the section that follows on mitigating other health threats - one that is certainly helpful - I believe
equivocal phrases such as ‘little or no support’ ‘does not appear’ ‘little evidence’. In the overviews
section the sudden switch to an unidentified first person is at least off-putting. A transition would be
welcome.
It may be helpful to make clear that in the section on hand hygiene, studies 44,46, 47,48,49 did not
include a non-intervention comparison group. And in that on physical distancing I am inclined to
recommend removing reference 50 and the sentence describing it. I assume the sentences that follow
specifying the distances pertain to the ‘others’ and if so, this has little bearing on the risk compensation
issue as the authors acknowledge, hence muddying the waters considerably. As for understanding
interactions, what little I understand of the phrase suggesting RC is ‘an example of the oddities of
human behaviour’ I am forced to disagree. This tends to make light of the belief, which is often used, as
in the examples under consideration, to harmful effect, including perhaps, loss of life. I am more inclined
to believe it is readily recalled and cited when it suits the policy purposes of the supposed scientists who
do so with no regard for the lack of evidence - as the authors note. Given this, the paragraph that
follows, beginning “Two other outcomes are possible ….” Is hopelessly confusing. I sense there is an
important point struggling to surface but the authors must do a better job of clarifying what that point
is. The paragraph that follows (No effect may occur…) is somewhat helpful but I found it to also be
confusing. Perhaps it is the phrase ‘has weakened as the behaviours become routine’ that is to blame
especially when it is followed by ‘other protective behaviours may increase….” Finally, with regard to the
concluding sentence I certainly agree that the RC term should be dropped for the reasons given but I
trust that its replacement would not attempt to reflect or resurrect the same misguided notion.
The concluding comments are spot on but once again I fear the wobbly wording can be misconstrued or
deliberately misinterpreted. I am referring specifically to the plea for more studies to test outcomes
seemingly more likely than risk compensation and in the following sentence concluding with unless
there is compelling evidence to the contrary. To me this implies that the authors can conceive of new
studies that might support the RC idea. Whether my dead horse has been resurrected as a zombie, the
fact is, as I believe this paper among many, many others has shown, even zombies remain dead.
Minor points:
The abbreviation (acronym) for Pre-exposure prophylaxis is introduced without linking it to the meaning.
It is quite evident but violates a basic rule. The same is true for STI and USPSTF.
The comment about the support for RC from observational studies contrasted with experimental studies
could be better summarized by a general statement than with the two examples.
Evidence base… why not just Evidence…
A few references may have been overlooked or judged to be unworthy of mention:
Risk compensation in children's activities: A pilot study D Mok, BSc, G Gore, BA, B Hagel, E Mok, BSc
MSc, H Magdalinos, B Pless, CM MD BA
Paediatrics & Child Health, Volume 9, Issue 5, 5/6 2004, Pages 327–330,
Risk-Compensation Behavior in Children, Myth or Reality? Barry Pless, MD; Helen Magdalinos, BA, CCLS;
Brent Hagel, PhD ARCH PEDIATR ADOLESC MED/VOL 160, JUNE 2006
Wilde GS, Robertson L, Pless I B. Does risk homoeostasis theory have implications for road safety? BMJ.
2002 May 11; 324(7346): 1149–1152.
D C Thompson, R S Thompson, F P Rivara Risk compensation theory should be subject to systematic
reviews of the scientific evidence Injury Prevention Jun 2002, 8 (2) e1; DOI: 10.1136/ip.8.2.e1

Gerald J S Wilde Risk homeostasis theory: an overview Injury Prevention Jun 1998, 4 (2) 89-91; DOI:
10.1136/ip.4.2.89
Brian O'Neill, Allan Williams Risk homeostasis hypothesis: a rebuttal Injury Prevention Jun 1998, 4 (2)
92-93; DOI: 10.1136/ip.4.2.92
Finally, I was surprised not to see a citation to the book by Professor Wilde, the originator (or
popularizer) of RC theory. I have debated RC with Professor Wilde and sharply disagree but for the sake
of completeness and balance some reference to the following may need to be included.
Wilde GJS. Target risk: dealing with the danger of death, disease and damage in everyday decisions.
Toronto: Castor and Columba, 1994.

I hope these comments are of help to the authors and the editor.
Barry Pless, OC, MD, DSc (Hon), FRCPC, FRCPCH (Hon), FCAHS
Professor Emeritus,
Pediatrics and Epidemiology, McGill University
Editor Emeritus, Injury Prevention
