Thank you for the opportunity to review this excellent manuscript entitled “Antenatal blood pressure for
prediction of pre-eclampsia, preterm birth, and small-for-gestational-age: development and validation in
two prospective cohorts”. In this manuscript the authors have developed and validated a series of
prediction models and completed preliminary assessment of clinical impact. The authors should first be
congratulated on excellent use of robust methodology. Overall this is a fantastic paper. The argument
presented for need for these models is strong and objectives well justified. The use of historical data is
unfortunate but the validation cohort is more recently collected and is likely to reflect clinical practice
today. Where I think the manuscript could be improved is in the description of clinical implications. I also
have a few suggestions for revision to how the results are presented and discussed. I’ve focused only on

the pre-eclampsia models as these had the most promising results; so all comments below are in
reference to the pre-eclampsia models.
1. Additional potential limitations are from self-reported data for some predictors; smaller sample size for
validation – a discussion of sample size and power should be added to the methods. Particularly as the
number of events in each subset of data stratified by gestational age is low until 36 weeks given the
complexity of your models. It was unclear from the description of the methods if you were predicting
events occurring at any time or at a given gestational age?
2. Discuss likely truth to the assumption of MAR for the data imputed.
3. Justify development of new model rather than validating and updating/ extending an existing model
such as that published by North et al.
4. Over-emphasis on AUC ROC as measure of performance. This is not necessarily the most informative
measure as it assumes equal weight for sensitivity and specificity. Often one of either sensitivity or
specificity are more clinically relevant. In your stratification tables you need to present the absolute
numbers identified as true and false positive and negative at each risk threshold to allow authors to
better evaluate real impact of findings.
5. You have forced a high sensitivity but this comes at the cost of significant false positives at each
gestational age evaluated. This doesn’t offer pregnant women much reassurance and would not appear to
change clinical practice much. According to the flow-charts presented you would be able to rule-out preeclampsia in about 35% of women by 31 weeks which isn’t significantly different than the population
prevalence of pre-eclampsia found in the cohort at this gestational age (30%). What is the real added
clinical value of this model based on these results? It also isn’t clear to me why you used thresholds of
0.0047 and 0.0013 in the flow diagrams but present thresholds of 0.008 and 0.003 in Table 3 showing
the sensitivities of 0.95 and 0.99. How did you determine the final risk thresholds to use to evaluate
expected numbers of women stratified in the flow charts?
6. It is admirable to consider the use of this model in low- and middle- income countries were the burden
of disease is greatest. Even this simple model is unlikely to be feasible in these settings though were
many women only attend antenatal care one to three times in pregnancy and often don’t declare
pregnancy until later in gestation. In this same vein – did the authors consider how this model might be
made user-friendly? What format would they suggest presenting it for bedside use? What are the next
steps in this research?
7. STROBE checklist could be replaced by the TRIPOD checklist as this would be more relevant to the
study type.
I would be happy to review a revised version of the manuscript and response from the authors.
Beth Payne