24th Feb 2015
Thank you for the opportunity to review this important paper which provides real life data to validate the
safety of criteria used to diagnose miscarriage.
I would like to see the results of this study published. I would like to know more details about
1. Quality assurance around the collection of ultrasound measurement data contributing to the study
2. 95% confidence intervals around the estimates of “0%” false positive diagnosis of miscarriage as per
modern (Doubilet et al 2013) criteria
3. The extent to which pregnancy gestational age/expected date of confinement was altered in the small
minority with very small GSD at quite advanced duration of amenorrhoea.
I make the following specific suggestions for minor revisions to improve manuscript readability and clarify
the three issues listed above.
ABSTRACT
This is clearly written. In particular, the abstracted results section usefully states the zero subsequently
viable rates. Is it also possible to include 95% Cis related to these rates, please?
WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS
No suggested changes
INTRODUCTION

No suggested changes
METHODS
Page 7, lines 27 ff
Can you give any more information to support the quality of scans, e.g.
• Were units following protocols, authored by ? BMUS or ? RCOG
• Any more information about the qualifications of those scanning e.g. ? nurse practitioners with or without
certification in ultrasound ? doctors in training or qualified ? medical specialties within OG, ED, GP?
• Any quality assurance concerning image quality and validity of measurements?
I am a clinician-researcher who lives in the real world, so if a formal QA system was not in practice, I am
not horribly alarmed. Nevertheless any evidence for quality assurance programmes in current clinical
practice and/or for the purposes of this study should be stated. If QA appears to be lacking, perhaps
address this in the discussion as a study weakness with a firm resolve never to sin again…
Page 7, line 53
I am confused by the term “immediate viability”: please clarify. Do you mean to establish “diagnostic
certainty of miscarriage or viable pregnancy” ?
Page 8, line 20
The phrase “certain of their dates” is a bit casual. It could even be interpreted as “certain that their dance
partner would arrive on time and behave honourably!” May I suggest you rephrase this, for example
“women were certain of the recalled duration of amenorrhoea”
Page 8, lines 28 ff
The description of gestational sac and CRL measurements is admirably unambiguous. I have 2 questions,
which also concern QA (as discussed above):
• Is the description also readily available in guidance documents, e.g. from BMUS or RCOG?
• (As per QA comments above) Were images also reviewed by the research group to confirm the quality of
submitted data?
Page 9, Statistical Analysis
No suggested alterations
RESULTS
Page 10, line 12 ff
I am confused by the use of two descriptions “uncertain viability” and “unclear” close together. Being
unclear about being uncertain suggests you might actually be certain! (double negative).
Alternatively, would it be correct to rephrase as “10 participants’ scan results provided insufficient data to
classify as definitely non-viable or of uncertain viability and were thus excluded”?
Page 11, line 5
Can I clarify that if the maximum MSD for pregnancies with an empty sac with viable outcome was 20.3,
and 2 cases with MSD > or = 20 were viable, then these 2 cases had MSD of between 20.1 and 20.3 mm
inclusive? This is a minor question and does not necessarily require revision in the manuscript.
Page 11, line 33
As viability is categorical (alive or not, not somewhat alive), but probability of viability is a continuous
quantity (0 to 1), I suggest rephrasing as follows:
“Gestational age: viability was less likely when …” to replace “viability was reduced”
Page 11, lines 38 ff
Please clarify the clinical course of the interesting minority who reached 70 days of amenorrohea with
uncertain ultrasound findings and who subsequently had viability confirmed at 11+ weeks ultrasound scan.
The clinicians reading this manuscript will invariably ask “was the EDC adjusted?” Please address this
question. For example, what was the evidence for extreme degrees of delayed ovulation and/or conception
beyond the expected day 14 of the menstrual cycle?
Page 12, line 32 ff
Please clarify the course of one interesting pregnancy (or consider omitting, although I am interested as a
clinician). The text currently reads: “One pregnancy with an empty gestational sac and of uncertain viability
on repeat scan > 10 days later ended viable and was still an empty sac after 14 days”. Did the participant
have 2 uncertain scans and then a reassuring 11+ week scan?
DISCUSSION
Page 14, line 24
Do your data support altering expected date of confinement/delivery/birth in a small proportion of
pregnancies? Please discuss.
The remaining discussion reads well.
REFERENCES
No suggested alterations
TABLE 1 No suggested changes
TABLE 2 No suggested changes
TABLE 3 No suggested changes
TABLE 4 Can you provide 95% confidence intervals around the % estimation of viability please?
TABLE S1 No suggested changes
TABLE S2 No suggested changes
TABLE S3 Please either define FHR (presumably fetal heart rate) or replace with the already defined EHA
(embryonic heart activity), whichever is both accurate and meets author preference
TABLE S4 This is a particularly useful table for individual clinicians and for providing hospital Early
Pregnancy Unit clinical guidance. Consider moving to the main body of the article.
FIGURES 1 to 3 and S1 to S5 No suggested changes
With best wishes
Yours sincerely
Elizabeth McCarthy (Dr) MBBS (Hons), BMedSc(Hons), MD, FRANZCOG, CMFM, Grad Cert Biostats Epi,
DDU

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Elizabeth Anne McCarthy
Job Title: Senior lecturer
Institution: University of Melbourne, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?:
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here:
Reviewer: 3
Recommendation:
