The authors present a derivation and validation study of a risk score for postpartum venous thromboembolism. Using a
list of 25 preselected candidate predictors and a multiple logistic regression model, the authors developed a score for
predicting venous thromboembolism within 6 weeks of delivery among a cohort of women registered at clinics
participating in the U.K. Clinical Practice Research Datalink. They then validated the model using the Swedish Medical
Birth Registry, which covers essentially all births in Sweden. Overall, this is a well-done study on an important clinical
topic. A reliable and simple-to-use tool for identifying women who may benefit from postpartum thromboprophylaxis
would certainly be valuable.
One weakness of the study is the rather modest predictive accuracy of the prediction tool (c statistic, 0.72). I agree that
this is better than not having a externally validated score of any kind, but it should be addressed in the limitations that
even with this model, many patients will receive unnecessary thromboprophylaxis or not receive thromboprophylaxis and
go on to have an event. Furthermore, the authors present data on sensitivity but from the language it is unclear to me
whether this is in regards to the outcome or in regards to whether patients would qualify for thromboprophylaxis under
existing guidelines. A third weakness of the study relates to how well this model will be disseminated into routine
practice. Could the authors create a publicly available online calculator to be disseminated along with the paper?
Other specific comments:
1. How were the 25 candidate predictors selected?
2. Why was the external validation applied only to women with at least one risk factor? This seems different than the
inclusion criteria for the derivation cohort, no?
3. What efforts will be made to disseminate the risk calculator? The authors state that “it can be easily integrated to a
user friendly calculator to be implemented in practice”, but it is safe to say that it is unlikely that any practice or provider
will take the initiative to do so on their own.
4. “Comparing prediction models to the existing guidelines”: this section is confusing. What do the authors mean when
they say that “35% of women in the English data qualified for pharmacological thromboprophylaxis for at least 10 days
postdelivery with a sensitivity of 64% and a PPV of 0.13%”?