MUP evaluation BMJ: Comments of reviewer J Chick
This is an ingenious design using household purchasing data, comparing Scottish with
Northern England which is a region that shares considerable socio-economic similarities
with Scotland.
It will complement data on the effects of MUP being gathered by other researchers such as
point of sales data and indices of harm (hospital admission rates, mortality etc).
Some suggestions
1. Abstract: trivial typo in line 2 of Main Outcome Measures;
2. Abstract: Ambiguity in Results, 3rd sentence: Suggest change to ‘….in the top fifth of
households by income, reduction of purchased alcohol only occurred in the households
that purchased the greatest amount of alcohol….

3. Summary box. It is odd that the authors say it is the first study of the impact of
minimum unit price having just said that Canadians had shown such data even though
some of the Canadian instances affected only certain beverages,
4. Introduction. This paper correctly reports in grams of ethanol, making it understandable
to an international readership whose ‘standard drinks/units’ vary by country. It would be
helpful, therefore, if in the Introduction the authors could present the Sheffield modelling
material in the same way, converting to grams of ethanol. (UK units are a mystery to
many!), making it easier also to compare with the results of the present study presented
in grams of ethanol.
5. Figure 1. Legend states up to week 208; the graph read in the pdf I received showed
only up to week 204 (also, Fig 2)
6. Figure 1. Would it be more correct to say ‘price per gram of ethanol purchased’,
because we are not looking at price on the shelf across all alcoholic beverages? That helps
us understand that pre-MUP, Scottish purchasing is shown as slightly cheaper than
England purchasing (which is itself of interest and perhaps never shown before?)
7. The results are coherent and consistent, adding to confidence in the reliability of the
analysis – e.g. highest income households that had also been high consumers actually
spent more on alcohol after MUP (because they could afford to maintain their level of
consumption) – in other words the heavy consumers in had also been drinking cheaply
pre-MUP – something that was found in the paper by Black, Gill and Chick (ref 19); and
the reduction in purchasing was seen most in cider and fortified wines, and not at all in
ready-to-drink products.
8. DISCUSSION 1st sentence. Suggest reminding reader that this is alcohol purchases in
grams of ethanol, not volume of alcohol beverages. (The Health Scotland report refers
showed a rise in volume of beverages purchased after MUP, ref 47)
9. DISCUSSION: it would be pertinent to remind readers that the most specific target of
MUP, sick dependent drinkers verging on being ill, are less likely to have been represented
in the KWP households being perhaps less reliable or without a fixed address. For this
group, projection of the effects of a MUP of 50pence/unit was on average a reduction of
24% or 60 units per week, even allowing that some of those drinkers purchased some
units from on-licence sources (J. Gill, H. Black, R. Rush, F. O’May, and J. Chick. Heavy
Drinkers and the Potential Impact of Minimum Unit Pricing—No Single or Simple Effect?
Alcohol and Alcoholism, 2017, 52(6) 722–729)
10. Discussion page 10 line 53: The ref (49) to Horton is not a primary source. The
proportions purchased on- versus off- trade are more correctly referenced to Gill et al,
2017, quoted above in my Point 9.
11. Discussion Page 11 line 8 ref 49 is quoted yet authors refer to Angus which seems to
be ref 17.
12. Discussion page 11 line 21. Ref 52 is incomplete. (For original data on Scottish heavy
drinkers perceptions and possible effects on those in poverty see Fiona O’May , Jan Gill ,
Heather Black , Cheryl Rees , Jonathan Chick , and Barbara McPake. “ Heavy Drinkers’
Perspectives on Minimum Unit Pricing for Alcohol in Scotland: A Qualitative Interview
Study” SAGE Open July-September 2016: 1–10 DOI: 10.1177/2158244016657141)
