This is an interesting cohort study examining the role of spicy foods in protection for a number of causes
of death. The control for confounders seems to be very well done. The authors controlled for obesity,
overeating may cause indigestion and less use of spices, region of the country as dietary habits may
change by region and other factors may confound this such as air pollution. The analyses are clear and

well described. Also marital status was controlled which may be important if the risk of death is lower in
married people.
The discussion of unmeasured confounders was brief and should give the reader a balanced view. It is
certainly possible that food cooked at home has more chili and such people have more stable lives. While
there are a number of biological explanations as to why spicy foods may be protective, there may be
confounders on the social level that are not explored. BMI for example was analysed at 3 levels but the
very obese have much higher risk of death than just those over the high cut-off. Could the data be
analysed controlling for BMI as a continuous variable?
In the discussion the idea of the spices affecting the microbiota does not lead us very far in
understanding this relationship. Given that there may be health reasons that relate to lifestyle it is wise
to expand the idea that there is still the possibility of residual confounding.
The fact that in men the most protective factor was related to lung disease which is surprising and it
would be interesting to know the authors thoughts on why that may be so. Also in women the risks were
lowered for all of the different causes. The effect is very non-specific so that one wonders if there is not
some pattern of eating that is different for those who do and do not consume spicy foods regularly or
some other attribute. The lack of specificity should also be addressed in the discussion. Not knowing the
cultural patterns the reader is left wondering what explains the differences in consumption of spicy foods.
Do those who eat more “western” foods consume less spices? Fruit and veg intake seemed to be the
same so there is some assurance that the diets are not completely different but who avoids spicy foods is
not clear in the culture studied. Both biological and social explanations need to be discussed.
Grammatical corrections are needed for the following
“The vital status were ascertained by means of linkage with local disease and
death registries,”
“In addition, spicy food consumption may be correlated with socioeconomic status,35 which have been
controlled for in our analyses.”