Review report of “The Lords are leaping: A retrospective cohort analysis of death rates of members of the Houses of
Parliament, 1945 to 2011”
In this study, the authors examined the mortality of members of Parliament compared with general population in UK. The
analysis of the study is interesting, but there are several points to be clarified. My comments are listed below:
Major comments
#1
Throughout the study
The authors used time since first membership of Parliament and compared the mortality with general population. General
population includes healthy, disabled and diseased persons. Because newly elected members of Parliament might be healthier
than general population, it is very natural that they had lower mortality than general population. The authors should mention
carefully about potential bias in the study and state potential contribution in the field of health inequality research, citing
related previous studies.
#2
Abstract (Conclusions, last sentence)
This sentence is difficult to understand from the description in abstract. Furthermore, I disagree with this sentence because
results of 2000-2011 were non-significant but had low point estimate (Figure 1).
#3
Introduction
Please explain the difference between MPs and Lords.
Methods
Please add sufficient explanations for the definitions of education variable, Cabinet appointments and knighthood.
#4
Results (page 7, line 41-43)
Please add enough explanation for this sentence, because I did not understand the meaning.
#5
Discussion (Principal findings, page 8, line 50-53)
It may be overshoot that the authors mentioned life expectancy in the study.
#6
Abstract (Conclusions, second sentence)
It is difficult to understand the meaning directly from the results of the study.
#7
Introduction
The description of “Commons (MPs)” is difficult to understand. Please explain this term sufficiently.
Minor comments
#1

Results (page 4, line 56)
“the period 2000 to 2011 was excluded” may be “SMR of MPs of the period 2000 to 2011 was not significant with wide range of
95% confidence interval”.
#2
Table 2
“Male (%)” should be “Female (%)”.