The current resubmitted manuscript includes details of a population-based cohort study in
Sweden exploring the link between psychiatric disorders that occur in response to severe
acute stress and the development of CVD. Using novel sibling-controlled and
population-matched designs the authors were able to provide information on a large
number of participants (ca. 130,000 patients with the disorder, 170,000 full siblings, and
1.4 million unexposed members of the general population). The authors report finding that
there was a consistent, increased association between having a disorder and a future CVD
event, which was generally robust to all sensitivity analyses. Furthermore, there was a
signal suggesting that this association was stronger in the 1st year post diagnosis
compared to after 1 year post diagnosis.
The authors have done a very good job of responding to the comments of the reviewers
and the manuscript is noticeably better. Below are a couple of extra points which the
authors may consider.
In general, the more I think about the terminology of ‘stress-related disorders,’ which the
authors have a very specific concept of, the more I am concerned that people might
conflate this with a variety of mood and anxiety disorders. Whilst I appreciate that the
disorders that are included in the manuscript aren’t clustered in any formal way (e.g.,
DSM-V), they are responses to severe acute stress and, maybe, this is the way that they

might be best reported throughout the manuscript. The addition of the acute component
certainly provides some distinction between PTSD and something like GAD.
Page 3 Line 55 (abstract), rather than familial factors I would suggest that this is changed
to familial history. The sibling cohorts share a history, but they may still have different
familial factors more broadly.
Page 4 Line 62-63 (summary box), tied to my main comment above, the authors still
include the comment “Accumulating evidence suggests a role of psychiatric reactions to
severe stress in cardiovascular disease…” and then go on to note that this is derived from
males samples and PTSD related research. Depression is another example that could be
included in the “psychiatric reactions to severe stress” category and there is ample
evidence from samples of men and women about its links to the development and
progression of CVD. I would suggest a small rewording of this section to make it clearer
that this is specifically focused on reactions to acute severe stress.
In the patient and public engagement section, whilst it is true that because of the nature of
the data it was not possible for patients or members of the public to influence study
design, these key stakeholders can always be included when generating the research
question. I appreciate that this didn’t happen in the context of the current study, but this
should not be attributed to the fact that the study leveraged a nationwide registry.
Peppered throughout the manuscript, the authors talk about heart failure being an acute
CVD. In reality, the majority of non-post MI heart failure comes from slower processes and
is predominantly considered a chronic onset condition. Given the way the analyses are set
up (i.e., if MI precedes heart failure the MI becomes the incident event not the heart
failure) some tempering of the wording for the acute heart failure phenomenon is
warranted.
With regards to my previous point about Table 1 only reporting psychiatric comorbidity in
the effected cohort only, I appreciate the points raised by the authors around the relatively
small proportion of individuals who, outside the effected cohort, may have a psychiatric
comorbidity and the adjustment of this variable in the analyses. However, I would still
recommend including the rates in all 3 groups. If anything, this would reinforce the above
points.

Simon Bacon
Concordia University
