Thank-you for asking me to review this interesting paper.
I have only a few comments/ concerns.
I would recommend publication as long as the questions issues raised are dealt with to the
satisfaction of the editors.
Introduction, aims/ hypothesis are well presented/written.
Methods; again I think the overall methodology looks sound and the rigorous attempts to
match populations for known risk factors is admirable. However the studies data takes
place over a very long period e.g 20 years; where treatments and diagnosis have changed
significantly over time and hospital size/ numbers may have changed. I could see no
variable/ analysis that attempted to assess if changes over time had an effect or if the
results were weaker/stronger depending on recent or older time frame. A detailed analysis
of all the statistical techniques used and their appropriateness for this data set would
require a statistician to review the paper.
Finally I cannot see any look for the effect of transfers to larger units-were these cases
excluded/ which unit were they assigned to ?
Results; the results are set out well and are relatively easy to follow. However the use of a
standard p value for significance in such a large dataset raises concerns about whether
what is statistically signficant is actually clinically significant. It is also not clear if the
p-values relate to any of the three higher groups being significantly different to the low
volume population (as the reference popn) as for some variables the highest and lowest
groups actually look more similar than the intermediate groups.
Discussion:
The major issues with the discussion are
1) PERT's are somewhat fixated on in the discussion and it is suggested this data is
evidence for their implementation BUT a) no data was collected on PERT use in this data
set (or at least this analysis) b) PERTs are a relatively new development ? 5-7 years as a
more common approach so can't be an efect for the whole 20 years (see my prev
comments re length of time frames). I think if PERTs are to be discussed it needs to be in
afar more circumspect manner e.g "if we find the causes for the difference hospital
volumes are caused by issues amenable to PERT then it may...."
2) The data overall is presented as evidence that higher volume is better BUT the
presentation of the odds ratios suggests that in fact the main difference is between very
low volume hospitals ( I am presuming these are just small regional hospitals- but it could
be they are just terrible at diagnosing PE ??) and the other 3 groups. I did not see any
analysis of differences in outcomes between groups 2-4 between suggesting that there
were not significant differences(?), between 30/7 PE mortality outcomes in these different
size hospitals. There is no real commentary on this but currently the best explanation for
the data would be that patients may get compromised care if they go to very low volume
hospitals and we should consider whether bypassing these hospitals, or getting early
transfer of PE patients from them should be considered.
3) The issue I mentioned in methods re the very long time frames in the study, need to be
discussed re methodological weaknesses/ potential effects on outcomes seen.
4) Another hypothesis not explored is that high volume centres have increased the number
of small/ less critical PE as imaging gets used more/ higher rates, and that they have an
inclusion bias (which could have been explored with a temporal analysis). This should have
been picked up by the other markers of severity used although I note no spec markers of
RV dysfunction are measured in this analysis e.g. trop/BNP/ echo-CT RV findings?
I found the final concluding paragraph problematic given it again highlights PERT- there is
no evidence re PERT presented in this paper, and I think the first sentence would be a
good summary, and certainly the second half of the final sentence discussion PERT should

be removed as it is not a conclusion that can be deduced from the data/ findings
presented.