Review of Manuscript (BMJ.2015.030777) - Comparing Second Opinion Strategies for Improving Breast Pathology
Interpretation
General comments:
This manuscript by Elmore J et al presents different strategies for adding independent second opinions for improving
breast biopsy interpretation amongst participating pathologists. In their earlier study, they assessed diagnostic
concordance rates amongst the pathologists with an expert consensus derived reference diagnoses. They agreed on
lowest concordance rate for cases involving atypia and DCIS (Ductal carcinoma in situ) and highest concordance rates
for cases with invasive carcinoma. In this study, the authors present twelve different strategies for obtaining second
opinions in breast biopsy interpretation and find that all of the strategies significantly improve the overall
misclassification rate except for cases with invasive cancer. They also note that diagnostic variability is not completely
eliminated especially for cases reported as atypia. Although many studies exist in literature that have looked at the
role of second opinions in pathology case interpretations, this study presents different strategies for obtaining second
opinions which has not been looked at in prior studies. This study is also clinically relevant as many pathologists had
also indicated a desire for second opinion especially in cases that are not required to do so by policy, recognizing the
need for better review strategies in interpreting diagnostically challenging cases.
1. Research question:
The hypothesis in this study has been well presented with clear mention of the research question i.e. an analysis of
various second opinion strategies and whether they affect breast pathology interpretation.
2. Originality:
Many studies have looked at usefulness of obtaining second opinions for breast pathology interpretation, with some of
these uncovering clinically significant discrepancies in reporting breast biopsy cases. However, the authors are correct
in stating that none of them have compared or at least identified different systematic strategies for obtaining second
opinions in breast pathology.
3. Overall Study design:
The study has a well presented and a strong research design.
4. Study sample/ participants:
I feel that this is adequate. The inclusion and exclusion criteria are clearly described.
5. Adherence to standards
Adequate, the authors have also included a completed STARD checklist. The manuscript is also free of typographic
errors to the best of my review with up-to-date and matching references.
My overall impression is that this is a clearly executed, well-thought of and presented study on an important topic of
concern in the medical field. It is suitable for the general reader audience of the BMJ and definitely merits
consideration for publication.
Further comments follow.
Specific comments (strengths, suggestions for improvement and/or clarifications):
1. Abstract:
a. Page 3 (lines 33-38), the authors gives us a description of a total of 240 cases interpreted. Perhaps, it would be
better to include the numerical 240 in the first line of the methods section reading as “Interpretations from 115
pathologists of 240 breast biopsy specimens” so that the reader can better understand succeeding lines.
b. Remainder of the abstract including the conclusion is well written and to the point.
2. Introduction:
a. While the authors are correct in saying that there are no studies comparing different systematic approaches for
error reduction in breast pathology interpretation, utilization and comparison of such strategies has been described in
other areas of pathology. Perhaps, the authors may want to consider mentioning some of the other work regarding
second opinions in other areas of pathology that have been done. For e.g. in the article by Laban et al, they have
proposed the use of algorithms for dealing with diagnostic difficulties in cutaneous lymphoproliferative disorders
utilizing regional network resources.(1)
1. Laban E, Baylot-Barry M, Ortonne N et al. Cutaneous lymphoproliferations: proposal for the use of diagnostic
algorithms based on 2760 cases of cutaneous lymphoproliferations taken from the INCa networks (LYMPHOPATH and
GFELC) over a two-year period. Ann Pathol. 2015;35(2):131-47.
b. It is also notable that the best methods for obtaining 2nd opinions in pathology are not known and I agree with the

authors in stating this. Perhaps, with more studies comparing such different strategies, institutions can come up with
revised protocols for obtaining second reviews especially in diagnostically complex areas.
c. Remainder of the introduction section is succinctly written for the reader’s understanding.
3. Research methodology
a. Page 7 (lines 49-52), the authors have stated “…cases were divided into four test sets of 60 cases as previously
described.” From a reader standpoint of view, one may not appreciate this statement at first glance. Although clear
description of methodology has been described in succeeding paragraphs, the authors could rephrase this statement
better or do away with “as previously described”.
b. The research methodology is otherwise clearly worded and well described.
4. Interpretations and conclusions
a. Page 14 (lines 13-18), the authors state that the lowest overall misclassification rate was noted when both first
interpretation and second opinion were obtained from high volume pathologists. While this is true, the greatest
reduction however seems to be when the first interpretation was obtained from low volume pathologists and second
and third opinions from high volume pathologists. The authors may want to clarify this.
b. From each of the strategies discussed, it also seems clear that cases of atypia and DCIS tend to be underinterpreted when considered as an interpretation rate % of the reference consensus diagnosis. Perhaps, the authors
would like to comment on this observation regarding high under-interpretation rates.
c. In their previous investigational study (2), the authors state that “Disagreement with the reference diagnosis was
statistically significantly higher among biopsies from women with higher (n = 122) vs lower (n = 118) breast density
on prior mammograms (overall concordance rate, 73% [95% CI, 71%-75%] for higher vs 77% [95% CI, 75%-80%]
for lower, P < .001). It may be interesting to know if predetermined variables such as these may affect formulation of
strategies for obtaining second opinions.
2. Elmore JG, Longton G, Carney PA, et al. Diagnostic Concordance among Pathologists Interpreting Breast Biopsy
Specimens. JAMA 2015;313(11):1122-32.
d. Page 15 (lines 20-25), the authors state “In actual clinical practice, obtaining second opinions in such diagnostically
complex areas may, over time, promote intra-practice consensus by highlighting diagnostic areas requiring education
or expert consultation.” Some studies such as the one mentioned below have been conducted in Europe assessing the
impact of forming regional networks to assist in diagnosing difficult lesions of the breast, with the goal of achieving
standardization across pathological processes.(3)
3. Quintyn-Ranty ML, Gordien K, Caveriviere P et al. Improving practice in breast pathology: 34-months experience of
the regional SENOPATH network and webinars as a tool for diagnosis of difficult lesions of the breast. Bull Cancer
2015;102(10):823-33.
e. The conclusion section of the manuscript is also well written and adequately summarizes the study with
identification of areas for conducting further research.
5. References
The references are generally well written and comply with the journal’s standards.
Page 21 (line 8) Should read as JAMA 2015;313(11):1109-10
6. Summary/ Key message
Overall well conveyed.
Review completed by:
Swarup Kumar MD
Internal Medicine Resident, Saint Vincent Hospital, Worcester USA
Addtl position: Research Collaborator, Mayo Clinic, Rochester USA