The authors have conducted a three-arms RCT to treat patients with “chronic vertigo” in individuals aged
50 years or more. The design of the study may include a selection bias and the inclusion criteria are not
clearly defined. This reviewer considers that this is mandatory for any study and essential for RCT.
The major concern is the definition of chronic vertigo, a term that is misleading and it not previously
defined by the Barany Society or any other Scientific Society in Neurotology. It is not clear what the
authors include in this concept:
BPPV? Vestibular neuritis? Unilateral vestibular hypofunction?
Bilateral vestibular hypofucntion?
Are these patients included? How many for each diagnosis? Can the authors include a Table with the
vestibular diagnoses for the selected patients?
Each of these conditions has a different treatment and the rehabilitation therapy is not the same for
BPPV, uni or bilateral vestibular hypofunction, so this information must be known, before a patient can
be selected for the RCT.
In the methods section, the authors state “Eligible participants aged 50 years and older, who had visited
their GP with dizziness in the last two years. The GP screened the list of potentially eligible patients and
excluded those with: an identifiable non-vestibular cause of dizziness”
Here the authors mix the terms vertigo and dizziness and there is no clear diagnoses used as inclusión
criteria. Furthermore, they do not define the two major groups in the symptom vertigo: spontaneous
vertigo or triggered vertigo, that will at least discriminate BPPV from spontaneous vertigo.
Vestibular symptoms are classified in four major domains: Vertigo, dizziness, Vestibulo-visual symptoms
and postural symptoms (Bisdorff et al., 2009): “Vertigo is the sensation of self-motion when no
self-motion is occurring or the sensation of distorted self-motion during an otherwise normal head
movement… ”Non-vertiginous dizziness is the sensation of disturbed or impaired spatial orientation
without a false or distorted sense of motion.
The confusion of vertigo and dizziness is also observed in the results and discussion sections.
The description about the limitations of the study do not recognize the lack of a vestibular diagnosis as a
problem:
“… we did not ascertain specific vestibular disorders in participants and were therefore not able to
consider our results in relation to specific diagnoses. However, using a vertigo symptom diagnosis
instead of a vestibular disorder diagnosis is common in general practice and thus appropriate in a
pragmatic trial. In chronic vertigo, specific treatments for different vestibular disorders, such as the
Epley manoeuvre for posterior canal BPPV, are advised in addition to VR. Since we asked GPs to follow
the current Dutch Dizziness guideline in diagnosing and treating vestibular disorders, participants in all
groups may also have received other vestibular treatment.”
The authors state that the patients may have received other vestibular treatments, but they do not
report the vestibular diagnosis. How do they control this intervention?

Moreover, although the authors describe a high number of missing individuals in the recruitment they do
not consider this as a selection bias. “First, only a small percentage (<10%) of patients, who were
invited to participate, enrolled in the trial. 61.4% of invited participants did not respond to our
invitation…
. A large proportion of non-responders may no longer experience dizziness. This is a speculation since
the authors did not follow the patients.
Moreover, the exclusion criteria are also ambiguous: “The GP screened the list of potentially eligible
patients and excluded those with: an identifiable non-vestibular cause of dizziness; …
What non-vestibular conditions were selected as exclusion criteria? Vestibular migraine? Orthostatic
hypotesion? Motion sickness? Syncope? History or cerebrovascular disease, including transient ischemic
attacks?

“medical contraindications for making the required head movements (e.g. severe cervical arthrosis);
serious comorbid conditions precluding participation in an exercise programme; or current enrolment in
another interfering study.
Title, I strongly recommend to modify the title, abstract and the entire text of the article. The term
chronic vertigo should be modified by “chronic vestibular syndrome” according to the definitions stated
by the International Classification of Vestibular Disorders.
Abstract:
Participants: The inclusion criteria were “vertigo symptoms lasting for more than one month”. These
criteria are too broad and multiple disorders with different etiology could be included such as BPPV,
Meniere o vestibular migraine.
The selection of one-month criteria as duration to define chronic symptoms is too short and for the
majority of chronic conditions, WHO recommends 3 months.
The evaluation of the intervention without diagnostic criteria is not possible and the outcome may be
biased.
The vestibular medicine needs a common language for GPs and specialists for diagnosis and treatment.
If GPs design a RCT using “pragmatical diagnostic criteria”, we will except biased findings.
References
1. Bisdorff A, Brevern Von M, Lempert T, Newman-Toker DE. Classification of vestibular symptoms:
towards an international classification of vestibular disorders. J Vestib Res. 2009;19(1-2):1–13.
2. Kim H-A, Bisdorff A, Bronstein AM, Lempert T, Rossi-Izquierdo M, Staab JP, et al. Hemodynamic
orthostatic dizziness/vertigo: Diagnostic criteria. J Vestib Res. 2019 Mar 11.
3. Agrawal Y, van de Berg R, Wuyts F, Walther L, Magnusson M, Oh E, et al. Presbyvestibulopathy:
Diagnostic criteria Consensus document of the classification committee of the Bárány Society. J Vestib
Res. 2019 Jul 12.
4. Strupp M, Kim JS, Murofushi T, Straumann D, Jen JC, Rosengren SM, et al. Bilateral vestibulopathy:
Diagnostic criteria Consensus document of the Classification Committee of the Bárány Society. J Vestib
Res. 2017;27(4):177–89.
5. Strupp M, Lopez-Escamez JA, Kim JS, Straumann D, Jen JC, Carey J, et al. Vestibular paroxysmia:
Diagnostic criteria. J Vestib Res. 2016;26(5-6):409–15.
6. Brevern Von M, Bertholon P, Brandt T, Fife T, Imai T, Nuti D, et al. Benign paroxysmal positional
vertigo: Diagnostic criteria. J Vestib Res. 2015;25(3-4):105–17.
7. Lopez-Escamez JA, Carey J, Chung W-H, Goebel JA, Magnusson M, Mandalà M, et al. Diagnostic
criteria for Menière's disease. J Vestib Res. 2015;25(1):1–7.
8. Lempert T, Olesen J, Furman J, Waterston J, Seemungal B, Carey J, et al. Vestibular migraine:
diagnostic criteria. J Vestib Res. 2012;22(4):167–72.
