External beam radiotherapy is the mostly commonly treated radical (curative) modality to treat prostate cancer in the UK. Over
10,000 men per year are treated in this way. It is well known that there is potential for an increased risk of second
malignancies after radiotherapy but there has been conflicting evidence concerning the incidence and timescale of such risk.
The authors, therefore, are to be commended on performing this substantial meta-analysis. They have pointed out that there
are many confounding variables in the comparison of patient cohorts treated in different ways. Some of these thoughts could
be usefully expanded. A particular issue is that of smoking. Both lung and bladder cancer (add to discussion, page 22, line 48)
are associated with smoking habit and this could readily explain some of the higher odds ratios seen for using external beam
radiotherapy rather than surgery shown in Table 3 and supported by the potentially lower odds ratios for brachytherapy which
would be used for fitter patients. Similar issues may also exist for bladder cancer. Another potential confounder is body mass
index or weight which has been reported to be associated with increased incidences of both prostate cancer and bowel cancer,
for example. These issues might be briefly discussed.
The search for relevant papers appears comprehensive to me.
Table 2 could perhaps be moved to the appendix. Forest plot for bladder cancer using the lag periods and adjusted hazard
ratios described in Figure 2. I think it may be useful to show similar Forest plots for at least colorectal and rectal cancer.
It would be extremely helpful to have further (necessarily simplified) estimates of the risks of external beam radiotherapy for
patients. The odds ratios may sound off-putting for patients and clinicians alike. If a patient is told they have a doubled risk of
developing cancer in the future, this can be readily misinterpreted. What is really more useful is to estimate how many out of
every 100 patients treated with (in this case) external beam radiotherapy may develop a cancer that they would not have done
otherwise. Again, here, the time period/course of development for second cancers is important and there is no easy way the
reader can get at that risk over 5, 10 or 15 year period from the data presented. Estimates here would complement and
enhance the statement "the absolute rates of these second cancers remain very low", page 23, line 53.
The authors should state whether their incidence of bladder cancer includes both superficial (usually not life threatening) and
muscle invasive cancers or muscle invasive cancers alone. (If this is not clear from the contributing papers, the authors should
briefly state this).
Prof David Dearnaley