I would like to thank the authors for addressing my initial statistical comments. Here are a few final comments on the
manuscript - these are only minor but I feel they would improve the manuscript. Point 10 is the most important to
consider.
1) Line 163: Change chi-square to chi-squared. Similar in Table 1. Please check elsewhere
2) In the methods section - when referring to your Poisson models, I would say that you are estimating Relative Risks
and 95% CI's
2) Please be consistent with the reporting of p-values. For example in the text p<0.0001 is reported compared with
p<0.001 in the table. Perhaps the BMJ has standard guidance on this.
3) Line 201: a p-value is reported as p<0.0001 - from the way this is written, it looks like this is the difference in
fracture rates between the three group but there is no p-value in Table 2, it's left as '----'.
4) The use of the way p-values is reported in Table 2 is confusing. The non-obese group is used as a reference and then
one p-value is reported. There should be a related p-value for both the obese and bariatric groups. From the CI's I can
see they are both significant and probably have the same p-value as reported, but this doesn't necessarily have to be
the case - same problem in Table 4, here there may well be a difference where you report exact p-values. I would also
present the RR and CI's in the text as well as the p-values.
5) From Table 2: the period after the index date results are not described in the text as presented in the Table, rather a
new result is presented (data not shown in tables) - I found this confusing.
6) Table 3 - for clarity I would also label as the pre- and post- surgery period to be consistent with the text. Same for
other tables While it's kind of obvious, for clarity I would also label 'central fractures' as you refer to in the text.
7) Line 215, I'm not sure I like the term 'increased' or 'gradient' - these terms are usually used to describe a trend - I
think you are merely pointing out that the proportion of fracture rates are 'lower' or 'higher' on average.
8) Line 223: You have switched. In line 222 you talk about higher risk in bariatric group and obese group first then on
line 223 you talk about risk reduction in obese THEN bariatric group - please be consistent in the way you report.
9) Line 226: whilst reported correctly, I'm not sure why you switch from reporting the RR and CI for one comparison and
then the % difference for the others.

10) I am confused with Figure 2 - what is presented here that is different from Table 4 results. Based on the numbers,
it's not obvious the message is the same.
11) Line: 253. 'surgery groups and all signficantly higher than the non-obese group' Significant in a statistical sense?
How do you know? Same when you refer to adjusted fracture risk being similar between surgical groups (pre-surgery) are they that similar? Most seem closer to the obese group but AGP seems stand-alone.