Major comments:
In the present manuscript authors aimed to assess the association of dietary fatty acids
with cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality and total mortality among patients with type 2
diabetes (T2D) prospectively utilizing 2 cohorts: 11,264 participants with T2D in the
Nurses’ Health Study (NHS)(1980-2014) and Health Professionals Follow-Up Study
(HPFS)(1986-2014).
Dietary fat intake was assessed using validated food frequency questionnaires which were
updated every 2-4 years and total and CVD mortality during follow-up period were

analysed from documented 2,502 deaths, including 646 deaths due to CVD, then results of
each fat were depicted after multivariate adjustment in terms of replacement of total
carbohydrates and isocalorically replacing 2% of energy from saturated fatty acids (SFAs).
As results intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in replacement of total
carbohydrates was associated with a lower CVD mortality for total PUFAs, marine n-3
PUFAs, and linoleic acid (LA), but not for α-linolenic acid (ALA). Inverse associations with
total mortality were observed for intake of total PUFAs, n-3 PUFAs, and LA, while intake of
monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) of animal, but not plant, origin was associated with a
higher total mortality. Finally, isocalorically replacing 2% of energy from SFAs with total
PUFAs or LA was associated with lower CVD mortality, and that with total PUFAs was
associated with lower total mortality.
In addition, the relationship between dietary fat intake and cancer mortality was assessed
and it was found that ALA is inversely associated with cancer mortality.
Authors concluded that in T2D patients higher intake of certain PUFAs, in replacement of
carbohydrates or SFAs, is associated with lower CVD and total mortality.
This reviewer agrees that the methods and analyses conducted were well designed and
well done and the results gained can lead to the conclusion that dietary fat quality has an
important role for the prevention of CVD and total mortality among adults with T2D. The
results gained are of very much clinical relevance.
However, this reviewer is somewhat concerned about several points listed below and would
like authors to respond to them.
Firstly, precise dietary assessment seems crucial as well as one of the advantageous points
of the present manuscript. It is written that “Dietary fat intake was assessed using
validated food frequency questionnaires and updated every 2-4 years” and “Dietary fats
were expressed as percentages of energy and we calculated cumulative averages across
valid assessments during the follow-up to represent long-term intake”. In this context, in
the manuscript from the authors’ group published in 2017 (ref. 32) it is written that “In the
NHS, dietary questionnaires used in this analysis were completed in 1980, 1984, 1986, and
then every four years for a total of nine. In the HPFS, dietary questionnaires were
completed in 1986 and then every 4 years for a total of seven”. Did authors use also the
same dietary assessment method in the present manuscript as the previous manuscript?
Secondly, also concerning dietary assessment of fats it is written in methods that in
validation studies, the assessment of dietary fats was compared with that estimated by
multiple 1-wk diet records (semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaires: sFFQs) and
fatty acid biomarkers in adipose tissue. Correlation coefficients between fat intakes
assessed by the 1986 FFQ and diet records were reported to be 0.70 for SFAs, 0.69 for
MUFAs, and 0.64 for PUFAs. However, correlations between fatty acids estimated from
FFQs and measured in adipose tissue were reported to be 0.35 for LA, 0.48 for marine n-3
PUFAs, and 0.51 for trans fatty acids. This reviewer is concerned that the correlation for LA
was so low that this might have affected the results.
Thirdly, LA intake has been reported to reduce LDL-C and large amount intake of EPA and
DHA reduces triglyceride which in turn may result in decrease in CVD events. In earlier
studies used for meta-analysis in ref. 35 in which substituting PUFAs for SFAs reduced
coronary heart disease risk by approximately 30%, for example were reported in 1968,
1969, 1970 and 1979 when statin use had not been started or did not so prevail, thus,
LDL-C level of participants was supposed to be high. During study assessment period:
1980-2014 in NHS and 1986-2014 in HPFS, drugs administered to participants as well as
dietary habit might have been changed. So, this reviewer is concerned whether LDL-C and
triglyceride levels were included in the participants’ data, and if not, how contribution of
lipid lowering drugs such as statins and fibrates were included in the present analysis.

Finally, in the present manuscript authors compared the effects of fats by isocalorically
replacing 2% of energy from SFAs with the other fats. In the previous manuscript using
NHS and HPFS cohorts (ref. 32) authors’ group observed the effects of fats by isocalorically
replacing 5% of energy from SFAs with the other fats. Is there any advantage or merit to
apply 2% replacement compared with 5% replacement?

Minor comment:
Changes in dietary SFA is often associated with changes intake of cholesterol. Change in
serum total cholesterol level has been calculated by using Keys’ equation which includes
dietary changes of SFA, PUFA and cholesterol. When SFA intake is increased in
participants, if cholesterol intake is also increased and contributed to raise serum LDL-C, if
any, it might have something to do with changes in CVD and cancer. This matter
concerning cholesterol may not be directly related to the purpose of the present
manuscript, but this reviewer would like to receive comment from authors about any role
of cholesterol intake in the present cohorts.

This reviewer is somehow concerned about the points listed above. The priority of the
present manuscript this reviewer thinks is enough high for publication in the BMJ provided
that the authors respond appropriately to the comments raised by this reviewer.
