General comments:
The paper discusses the role of health services in the Anthropocene, with a specific focus
on climate change. The paper is interesting and topical.
I did struggle reviewing this paper. I found it to lack structure and a clear message. The
author’s argument seems to be “If human civilisation is to survive in the Anthropocene,
there is an absolute imperative that health and social care services, along with the rest of
the economy, must become carbon neutral”. This, however, is not revealed until page 6
(of 8).
I found myself reading with scepticism, largely generated by inconsistencies, hyperbole,
incomplete arguments and what felt like a biased presentation of facts (please see specific
comments below).
As noted above, I think the subject is very interesting and is certainly topical, however,
the paper would greatly benefit from some structure (perhaps sub-headings) and clearly
setting out a) what is currently being done b) whether this is adequate c) if not, why not
d) what else the authors suggest and e) anything else they wish to convey. I found these
elements to be contradictory or missing.
Specific comments:
• Page 1, lines 17-21 – It is claimed that “environmental crisis” is not broad enough to
encapsulate the social justice, economic and “above all” health crisis that the world is
facing. I don’t feel that this is adequately explained or justified in the paper. It is an
interesting statement that teases at an inextricable link between climate change and a
health crisis – yet, I do not think the link is explained. The paper does go on to give
examples of ways in which the health system can take steps to benefit the environment
etc but does not explain why such steps are required or explain any health crisis that
needs to be overcome.
• Page 1, line 39 “largest employers in any given area” – This should be sourced. Without
a source, it seems hyperbolic and undermines the credibility of the paper.
• Page 2 – Carbon emissions are discussed, and whilst sources are used, as a reader, I felt
sceptical that the facts were correct. Is it being suggested that pharmaceutical supply
chain emissions account for nearly two thirds of all carbon emissions in England?? This is
how it reads (and seems unlikely). The source used suggests supply chain emissions
account for a large portion of England’s overall emissions. Whilst pharmaceutical supply
chain emissions may make up a portion of all supply chain emissions, they alone would
not account for two thirds of all of England’s carbon emissions. As noted above, hyperbole
and emotion need to be carefully avoided – each undermine the credibility of the
argument and paper.

• Page 3, Line 8 “practical guidance is essential” – Page 2 references practical, tested
guidance that (in context) sounds like it was issued by the NHS in England. On page 3, is
that guidance being referenced and praised as it is essential or is further guidance
essential? This is unclear and contradictory.
• Page 3, lines 27-49 – While reading about the UK’s legislative and regulatory framework
and the international framework, I was struck with the thought “hang on, is this paper
telling us that there is a huge crisis requiring immediate action (page 1) or is this paper
telling us that effective systems are already in place”? As noted above in relation to the
practical guidance reference, it seems as though the paper tells us something is needed or
urgently required, but then goes on to say it is already in existence/has been
implemented. Is the purpose therefore to highlight inadequacies in the existing systems
and suggestions for improvement? The messaging of the paper is unclear.
• Page 3, line 59 “crucial months and years ahead”. Why are the next months and years
crucial? The paper talks about NHS’ 10-year commitment and outcomes through to 2050.
Are those time-lines inadequate? Why the urgency?
• Page 6, line 3 – Is this the purpose of the paper? Is the main argument that “if human
civilisation is to survive in the Anthropocene, there is an absolute imperative that health
and social care services, along with the rest of the economy, must become carbon
neutral”? If so, this is buried too deeply within the paper and should be included at the
beginning. This may assist with giving the paper more context and structure. E.g. If this is
the main argument, the content can then be couched as either effective or lacking with
suggestions for improvement.
• Page 6, lines 31-47 – Steps to decarbonise the economy are listed. Who will pay for
these changes? There is inadequate discussion in the paper around possible cost
constraints or suggestions for funding. The steps suggested are quite incredible
(re-engineering all existing buildings to minimise energy use) and the lack of
acknowledgement around cost undermines the credibility of the paper.
• Page 7, lines 8-31 – It is suggested that inhalers and anaesthetic gasses are eliminated.
Whilst an alternative form of inhaler is referenced, there is no suggestion as to what would
replace anaesthetic gasses. As noted above, presenting an incomplete picture (i.e. “we
must do x” with no discussion around how, who, cost, alternatives etc), greatly
undermines the suggestion being made and feeds the hyperbolic tone of the paper.
• Page 7, lines 33 – 51 – It is suggested twice in this section that personal health benefits
be forgone in favour of stopping carbon-intensive healthcare interventions. I struggle to
take this seriously. I think this needs to be re-worded. I cannot imagine the healthcare
system, with values of health and wellbeing inherent (referenced by the authors at the
beginning of the article), being open to suggestions that favour climate action over the
personal health and safety.
