Fang and colleagues reported a nosocomial transmission of novel influenza A(H7N9) virus in Quzhou City
of Zhejiang Province, China in 2015. In general, the study is interesting and the manuscript is well
written and organized. They performed a comprehensive epidemiological investigation,
molecular,virologicaland serological testing, and phylogenetic analysis to determine this nosocomial
transmission among H7N9 virus cases and close contacts. According to their results, it is clear that this is
a cluster of two hospitalized H7N9-infected patients.Although the family cluster of H7N9 infection have
been reported, this nosocomial transmission is unique as the two patients have no poultry co-exposure
history compared with family cluster cases, and the two patients shared same room during the
hospitalization, which raise our concern for efficient human-to-human transmission in future as the more
and more H7N9 cases have been reported in China. The study is very interesting and is important for
future H7N9 virus control and prevention among people who had high risk infection of the virus and the
hospitals where they have low-settings and poor management.
Major comments to authors
The epidemiological investigation should be more detailed. Please add the type and frequency of contact
of the second case with the index case when he shared a ward room with the index case.
Minor comments to authors
1. page 7, the authors described the HI and MN assays to determine the antibodies against H7N9 virus,
but I did not know if they used positive sera of H7N9 virus as control to confirm their results is solid. This
should be described in detail. They also need to describe the receptor binding assay in more detail as I
could not understand fully although they have cited the reference.
2. page 10, the authors used a subtitle “suspected infection of doctor and nurse”, I think they want to
highlight the suspected infection of doctor and nurse, but their results showed that all close contacts
were negative for both molecular detection and MN assay. So, I would suggested the authors could revise
this subtitle, such as “close contacts monitoring”.
3. page 11, the author check the key substitution of three viruses that may associated with virulence and
mammalian adaption, the references for ….receptor in line 51, ….observed in all viruses in line 53, and
….were also identified in line 56, and other parts of this paragraph accordingly should be cited.
4. page 12, the authors used A/chicken/Jiangsu/927/2014(H5N1) isolated from their lab, did theyget the
accession number for this virus? If yes, please provide in methods section.
5. table 2, the NA should be written “NA=not applicable due the lack sequencing data.
6.figure 1, the author should add some words, such as “duration of possible infection time” on horizontal
and blue double tines to make it more clear.
7.page 24, the HA and NA in legend of figure 2 should be written as haemagglutinin and neuraminidase,
and then note HA=haemagglutinin, NA=neuraminidase in brackets. This also should be revised in legend
of Figure S3.
8.figure 2, extra word “HA” should been deleted from the “A/Quzhou/2/2015(H7N9)HA”.
9.figure 3, the panel B lack the abscissa, this should been revised.
