Secondhand smoke and incidence of dental caries in deciduous teeth among children in Japan – Results from the Kobe
Offspring Study
This study investigated smoking status during maternal pregnancy and before the window of infectivity as risk factors
for the incidence of caries in deciduous teeth using a cohort of 76920 Japanese children. This paper addresses an
important public health problem, maternal smoking during pregnancy and the incidence of dental caries.
The paper is well written, but minor English editing will be necessary. I have the following comments: Abstract:
The abstract is good and summarizes the overall study.
Introduction:
This part is concise and discussed the main points clearly. However, the need for this paper is not well-discussed.
There is some evidence that exposure reduction to tobacco or SHS may reduce the dental caries, however, these are
not discussed.
Methods:
- The study is based on a retrospective cohort study. Key variables are well described.

- The definition used to measure SHS exposure to the child is not very clear. Does the author have any reference?
Smoking in-front of a child was used to define the exposure. How about if one smoked in another room, but the child
visited the room later and stayed there for some time?
- In the literature, 3rd hand smoke is becoming a growing topic in relation to child’s exposure to SHS. A discussion
about this would be useful in the introduction or the Methods section….also in the limitation. How the issue of 3rd hand
smoke could effects the findings of SHS measurement?
Results:
- This section is good.
- The use of Supplementary tables made the result section more clear. However, I am not sure whether the BMJ have
enough space to publish these. May be these could be available in the BMJ site via a link.
Discussion:
- The discussion part is well-organized and well-written. However, the implication of the study is not discussed.
- What is the public health importance of the findings? Demands for intervention to reducing SHS exposure to children
is not new. Many studies are arguing for this. What is unique for this paper? Is not enough done in the dental setting
to address SHS exposure? How the maternal and child health settings can be used to promote SHS exposure reduction
to children?