Thank you for the opportunity to review this very interesting and important work by Khera
et al. In this analysis, the authors use national Medicare data to assess 30-day mortality
for 4 specific groups of patients divided by types of post-acute care hospitalization
including one group of patients who are included in HRRP following acute care inpatient
hospitalization but who are then evaluated in an ED or admitted to observation status
within 30 days after initial acute care hospitalization. This analytic question attempts to
assess the concern that increased mortality for heart failure patients could have been
related to inappropriate lack of hospitalization related to the penalties. The analysis is very
rigorous and also uses more methods to address these controversial issues.
The authors should be congratulated that this analysis attempts to address changes in
coding of risk adjustment over time. Some of the analyses of HRRP have done this and
others have not. However, of course, a drawback of the method used here is that you are
not directly accounting for changes in case mix over time. The authors attempt to
address this with using comprehensive inpatient and outpatient codes. An alternative
strategy would be to limit the codes used and risk adjustment to 9 billing codes. A big part
of the concern, as you know, is that the electronic transaction standards for Medicare
inpatient visits changed in 2012 so that method would both allow comparison of case mix
over time but also address the change in the electronic transaction standards. Of course,
in addition to the change in electronic standards there may have been changes in coding
related to hospital efforts to capture more codes used in risk adjustment. Measuring
trends in hospice use, for example, as you have done, may get at some of those issues by
capturing risk in other ways.
One interesting feature of this analysis is that in general, the analyses that have
demonstrated increases in mortality for heart failure patients under HRRP have taken the
entire population as a whole and demonstrated trends among the whole population.
Conversely the analyses that have been reassuring, including from this research group,
have used hospital-level comparisons of readmission and mortality. The argument to use
hospital level comparisons, and I imagine these authors will agree, is that you avoid
ecological inference bias. This analysis here is important because it is largely reassuring
against the mortality concern - but also reassures without using hospital level comparisons.
I really think there is an argument both ways (ie hospital level vs. the population as a
whole) but this paper is important insofar as it essentially takes the population as a whole
and still provides reassuring results with respect to the mortality issue.

I do still think the potential argument that readmission penalties lead to more attention on
readmissions and less on mortality are still potentially compatible with your finding here
that mortality went up for heart failure patients primarily among those not readmitted and
not evaluated in the ED or in observation. But you also provide some reassuring evidence
insofar as the decrease in AMI mortality was observed primarily among those readmitted.
The statistical methods used here essentially look at average rates of change of all these
metrics from 2008-2016. Since the statistical methods involve linear assumptions (and
assess those assumptions with the non-parametric runs test) it would increase the
confidence in these findings if sensitivity analyses were confirmatory varying the first year
and the last year (as long as you keep the law passage of 2010 and the implementation
start of 2012 in the range of years of course). I was also not clear how the non-parametric
test was evaluated to assess these linear assumptions. One particular issue with this is
that you distinguish your results from Wadhera’s JAMA paper in part by saying you have
more contemporary data here (which is true).
It would be also helpful to have more discussion about how differences in both the data
sources and statistical methods might cause differences between these results and some of
the other papers (Wadhera’s JAMA paper and the Fonarow JAMA cardiology paper from a
clinical registry). It also would be ideal to have more discussion about ecological inference
bias and the issue about how to analyze the population as a whole vs. per hospital.
I would also be more explicit in the text about when exactly the trend of increased
mortality among all patients with CHF began. From my review of figure 3, it looks like it is
starting before the beginning of the study period (as early as 2008). It is important to be
clear about this because this was even before the public reporting of readmission rates
through Hospital Compare (ie even before passage of the Affordable Care Act).
Thank you for having me review this interesting work.
