The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of hospital coding in acute stroke admissions on weekdays
versus weekends and the potential impact of inaccuracies on apparent coding. To achieve their goal, the authors
analyzed data obtained from the OXVASC study. OXVASC is a famous well-designed and high-quality populationbased stroke registry with exhaustive case-ascertainment, complying with the criteria for conducting stroke
incidence study. As a result, the authors found that the use of retrospective UK coding administrative data is not
reliable to evaluate the “weekend effect”.
We must congratulate the authors for their great work. The methodology used is adequate and well described, and
the paper is well written. This is a scientific demonstration of the suspected unreliability of coding administrative
data for the identification of a potential weekend effect discussed in previous studies that focused on this topic.
Such a demonstration is of importance so as to avoid a misinterpretation of results and wrong conclusions.
I have only a few comments to make:
1) In the abstract, the authors described no adverse “weekend effect” on mRS score at 30-day or 1-year whereas
its seems that the ordinal regression logistic analysis showed a significant difference. This difference needs to be
discussed by the authors.
2) I agree that administrative coding data are not adapted to detect any potential weekend effect. But I think that it
does not necessarily means that the weekend effect does not exist. In their discussion, the authors did not consider
that the fact that population-based studies concluded to the absence of weekend effect could be due to a welldeveloped stroke care organization in the studied populations. For example, the study from the population-based
Dijon Stroke Registry (Béjot et al., 2013) showed that a deleterious effect of weekends/bank holidays on early
stroke mortality did exist during the 90s and disappeared after the organization of a dedicated stroke care network
in the community. The HR=1.00 from the Dijon study provided in the pooled analysis of the present paper (table
4B) corresponds in fact to the time period 2004-2010. From a public health perspective, I think that the authors
should discuss this point so as to insist on the fact that the implementation of quality improvement initiatives
(dedicated specialized stroke network) may contribute to attenuate inequalities in the management of stroke
patients, and that only high quality population-based studies are able to evaluate the effect of such initiatives.

In conclusion, this is an excellent paper based on a high quality stroke registry. Analyses performed are
comprehensive and support the conclusions of the authors, which are of a particular importance for interpretationsof
findings of other previous or future studies. I am really enthusiastic about this study