This paper describes a very large registry study from Sweden comparing the frequency of
prostate cancer diagnoses in men who have required some forms of assisted reproduction
compared with those who conceived naturally over the same time period covering a 20 year
follow up period. That allowed the early diagnosis of the cancer and the calculation of risks
for those men who conceived naturally and the two groups requiring assisted conception,
those having IVF and those ICSI.
This is a very large study from reliable registries and so merits attention. The Tables are
important and the three Figures are also, with Fig. 1 being the flowchart. The references are
adequate and up to date. The papers adds a particular, original perspective, recruiting
subjects identified as having assisted conception (through an infertility clinic). The statistical
approach seems appropriate and acceptable. The research question is clearly defined with an
adequate design. however the subjects should be more clearly described and their conditions
defined.
The results are well presented, but a number of questions arise about the subjects and
hence the interpretation, so the results cannot be taken at face value. It is noted that the
opposite conclusion is drawn from the work of others quoted and it is difficult to believe the
results and conclusions once the reservations have been taken into account. The outcome
measure interpretation is not clear (see ‘proxy for the clinical significance of malignancy’
(below). A number of assumptions have been made and there is no discussion of potential
bias arising from these.

Assisted conception also includes intrauterine insemination and men whose partners have
been treated using this modality have not been included, so the description of assisted
conception should be qualified by mentioning this. Perhaps half of the couples treated by IVF
(see page 5, line 26) are treated because of problems in the female partner, yet no
allowance has been made for that; it may markedly reduce the number of men included and
hence markedly increase the frequency of the prostate cancer in that group. That would also
complicate the interpretation, as the IVF subjects would have a higher frequency of cancer of
the prostate than those having ICSI.
Although it is less likely to be so in Sweden, in many countries ICSI is used frequently as a
supplement to IVF even when there has been no male indication. Some information about
the use of ICSI in Sweden is required to eliminate that possibility and to comment on the
potential impact that would have on the calculations. Perhaps reference to any clinical
guidelines in Sweden would help, such as a restriction on the use of ICSI to those men with
severe semen defects.
It would be helpful to know how the diagnosis of prostate cancer was made, presumably
histological and not only by PSA result (qv page 14, lines 19-22). What were the indications
for prostatic needle biopsy? Is there a national screening PSA programme and if so, what are
the criteria?
What is the indication for ADT? Relatively few were treated by ADT, although more of the
ICSI fathers. Is it routine or given only to later stage cancer patients? Is it selectively given
to the younger patients? How is this a proxy for severity, assessment of which is one of the
objectives of the study?
The objectives relate to a comparison of men conceiving naturally, yet later in the paper
there is reference to “spontaneous” pregnancy, it would be better described as “natural”.
ICD7 is used for classification (Page 7, line 42). ICD10 was developed in 1955. Why was
ICD 7 used and what are the differences compared to ICD10, or indeed the current one,
ICD11?
Page 8, line 54, were right censored.
The mean ages of the three groups (Table 1), normal reference group, the IVF group and the
ICSI group are each only about a year different. Is the distribution of ages different?
Although these may be statistically different, does the one year difference have important
clinical implications or is there little difference?
The conclusion in the Abstract relates to the possibility of prostate cancer testing as a
component of longer term follow. Should this be PSA (and what are the criteria) or some
other test?
Page 13, lines 27-29 presumably refers to those men having fertility treatment and not
succeeding in achieving a pregnancy. Men not becoming fathers would, of course, be
included in the cancer registries if they had cancer of the prostate.
Early onset and more aggressive cancer are correlated (page 13, lines 50-52), yet on page
14, lines 19-26, the expectation is the opposite, if the assumption is that ADT is used for
more aggressive cancers. How are these statements reconciled? ADT is used “as proxy for
clinical significance of malignancy” (Abstract, Main outcome measures, page 2, line 43-4):
does this mean stage or histological grading and degree of aggression / anaplastic
classification?
In Table 1, the symbol for ‘No. of fathers treated with ADT’ has no relevant footnote.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Prof Ian D. Cooke
Job Title: Emeritus Professor
Institution: University of Sheffield
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here: Nil

Reviewer: 4
Recommendation:
