This is an important paper. The authors provided an improved manuscript and they tried to respond to
the suggestion in a positive way.
I have basically only one remaining concern and suggestion. My suggestions were mostly focused on the
concern that the approach to the data in the initial manuscript was not from a pathophysiological
perspective: e.g. both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines were considered together, clear trends in
certain biological processes were ignored due to their ‘drowning’ in all data put together, etc. The
authors agreed with my assessment as written in their responses, and made efforts to improve that. In
the text of the revised manuscript there is now an improved approach. My main concern is however that
these findings are not mirrored in the Abstract, which would deter the readers from properly assessing
the manuscript in detail.
I will give the example of my comment 3, regarding the interpretation of IFNgamma production, which
based on Figure 2c shows clear increase in the majority of the studies. The authors agree with this
assessment and they reply:
Reply: “We agree with the reviewer that this point should be highlighted and we have redrawn the
figures to emphasise areas where there may be trends in the direction of effect. We agree that when
the data are broken down into relevant groups that there are some signals such as that mentioned for
IFN-γ that may be informative from an immunological perspective.”
The presentation of this aspect is thereafter presented in the Results section, albeit with a reserved
tone:
Results
“IFN-γ was the most commonly reported immunological parameter. Data for IFN-γ were extracted from
11papers, one PhD thesis, and one study author supplied unpublished raw data from unstimulated
assays upon request (Figure 2C and Supplementary table 3). Those studies that made comparisons
between vaccinated and unvaccinated groups demonstrated a trend towards an increase in IFN-γ
following stimulation. Increases following vaccination were observed in small cohort studies of IFN-γ
measured in response to in vitro stimulation with Candida albicans, tetanus toxoid, Staphylococcus
aureas, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA).”
The discussion of IFNgamma production capacity is also properly acknowledged in the Discussion:
“IFN-γ responses to BCG show a consistent increase in production in unstimulated and stimulated
contexts both over time within a cohort and within groups that have received BCG compared with
controls. The cytokine profile of PHA stimulated assays from BCG studies also demonstrates a trend
towards a pro-inflammatory response in cohort studies.”
However, these conclusions are not at all mirrored in the Abstract, which strongly poses that no
consistent findings have been reported. While above I give the example of IFNgamma, similar cases can
be presented for other biological processes proposed in my previous list of suggestions. The authors
agree with my suggestions, they changed the text, but this is not mirrored in the abstract.
Abstract
“While some studies showed evidence suggestive of NSIE, no consistent findings were identified that
provide confidence in the nature, magnitude or timing of NSIE in humans following vaccination with
BCG, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus or measles containing vaccines nor the clinical significance of the
findings.”
All in all, I think that the authors have provided an exhaustive and useful synthesis of the data. The
biological interpretation in the text is improved, but not yet properly mirrored in the Abstract. My only
strong suggestion is thus to reach a more balanced presentation of the conclusions of the paper in the
Abstract. I agree with the authors that many data are heterogeneous, that conclusions should be
subsequently cautious, but on the other hand a balanced view should be presented in the Abstract to
reflect the biological processes identified by the authors in the literature. As the Abstract is the most
read part of any article (and often the only one), the Abstract of this very important paper should be a
balanced mirror of the findings of the paper, presenting both the negative and positive conclusions
reached.