the authors have done tremendous amount of work reviewing hundreds of papers and search seems to fit the purpose.
They propose interesting strategy for future innovation in medical device area.
However, the idea of academia + industry partnership is not new and the industry is recently outsourcing the early

stage of innovation to academia. i have a few questions for authors:
1. for devices that were developed by academia alone was there an attempt to partner with industry? how do we know
that industry didn't reject partnership based on their business calculations/considerations? so the main question is-- is
the current low success rate possible change or reflection of industry profit consideration?
2. what do you think about higher rate of success when Industry did not work with academia? they certainly had
higher success rate in terms of regulatory approval.. are these more likely to be breakthrough technologies where
academia could help ensure better evidence generation? almost all PMA devices were developed by industry alone..
one might conclude that industry does not need the so called 'inefficiency' of academia when they develop ideas in
house. Do you agree with this? if not, what can we recommendation based on your data to ensure that these
technologies will be safe?
3. you have mentioned MDIC- it is a good concept. based on their work streams do you think it will create true
partnership with academia to promote IDEAL guided evidence based innovation?
4. we see more and more devices fail recently because of 510K and even PMA not being adequate in ensuring safety in
real work settings. success rate for approval is only business side of the coin and i believe that there is a need for
public health side: ensure partnership of industry and academia for post-market surveillance. MDEpiNet is the
organization that promotes this partnership. Is there any information about post-approval studies or research for these
devices and how often industry and academia partnered not only for innovation but also for evaluation?
minor issues:
conclusions in the abstract states: 'We identified a multitude of innovative medical devices in first-in-human studies,
almost half of which received regulatory approval'. one can conclude that only half of 'innovative' devices were
ultimately approved-- were those NOT approved really innovative?
conclusion in the main paper: its too long, there should be no citations and discussion around drugs is confusing.