In a large prospective cohort study, study participants were requested to complete
web-based self-administered 24 hour dietary records three times every six months.
Individuals with at least two completed 24 hour dietary records were included. Baseline
dietary intake was derived from the mean intake of all such records in the first two years for
each participant. After a mean follow-up time of 5 years, increasing consumption of sugary
drinks was found significantly associated with increased risk of overall cancer as well as
breast cancer.
The potential health hazard related to the increasingly high consumption of sugary drinks
has been recognized for cardio-metabolic diseases. Yet there are limited cohort studies on
the association of sugary drinks with cancer risk. In view of the high prevention potential,
this further investigation using a prospective cohort is highly relevant.
However, I am concerned that the results might be due to residual confounding. It is
unexpected that there is such a large group of non-consumers. Compared to the other three
groups, this group has the highest mean BMI, lowest proportion of higher education, highest
alcohol intake and highest intake of artificially sweetened beverages. It is therefore likely
that persons in this group also have a higher comorbidity index. Since high consumption of
sugary drinks has been associated with increased risk for cardio-metabolic diseases and
metabolic diseases including type II diabetes and hypertension are associated with increased
risk for some cancer sites, comorbidity is a potential confounder. A description of
comorbidity according to the 4 subgroups is therefore warranted and appropriate adjustment
in the primary analysis.
Some additional comments:
Abstract:
In both Results and Conclusion, the authors should indicate that the unit increase is
100mL/day. And also add the unit increase to the sentence on 100% fruit juices.
Methods:
1.
Please provide information on questions posed to quantify consumption level of
sugary drinks and on calculation of sugar content including the relevant databases used.
2.
How was the category “non-consumers” defined? No consumption at all for all 97
“sugary drinks” including 100% fruit juices?
3.
Please justify the decision not to account for reverse causality in the primary
analysis, i.e. excluding cases diagnosed in the first 2 years after entry into the cohort.
4.
Were questionnaires regarding personal and lifestyle factors also administered at
further time points during follow-up? If yes, then a variable of current menopausal hormone
use would be preferable to use at baseline due to its clear association with breast cancer
risk.
Results:
1.
Please provide the information on mean age at baseline according to gender.

2.
The figures shown in Appendix 3 would be more informative if shown separately by
gender.
3.
Please provide the range of follow-up time in addition to the median.
4.
Please add the descriptive information regarding visceral adiposity index to table 1.
Discussion:
I would like to see some discussion of potential reasons for inconsistent results from
previous studies. Aspects such as levels of sugary drink consumption, sample size, study
design could be considered.
Table 1 should also include the missing category where appropriate (at least for physical
activity).
Flowchart:
Please provide numbers separately for those with <2 valid records and the energy
under-reporters.
