This manuscript describes a retrospective cohort study where two study cohorts were used to estimate
association between use of 5alpha-reductase inhibitors dutasteride and finasteride and risk of incident
type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) compared to men using alpha-blockers. One study cohort was identified
from UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink. Another cohort was formed using the Taiwan National
Health Insurance Research Database. Imbalances in known background variables, such as BMI, duration
of benign prostatic hyperplasia and use of other drugs were controlled by using propensity score
matching. The study hypothesis was that dutasteride, but not finasteride or alpha-blockers would be
associated with increased risk of type 2 DM.
Increased risk of type 2 DM was indeed observed among users of dutasteride and also among finasteride
users compared to alpha-blockers.
I have the following comments:
My main concern is that the observed risk association may be due to reverse causation, which
has not been discussed as a possible explanation for the findings. Men who get a diagnosis of type 2 DM
have probably had elevated blood glucose for years before the diagnosis. Diabetes and metabolic
syndrome have been associated with greater prostate weight and development of benign prostatic
hyperplasia. Thus it is quite plausible that diabetic men who were not yet diagnosed at baseline had
bigger prostates in general compared to non-diabetic men, thus also more often using 5ARIs.
Given the above alternative explanation, you should tone down your conclusions: this is not
enough evidence to claim that 5ARIs “increased” the risk of type 2 diabetes, you have merely observed
a risk association with uncertain causality.
Statistical analysis, page 11: “Cox proportional hazard models was used before and after
propensity matching”: Please clarify, which analysis were done before and which after propensity
matching
You should also describe in greater detail formation of propensity score in this analysis: which
factors did you included in the score and how strong predictors they were for 5ARI use? You should also
demonstrate how well you were able to match your cohorts by propensity score.