In this meta-analysis of observational studies the authors aim to quantify the
prevalence, severity and nature of preventable patient harm across medical care.
They assessed 68 studies and conclude that preventable patient harm occurs in 1 in
20. They state that more preventable harm was found in the advanced specialties.
They aim to stratify the causes of harm and conclude most incidents were related to
medication and other therapeutic management.
The paper is relevant because no such study has been performed previously. Their
findings seem well-founded, even though their definition of harm is, to my
perspective, limited. They have not searched for other harmful events such as
readmission, unexpected long length of stay, etc. Harm is not limited to the papers
discussed, and a more thorough analysis could be done if other major adverse
events were also added to the search criteria. If these adverse events were in the
studies assessed, I think it should be added to the study descriptions. ‘Harm’ is still
a bit abstract for most readers. I think the paper would also benefit from a small box
which gives examples of case studies in different severity.
Title:
-Suggestion: Remove ‘comprehensive’. I think this is for the reader to decide.
Abstract:
-Typo ‘percetages’
- I think ‘other therapeutic management’ is too vague for the abstract.
-Reword sentence: compared to general hospitals….
-Explain how you assessed preventable.
-Conclusion: Around one in 20 patients are exposed to preventable harm in medical
care. I don’t agree that preventable harm is a neglected outcome in patient safety
literature. (you have included 86 studies, so not really neglected right?)
-I think the last sentence of the conclusion is not sexy enough, it is a cliché.
Introduction:
Is OK, but could be ‘spiced up’ a little bit
I would also advise to give the definition of patient harm here, and include
examples of harm
Change ‘harms are inevitable in>to clinical practice
Would also name that you look beyond hospitals more explicitly (so also
primary care)
Also state in your objective you are looking at ‘patient’ harm
Methods:
In your primary outcome, if patient harm is synonymous to adverse events,
why weren’t they all addressed (included) in the study
Typo secondary outcome key types oF preventable
These key types (typology) of preventable harm are based on what? I think
they do not address all the important factors in patient harm, such as
communication in care, monitoring of patients, coordination of care (handover) - see
for example the prisma model for adverse events

http://www.who.int/patientsafety/taxonomy/PRISMA_Medical.pdf Why was this
selected? And not referenced!?
What happens if harm is caused by more than one of the categories? You
can get a healthcare infection because of therapeutic errors or because of
medication errors?
The MS Excel sheet used for data collection is in eTable 2? Refer.
It seems like you were able to retrieve all data quite easily, data abstraction
is one of the most important steps in conducting a meta-analysis, and the methods
of data abstraction that were used by the authors should be described in detail. How
did you get the original datasets?
Analysis paragraph: ‘Consistent … 8 studies’ should be described more
clearly. If the moderators were pre-specified, what was there to consent about?
My knowledge of meta-analysis is not very great so I will try to refrain from
giving in-depth comments about this. For a ‘lay’ it is described well enough and
understandable. I have used a guideline for meta-analysis below for more proper
assessment.
Results:
Is there a breakdown of the harmful incidents (the 37557)?
Be consistent when you write numbers under 10 in full and not.
Discussion:
Reflect on the healthcare setting and measure of preventability as a
predictor of preventable harm.
You report that 12% for total harm was found. Does this mean that all the
studies also reported total harm? So all the studies reported preventable/total harm?
From your table it seem so, I would explicitly mention this.
Reflect on ‘what is preventable’ –this remains a subjective issue, and there
is not one truth (it depends on the perspective). Therefore I think always
‘preventability’ data should be interpreted with caution. Also, I think that is the
reason why it is hard to focus on preventable harm only. Who says not all harm has
a preventable cause somewhere?
Paragraph ‘When looking … harm’ is a lot of the same and a bit of a cliché.
We also found ‘diagnostic harm’. An example would be helpful (it would also
explain why it is understudied).
I think it is not surprising more ‘mistakes’ are made in the more advanced
specialties. I think they are ‘more’ noticed, because they often have bigger
consequences and happen more immediately after something went wrong (more of a
direct causal-effect relation than in other specialties). Cultures and hierarchy in
these areas often do not allow talking about (near)mistakes, and this will be key in
reducing preventable harm.
Change wording of ‘To further increase … specialty care’
I think the discussion doesn’t really give hands on advice on how to reduce
preventable harm. Do the authors have any idea about that?
Conclusion:
Throughout discussion there is a lot of ‘ future research/implications are
warranted..’ however I think, you as ‘experts’ should offer more direction in how to
do this exactly. For example, how could we assure more research in harm is done in
minority groups, or developing countries?
Figures:
A lot of studies are done by same authors. Does this influence the validity of results?
Can you control for this?
Appendix:

The assessment methods used (record review) and the large numbers
included seem a bit skewed. Can we really trust a study with 11000 patients
reviewed by just one nurse and physician?
Did studies with the same assessment of harm use each other’s methods –
did they cite them?
Meta-analysis specific comments:
Study question
• Objectives clearly stated: Yes
• Clinically relevant and focused study question included: Not sure if they are all
included
Literature search
• Comprehensive literature search conducted: Yes, but maybe not all full search
terms
• Searched information sources listed (ie, PubMed, Cochrane database): Yes
• Terms used for electronic literature search provided: Yes
• Reasonable limitations placed on search (ie, English language): Yes
• Manual search conducted through references of articles, abstracts: Yes
• Attempts made at collecting unpublished data: Not reported
Data abstraction
• Structured data abstraction form used: Yes, but not published (I assume eTable 2
is a deduction of this)
• Number of authors (>2) who abstracted data given: Not clear/reported
• Disagreements listed between authors and how they were resolved: Not
clear/reported
• Characteristics of studies listed (ie, sample size, patient demographics): Yes
• Inclusion and exclusion criteria provided for studies: Yes
• Number of excluded studies and reasons for exclusion included: Not reported
Evaluation of results
• Studies were combinable:?
• Appropriate statistical methods used to combine results: I think so
• Results displayed: Yes
• Sensitivity analysis conducted: Yes
Evaluation for publication bias
• Publication bias addressed through evaluation methods such as funnel plot or
sensitivity analysis: Yes
Applicability of results
• Results were generalizable: Not sure
Funding source
• Funding source(s) stated: Yes
• No conflict of interest seen: No

•
Is the article important?
Yes, the article is important. Patient safety is an important topic and preventable
harm should be prevented as much as possible.
•
Will it help our readers to make better decision and, if so, how?
I am not entirely sure if this meta-analysis sets out to chance decisions in practice
directly. However, in terms of patient safety research, I think it can inform how to
construct it.
•
Will the article add enough to existing knowledge?
Yes
•
Does the article read well and make sense? Does it have a clear message?

It reads OK. I do think it could be sharper and less cliché. Also I miss implications
derived from the conclusions
•
Will the article add enough to existing knowledge?
Yes, but I do not know if it adds a full picture (not all adverse events were included).
•
Does the article read well and make sense? Does it have a clear message?
Yes. Although I do think the message could be stronger.
