This paper addresses multiple important issues related to the prescribing of opioids,
including whether certain types of prescriptions may create a risk for overdose/suicide, and
whether stopping these prescriptions may create a risk for overdose/suicide. The dataset is
reliable, with large numbers of patients within the VA system.
I have one general and several specific comments. The general comment has to do with
clarity. The paper is well written, but the approach to the analysis is difficult to follow. My
confusion relates to the idea that the paper found greater risk of overdose/suicide in those
who stopped therapy, but also seemingly in those who started it. As the abstract states,
"rates were elevated in the periods immediately following both opioid initiation and
cessation." I take that to mean that people who started and then stopped had the highest
rates because they experienced both of these risks, but this is not explicitly stated.
Intuitively, it would help if the authors could present the results with some logical
combinations ...within each of the two cohorts as,
Risk of overdose/suicide for those
Risk of overdose/suicide for those
Risk of overdose/suicide for those
them.
Risk of overdose/suicide for those
them.
RIsk of overdose/suicide who just

who started long acting opioids and continued them.
who started long acting opioids and stopped them
who started chronic, short acting opioids and continued
who started chronic, short acting opioids and stopped
had short acting opioids and stopped them.

If this is not possible, then the authors might consider adding a bit more explanation as to
how to interpret the existing findings for patients who both start and stop.
Other comments:
For methods: It looks like opioids for opioid use disorder were excluded, but the authors
might make that explicit.
Also, the authors should give some thought about what the life tables analysis shows. If the
goal is to compare the risks starting opioids with those stopping opioids, then perhaps the
risks experienced by all patients starting should be in the starting curves (including those
who stopped). Or the risks could be compared within the same cohort of patients (those who
started and stopped).

The discussion can be better organized. I'd recommend commenting on each key finding in
turn. The first key finding is the increase in death from overdose/suicide in people who
stopped taking opioids. What explains this increase? The authors should comment on
whether there's unmeasured confounding (such as patients becoming suicidal or with severe
opioid use disorder leaving treatment), whether this could be just a result of opioid dose
variability (such as in reference 38), or whether it could reflect problems in clinical care
(patients moving to illicit opioids or committing suicide from untreated pain). The
implications of this discussion for policy should be mentioned at this point, including the
important point that the result may call into question policies that require weaning large
numbers of patients. The point about close monitoring should be explained here, with a little
more detail about what is meant.
A second key finding is the increased rate with long-acting opioids, particularly early in the
course of treatment. What might explain this increase? Is it the inherent danger in these
medications, poor dosing, unmeasured confounding (more severe pain), etc? If the authors
have a view, would be good for readers to understand, or if more research on specifics is
needed, that would be good to know too. The implications of the finding, such as support for
the CDC guidelines should be mentioned here. There should be discussion of "close
monitoring" that is the main conclusion.
Finally, statement "cessation is also a marker of suicide/overdose risk for patients prescribed
pharmacotherapies for opioid use disorder as well as lithium (a medication without abuse
potential) for bipolar disorder" comes out of the blue. The obvious reason cessation is a
marker for overdose risk is because pharmacotherapies work for overdose use disorder
(which carries a risk of overdose). Same for lithium and bipolar disease (which carries a risk
of suicide). So the relevance of this statement in this paper is unclear, and the authors
should either explain what they mean or drop it.
Finally, the paper's conclusion about "close monitoring" should build on more specifics in the
discussion section. It would be helpful to mention more of the policy points in the conclusion
as well.
Thank you for the chance to review this interesting paper.