Manuscript ID BMJ.2018.044685 entitled "Global Mental Health is Critical to Universal
Health Coverage"
Reviewer details
Saying briefly who they are and where they work. We also ask reviewers to declare to
the editors any competing interests that might relate to articles we have asked them to
review.
Associate Professor Alexandra Martiniuk
BA Psychology; BSCH Medical Sciences; MSC Community Health and Epidemiology;
PHD Epidemiology and Biostatistics (Queen’s University and Western University,
Canada)
Associate Professor, University of Sydney, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Associate Professor, University of Toronto, Dalla Lana School of Public Health
Senior Research Fellow, the George Institute for Global Health
Currently funded by an Australian New South Wales Translation Grant into telehealth
and child mental health; and an Australian National Health and Medical Research
Council (NHMRC) Translating Research into Practice (TRIP) Fellowship
Review

Importance and relevance of the topic to a general readership
Highly important and relevant to a general readership
Whether the article covers the topic well, and in some depth
This article covers the topic very well and in depth
Whether the authors make their case well, either through reasoned argument or
through drawing reasonable inferences from available data
The arguments are well described, and are based on existing evidence. Citations are
used sparingly by the authors – these could be increased (but I believe this would be
the decision of the editor). As a person familiar with the literature I am familiar with
evidence/literature regarding the arguments made throughout this essay and the
writing is in keeping with current literature.
Other Thoughts:
• Particularly strong section starts with “As far as mental health care is
concerned….ending with…..disproportionately much less than the burden of mental
disorders in that country[2]”. This section importantly highlights key equity issues,
global relevance, and places mental illness in context. This section makes for a great
start to the essay.
• Lines 32-41 are also particularly impactful “A particularly egregious example of
inequity ….through to….”the existence of a range of cost effective pharmacological and
psychosocial interventions”
• Page 3 line 10/11: “non-specialised providers (which one might refer to as
‘counsellors’) while I agree with the term ‘counsellors’ – I wonder how inclusive this
terminology is – or how restrictive its description may end up being --to the concepts
of integrating mental health care into UHC/primary care. I assume the authors use the
term “non-specialised” to distinguish from psychiatrists? By using the term
“counsellors” I worry this removes the important role in mental health filled by: social
workers, occupational therapists, psychologists, nurses, ‘lay health workers’, and
aboriginal health workers. As well as non-traditional roles but which may be essential
to prevention of poor mental health or ‘care’ of people with mental illness eg sports and
recreation specialists, social and peer supports etc. I realise this section cannot be
everything to everybody but I fear using only the word ‘counsellor’ minimises the
diversity of roles and potentially then, ways of integrating/ UHC/primary care.
• Page 3 line 14/15: “supporting families and patients address social determinants” – I
do not fully agree with this as written. Typically families and patients do not have the
control to change their social determinants underlying their mental well-being. What
comes to mind are the societal aspects underpinning social determinants: marginalised
peoples, war and conflict, economic, intergenerational trauma and the cycle of poor
mental health and its impact on social determinants. Surely these need to be
mentioned? if kept as is this idea –note that it reads like a truncated thought – perhaps
add – to address the social determinants of mental health.
• Page 3 line 30: “remote consultations by specialist providers (“telepsychiatry”)” I
agree this is a valuable diagnostic and care modality, but I worry it risks medicalising
options within the specialties (exactly where mental health care currently hovers and
which challenges the system). Perhaps stating ‘telehealth’ to increase access to care,
reach, quality and/or capacity development of local health providers to support
individuals/families or group mental health
• Page 3 line 31/32: mentions task-sharing and collaborative care – which is strongly
supported by the literature. Perhaps this is a location to mention coordination of care –
which is and will be vital in dispersing roles in mental health care, and is need for all
health systems and chronic diseases but arguably more for mental illness (several high

profile cases in Canada and Australia highlighting these gaps for children/youth where
lack of coordination contributed to very poor outcomes). I see this is mentioned at the
end (5C) but perhaps mentioning it here is still useful?
• Page 3 line 33/34: “considering inclusion of mental health care in UHC” – should we
be just considering it?! It is essential and indisputable
• Page 3 line 36: “less common conditions…..” and then this includes: alcohol
dependence – surely this is not considered “less common!?” If keeping - suggest this
include alcohol and other substances dependence as this will be more inclusive to local
substances globally eg betel quid, home brews etc. In this section which refers to
equity and individuals less likely to seek care and to have poor outcomes – perhaps a
wider group should be considered? Women subjects of domestic violence….or entire
groups less likely to seek care – Indigenous people who suffer from intergenerational
violence, communities affected by war and conflict, gay/lesbian/transgendered
people….
• Page 3 line 40: “integration must also emphasize quality of care for coexisting
physical health conditions” while I agree – quality of care is a broader need in mental
health care than just for people with co-morbid physical health conditions. In particular
considering that care of people with mental illness is often occurring with a very
vulnerable group, perhaps unable to make sound choices for themselves. I think of the
atrocities when ‘care’ is provided that is not in keeping with global gold standard and to
some extent the authors do mention this by writing about institutions….and I would
include imprisonment.
• Page 3 line 52/53: “addressing the needs of care-givers” – agree these have been
great improvements in mental health care – could include here – what should (?) may
(?) come in the future which is better addressing the needs of society in better
supporting people with mental illness (for instance I think of workplace support
programs for people with schizophrenia or ASD, or primary school programs
assessments of social /emotional needs or high school programs for peer support after
suicide, or education programs eg acid providers or farm pesticides in terms of violence
eg Asia and suicide respectively).
• Strong coverage by the authors of this essay of the importance and prevalence of
co-morbidities across physical and mental
• Useful health service ‘innovations’ described
• The focus on patient-centred approaches is timely and important – and enjoyed the
inclusion of the growing use of …..”what matters to the patient rather than what is the
matter”
• Page 4 line 31: “Community platform….” Would like to see an inclusion in here of
prevention or minimisation….
• The 5 C approach captures key elements. Compassionate stance – should something
be said in here about equity, ethics, and vulnerability of this client/patient population?
• Page 4 at end: “need re-engineering”….does PHC really need re-engineering or
instead stronger adherence to the philosophical elements upon which it is based? Or
expansion….Re-engineering makes me think of something requiring an overhaul, which
primary health care – done well – does not necessarily need. It is the implementation
of the PHC gold standard which in reality rarely occurs – no?
Minor items:
• Line 15/16: “substance use disorders, self-harm and dementia” could confuse some
readers unfamiliar with mental disorders, albeit it is useful to have these specified to be
in this category. Perhaps in brackets it may increase clarity and general readership
understanding to state the more common conditions this category includes eg
depression, anxiety, as well as those mentioned. Perhaps it is useful to write
self-harm/suicide given the unique features of each? Might it be worth highlighting that
in this category the increasingly recognised conditions: autism spectrum disorder, PTSD
and inter-generational trauma?. The latter in particular for Indigenous communities
globally.

• Page 3 Line 9: “This large body of innovations” – would be more clearly written –
there is a large body of innovations….as it doesn’t appear clear that the writers are
referring to the paragraph above which mentions innovations not yet taken to scale
• Page 3 line 14: “mobilizing the community to increase demand for care” – might be
better described as educating and mobilizing? I understand the literature where this
comment comes from but I am hoping this type of article is read by a wider readership
who may not understand that increasing ‘demand for care’ can be a good thing.
• Page 3 line 30: “monitoring of behavioural phenotypes” – not clear what is meant by
behavioural phenotypes here or how this monitoring would occur – and may bring up
more questions in the reader, in particular ethical ones.
• Page 3 line 50: “The components of care have championed ….” Grammar could be
improved to increase clarity – components of care cannot champion something – can
they?
• Page 4 line 23: “We identify five key elements of this approach which”….’this’
approach could be clarified to increase understanding and reading flow
• Page 4 line 42/43: “that primary health care must the” …sentence missing the word
“be”?
