This meta-analysis synthesized results from current RCTs on the effects of LIPUS on bone healing. The
meta-analysis was conducted by a pre-defined guideline with a structured methodology. Below are a few
comments/suggestions for the authors.
1. A modified Cochrane risk of bias instrument was used to assess risk of bias. The major elements
included in the assessment involves selection bias and performance bias. There are some important items
in the Cochrane tool that were not evaluated, such as random sequence generation or selective reporting.
It is not sure why a modified tool was used instead of the original tool and whether the left-out items were
all included in ‘other bias’. The final judgement of high or low risk should also be listed in Table 2.
2. It appears that three trials were not included in any of the meta-analyses, without an explicit
explanation of why (except the study by Zacherl 2009, which was excluded from time to return to work
analysis due to insufficient data). If the studies were excluded because they did not report the intended
outcomes, eligibility criteria should reflect selection criteria on study outcomes. The definition of
‘insufficient data’ and whether efforts have been made to retrieve such data should be mentioned.
3. As mentioned in the Methods, the authors graded the quality of evidence using GRADE approach. This
part should be put in the Results, instead of Discussion. The table does not reflect the basis of GRADE’s
judgement about evidence’s quality, which involves several domains. As the authors mentioned in the
conclusion, the quality of evidence depended on whether or not studies with high risk of bias was included.
And this should also be reflected on the GRADE table.
4. Other points: Outcomes - Functional recovery: ‘Appendix 2 presents results…’: there is no such
appendix. Outcomes - Number of subsequent operations: ‘fig 6’: it should be fig 5. Methods -synthesis of
results: ‘only one outcome, days to radiographic healing, included enough studies to perform’: definition of
‘enough’ is not clear.