This systematic review and meta-analysis combines results from randomised clinical trials
to evaluate the effectiveness of perioperative interventions in reducing PCAs.
The abstract conclusion that PPCs are common is not supported by any information in the
abstract. This statement is again made in the discussion, yet to find the information on
prevalence requires reference to the appendices figures. The authors should perhaps make
the information on the prevalence of PPCs more prominent, rather than emphasising just
the RR and differences in means.
Figures 3-7 show the results from meta analyses presented more fully in appendix 2. The
correspondence between these is not always consistent. For example, the values for
post-operative bi-level NI and prophylactic inhaled beta agonist (0.78 (0.32, 1.90) and
0.93 (0.67, 1.29) respectively, figure 3) do not seem to appear in the appendix and hence
their derivation and numbers based on is unclear; in fig 4 incentive spirometry RR is given
as 5.83 (0.63, 26.3), yet this is 5.38 (0.63, 46.30) in appendix 2.
It may help to give the numbers of studies that each of the estimates in figure 3-7 is based
on as well as the total numbers of patients included in those studies.

Figure 3 is cited twice as two different figures (from page 16 onwards the figure numbers
should be increased by 1 ie. respiratory infection and atelectasis outcomes are shown in
figure 4 and 5, not 3 and 4, etc.)
For lung protective ventilation, the point estimate of the associations with respiratory
infection and atelectasis outcomes is the same (0.56) with slightly different confidence
intervals (0.28, 1.09) and (0.32, 0.99) respectively, so the interpretation should not be
very different. However, the authors’ dependence on p-values leads them to discount one
as significant and the other not without further discussion, giving the indication they are
critically different.
The paper would benefit from greater coherence between the main body of the text and
the materials given in the appendix. For example, the authors refer to the results for
Ambroxol but do not guide the reader to the relevant meta-analysis shown in figure 4.2
appendix 2.
Minimal information is given of the TSA and this should be expanded. The DARIS values
should be given, compared to the actual numbers available, and the implications of these
more fully explored. How many more are required? The authors state that there remains a
need for large, well designed pragmatic trials of PPC prevention strategies. Given that
these will be added to the existing information, how large should these be (does this
information follow directly from the DARIS investigation?)
The authors should also clarify what additional information is given by the TSA/DARIS
values that is not yielded by an examination of the confidence limits for the comparisons.
The 2nd bullet of what the study adds states that incentive spirometry is equivalent to
standard clinical care. This is again an interpretation based on p-values alone. The point
estimate and confidence interval for developing respiratory infections for instance is 5.83
with 95% ci (0.63, 26.3), which is not evidence on which to argue equivalence since very
large (and undoubtedly clinically important) differences cannot be discounted.
Which particular statistics is the 3rd bullet of what the study adds referring to?
How is the conclusion made that bundled groups of interventions (4th bullet) should be
used? There does not appear to be any investigation of bundled groups in this paper on
which to base an inference.
Publication bias should have been investigated.
I could not see any available PRISMA documentation for this study.
