Research on this theme is worthwhile in order to understand whether the sexual frequency
is changing during time episodes – and if so, which factors are contributing - as this might
influence sexual wellbeing or other health-related factors. The authors use three solid
databases in the UK and provide some evidence for a so-called trend.
Yet, some remarks could be made.
Firstly, looking at the Results Odds ratios are small. According to Chen et al. (How big is a
big odds ratio? Interpreting the magnitudes of odds ratios in epidemiological studies.
Communications in Statistics—Simulation and Computation. 2010; 39: 860-864),
calculations indicate that OR = 1.68, 3.47, and 6.71 are equivalent to Cohen's d = 0.2
(small), 0.5 (medium), and 0.8 (large), respectively. Therefore the in this study found ORs
are small and conclusions should be interpreted with caution.
Secondly, the researchers describe a trend. However, a change from one point to another
is not a trend but a change. A trend at least needs 2 same consecutive in- or declines. The
increase of sexual activity from Natsal 1 to 2 and the decrease from Natsal 2 to 3 cannot
add up to a trend. Or one should describe this trend as ‘varying up and down’. Moreover,
why is no comparison being made between Natsal 3 and Natsal 1?
Thirdly, in lines 33-45 of p.10 the term ”bordeline significance” is used to put forward
some conclusions. Borderline significance doesn't exist. It pretends to be meaningful but is
not. This part should be skipped in order to prevent pseudoscientific statements.
Fourth, when describing comparable other countries in the Discussion section, one should
mention that in these studies other definitions of sexual frequency are used. In Finland, for
example, the frequency of masturbation - also a sexual activity - increased. In the
Japanese study one looked until one year ago, and in the US study, one only looked at
sexual intercourse. All studies are limited by recall bias.
Fifth, a limited definition of sexual activity is used: ‘the measures of frequency counted
vaginal, oral, or anal sex occasions with opposite and same-sex partners’. Kissing, petting,
masturbation, and looking at pornography are also sexual activities and were not involved
in the study.
Sixth, p 14 line 45, ref.25 refers to premenopausal women. Please do not generalize.
Finally, regarding p.15, lines 8-14, the authors might shortly mention the variables that
should be investigated in future to justify the therefore mentioned interesting suggestion
(‘Should frequency of sexual contact serve as a barometer for more general human
connectedness then the decline might be seen as signalling a disquieting trend.”). I.e.:
how could general human connectedness be investigated in relation to sexuality?
Looking forward to their research.