M Mazzucato:
In this succinct article, Nayak, Avorn and Kesselheim generate new and important insight to the
understanding of the role of public investment in the drug discovery process, an increasingly critical
angle for analysing the extent to which governments can and should take action to safeguard affordable
access to innovative medicines for both policymakers and the more general audience in the medical
community.
Specifically, the authors sought to add to the existing body of knowledge and previous arguments on the
topic – which have established the indisputable and indispensable role of publicly funded science in early
drug development – by ascertaining public support in late stage drug discovery. To put together a
credible and thorough picture of late-stage public contribution to drugs that were approved by the FDA
between 2008 and 2017, they:
Collected patent data from the FDA Organge Book, Merck Index, drug monograph database AdisInsight
and published drug development histories and collected assignee information pertinent to the patents
identified;
Systematically examined the available data to look for direct evidence of the late-stage public support
for a drug (declaration of government funding; explicit recognition of origin in publicly-supported
institutions; contribution to active ingredients of a drug by publicly-supported research) and evidence of
public support for the initial technology that resulted in the drug (history of publicly-supported research
resulting in technology that led to the creation of spin-off companies and specific drugs based on the
same technology);
Identified and compared the approval pathways for drugs that were based on contributions from
publicly-supported research and drugs that were not.
The authors found that publicly-supported research contributed to the late stage development of a
significant proportion of drugs (25%) in the period studied, and that drugs that received public support
were more innovative (more likely to get expedited approval and to be first-in-class).
Reviewer’s comments
The reviewer generally favourable review and finds that the research summary and abstract accurately
and satisfactorily describes the essence of the research. Some minor revisions and clarifications to the
main text are recommended, per below.
Introduction
The introduction very well sets up the research by sufficiently situating it within existing literature
(references 4 – 15) and explained clearly its rationale.
The reviewer suggests a reword of the sentence on page 5: “The role of public-sector contributions
versus those of the pharmaceutical industry to new drug discovery remains controversial”. The roles of
public and private sectors in pharmaceutical innovation is in fact much better-understood than 10 years
ago (to which the work of the two senior co-authors, Professors Avorn and Kesselheim, have made great
contribution); what remains “controversial” is the narrative of the roles of different players. As a side
note, it may be useful to include the response by Derek Lowe to Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez’s recent
hearing on public return on public investment, which Professor Kesselheim took part
(http://blogs.sciencemag.org/pipeline/archives/2019/02/01/rep-ocasio-cortez-and-where-drugs-come-fr

om and https://www.statnews.com/2019/02/08/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-drug-discovery/). This is a
highly illustrative example of the conflict in narratives about public contribution to drug discovery for the
reader.

Methods
While the analytical methods for the study is relatively straight-forward and capable of answering the
research question (determining the contribution of publicly-supported research in late stage drug
discovery), the methods section can be written with more clarity.
The writing as it stands makes it difficult for the reader to immediately grasp the methodology; the
reviewer has to work backwards to work out a summary of the research. Before diving into data sources,
there should be an overview of purpose of the analysis, which connects immediately with the end of the
introduction. The definition for late-stage research contribution from publicly-supported research also
needs to come at the beginning of the section rather than at the end. Then there needs to be an
explanation of why and how different data sources are required and used to achieve the purpose, which
is where the detailed descriptions of different data sources can come in.
Some analysis methods were not reported. The methods section fails to describe the use of statistical
inference in the results in Table 3, where share of patents held by public-sector or spin-off are calculated
with confidence intervals. It also fails to describe the use of the Fisher exact test of independence in
Table 4, which compares the proportions of drugs of different origins approved through various
pathways.
Results
The reporting of results is relatively short. Though this in itself is not a problem, there are places where
better presentation and clarification are needed. At times, the reviewer feels that more could be done to
more deeply explore and interpret the dataset. For example:
Table S2 details “new approvals and origins by drug class”. 3 drug classes here are worth highlighting
for later discussion for having higher-than-average proportion of drugs that resulted from late-stage
public sector support. They are: diagnostic drugs (10/16, or 62.5%), hematologic-oncologic drugs
(17/64, or 26.6%) and drugs that treat infectious diseases (13/39, or 33.3%). These are compared
against an average of 62/248, or 25%. These are highly profitable drug classes, and the situation here
may represent a high-than-average rate of private capture of public value.
Table 1 is supposed to show how public contributions were related to the drug’s “discovery, synthesis,
other key intellectual property”. But the information is actually absent from Table 1 – the column “US
Government Contribution” only identifies presence and absence of a contribution, but not the specific
drug discovery process to which it effects on. In the corresponding results section, it would be great to
see summary statistics that gives a breakdown on this.
It might be useful to get extra information on the revenue generated by drugs listed in Tables 1 and 2,
highlight the blockbuster and mega blockbuster drugs (by, say, tabulating also their list prices in the
United States and the annual revenue they generate) and possibly draw further comparisons between
drugs with direct and indirect publicly-supported research contributions. The reviewer notes that the
article does highlight three drugs in the discussion section (nusinersen, eliglustat and enzalutamide), but
feels that issue to do with pricing and capture of public value should surface at the analysis stage.
The reporting related to Table 3, which corresponds to “Patent Characteristics” in the results section, is
unclear. Firstly, for the reader’s benefit, it may be useful to add a column heading “number of drugs by
patent characteristics” to the table. Secondly, number and percentages are not presented in a consistent
format. Percentages are often not presented in the table, though they are presented in the actual text.
“Share of patents held by public sector or spin-off” is somehow reported separately as a percentage, and
as mentioned before, the methodology for calculating this measure is unclear (it somehow involves the
use of statistical inference). Thirdly, no explanation is given as to the difference between the measures
related to “Number of drugs with Orange Book patents” and those related to “Drugs with >= public
sector or spin-off patents listed in Orange Book”. The results section has reported on the latter measure

(“Thirty-five drugs had Orange Book patents related to the drug’s substance, product or method of use”,
which corresponds to the figure of 35 with an asterisk located in the fourth row from the bottom in Table
3), but there is nothing said about the former. The reporting here is significantly lacking in detail.

Discussion
This article has provided a thoughtful discussion of the results in terms of their limitations and in relation
to the existing literature and findings. Some minor revisions and suggestions are below.
The article rightly points out that the patent-based approach will “underestimate the additional role of
upstream basic and translational science research supported by public funds”. To enable better
understanding by the reader, the article can elaborate a bit more on how publicly-funded research create
significant direct and indirect economic value, and more importantly, how those value can be captured
by the private sector (eg. Azoulay, P., Graff Zivin, J.S., Li, D. & Sampat, B.N. (2018) Public R&D
Investments and Private-sector Patenting: Evidence from NIH Funding Rules. The Review of Economic
Studies. 86 (1), 117–152.; Sussex, J., Feng, Y., Mestre-Ferrandiz, J., Pistollato, M., et al. (2016)
Quantifying the economic impact of government and charity funding of medical research on private
research and development funding in the United Kingdom. BMC Medicine. 14 (1), 32.). This discussion is
especially important when there is currently an absence of mechanisms for the state to secure direct
public return on public investment (eg. Mazzucato, M. (2018) The entrepreneurial state: debunking
public vs. private sector myths. 2nd edition. London: Penguin Books.)
In identifying policy levers in “drugs with late-stage publicly-supported research contributions,
particularly those for which such institutions hold key patents”, it may be worth further strengthening
the case for public return on public investment by highlighting the fact that increasing financialisation of
the pharmaceutical innovation system in the United States have led to more significant private capture
of public value (eg. Mazzucato, M. & Roy, V. (2018) Rethinking value in health innovation: from
mystifications towards prescriptions. Journal of Economic Policy Reform. 1–19.; UCL Institute for
Innovation and Public Purpose (2018) The people’s prescription: Re-imagining health innovation to
deliver public value. London: IIPP, Global Justice Now, Just Treatment, STOPAIDS.)
In communicating the trend of increasing public support in late-stage drug discovery – which is also
mentioned in the introduction (“These studies found public-sector research institutions to be the sources
of 4.6% of new molecular entities approved 1981-1990…” etc) – the article can insert a graphic
representation of the figures with the addition of the new finding from this research (25% for drugs
approved 2008-2017). This graphic will be especially useful for dissemination to the wider public.