This manuscript reports on a literature and analysis of reports regarding non-vaccine antigen specific (i.e., heterologous
immunological effects) immunological effects of BCG, measles (and MMR), tetanus and pertussis (and DTP) vaccines

when given in childhood. Two factors underlie the rationale, importance and timelines of this report: there is a
substantial body of evidence, though largely ecological in nature, suggesting that one or more of these vaccines may
impact all-cause mortality independent of their effects on mortality caused by the pathogen to which they are directed;
there is a substantial body of in vitro data and experimental in vivo data in animals that provides a biological rationale
for the possibility that these vaccines could have heterologous (i.e., non-vaccine antigen specific) effects on mortality.
Based on these factors, the WHO upon a recommendation from its SAGE advisory group, commissioned retrospective
Cochrane type-analysis of the epidemiological and immunological evidence for heterologous effects – this manuscript
reports on a systematic review of randomized control, cohort and case-control studies reporting immunological
evidence.
The primary take home message of the report is that although there is a reasonably extensive literature on the subject
in question, the marked heterogeneity in the questions asked, study design and nature of the reports and available data,
provide little clarity.
I commend the authors for undertaking this very complex literature analysis. I agree with their overarching conclusion
with some caveats and suggestions that aim to increase the utility and clarity of the report and its key messages.
Specific comments:
1) In the body of the results section, it is very difficult to identify the important messages. Currently the introductory
paragraph ends with a sentence stating that at least one statistically significant finding was reported in 35% of the
included studies (Table 2). I suggest adding a single sentence stating that because of the heterogeneity, it was not
possible to conduct a proper meta-analysis and for that reason none of the trends, where evident are statistically sound.
2) That point made, begin each of the sections on specific vaccines noting where there was a consistent effect or strong
trend observed for the parameter measured and the number of studies in which such an effect was observed. At
present, such statements are scattered at various places within the paragraphs on that vaccine. Ones for which this
appears to be the case include (as alluded to somewhere in the text of the relevant sections):
a. IFN-gamma responses to various stimuli in BCG immunized infants (Figure 2c); here I wonder if a Bayesian or
permutation analysis of the outcomes shown would suggest that the difference is more likely real than not?
b. Proliferation analyses in BCG immunized children.
c. For Measles, lymphoproliferation analyses to candida and tetanus (increased) and to PHA (decreased).
3) In Figure 1, it appears that a very large number of reports were excluded based on title alone. I am puzzled given the
search terms that were used, that titles alone provided sufficient clarity that approximately 2/3 of the studies could be
excluded.
4) Recognizing the heterogeneity that challenges their ability to present the most salient data with any consistency, I do
think that the clarity of Figures 2 (BCG) and 3 (Measles) could be improved by seeking to make them as comparable as
possible. (Note that the epidemiologic results have been interpreted to suggest that these two vaccines have beneficial
effects on all-cause mortality, so looking for any commonality between them would be a worthy hypothesis generating
goal of this analysis). Figure 2a (unstimulated cytokines in culture supernatants) is almost impossible to interpret
because so many different parameters are shown in the Y axis; consider reducing these two the ones shown in Figure 2b
and providing a similar panel for Figure 3. Similarly, align the cytokines shown in Figure 2b with those shown in Figure
3a, which would allow the reader more readily to see how effects of BCG and measles compare. A similar effort might be
applied where possible to the other panels in these two figures.
5) Table 2 and similar supplementary tables:
a. It is important to include in a consistent manner the time after immunization when the parameters were measured in
order for the purported time and duration of any immunological effect can be considered in the context of the
apparent/proposed times after immunization when heterologous effects on mortality have been reported. This temporal
information might be included in the Outcomes column so that all time points post immunization when results were
analyzed is included. The final column should then indicate the time point(s) at which significant differences were
observed.
b. In many cases, what is described in the far right column does not appear to be a difference between the group who
received the vaccine in question and a group who did not, but some change over time that may have been a coincidental
finding. Unless such a change was evident only in the immunized group relative the unimmunized group, how can such a
change be suggested to represent a change related to the vaccine? For example, for Djuardi et al, did the change in
IFNg response at 24 months occur differentially in BCG immunized infants? Such an increase in IFNg has been seen
globally regardless of BCG status, and reflects an ontogenetic response that is not BCG dependent. Similarly, in the
report by Weir et al, was the change in IL-10 response seen only in the BCG group.
Minor points:
6) Page 7 throughout. The wording is such that it is not clear in many cases whether the reported increases and
decreases are increases in a specific parameter in those receiving or not receiving a specific vaccine (i.e., a relative
change in a parameter, be that parameter a response induced by in vitro stimulation or a change in a parameter
measured directly ex vivo or without in vitro stimulation).
7) Page 7, lines 49-51: The data do not appear to support the statement that larger studies trended to the null.
8) Table 2, report by Hoft et al. IPP is a mimic of an antigen found in BCG both of which activate a specific subset of
gamma delta T cells. Thus, the response to IPP is not heterologous but antigen-specific.
9) Table 2 would flow better if the TT section was placed after the measles section.
10) Some attention to grammar and word selection would improve the clarity and readability.
