Manuscript ID: bmj.2015.029885 -” Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and the risk of heart
failure: a nested case-control study from four European countries in the SOS Project”
This study by Arfe et al is a multinational case-control study including data from 4 different
countries in 5 databases, investigating the risk of hospitalization for heart failure associated with
incident NSAID use. The study included 92,163 cases hospitalized for heart failure that were
matched with 8,246,403 controls. The main results of the study that both traditional NSAIDS and
selective COX-2 inhibitors were associated with increased risk of heart failure hospitalizations and
there was evidence for dose-related increase in risk. Notably, the selective COX-2 inhibitor
celecoxib was not associated with increased risk of heart failure hospitalization.
General comments
This is a carefully conducted study addressing an important topic related to the safety of NSAIDs in
the general population. Although the results of the study are not novel, the study adds to the
accumulating body of evidence linking NSAIDs with unfavourable cardiovascular safety.
The study design is nested case-control study and suffers from the caveats encountered in such
study design, but the authors carefully address weaknesses and potential confounders in the
manuscript. The main strength of the study is that it includes a large cohort of cases and controls
but data are from heterogeneous and multiple data sources that are sought harmonized during
data management.
Specific comments
1. I had some problems understanding the datasets used for the study and how participants
entered the database’s and the completeness of follow-up. This is a major issue and could
influence detection of the primary outcome as well as exposure to NSAIDs. Please clarify.
2. In the methods section you describe how you excluded individuals who did not have at least one
year of uninterrupted observation prior to the index prescription date. How does this affect your
prior history of e.g. heart failure or cardiovascular disease?
3. There is lot of heterogeneity in data between the individual databases and you describe that you
harmonized data during data management and before pooling datasets. Did that in any way
influence cohort selection or completeness of data?
4. I do not agree with your approach to only include primary discharge code of heart failure to
define outcome since heart failure is often associated with other cardiovascular diagnoses, e.g.
myocardial infarction or atrial fibrillation, and therefore affect detection of outcome events.
Although the effect of this most likely would be non-differential, we know that NSAIDs increase risk
of ischemic heart disease and atrial fibrillation which might affect how discharge codes were
prioritized and therefore heart failure events missed.
5. We know from other databases that the sensitivity of heart failure diagnosis is notoriously poor,
but with acceptable positive predictive value and specificity. This would be even more pronounced
by only including primary discharge coding diagnoses.
6. Not all heart failure patients are hospitalized and many are managed as outpatients in
specialized heart failure clinics or outpatient clinics. This is being more frequent during the last
years and therefore this might affect detection of heart failure events if you only included
inpatients.
7. It is intriguing that you do not find any association between celecoxib and increased risk of heart
failure hospitalization, which is further supported in the dose response analyses. During the study
period, there has been lot of discussion on the unfavourable effect of NSAIDs on CV risk and in
particular the selective COX-2 inhibitors. Thus, this could have directed physicians towards more
use of non-selective NSAIDs and less use of celecoxib in high-risk patients. Did you see any trend
towards change in use of different NSAIDs according to risk profile of patients (e.g. lower CV
disease or hypertension in celecoxib users) during the study period?
8. There are some important differences in baseline characteristics between the cases and controls

that could influence the results. In particular, there is much more frequent use of cardiac
pharmacotherapy in general among cases compared to controls. Use of these drugs could
represent risk factors for heart failure (e.g. hypertension or atrial fibrillation) that are being
treated, or established heart failure that had not yet been hospitalized and managed in outpatient
clinic or primary care. This if quite fundamental and could influence results, therefore the authors
could have considered matching fewer controls on each case (it is bit of an overkill to match 100
controls on each case) and tried to achieve better balance in baseline characteristics between
cases and controls, for example by using propensity score based matching or matching on more
parameters. I would very much like to see results were