This is a rather interesting and well written study with an adequate design to pick up rare adverse events
following the use of central stimulants as treatment for ADHD in children and adolescents. I think it would
be of interest to the readers of BMJ if it was revised. I have some major concerns, but rally mostly minor
concerns
Major concerns
I think they could have use for a language consultant.
The first paragraph of the introduction is a bit messy
In the second paragraph on age 3 they say that the design eliminates confounding – is this totally true?
Second paragraph page 5: The events included in each cluster of diagnosis range form something that is
very mild disease and something that is very severe disease. This is a major problem with the paper:
different things are clustered together
Page 12: strength and limitations: they need to work on the limitations bit: Something about the wash out
period needs to be discussed in limitations. Likewise Diagnostic accuracy (high of course from previous
study, but not 100% - how does this influence results. They don’t know if prescribed drugs are taken: what
could noncompliance doo to these findings. And what about the nocebo effect? It patients take
amphetamine or methylphenidate they will notice this. Any event will more readily be viewed as a
consequence of this intake. Thus increasing the chance of having any episodes after the intake of these
drugs.
Minor concerns
I think it would be more appropriate if they were to call it adverse events or events than outcome
I think it would be more appropriate to call it cardiovascular adverse event rather than cardiac when they
include stroke
Line 47 page 2: “particularly in children with mild disease” – what disease?
Line 50 page 3: “confounding between individuals” – correct phrasing?
Line 30 page 4: I would make a paragraph between “….Tenth Revision (ICD-10)” and “All researchers….”
The previous study they refer to in line 45 page 4 has measured diagnosis to “actual diagnosis” – what gold
standard is this?
Line 38, page 8: “partitioned” – a good word?