Thank you for the opportunity to review the manuscript, “Sex Differences in How Scientists Present the
Important of Their Research.” This is an interesting, timely, and socially relevant topic, and the authors
provide a quantitative analytical contribution on differences between genders with regards to positive
presentation of research findings.

Overall, I think that the paper is important and will be of interest to researchers in the medical/clinical
and life sciences fields, clinicians, and policymakers, especially given the increasing attention and
strategies toward improving gender equality and reducing the gap between men and women in science
research.
The paper is well-written, and the research question is clearly defined. The authors also thoroughly took
into consideration and adjusted for a variety of confounders, including journal characteristics, publication
year, and research fields.
I have listed below some comments and suggestions for strengthening the paper.
TITLE / INTRODUCTION
I would replace ‘sex differences’ in the title and throughout the paper with ‘gender differences’, given
how 1) the topic of this paper contributes to the literature on the social phenomenon of gender
disparities in research, and 2) the method used to distinguish between male and female scientists relied
on an algorithm that classified the ‘exposure’ by first names, which arguably is a manifestation of one’s
gender identity, and not necessarily biological sex.
METHODS
PAGE 7, LINES 32 to 47: How well does the Genderize algorithm account for non-Anglo-Saxon names?
Could you comment on and/or clarify how this would or wouldn’t affect the results regarding sex
differences on positive presentations of research results?
PAGE 8, LINES 3 to 15: I found it helpful that the authors have included the set of 25 words that have
been identified as used to positively frame results, and agree that titles and abstracts are often the most
commonly – if not only – read sections of a paper. The authors mention that their “primary outcome was
a binary variable of whether any of these words was used in a scientific abstract of title”; however, this
seems like any mention of the word was coded as positive presentation, rather than considering the
word in the context of the sentence/paragraph, especially as over 9 million articles were analysed. For
example, ‘novel’ could be used simply to describe new drug targets in oncological research,
‘unprecedented’ might not necessarily be used to describe research findings, and this abstract itself
would be considered positively framed due to the use of these words. Could the authors clarify what
constituted as positive presentation with regards to the use of the 25 words, how this measurement bias
was mitigated, and potential limitations in the Discussion?
PAGE 9, LINES 3 to 15: This is a bit unclear to me. Could the authors clarify/rephrase this section and/or
provide an example of percentile ranking for a MeSH term? Was this also performed for articles in the
life sciences journals?
RESULTS
PAGE 11, LINES 51 to 56: Could the authors include how the positive presentation of research findings
change over the 15 years for clinical journals with an impact factor less than 10? This did not appear to
be in the text or in Figure 2.
PAGE 11, LINES 37 to 44: I would consider moving this sentence to the Discussion section.
PAGE 12, LINES 22 to 32: The authors give examples of the gender difference effect size for a few of the
25 words, for example, the word ‘promising’ has a “respective sex difference of 44.2% (95% CI, 24.5%
to 63.9%)” – could the authors provide a table/figure that details these effect sizes for all 25 words? I
think it could be interesting and helpful to include this.
PAGE 13, LINES 6 to 13: I would consider moving this sentence to the Discussion section.
PAGE 13, LINE 22: Could you add the word ‘clinical’ before “journals with an impact factor below 10”?

PAGE 14, LINES 6 and 9: Please provide the confidence intervals for these effect sizes.
DISCUSSION
The discussion in this research seems to me to suggest that strategies around self-promotion through
positive presentation of research findings could be means to reducing the gender gap in science
research, and potentially necessary for the progression of research careers (e.g./ page 14, lines 43 to
50; page 15, lines 22 to 36). However, in contrast to self-promotion through social media or scientific
meetings, positive presentation of research findings could in some cases be considered, or can easily
develop into, science hype or spin (e.g. see Boutron et al. 2010 doi.org/10.1001/jama.2010.651 and
Chiu et al. 2017 doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.2002173). This can have negative downstream impacts on
further research, clinical practice, and policymaking. While understanding that gender disparities in
research is a very real and important problem, could the authors discuss the implications and potentially
negative consequences for research integrity?
Thank you again for the opportunity to review this paper.
