I thank the authors for addressing the statistical comments raised by the Editors
from the manuscript meeting. The responses are well detailed, and the article
remains an excellent report of a well-conducted trial. Upon re-reading, I do have
some further comments (mostly minor) for the authors to address to improve
transparency and refine the wording in places.
1) “At 12 months HbA1c was comparable” – I think the word ‘comparable’ should
be clarified, as the CI might suggest values that are not close to zero. Are the
authors say saying that the means are similar and any differences are small and
clinically unimportant?
2) The authors use the word “age adjusted least-squares mean” in the abstract. I
think just say what the adjustment factors were in the methods (there was more
than age, e.g. centre was included) and drop the least-squares language as this
will not mean much to the BMJ reader.

In their response, the authors say they have dropped the least-squares language
throughout, but it is still very much evidence throughout the results. Better to
stick to adjusted mean difference, and just mention that least squares was the
estimation method in the Methods.
3) In the Methods section there is no description of sensitivity analyses that
adjust for baseline values, for either the primary or secondary outcomes. This is
important to mention for transparency, and even to explain why this was not
done routinely to begin with (i.e. add the explanation for why a final score
analysis was undertaken as the main analysis, and not an ANCOVA as is
recommended). The authors refer to the protocol in their response, but there is
no word limit at the BMJ, so simply include here as written in the protocol about
how the primary and secondary outcomes were fully analysed.
4) In Table 2 there are some * but I cannot see a footnote explaining what these
refer to
5) The mean difference column in Table 2 should say adjusted mean difference,
and then a footnote given for the adjustment factors
6) “HbA1c did not differ between treatment arms in the ITT analysis” – suggest
to re-write, as the observed value do indeed differ. The word comparable could
be used, for example, like you do previously, but with an explanation for the
difference being small and unimportant.
7) “The study was not powered to detect differences in glycaemic control
between age groups. However, there was a trend for children in the youngest and
oldest age group to have a lower HbA1c during treatment with MDI.” – we try to
avoid suggestions about ‘a trend for …’ in BMJ articles. Rather say that the
observed values were generally lower for these age groups, but there is a lot of
uncertainty when comparing across groups.
8) The homogeneity in findings across sites (Fig S4) is important and strengthens
the lack of evidence to support CSII, so this should be mentioned in the
manuscript.
9) “… of participants (CSII 128/144, MDI 123/149) reported a significantly higher
score with CSII with least-squares adjusted mean difference 4.1 (95% CI 0.6 to
7.6).” – is this clinical significance being referred to here? Be clear.
I hope these comments help the authors to revise their article accordingly.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
