The article available here for review gives a good overview of the topic Choosing Wiseley. The authors
also explain how this original US-based campaign was picked up in individual countries around the
world. However, the campaign character is not further problematized or illuminated. In Germany, for
example, the focus is less on the campaign than on a bundle of projects under the umbrella of the
Association of Scientific Medical Societies (AWMF). Within the AWMF, the German Society for General
Practice and Family Medicine (DEGAM) has been responsible for the guideline Protection against
Excessive Care and Shortages, which was published in June of this year. It focused on three aspects
that are not yet included in this article: (1) that undersupply and oversupply are closely interlinked
and two sides of one and the same coin, namely the misuse; (2) the evidence base of
recommendations for protection against over-supply and undersupply is crucial. For example, the
German guideline selected the methodological approach of first extracting recommendations that are
relevant for oversupply or undersupply from individual guidelines and then prioritizing them with
different panels. Since the source guidelines are subject to constant revision, the guideline “Protection
against oversupply and undersupply” was created as a so-called "living guideline"; (3) the
prioritization of recommendations requires a separate methodology (Muche-Borowski C, Abiry D,
Wagner HO, Barzel A, Lühmann D, Egidi G, Kühlein T,Scherer M. Protection against the overuse and
underuse of health care -methodological considerations for establishing prioritization criteria and
recommendations in general practice. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018 Oct 11;18(1):768).
Furthermore, I would like to point out that the term de-implementation is problematic because it
narrows the whole topic. It is not enough to abolish individual measures or withdraw them from the
supply. But it's essentially about avoiding misuse. When the de-implementation of a measure that is
relevant for oversupply is considered, it should first be differentiated: is it too much of the wrong or
too much of the right? This ultimately leads to the fact that it even more than evaluation research of
interventions and campaigns against over-supply needs health services research, in order to first

identify care problems and fields of action. Finally, significantly more studies are needed to investigate
the negative consequences of oversupply in terms of patient-relevant outcomes.
