Review of BMJ-2018-048338-R1 Michael F. Jacobson
Most discussion of food taxes has focused on SSBs. This paper is useful because it broadens the
discussion to include high-sugar snack foods. Hence, the paper should be helpful to public health
officials, health NGOs, and policy makers in countries in which substantial amounts of free sugars come
from snack foods instead of beverages. I believe it deserves publication.
Some suggestions and questions:
Abstract: clarify that the “2.7%” figure is a percentage-point decrease, not percent decrease. Ditto for
first paragraph of Discussion. Also, the abstract states “high-SSBs.” Shouldn’t that be “high-sugar
SSBs”?

At several points the article uses the term “order of magnitude.” That term usually refers to a 10x
difference, but here the differences between the effects of taxes on SSBs and high-sugar snacks are less
than an order of magnitude. Edit accordingly.
The study has numerous limitations, so I was glad to see that some were covered in the Discussion.
An additional limitation is that SSBs seem to be particularly conducive to weight gain, perhaps because
they do not increase satiety as much as foods do. That should be acknowledged in the Discussion. A
tax on SSBs might be disproportionately effective compared to a tax on sugar snacks.
Most of the evidence on added sugars and BMI has come from studies on SSBs. The case that
high-sugar snacks affect body weight could be buttressed by citing a meta-analysis of cohort studies
that looked at added-sugars intake from foods (not SSBs) and any other experimental evidence (One
such study is Added Sugar Intake and Cardiovascular Diseases Mortality Among US Adults. JAMA Intern
Med. 2014;174(4):516-524. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.13563)
Also, the effects of Mexico’s snack-food and SSB taxes have been studied; though Mexico and the UK
have very different cultures and economies, it might be useful for the authors to compare the measured
effects of Mexico’s taxes to their calculated effects in the UK.
Table 1 indicates that a 20% tax leads to higher consumption of cake in low-income (but not middleand high-income) people due to strong substitution effect towards other foods, but is that realistic? A
more extensive rationalization could be included in the Discussion.
It is hard to believe (Table 2) that beverage taxes would lead to increases in weight of high-income
people who are normal weight or obese but not people who are overweight. That may indicate a flaw in
the statistical model or it might be real. In either case, the finding deserves a more thorough
rationalization in the Discussion, perhaps acknowledging the many assumptions made in the cascade of
steps between taxing the foods and seeing weight changes.
Figures 2 & 3: Clarify in the text and caption what the figures in the two graphs represent. (Say Figure
2(a), Figure 2(b).)
It is unclear from the manuscript what price elasticities the authors used. While the details are in the
Appendix, it would be worth saying that own PEDs ranged from X–Y in various food/income/BMI groups.
Manuscript and Appendix–Table B: Much depends on the PEDs, but, eyeballing them, I am skeptical of
their accuracy or precision. First, giving them to three decimals suggests great, but unlikely, precision
in their determination. Do they really deserve three decimals? Second, the own PEDs jump around a lot
instead of showing monotonic trends between drinks with high, medium, and low sugar content; low,
medium, and high incomes; and normal weight, overweight, and obese households. A sentence or two
of explanation could be useful.
