The authors have made an updated review on perioperative interventions and their impact
on postoperative pulmonary complications. The topic is highly relevant as respiratory
complications are a major cause for increased morbidity and mortality.
The study is a systematic review on randomized clinical trials in adult patients undergoing
non-cardiac surgery.
The main finding are 6 interventions with low or moderate quality to reduce pulmonary
complications.
The data is well presented, the methodology as it should be according to international
guidelines including use of standardized tools for quality assessment (GRADE etc).
The results are presented by forest plots and extensive but not over-informative tables
which the authors should be applauded for.
The manuscript is well-written as expected from an English group.
Thus, my main comments relates to not to the systematic method technique, but to the
more fundamental issues of what interventions were (not) chosen for assessment.
- All of the included assessments are relevant.
- I do not understand why the role of neuromuscular blockade or lack thereof was not
investigated. the authors list one study (Mogensen V et al), but several other RCTs exists
with proven effect on the risk of severe desaturation (eg. Sauer et al EJA 2011) please
explain why these studies were not included? It makes me question the search strategy
- the use of neuromuscular function is a proven method to assess residual neuromuscular
block. Why were trials with these techniques not included?
- intraoperative fluid load on postoperative pulmonary function. Again, why not included?
- supraglottic airway devices vs. tracheal intubation for the risk of aspiration, and
subsequent respiratory failure. Why not assessed?
The outcomes chosen are good for the simple reason that they entails a clinical problem,
and not just physiology (as the authors also explains as a not valid outcome measure).
Therefore I have a question about including atelectasis as an outcome (and one of the
most frequent ones, ad a condition that occurs even after a short period of bed rest in the
operative patient. how often did the atelactasis result in a clinical relevant adverse
outcome (desaturation)? This also goes for pulmonary effusion.
I much lack a procedure specific analysis of the interventions effects. For instance, as the
authors themselves state, diaphragm near surgery have a higher frequency of
complications than lower abdominal. Please comment
specific comments.
-Introduction: the authors state that infection is the most frequent adverse outcome after
surgery. I will claim its pain, both acute and chronic.
- The argument for not including papers in the period from the precious systematic review
is a standard in these analysis. But what if the authors had included the papers chosen for
that review. Would the results have been the same? and are all studies prior to 1990
useless?

I think the topic is very relevant and would be happy to see a revision, but cannot make a
suggestion about publication before seeing the answers to my questions above