The authors discuss the equity of aid contributions, both in terms of who gives and who
receives them. I didn't see any particular statistical problems, but there is a more general
data issue in that there is a considerable amount of numeric information that readers will
struggle to assimilate.
1. Figure 1 is a key example. It is a very beautiful but complex gapminder-ggplot-type
graph with nine distinct facets, each facet containing information for a large (though
unspecified) number of countries. The entire text describing the figure is:
"The distribution of the overall envelope of aid for RMNCH became more vertically
equitable over time, in the sense that donors increasingly prioritized low-income countries
(whose share increased from 43% of aid for RMNCH in 2010 to 51% in 2017) and to some
extent those with higher mortality levels (Figure 1). However, countries of similar

mortality and income continued to receive very different levels of aid per person,
indicating a lack of horizontal equity (Figure 1).
The separate components of aid for RMNCH – aid for reproductive health, maternal and
newborn health, and child health – all increased substantially from 2010 to 2017 (Figure
1). During this same period, maternal, newborn and child mortality levels fell. Among
these three, progress in maternal and neonatal mortality lagged behind child mortality
(Figure 1) and aid for maternal and newborn health did not increase as a share of aid for
RMNCH."
If one is familiar with the field the layout of the Figure and the associated statements may
be self-evident, but for the non-specialist they are absolutely not. The layout of the Figure
needs to be explained first. In addition the final two points, that mortality fell over time
and and more so for child than maternal or neonatal mortality, are far from obvious. It
doesn't help that maternal mortality is measured as life expectancy, i.e. in the reverse
direction to child and neonatal mortality.
2. I'm not convinced that the extensive supplementary data add much to the story.
3. Two very minor points. Data are plural, so "data is" and "data suggests" would be
better as "data are" and "data suggest".
4. Most percentages in the paper are usefully given as whole numbers (see my
recommendations on numerical presentation, https://adc.bmj.com/content/100/7/608).
But Figure 4 gives percentages to one decimal place which I suggest would be better as
whole numbers.
Tim Cole