Siemieniuk et al. performed a meta-analysis of 4 randomized controlled trials comparing TAVI vs
SAVR in patients with a peri-operative risk of death <8%.
There are several issues along the manuscript which may raise concern.
The following list contains the most relevant ones.
1) Table 1 does not contain sufficient information:
a) First, all data should be reported according to the treatment group: TAVI or SAVR.
b) Crucial data including trials' characteristics such as number of centres, study design, n of ITT
pts and of as-treated patients; or pts' characteristics such as coronary artery disease, prior PCI,
prior CABG, peripheral vascular disease, prior pacemaker, and procedural details such as
prevalence of access site: transfemoral and transapical are missing.

2)The Authors have included 4 RCT.
The STACCATO trial includes only 72 pts with a maximum follow-up of 3 months.
However, outcomes have been reported at 2-year follow-up in the main analysis.
This trial should be excluded from the the present analysis.
3) The Authors are reporting results of their pooled analysis according to the access site:
transfemoral or transapical, in both the Abstract or the Results.
However this analysis has been defined by the Authors as subgroup analysis. This is just one of the
three subgroup analyses performed by the Authors (i.e. low vs high risk, type of valve)
It is not clear which approach was followed by the Authors.
In the manuscript, the Results section contains data from a single pooled analysis of the 4 trials
followed by results from this subgroup analysis, while most figures (1-5) and the web appendix 4
contain results from subgroup analysis only, i.e. no single summary forest plot was performed.
Also the Authors seem to interpret findings on the basis of this subgroup analysis only.
On a methodological standpoint, relying mainly on findings from subgroup analyses may
lead to biased estimates of the true treatment effect in the population.
4) The manuscript text, Tables or Figures do not contain any data about the number of patients
and number of events for each outcome in the overall population and according to subgroups.
5) The Authors did not declare the primary endpoint(s) and the secondary endpoints of this study
6) The web appendix risk of bias does not follow the items recommended by the Cochrane
Collaborations.
7) In the statistical chapter the Authors declare that for dichotomous outcomes random-effects
meta-analysis was performed using both Hartung-Knapp-Sidik Jonkman (HKSJ) 95% confidence
intervals (CIs) and DerSimonian and Laird CIs of relative risks, and that the choice between the
two for the primary report was based on plausibility of results.
Actually such approach is very unusual, nor is it recommended by the Cochrane Collaboration.
Furthermore, the Authors themselves end up with using the random-effects DL method, which is
the commonly used random-effects method for such analyses.
Therefore the use the HKSJ method should be avoided.
8) Although the Authors tried to reconstruct the data from published Kaplan-Meier survival curves
from the included studies for some endpoints, in order to derive hazard ratio (HR) as treatment
effects, this approach does not allow to claim that participant level data were used for the
analyses. In other terms, this study is not an individual-participant-data (IPD) meta-analysis which
requires the patient-level data from dataset of the included studies and the final merge of data into
a single dataset. The Authors do not have original dataset sources against which they could
compare the estimates derived from the KM plots.
The present analysis remains an aggregate study-level meta-analysis.
Further it is even more accurate to trust the HR of events reported in the text or tables from each
study if available, and to use the extraction of data from KM curves only when this data has not
been reported. This data should be pooled using a random-effect inverse variance weighted
method. The use of Cox regression with shared frialty on the study level in STATA to provide a
random-effect Cox regression analysis is usually used with IPD datasets.
9)The number needed to treat to benefit and to harm with 95% confidence intervals has not been
reported as measure of absolute treatment effect.
10) From a methodological standpoint in the Abstract, the results have been reported as absolute
risk differences, which is not recommended by the Cochrane collaboration. Treatment effects
should have been reported as relative risk differences such as risk ratios or odds ratios as in the
main analysis with some measure of absolute treatment difference such as NNTb/NTTH
