Dear editors and authors,
Thank you for the opportunity to review this analysis article.
The article is well-written and should be useful in establishing a solid ‘point of
departure’ for further work on ‘fair pricing’ in pharmaceuticals.
It appears to be part of a series, though I have no information available on other
articles in the series.
I recommend that this article should be accepted with minor revisions. Specific
suggestions for revisions follow.
1. There is very little mention of so-called ‘value-based pricing’ (i.e. decisions based
on incremental cost-effectiveness ratio analyses). In my view, VBP – for better or
worse – dominates the pricing discussion at present. VBP is also implicitly ‘fair’. I
would like to see at least an additional paragraph on VBP in this analysis. There is
immediate conflict between VBP and the potential definitions of affordability offered
in this analysis (of which the fiscal space approach appears to be most favoured by
the authors), as what is ‘good value’ (comes under a set ICER threshold) will of
course not necessarily be affordable. This point may be explored elsewhere in the
paper series, and would of course merit whole papers in itself, but given the current

ubiquity of VBP, a few more sentences on it would be reasonable. This could be
under point F or point E.
2. I did not understand the point about why consumer/producer surplus should be
discussed more in pricing negotiations (bottom of page 5, top of page 6). To me,
this is equivalent to discussing information asymmetry: if the producer has superior
knowledge of the consumer’s bargaining position (e.g. is aware of set ICER
thresholds), the producer will have an advantage, and vice versa. If this is the main
point being made by the authors, perhaps information asymmetry should be
discussed.
3. Page 4, line 49 claims low prices for e.g. Global Fund or PEPFAR products ‘reflect
the financial resources of the end-user’. Is this strictly true? Should this read
“…reflect the political and financial bargaining power of the purchasers”?
4. I may have missed something, but I don’t think the authors stated whether they
consider cost of failures to be included in the ‘cost of R&D’. I assume yes – as this is
such a contentious point, would be worth clarifying in one of the relevant
paragraphs.
5. Only a suggestion for consideration by the authors – though this is already
discussed in the article, and would be slightly repetitive, I wondered whether it
would be nice to have a table summarising, generally, which datapoints would be
needed to define the fair pricing zone (e.g. R&D costs, affordability ceiling, minimum
profit margin necessary to attract multiple market competitors…)
6. I appreciate that the paper appears to be careful to not separate generic and
originator manufacturers. The authors have largely succeeded in explaining their
analysis without referring to this traditional divide. However, A) it may be worth
explicitly noting this somewhere in the beginning of the article (“We do not
separately consider originator and generic manufacturers, as the core pricing
considerations apply to both…” or similar), and B) some readers will assume that in
some cases implicitly only originators are being discussed – e.g. in reference to
R&D. Do the authors mean to say that R&D costs incurred by generic companies
should also be taken into account when calculating fair pricing zones for off-patent
products? Either way, this should be explicitly noted.
Small wording suggestions:
Page 2, line 18 – ‘accompany’ instead of ‘characterize’
Page 3, line 27 – I’d suggest replacing reference 14 with ‘Hill A, Barber MJ, Gotham
D. Estimated costs of production and potential prices for the WHO Essential
Medicines List. BMJ Global Health 2018; 0: e000571.’ as this is a more
comprehensive analysis than the currently cited one.
Page 4, line 13 – ‘figures’ instead of ‘inputs’
Paragraph on page 5, lines 27–37, I found unclear: are the ‘benchmarks’ mentioned
benchmarks for fiscal space, for spending on medicines, for spending on healthcare?
These could be spelled out a bit more to avoid confusion.
Figures 1–3 – ‘Profit margins’ in the legend could be renamed “Minimum sustainable
profit margin” or “minimum sustainable operating margin” or similar, as the actual
profit margin will depend on where in the ‘fair zone’ we are – the bars define only
the floor. ‘Price ceiling’ in the legend could have an added parenthesis “Price ceiling
(maximum price affordable to buyer)”, only to remind the reader that this is how
price ceiling is defined in the article – I had to go back to check this.