I reviewed this Manuscript as a Patient Reviewer, particularly considering these issues:
* Is the topic relevant/important to patients?
Absolutely. As a patient, I found it somewhat eye-opening that primary-care providers were prescribing off-label without
strong clinical evidence so often. It would be helpful to have access to information about which antidepressants have the
strongest evidence for a particular off-label use, were I considering taking one.
* Would the treatment or guidance given work in practice? Are there challenges to the patient that should be
considered?
All of the "potential explanations for off-label prescribing" focus on the physician. The third explanation even offers that
other medications might be inappropriate for older adults, *which could affect providers' quality and performance
measures.* I'd like to think some physicians wouldn't prescribe a medication that was inappropriate for older adults
*because they were concerned about the health of those older adult patients.*
I think there was a lack of consideration that there may have been some shared decision making driving these
prescription choices, or physicians making conscious choices for their patients, despite these medications not having the
strongest scientific evidence. I understand that class effects cannot be assumed, but when another drug in the same
class does have strong evidence, I am wondering if perhaps that drug is not being used for a particular reason. Perhaps
it was already tried, but discontinued due to side effects? Or not covered by formulary? Availability of a particular
medication?
Similarly, I think these factors will affect how doctors and patients make decisions together even with the information
from this study.
* Level of patient involvement
Authors did provide clear information on patient involvement. Patients were not involved in this study at all (except as
subjects). Asking one or more patients to assist with study design, implementation, interpretation, and report, or to at
least review these, would have been appropriate. Essentially, this study could have benefited from patient input at
every, or any, phase.
I found the fact that there is no plan to even share this information with the study subjects particularly disappointing.
The researchers have over 100,000 patients generously sharing access to their private data via MOXXI. Per the study, a
significant portion of these patients are receiving off-label antidepressant drugs without strong evidence, increasing their

risk of adverse drug events. It seems fair to thank them for their contribution to the research by sharing the results of
the study with them.
--I found this paper really interesting, and see the value as the authors are presenting it: that this is information a
primary-care provider needs to provide safe care. I think there's an opportunity here for patient-education/shared
decision making tools, as well.
Thank you for the opportunity to review.
-Melissa Hicks