I thank the authors for responding in detail to my comments. Their rebuttal and revision appear
sensible, and I am satisfied that the statistical issues I raised have been addressed or resolved. There
remain a large number of analyses and secondary reports as the basis for the paper. I am still slightly
concerned about the issue of low power, due to wide CIs and secondary nature. On the other hand, had
the authors actually found a few strong results, I am not convinced how reliable this would have been
given the extensive number of analyses. But as the authors argue, the original trial program was
complex and other reviewers seem to appreciate the further detail. I leave the BMJ clinical editors to
decide whether this adds clinical value over and above the previous publications. I only have a few more
comments
Abstract Conclusion: This reads better, but the authors now say “A bivalirudin monotherapy strategy, as
compared with heparin with or without GPI, does not significantly reduce MACE or NACE in patients with
STEACS nor with NSTEACS.” – I find the word ‘significantly’ rather vague, and I ask the authors to be
more specific. Is this clinical or statistical significance? Given their rebuttal, I think this is based on
statistical significance, but as I mentioned before this could be due to low power? Would it be better to
say ‘ There is no strong evidence from this trial that a bivalirudin monotherapy strategy … reduces
MACE or NACE …’? I just would avoid the use of significant, and focus on strength of evidence.
Similarly, in the discussion the authors say that ‘a regimen of bivalirudin monotherapy, as
compared with unfractionated heparin with provisional GPI, is not associated with …’ – I think that
better language would be that there is no strong evidence from this trial that ….
Please mention that the mantel-cox method produces UNADJUSTED rate ratios.
The authors show me in their rebuttal that adjusting for centre does not make much difference. Can
they also state this in the results or methods please?
Page 13 penultimate paragraph, we are missing a closing bracket.
Table 1: footnote still discusses the method to obtain p-values but none are shown
Table 2: footnote mentions the use of continuity corrections, yet this was not explained in the methods.
Please address this.
Table 2: footnote says that Fisher’s test was used to calculate p-values, but this method is for 2 by 2
tables, not for comparing rates. Or have I misunderstood? Again, there is no mention in the methods.
‘event rates at 30 day’ – the authors rather mean ‘event rates over the first 30 days’, the word ‘at’ is
inappropriate I feel.
I hope these further comments help improve the paper going forward.