General Comments
Staerk and colleagues report the results of a Danish nationwide cohort study in which they examined the risks of
stroke and recurrent bleeding following episode of gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with atrial fibrillation. This
study included 4,602 patients with a mean age of 78.3 years who were discharged from hospital from a
gastrointestinal bleed, within two years of discharge 39.3% died, 12.0% suffered from pulmonary embolism and
17.7% experienced major bleeding, most commonly gastrointestinal bleeding. Restart of antithrombotic therapy
compared with no restart was associated with a significantly reduced risk of all cause mortality and of
thromboembolism whereas restart of oral anticoagulant therapy was associated with an increased risk of recurrent
bleeding whereas resumption of other types of antithrombotic drugs were not associated with an increased risk of
bleeding.
The results by Staerk and colleagues are consistent with emerging reports of improved outcomes among patients who
resume antithrombotic therapy following major bleeding compared with those who do not. The challenge with the
interpretation of these data is that they are observational and subject to confounding, as acknowledged by the
authors. Patients who restart antithrombotic therapy after bleeding are systematically different to those who do not
resume antithrombotic treatment and in observational studies we can never be sure that unknown and uncollected
potential confounders have been adjusted for, even when all information on known potential confounders has been
carefully considered.
Specific Comments
1. The Danish nationwide registry has been extensively used to explore questions related to antithrombotic therapy in
patients with atrial fibrillation. The approach used by the authors has been extensively tested in previous studies.
There are potential limitations related to incomplete recording of medication use (aspirin use does not require
prescription), adherence cannot be taken into account (this is acknowledged by the authors) and other recognized
potential confounders such as renal function, hemoglobin as well as quality of warfarin control were not taken into
account. These limitations are for the most part acknowledged by the authors.
2. When compared with patients who restarted antithrombotic therapy, those who did not were generally older,
appeared to have lower CHADS and CHA2DS2-VASc scores, appeared to have lower rates of prior stroke or
thromboembolism and appeared to be less likely to have a history of ischemic heart disease and myocardial infarction.
Interpretation of the data is however limited by the multiple columns in Table 2 so it is not possible to clearly identify
which baseline characteristics are significantly different between which groups and the corresponding p values are not
provided. Nevertheless the results appear to be consistent irrespective of whether adjustment was performed which
provides some reassurance of the robustness of the results.
3. One of the most striking findings of this study is the very high rate of all-cause mortality in patients who experience
bleeding, approaching 30% at one year and in excess of 40% at two years. At five years mortality reaches 60%. This
in part reflects the age of this population, which is somewhat older than the average age of atrial fibrillation in the
community but also their multiple co-morbidities. These data reinforce the importance of bleeding as a powerful
marker of outcome.
4. The authors quote several prior studies that have reported an association between resumption of antithrombotic
therapy after bleeding and an improvement in outcomes. Their results add to this body of information but cannot
establish causation and instead emphasize the need for rigorous randomized evaluation, challenging as this may be.
5. The authors suggest that risk of recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding was not increased. This is technically correct
because the confidence intervals cross 1 but the more or less consistent pattern of estimates above 1 for GI bleeding
suggest that there is likely to be a real signal of increased risk of GI bleeding with the resumption of oral
anticoagulants or other antithrombotic drugs in a patient who has previously had a gastrointestinal bleed.
6. The authors should consider quoting a paper in Annals of Internal Medicine from Hong Kong (Sung JJ, Lau JY, Ching
JY, Wu JC, Lee YT, Chiu PW, Leung VK, Wong VW, Chan FK. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Jan 5;152(1):1-9.) in which
patients who were randomized to continuation of aspirin compared with placebo after gastrointestinal bleeding had a
reduction in mortality at the cost of an increase in recurrent bleeding.
7. The authors analyse prior use of PPI but do not examine post-bleed PPI use in patients who resumed antithrombotic
therapy after a gastrointestinal bleed. In particular, it would be valuable to know whether the risk of bleeding was
reduced in such patients.