The authors present a population-based retrospective cohort study using the New
York State SPARCS database to evaluate trends of mesh use in POP repair from
2008-2011 and safety/reinterventions relative to non-mesh POP surgeries. Significant
strengths of this study include the large population based study sample and use of
propensity matching. The major weakness of this study is that the data is limited to
2008-2011. As the authors are well aware, the FDA's second public safety
announcement in July 2011 and subsequent orders requiring post-market
surveillance for transvaginal mesh for POP has had a substantial impact on the
current use of mesh and the number and types of products that were available for
use after 2011. This has several implications for the current study: 1) The rise in
mesh use seen from 2008-2011 does not reflect the patter of use after 2011. As such
the papers conclusion "Despite multiple mesh warnings by the FDA since 2008, the
use of mesh for POP continues to grow" is not accurate. 2) The mesh products that
were in wide use from 2008-2011 (Prolift, Apogee, Perigee) are no longer sold by the
manufacturers. In contrast to the products that are currently marketed, these
products used trocars and larger, heavier meshes. As such the safety/reintervention
data from this study may not be clinically relevant to today's POP surgery and likely
overestimate the current risk associated with the currently available products. If the
authors have data more recent than 2011, even 2012 or 2013, the impact of this
paper would be much greater.
A few other comments:
1) The authors do not appear to distinguish between mesh placed transvaginally and
transabdominally in this analysis. The trends and associated risk of these two routes
of surgery are likely very different so I would strongly encourage the authors to look
at these two groups separately. If the dataset does not allow this, then this is a
significant weakness that should be noted and explained in the Discussion.
2) Several important confounders are not included in the propensity matching that
have potential to bias the results including surgeon characteristics, stage of prolapse,
location of prolapse (anterior, apical, posterior), concurrent surgery for stress
incontinence, etc.
3) The CPT codes for mesh revision/excision do not adequately distinguish removal of
mesh from a POP surgery vs mesh from a sling performed for stress incontinence
4) The authors should provide more details about the re-intervention rate;
specifically, what was the rate for surgery for POP recurrence vs. rate of surgery for
mesh complication
5) More detail should be provided about what is included in the category "Surgical
Complications - other". If possible, greater specificity should be provided. For
instance, many trials have shown a greater risk of bladder injury with mesh repairs.
Is this type of specificity available in the dataset? If so, it should be reported in a
great a detail as is possible. If not, this limitation should be noted.