The work by Bello et al. tackles an important topic and one that is difficult to study due to
inconsistencies in the quantity and quality of data across countries. Though there have been multiple
studies looking at the renal replacement therapy (RRT) gap worldwide, this article is original in that it

attempts to quantify and describe the delivery of RRT services globally, including CKM. The research
question is clearly defined and the methodology explained. The authors appropriately acknowledge the
limitations of survey data in their Discussion and have done the best they can garnering data of this kind
given the unique challenges of global health research.
Major issues:
1. The primary outcome measures of "markers of capacity to deliver KRT and CKM services" are only
partly defined in the Methods (e.g., CKM and availability). Although the authors do go on to describe
specific facets of these outcomes in the Results, would consider adding a section in the Methods
explaining how each outcome measure (e.g., accessibility, affordability, quality, etc.) was defined and
calculated.
2. In the "What this study adds" portion of the paper under bullet point #2 on CKM, I think the focus is
too much on the numbers of people dying from ESKD globally, and the authors seem to be implying that
CKM can reduce mortality from ESKD. Though very important in select populations, CKM does not reduce
mortality from ESKD; rather it can be used to preserve quality of life. I would perhaps clarify the
benefits of CKM and state explicitly for the reader that it does not include dialysis or transplantation.
However, if this is not what the authors mean by CKM, it is not entirely clear and an explicit definition in
the Methods may be useful (see comment #1).
3. The term "patient reported outcome measures" is used in the text without being clearly defined.
Would consider giving some examples in the text when it is first mentioned rather than making it
necessary for the reader to look at the survey itself.
4. In the limitations portion of the Discussion, would suggest acknowledging the relative dearth in
quantity and quality of information available from LMICs, as the data presented from these countries is
particularly dependent on regional experts rather than nation-level databases.
Minor issues:
1. When comparing findings from the first and second GKHA surveys in the Results on page 18, I found
the text hard to follow. Would maybe consider presenting the change in country services across surveys
as proportions (# countries providing a service/total responding countries) in addition to the absolute
numbers.

2. The term "patient reported outcome measures" is used in the text without being clearly defined.
Would consider giving some examples in the text when it is first mentioned rather than making it
necessary for the reader to look at the survey itself.
3. The authors at times seem to use "accessibility" and "availability" interchangeably, so would just be
sure to use consistent language as these are being presented as two different outcomes.
4. Expressing the density of nephrologists as a "rate" reads a little strangely (in the abstract and the text
on page 16 under "Workforce for ESKD delivery"). Would consider changing to "number of nephrologists"
pmp.
