This paper examines the correlation between (a) either individual physician health care spending or Csections (for obstetricians) and (b) medical malpractice claim incidence. This sheds light on whether
physicians’ beliefs that greater expenditure or procedures reduces malpractice claim risk, a key step in the
logic behind why malpractice law may induce defensive medicine.
I think this paper is an important contribution to the medical malpractice literature. If they had found the
opposite, it may have changed physician behavior. Knowing that physician’s beliefs are correct gives
policymakers information that helps them formulate better policies to reduce the side effects of liability
laws.
I would recommend publication with appropriate revisions.
If appropriate and there is space, I would recommend that the authors try some back of the envelope
calculations to shed light one whether the care being provided is cost effective. This should be confined to
their data and crude calculations, otherwise it will end up as a separate paper altogether (which should not
discourage the publication of this paper). I tried to do this myself. Looking at Table 3, I see there is roughly
a 2% reduction in claims (I assume this is per physician but equivalently per patient) from moving from the
bottom to top quintile. From Table 2 I see that the gap between the top and bottom quintiles of spending is
roughly $20,000 per patient. So long as the average medical claim is $1 million or less, then I would
conclude that the spending is cost effective, at least from the physician’s or liability insurer’s personal
perspective. If we are confident that the medical malpractice system works well, i.e., $1 million less
damages means $1 million less injury, then we might say it is also cost-effective from the patient’s
perspective. Of course, these require additional assumptions – and also that I am correct that suits per
patient fall by 2%. But if the numbers are not unreasonable, i.e., the rate of return to $1 of spending is
roughly $1 of claims savings, then it would at least cast some doubt on whether the spending was clearly
defensive, i.e., not cost effective.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
I wonder whether the data are long enough to handle OB claims. I thought they had a longer lag than 4
years. So having data from 2013 may not tell one about claims except really early in the sample. If the

claims data have date of incidence, one way to show that your data are accurate is to show what fraction of
claims filed in year t are from incidents in a year covered by the sample. This should be done in the
appendix. I don’t want to make too much about this because the authors do not find a zero result, which
the long lag could explain.
I understand the authors regress incidents in year t that are the basis for a future claim on expenditures or
procedures in year t-k, with k = 1. (If that is wrong, then the authors should explain what they actually do
more clearly and explain why they don’t do what I described.) That strategy makes sense for come
treatments, but not others. E.g., for C-sections, k should surely be k=0 with little risk of reverse causality.
But I can also imagine that for other treatments the lag is longer. Did the author’s check whether longer
lags are appropriate. Or even run a model with multiple years of lagged expenditures?
Do so few physicians have multiple claims that binary models are appropriate? If enough physicians have
multiple claims, I would consider a zero-inflated Poisson (or just a Poisson) since it is not clear those
models really give significantly different estimates.
Are you also clustering at the physician level?
Why do the authors group the treatment variable into quintiles? Why not just leave it a continuous
variable? That would make interpretation easier. For sure there is more noise when you don’t bin the
treatment variable. But binning assumes you know what the relationship is supposed to look like and could
hide valuable information. I would prefer a more flexible polynomial specification. At least the authors
should verify to reviewers or show in the appendix that spending or C-sections have a positive effect even
if left as a continuous variable.