Interesting well-written study leveraging an important and somewhat novel concept, specifically, using
available (Big) data from the records of real world patients in usual clinical care settings to inform
generalization of findings from RCTs (which often enroll highly selected and healthier participants), in this
case the PEGASUS trial.
I like this paper, although, in my opinion, the main effect described is well known and has been seen many
times before. As such, the results are really not that surprising (often event rates are higher in the real
world than in high-select healthy trial participants)
Major Concerns
1- My biggest concern is ascertainment of events, which could be a big problem for this study. Trial based
adjudication of events is a significantly different process that recording of events in electronic health
records….. For example, it is well known that real-world ‘billing’ and hospital administrative data records
often are more sensitive for events, but less specific than RCT/rigorous epidemiological cohorts. Look at
JAMA. 2014;311(14):1406-1415, for an example of how this can bias results significantly. Thus, it is
imperative that the authors provide some methodological data evaluating the validity and reliability of the
events coded in CALIBER against a gold standard of high-grade trial-quality event adjudication (I presume
this has been done in a random subsample of events from CALIBER already- if not it should be).
2- Correct me if I am wrong, but the authors did not exclude individuals who were on Plavix at one year
out from MI from their 'real world' sample ? I understand that there was a falloff in Plavix use after 1 year,
but it is likely that some (figure 2 suggests ~20%) persons in their real world sample continued Plavix well
after 1 year. Thus, these patients are not be exactly the same as the PEGASUS placebo group. Of course,
this would bias the results towards less events in the real world- so the differences in absolute risk between
real world and PEGASUS trial participants may be even larger. I think this issue should be addressed.
3- Given the marked differences in baseline characteristics between PEGASUS and, for example, the target
sample of 1676, it is not clear to me why the authors use crude event rates and not at least age-and-sex
adjusted event rates. It seems very unfair to compare events in a group of age 65 yrs (PEGASUS) with a
group of age 77 (CALIBER TARGET sample). I think that age and sex adjustment is critical for accurate
interpretation, or some other form of standardization. Right now this is comparing apples and oranges.
Minor Concerns.
-Methods Section, “the remainder for whom the AMI type was imputed based on ICD-10 code for hospital
admission.” Please provide more specifics on this imputation process. Why was just the ICD-10 code used,
and not other patient demographic variables?
-Methods Section, “where missing data occurred HRs were estimated in complete cases for that variable”.
Please state the amount of missing data in the models (put another way, please state the number of
complete cases included in the Cox models). If this is <90% of the total sample (5279) provide justification
for this approach (particularly because MCAR setting is unlikely) and for not using multiple imputation or
other methods to deal with MAR data.
-Limitations section, it must be stated that the relative risk reductions from PEGASUS are presumed to be
the same in this population but cannot be known to be the same. This assumption should be cited in the
paper.