This is a very well conducted randomized controlled study evaluating the utility of ultrasound as part of a
tight treat to target strategy in patients with early RA. The authors wanted to see whether the additional
goal of having no Power Doppler signal detected in joints would be clinically relevant, as compared to
clinical remission alone in therapeutic decisions. It was concluded that US offered no additional benefits,
with both primary and secondary outcomes being no different in both the US tight control arm and the
clinical tight control arm. However, there was a trend for less radiographic progression at 2 years in the
US tight control arm.
Major comment
-There is good reliability data for ultrasonographers. What about the clinicians who were determining the
primary outcome (i.e. DAS and also clinical synovitis). Who were they? Were they the treating
rheumatologists or separate metrologists? Either way, was there a multi-centre standardization exercise
to document inter and intra-observer reliability?
-The mean US power Doppler score was not that high at baseline, as with the DAS score. This may have
contributed to the lack of difference in the primary and secondary outcome. A discussion of this could be
relevant. In addition, information on proportion of joints with power Doppler scores 0,1,2,3 would be
useful to understand the burden of highly inflamed joints, as opposed to joints which are primarily Grade
1, which can often be questionable in terms of clinical relevance.
Minor comments
-The allocation of subjects appeared valid. Patients in the clinical arm also received US assessment at
baseline and every year. Were the patients totally blinded to the US images? Did the protocol specifically
indicate there was no communication between the ultrasonographer and the patient?
-There is a belief by rheumatologists that it is not necessary to achieve absolute zero Power Doppler, as
this is present in normal joints sometimes. It would be relevant to indicate this in the discussion and to
explain that one important aspect is to evaluate what is an acceptable cut-off for Power Doppler score,
and also ultimately, it is a clinical evaluation of the patients as a whole when making therapeutic
decisions.
-What are the mean cumulative steroid dose (both oral and IA) for the groups?
-Proportion of NSAID use should be included. In addition, it would be useful to indicate the mean
methotrexate dose for each group.
-There were obviously an increased number of injections in the US group. Is there any data available on
the proportion of which joint regions were injected in the 2 arms? This may be relevant as injections to
some joints may not be as effective as some other joint region. Were the rheumatologists in the US arm
allowed to inject the joint or tendon, only if they had power Doppler or can clinical involvement be
enough?
-It is concerning that there were much more treatment escalations in the US arm, with no apparent gains
in clinical outcome as well as functional/patient reported outcomes. In the US arm, how many patients
who fulfilled the clinical improvement criteria (i.e. DAS) but not the PD criteria, and thus had to have an
escalation in therapy, and how many required escalation of therapy with the clinical improvement criteria
alone?
-At one year, did the authors have any information on the number of patients who would need to have an
escalation of therapy in the tight control clinical arm, if they had included the US information, which was
blinded to the rheumatologists and patients?
-More biologics were started for the US arm. It would be useful to provide information on which biologic
for both arms, and also whether there were any switchers.

-Were measures placed in the protocol to ensure patients were adherent to their oral medications?
