This article by Li and co-workers aims to assess the relation between birth weight in addition to later life
adherence to healthy lifestyle and the risk for developing type 2 diabetes (T2D). Therefore, the authors
included data of n=149,794 subjects participating in one of three epidemiological studies (i.e. HPFS,
NHS, NHSII). 11,709 cases of T2D were documented through self report. It was indicated, that the risk
for T2D was related to lower birth weight (measured in kg) and unhealthy lifestyle (measured as a score
including measures of dietary behaviour, smoking status, physical activity, alcohol consumption and
overweight), as well as their interaction on the additive scale. Based on these results the authors
concluded, that "the majority of T2D cases" could be prevented by prenatal (i.e. prevention of low birth
weight) and postnatal factors (i.e. healthy lifestyle). While this is an interesting area of study, some
major limitations have to be addressed by the authors:
i. The most problematic aspect of this manuscript is the lack of information on hyperglycaemia during
pregnancy (i.e. gestational diabetes mellitus, preconceptional diabetes, glycemic control) and other
maternal factors (such as obesity, weight gain during pregnancy, etc.), which might have additional
impact on the later development of T2D in the offspring. I am aware, that this information might be not
available (in its full extent) in this epidemiologic investigation, however, the lack of this data should be
considered and discussed as a major limitation of this study.
ii. T2D and birth weight were assessed by self-reporting: The authors reported several validation studies.
However, a correlation coefficient of 0.71 between self reported birth weight and birth weight reported by
the mothers does not sound convincing.
iii. Information on birth weight might be better provided as percentiles of the population. Small (SGA)
and large for gestational age (LGA) subjects should be additionally analyzed.
iv. Discussion, Page 14: The last sentence is speculative and needs to be rephrased: While information
on maternal nutrition and smoking status would particularly improve this report, these topics were not
investigated by the authors.
v. Several studies have indicated an association between higher birth weight (large for gestational age)
and the later development of T2D (indicating an U-shaped association?). Please discuss!
In spite of these limitations it has to be mentioned, that advanced statistical methods were used for an
appropriate analysis of the data. The methods and results sections are adequately laid out, clearly
describing aims, methods and findings of the study. The large number of overt T2D cases during 20-30
years of follow-up is another advantage. Moreover, the paper is clearly summarized in the abstract of the
manuscript.
C. Göbl