The authors conducted a well designed, large RCT comparing sacrospinous hysteropexy to vaginal
hysterectomy with uterosacral suspension and should be acknowledges for presenting 5 year results with
good long-term follow-up. There are several other strengths of this trial that including an analysis
presented from multiple perspectives to allow for a better understanding of the results. Such variations
using intent to treat analysis with last outcome carried forward, conservative imputation and per
protocol analysis plus the addition of composite outcomes that use the hymen rather than stage 2
prolapse for success/failure are appreciated. Their results strengthen the justification for the role of
native tissue sacrospinous hysteropexy in primary treatment of uterovaginal prolapse. Another key
finding of great interest was the compartment specific outcomes. With the 1-year data, there were high
rates of anterior vaginal recurrence using POP-Q stage 2 as the threshold and most would anticipate
progression of anterior prolapse over time in both groups but potentially more in the hysteropexy group.
Instead, they observed slightly less or similar rates of anterior prolapse in the groups. This finding may
be due to examiner bias but is nevertheless reassuring. I was surprised by the high rates of apical
failures with uterosacral suspension as most native tissue repairs tend to fail in the anterior
compartment and rarely seem to fail by POP-Q measurements at the apex. Just as surprising was high
rate of posterior compartment failures in the uterosacral group. I believe that this paper provides a
valuable contribution to the existing prolapse surgical literature. I have the following questions and
concerns that should be addressed prior to publication.
Methods
- The uterosacral ligament suspension technique is poorly described in the original and current
manuscript. Please provide more details regarding how high the sutures were supposed to be placed,
number of sutures (minimum, maximum, average), type of sutures (delayed absorbable vs. more
rapidly absorbing). This is critical to understanding the higher than anticipated rates of apical failure in
this group.

- Please discuss why permanent sutures were used for the sacrospinous hyseropexy and absorbable
sutures were used for the uterosacral suspension. While most studies do not show a difference in
outcomes with absorbable sutures, please comment on whether or not you think this may have impacted
your apical outcomes in the discussion section.
- Who conducted postoperative POP-Q examinations? Was this a research coordinator or the index
surgeon? If the surgeon was the examiner, please acknowledge this potential examiner bias as well as
the inability to blind the examiners to the interventions in the limitations paragraph of the discussion
section.
Results
- Please provide more details to help understand why there were more anatomic failures in the posterior
compartment for the hysterectomy group. Was there a difference in preoperative or postoperative GH
measurements? Was a perineorrhaphy performed with each posterior repair? The original paper
describes more posterior repairs or combined anterior and posterior repairs in the hysterectomy group
(50% vs 29%) but the way this data was presented was confusing. Exactly how many and what
percentage of each group received a posterior repair? perineorrhaphy? Why do the authors think there
are more failures in the posterior compartment with uterosacral suspension and could this be due to
apical failures? It is also important to acknowledge that most of these are internal to the hymen and are
not clinically significant based on improved symptoms and few reoperations. Please add this to the
discussion.
- Why were the reoperations to remove the uterus not included in the primary outcome since they were
directly related to the nature of the hysteropexy procedure (endometrial cancer with uterine
conservation and buttock pain)? Even though these reoperations were not for prolapse recurrence, I
believe reoperations for uterine issues and complications (excluding urinary incontinence procedures –
sling placement or revision) are relevant to the primary and composite outcomes. Please consider adding
these to determine if it impacts statistical significance.
- Please provide more details regarding the timing and specific reoperations for prolapse in each group,
consider an additional table. I appreciate that the authors mentioned that 50% occurred in the 1st year
and 83% by 2 years in the discussion.
Discussion and Conclusion
- Please see above comments regarding relevant components of this section. Conclusions are
appropriate and not overstated.
- Composite success rates from this trial seem much higher than those conducted in other multicenter
surgical trials including the pelvic floor disorders network trials that use research coordinators for more
objective examination outcomes. Please comment on potential reasons for this discrepancy in the
discussion.
