The systematic review looks to be well done, and makes a good case for working with
incidence rather than prevalence, but the results are poorly presented.
1. The research question relates to the mean time trend in diabetes incidence, but nowhere
is this shown - it is all described in the text as numbers of papers showing rising and falling
trends in different epochs. The attached graph summarises Table 3 by coding papers with
rising incidence as +1, falling incidence as -1 and level as 0, and it gives the mean score
for each epoch with the symbol reflecting the number of papers it's based on. The authors
argue that Table 3 shows falling incidence, but for the most recent time period it is flat (12
papers falling, 12 rising, 9 level). In addition there is little evidence of a long-term trend
from the regression line, with higher trends from 1990 to 2005 but lower trends before
1990.
2. I encourage the authors to rethink their conclusions based on the figure, as it weakens
their case that "The incidence of diagnosed diabetes has been stable or falling in the
majority of populations studied since 2006". Their complicated treatment of grouping that
contrasts rising with stable/falling means that the value of zero trend for 2006/14 does not
emerge clearly.

3. The plots for individual countries by age group in Figures 2a, 2b, 2c and 2d show very
erratic values for US_CDC from year to year, which are hard to understand given the large
sample sizes.
4. It strikes me as very optimistic to think that the falling incidence (if true) is due to
treatment.
5. The incidence data should be plotted on log scales to include all the data in one plot.
6. The authors need to explain the Joinpoint analyses.
7. Table 2 could be traffic-light-colour-coded to distinguish between rising, level and falling
trends.
8. Table 4 would be better without the p-values as they obscure the trend values.
Alternatively do present the p-values to one significant digit - see
https://adc.bmj.com/content/100/7/608.
Tim Cole