In their review of CVD prediction models, Damen et al. have undertaken an ambitious task of describing an extremely
heterogeneous field of research. Adding importance to the subject is the amount of resources invested in this area of science.
Although, the field of the article is important, the article in it self is of moderate importance. However, the data described in
the article is interesting because it describes well the poor quality of most of the research articles in this field. Nevertheless, it
probably will not help most readers of a general medical journal to make better decision as most of the suggestions derived
from the conclusions are directed to those who design and supervise the general population based studies on which most risk
prediction models are based on. Most often their work is limited, not by scientific aims or lack of vision, but by practical
problems such as funding etc.. The manuscript adds to existing knowledge by providing and update on the field but offers no
big surprises.
The research question seems clearly defined and well answered and the overall design of study is appropriate. The outcome
measure is to provide descriptive data and mostly this is done adequately. The manuscript is well written and the methodology
behind the literary research and the review itself seems sound.
The foremost problem of the manuscript is the heterogeneity of the subject it aims to describe. Mostly the conclusions that the
authors propose are valid but they seem to be based on assumptions that all developed models (as defined by the authors)
and incremental value assessments have been genuinely published for the purpose of competing with the pre-existing
juggernauts dominating the field (for example SCORE, Framingham risk score and QRISK) or at least trying to offer a valid
option for clinical work. In clinical practice, the existing validated models (SCORE, Framingham risk score and QRISK) are
already implemented and no controversy exists of their replacement by new risk prediction models (with no validation).
Major concerns:
1. Could the authors describe more accurately the articles (and their purpose) currently defined as “ describing the
development of new risk factor models”? One of the main concerns is that are the models labelled ”developed models” actually
intended to compete with or outperform existing and well-established models (SCORE, FRS QRISK2)? If not, this could explain
much of the shortcomings in the reporting described in the current report. As the authors present that only 46% the complete
regression formula was published and only 22% were internally validated. These facts are reflected in the fact that only 64% of
the developed models were externally validated. If these models are indeed developed to compete with pre-existing models in
clinical use, the main conclusion of the current review could be simply that the methodology of most published studies
(focusing on developing new risk models) should be improved.
2. The conclusion that “Future research should focus on assessing the validity and impact of existing models…” (abstract, page
5, line 130) seems to restricting. According to the manuscript, most developed models (66%) included the same set of major
predictors (age, smoking, blood pressure, and blood cholesterol measurements) of CVD. It is reasonable to presume that
examining the risk coefficients (effects) of these major risk factors in specific populations (if validated properly) can lead to
more accurate prediction of CVD than using previous coefficients developed for generalization to all populations (within a
continent as in SCORE) or developed in completely different ethnic population. Many variables (even the most common ones)
used in risk prediction can vary in their definition between populations and they can also have different sized effects in
different populations. The registry data maintained globally is highly heterogeneous in quality but in most countries with high
accuracy of registry data, the applicability of such data can be very high for risk prediction. With constantly improving data
management and electronic patient registries, could it be possible that specific population-level, easily available and monitored
risk prediction models, can out-perform the old risk models based on fixed coefficients and baseline hazard?
3. The authors have also searched for articles that describe the incremental value of a new predictor. The problem is that such
a publication rarely even tries to specifically present new models for validation and/or to compete with existing validated
models. However, in such case it is often a better option to use the best fit model in the background than try to implement
pre-existing models with bad fit (due to any reason). Why not exclude these models from the current review?
4. The problem with including models that were used to calculate incremental value assessments of added risk markers is that
they are often (due to practical reasons related to the publication demands) limited in their presentation. They distort the
statistics describing the quality of reporting. For example, in abstract, the authors report (page 5, line 124): “…and for 92
(25%) crucial information was missing. Are these publications (of incremental value assessments) included in this figure
presented in abstract? Currently in results section, these models (for incremental value assessment) are described only very
briefly. I would recommend excluding these article from the review or not including them with summary statistics in abstract.
5. As the authors concede, the literary research is already lagging behind. However, they justify the now 2.5 year interval
between the literary search and current date by stating that:“including these articles is unlikely to change our main conclusions
and recommendations”. If the purpose of this review was to provide a comprehensive view on the subject, I feel an update

would be in order. Most of the valid conclusions could be made even without the information provided by the current
manuscript. In the present manuscript the authors cite the work of Beswick et al. (ref. 12) form the year 2008 (not from ten
years ago as the authors claim). How have the conclusions changed since? If the last 2.5 years from June of 2013 to this day
are not necessary for updating the message of the present manuscript, how has the field changed from 2008?

Minor issues:
1. How many developed models have incorporated the use of statins or other medications such as blood pressure lowering
medication or family history of CVD.

Jussi Hernesniemi
MD, PhD
University of Tampere