In this study, the authors examined the interaction between a T2D genetic risk score
and dietary fat intake on risk of T2D using meta-analysis of >100, 000 individuals
from 15 prospective cohorts. They found significant association between the genetic
risk score and T2D as expected, as well as some association between subtypes of fat
(e.g. PUFA) and risk of T2D, but there were no significant gene-diet interactions.
Although the main finding on gene-diet interaction was not negative, data from this
large meta-analysis still provide important information for future research and have
public health implication. The tailoring dietary fat quality recommendation is still
premature. Overall, this is a well-written manuscript, with sound statistical analyses
and well-organized data presentation. The major strength included large samples
size, prospective study design and careful considerations on covariates and
sensitivity analyses. Major limitations were acknowledged, like measurement errors
using self-reported dietary data. However, there are a few concerns which need to
be addressed.
1.
One major concern of this study that only individual nutrients, “Fat” in this
case, were examined. A large body of evidence has shown that overall dietary
pattern rather than single nutrients are related to T2D or other chronic diseases. The
rationale to investigate interactions between single nutrients and genetic factors
may need further justification.
2.
In the introduction, the authors stated that previous studies suggested T2D
risk alleles could modify dietary fat and risk of T2D, which needs more specific
information. Were there any previous studies reporting significant interactions
between genetic variants and fat intake on T2D?
3.
In the statistical analysis, more descriptions are needed for substituting
analysis. In addition, in the current analysis, total fat and subtypes of fat were
examined in place of carbohydrate. It would be interesting to look at “good” fat
(PUFA) in place of “bad” fat (SFA).
4.
Some stratified analyses were performed by region, age and BMI, and a
suggestive interaction between w-3PUFA and GRS was observed in young cohorts.
Based on data showing in Table 1, there were some variations in mean fat (total fat

and subtypes) and their distributions across cohorts. Maybe it is worthwhile to
stratified analyses by mean fat intake (both total and subtypes) of each cohort, or
by SD of fat intake (interactions might be detected in cohorts with high fat intake, or
with a large range of fat intake).
5.
The explanation for positive association between MUPA and T2D risk is not
convinced. The authors argued that this might be due to animal sources of MUFA, as
animal sources provided a major dietary source of SFA. It would be very helpful if
the authors can perform analysis examining plant and animal sources of MUPA
separately. If this is not feasible due to the combined meta-analysis design, it would
be good to show some data form some of the cohorts. For example, is MUFA from
animal-based food highly correlated with SFA?
Another issue regarding this explanation is that there was no association between
SFA and T2D in the current analysis. Thus, the positive association between MUFA
and T2D might not be due to SFA?
minor comments:
1.
There are some typos in the abstract and result section regarding PUFA and
T2D risk, the HRs should be <1, not 1.08 or 1.05.