Well done study, well written article but the conclusion is not acceptable. If you read the
summary boxes you get an excellent conclusion based on science but without highly political
interpretation by a group of non-surgical authors (with probably 1 exception). Also the
discussion demands for some more feeling with reality and is not acceptable for the same
reason. I want to read a dry purely scientific conclusion like the summary box and nothing
more so a rewriting of discussion and conclusion is needed.
Detail of conclusion:
1)
In the short to medium term (12 months), retropubic MUS, transobturator MUS,
traditional sling and open colposuspension appear more effective than other surgical
procedures for the treatment of women with SUI, although the quality of evidence was
moderate at best and low or very low for most comparisons. Nevertheless, the comparative
safety profile of these surgical procedures is still unclear: I agree
2)
Short to medium-term adverse event data were sparse, making robust conclusions
difficult to draw: I do not agree, the complications are minor in all but some studies and in
the range of most other “surgeries” in general. The sentence suggests there is a big problem
when you only read conclusions and abstracts…. Furthermore you write yourself in the
discussion that: Data for the assessment of complications were sparse for all surgical
procedures, particularly over long term. Just adding / omitting “particular over long term”
makes a huge difference. I agree that it is weaker than with “pharma” but one must
compare to “other surgeries” rather than to “pharma”.
3)
There was insufficient evidence to assess the long-term effectiveness and safety of
surgical treatments for SUI. I agree
4)
The increasing concerns over the use of mesh procedures, a better understanding of
the reasons and characteristics of any complications is essential. This is really unacceptable
because it suggests that from the 2 options MUS and colposuspension we need to move back
to the colposuspension. Any experienced surgeon who performed the 2 types of procedures
(considered as the better ones) understands the huge difference between MUS and
colposuspension. The difference is enormous! I remember numerous cases of sutures eroded
in the bladder, abdominal/inguinal hernia’s, 15-20% secondary surgery due to secondary
prolapse from central or posterior compartment, DVT and lung embolism following

colposuspensions – these are unexisting after MUS. The difference in learning curve is huge!
MUS has its small really minor but more frequent complications (early and mid-longterm)
and yes we miss longterm data. But the latter is true for most of the “surgeries” in general.
The danger is that such a lack of information will be misused by governments. There is no
doubt I would suggest my wife or mother to go for a MUS rather than colposuspension and I
do realize that the level of evidence of my statement is low but water is wet dear colleagues
5)
Moreover, careful consideration of alternative surgical options and a better
understanding of their associated risks and harms is a key requirement before opting for
alternative, potentially less effective non-MUS procedures. I agree.
Summary of discussion:
I was happy to find the 2 paragraph from the Scotland and NHS. Both paragraphs are
citations, not discussions with exception that better AE reporting is needed is fine. However
these citations contain important conclusions from the field that needs to be reflected in
discussion with the results of the results of this work and this needs to be mirrored in the
conclusion.
Perhaps it would be useful discussing that the mesh plethora is about vaginal meshes for
prolapse rather than for incontinence which is the main topic of this article. Some
governments do not understand that difference and make wrong conclusions. Scotland and
NHS did luckily not make that mistaken.

In conclusion, I want this fine tuning in both the discussion and in the conclusion of the text.
