The authors investigated the association between injuries both before and after an incident cancer diagnosis. The study is
based on Swedish nationwide registers during the period 1990-2010 including patients diagnosed with cancer during 19912009. For iatrogen injuries (due to medical complications) the IRR was 7.0 (95%CI: 6.6-7.4) during the diagnostic period (16
weeks before and after the cancer diagnosis) compared to the pre-diagnostic period (the same 32 weeks one year before
diagnosis), with the risk being increased from two weeks before cancer diagnosis and peaked at two weeks after diagnosis.
Patients with CNS cancers had the greatest risk increase whereas patients with non-melanoma skin cancer had the smallest
risk increase, during both the diagnostic and post-diagnostic periods, compared to other cancer patients. For non-iatrogen
injuries, the IRR was 1.9 (95%CI: 1.8-2.0) during the diagnostic period, and a similarly increased risk during the post
diagnostic period (the same 32 weeks one year after the cancer diagnosis: IRR:2.0; 95%CI: 1.9-2.1), compared to the prediagnostic period, with the excess risk beginning at four weeks before the cancer diagnosis and peaking at two weeks before
diagnosis. During the diagnostic period 7,306 iatrogenic and 8,331 non-iatrogenic injuries occurred among 740,114 patients
with a first-time cancer diagnosis.
The present study represents the first systematic assessment of both iatrogenic and non-iatrogenic injuries immediately before
and after a cancer diagnosis, based on the nationwide Swedish registers with temporal information about injuries in relation to
the cancer diagnosis. The manuscript benefits from the huge amount of patients with cancer included in the study, which is
then again also a limitation regarding the causes of the injuries. The clinical implications if any should be discussed further in
the manuscript and whether the results can help clinicians and patients in any way. The manuscript indicate (not surprisingly)
an increased incidence of injuries, particularly iatrogen injuries, related to the time of cancer diagnosis and also when assessed
one year after, when compared to one year before the diagnosis, when many of the patients were probably not in any
treatment, and therefore not at risk for iatrogen injuries, which needs to be explored. The manuscript would benefit of more
focus on the temporal association between injuries and cancer diagnosis extending the timelines to follow the individuals
longitudinally after the diagnosis and not just at the post-diagnostic period one year after and one year before. The amount of
iatrogen injuries in cancer patients should be highlighted more and also the amount and temporal association with intended
injuries in my opinion, for clinicians to recognize how common it is and when to try to minimize it.
Specific comments:
- A short background in the abstract of why this is important would be beneficial
- In the abstract it should be clarified at exactly what time point the estimate in the following sentence is taken from “The
dramatic risk increase started two weeks before cancer diagnosis and peaked at two weeks after diagnosis (IRR 48.6, 95% CI
37.3 to 63.5)”
- Were the findings specific for cancer, or are they also observed in relation to many other chronic diagnosis? If the authors
just looked at any new diagnosis with a chronic disease (Charlson index diseases for instance), would the findings then be
different around the cancer diagnosis than at the time of diagnosis of other diseases?
- The absolute numbers of injuries among the patients with cancer should be discussed in a clinical context
- The authors comment that: “findings of increased injury risks before cancer diagnosis might also apply to individuals who
were evaluated for, but never received, a cancer diagnosis”. Additional investigations of this group with a “obs pro” suspected
diagnosis of cancer but not subsequently diagnosed with cancer, would add important knowledge to the present study and
whether the findings were specifically related to cancer.
- The consequences of comparing iatrogen injuries in cancer patients with the individuals them self one year prior should be
discussed, since it is maybe not surprising that you have more iatrogen injuries during the diagnostic period since you undergo
tests, treatment, and may acquire other co-morbidities related to the disease.
- Is there an immortality bias in relation to the post diagnostic period analysis? Please discuss this…
- Does CNS cancers also stick out in relation to non-iatrogen injuries (Since CNS cancers are most likely to affect cognition and
psychiatric symptoms)
- Please discuss if there is any clinical implications of the findings
- Stratification of prior iatrogen injuries, into individuals with/without prior diagnosis would be beneficial
- In my opinion, the important things from the current Figure 3 are intended (suicide attempts?) or unintended injuries, with
temporal associations of the 2 in relation to the cancer diagnosis
- The abstract finishes off with a “call for prevention of self-harm and accidental injuries”, but there is not much discussion
about this in the manuscript. Furthermore, the authors might need to be more consistent with using the same word either
“self-harm” which is used in the abstract and “intended injuries” which is used in the rest of the manuscript