This is a pragmatic clinical trial of vestibular physical therapy intervention in primary care population of
patients with chronic vertigo. This is an important topic since the symptom is common and the treatment
is underutilized. The authors should be commended for their organization of this large study, and
general rigor with which it was performed, and the clarity of the manuscript. The mechanism of
unguided care has substantial potential to efficiently reduce chronic symptoms.
My major criticism is that the control group must have known they were in the control group and
therefore bias from lack of blinding is possible. This is particularly a threat since the outcome measure is
a subjective report from the patient. The authors acknowledge this as a limitation.
An additional concern is that selection of patients by the GP was relatively vague and subjective, and
therefore it is not clear how generalizable the selection process is.
Other comments:
Introduction.
It would be helpful for the reader for you to report effective size of the Geraghty intervention mentioned
on p 5 line 6-10.
Population. Please clarify why the population was limited to age >50 years.
How did you arrive at 59 participating centers?
How many different GPs screened for eligible patients? Was this one GP for each practice, or 1 GP for all
practices? How were potential patients recruited? Were they initially sent an unsolicited letter in the
mail? Were phone calls made, if so how many?
Please specify what criteria the research team used to distinguish vertigo from other types of dizziness –
otherwise reader need to look this up in another paper. What if a patient had more than one type of
dizziness?
Recommend adding a table or box to describe the size core VR exercises. And also include in the box the
details about “information and advice on coping and symptom control strategies.”

Please provide more details about what seems to be an algorithm that personalizes the exercise
prescription mentioned on p7 line 52. Did the current authors obtain the algorithm from the original
developers?
Intervention: please clarify if the unguided and guided groups differed in anything other than a PT visit.
On p16, line 29, the wording makes it seem like automated emails might have only been used in the
unguided group.
Results:
Why did the randomization process result in such an imbalance in the number of patients assigned to
each group? (98 in G1, 120 in G3). Similarly, it is odd that there was such a difference in gender in the
usual care group.
Please include the supplementary analyses mention on p14 in an Appendix.
Please present the full models for Table 2 (with all the independent variables) in the an Appendix as
well. This analysis is also a unique opportunity to learn about predictors of the vertigo outcome.
