This manuscript described the result of a pragmatic randomized controlled trial to compare the effects of
prednisolone and ciclosporin for the treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) and found no difference
between the two treatments on the velocity of healing. In an expense and the point of the harmful
phenomenon, the authors recognized a difference in both groups, but authors concluded that both
treatments were equal generally. PG is a rare chronic condition that causes skin ulcer and necrosis.
Although the etiology of PG is not known, the almost half of patients with PG are suffering from
autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or ulcerative colitis. There is no gold standard of
treatment and assessment for the lesion of PG. Physicians should learn the strategies of treatment for
PG through trial and error only from case studies. In such a situation, the article is an interesting
contribution to a growing field of interest, however some critical points should be clarified.
Major point
Nine patients were excluded (3 ciclosporin and 6 prednisolone) due to alternative diagnosis after
randomization. The reason to reach to alternative diagnosis was different histological findings to PG.
However, the authors did not performed histological test for all patients. Is there any possibility that
some patients in subjects for the analysis (n=112) had another disease instead of PG? Furthermore,
over 20% of patients deviated from the protocol during whole study period and 5 patients during the
first 6-week primary outcome assessment. The authors did not show this point in the flow diagram (Fig.
2). Although the available data sets for digital image analysis were 86, the authors listed with 108 (57
and 51) on Table 2. The reviewer does not think that the authors could handle the data by the image
analyzer and the evaluation by the physicians equally. Furthermore, the authors used 108 and 112 for a
denominator to calculate the ratio of target person for primary outcome or adherence without
maintaining the same.
As this trial was pragmatic, the dose escalation of each medicine was allowed. The author should show a
ratio of patients receiving higher dose of medicines and the degree of escalation in dose in two groups.
Was the escalation of dose of each medicine judged by only individual physician? Was there the standard
to select a dose like a “treat-to-target” strategy in therapy for rheumatoid arthritis?
Minor points
The preparation of manuscript was a little bit insufficient.
1. In the box named “Prednisolone” in Figure 2, some words might disappear due to changing box size.
2. In Reference section, the journal title should be abbreviated according to the style of Medline
uniformaly.
3. Page 3, line 52; Infliximab is not a registered trade name, remicade is.
4. Was the reason of the hospitalization in prednisolone group for severe adverse events in all cases?