Review for BMJ: What are “adaptive pathways” C Davis, J Lexchin, T Jefferson, P Goetzsche 25 May 2016
This is a well-written, short analysis that pulls together several good points and pertinent references concerning an
important policy initiative: the promotion of “adaptive pathways” by the EMA.
On page 2, the third paragraph sentence ends “…-a new model…that would short-circuit several existing steps.” I would
add “… and degrees of evidence, designed to protect patients from unsafe and ineffective medicines.” I.e. it’s both
several steps and degrees of evidence that are being short circuited, and they were put in place to protect patients. This
addition reinforces the authors framing the paper in the context of the thalidomide tragedy.
Another suggested addition at the beginning of the same sentence is to indicate that the EMA is largely funded by the
companies it is supposed to regulate to protect the public. For example “…considerable support within the companyfunded European Medicines Agency (EMA)…”
Reference 17 in the middle of pg 3 is out of order, it seems.
In some way, perhaps you could draw attention to the rhetorical nature of key terms being used, especially “adaptive
pathways” and “real world data.” “Adaptive sounds so attractive, flexible… in what ways are they actually adaptive?
Adaptive in the patients’ interests?
Real world data sounds like once cannot be against and even better than unreal world data from rigorously designed
trials.
The arguments against “real world data” in this paragraph are mixed and not so clear. The really clear one, it seems to
me, is that observational data are not systematic so that several studies over several years are likely to produce
conflicting results and not resolve safety issues, as in the example given.
Is the long time lag an argument against RWD? Or was the lag due to serious ADRs occurring years later? This argument
might be sharpened.
One might point out that these and related characteristics of putting drugs on the market earlier and evaluating them
with RWD enable companies to sell potentially harmful drugs for years at high, patent-protected prices. This is reinforced
with your point in the next paragraph that companies dispute negative findings and claim the data are unreliable, when
it is the regulator (EMA) who set up adaptive licensing is a way that would produce such data. In sum, we cannot trust
the regulators and their arguments.
You should explain to readers the meaning of “…the bias, on average, is often larger than the estimated effect.”
These are just suggestions for improving a few passages of a timely and important essay.