* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the
published literature? If so, what does it add? If not, please cite relevant references.
It is well-known that lower socio-economic position (SEP), tobacco use, high blood pressure and diabetes
adversely affect health, so it would be expected that they also affect physical functioning.
This study points out that addressing the WHO 25x25 risk factors and low SEP is likely to make a major
difference to physical functioning at older ages. The authors make an important point that
societal/structural factors as well as the lifestyle issues and health conditions in the WHO 25x25 risk
factors need to be addressed in order to improve population health
* Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
It is important to appreciate that socio-economic factors are key to health.
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
The question is very clearly defined. The authors conclude that socio-economic factors and the 25x25
risk factors substantially reduce functional capacity at 60 years. They also say that addressing these risk
factors will improve global health. Both of these conclusions are probably true. Whether, their analysis
clearly demonstrates this is less clear, because they use a cross-sectional observational study, from
which is difficult to demonstrate causality.
Overall design of study - adequate?
Use of a cross-sectional observational study to demonstrate causal effects is best achieved using a
quasi-experimental design, such as instrumental variable analysis, regression discontinuity etc, so as to
avoid confounding, selection bias and reverse causality.
In this study, lack of physical activity may be a result of reduced functional capacity rather than its
cause. In addition, the small effects of obesity, high alcohol intake and hypertension from 60 to 85 years
are likely an artifact of selection bias, due to recruiting people at older ages and thereby missing the rest
of the cohort vulnerable to the ill-effects of obesity, high alcohol intake and hypertension, because they
are already dead and so were never included in the sample. This is a particularly widespread problem in
studies of people recruited at older ages, as here explained here
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18414087 and here
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23747980.
Selection bias arising in this way usually makes exposures look less harmful than they actually are, so
the study may be under-estimating the contribution of each factor.

Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined.
Table S1 should be in the main results, so that the reader has an overview of the studies and can assess
the amount of potential selection bias. It would also be helpful to know how well the studies represent
the underlying populations
Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting
standard - Eg CONSORT for randomised trials ? Ethical ?
Please justify the use of height as a confounder. Confounders are now understood to be common causes
of exposure and outcome.
Please explain how the number of knots in the splines were chosen.
Please explain the causal interpretation of the mutually adjusted model. Causal models should be
adjusted only for exposure outcome confounders, as explained here
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23371353.
What was the underlying time variable in the Cox model?
Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?.
Well, the study cannot really answer the research question, although some results are credible and are
nicely presented.
In Figure 3, please check that the CIs are symmetrical.
Figure 5 seems to show much lower effects of the risk factors at older ages which could be a symptom of
selection bias
The contrast between high and low income countries should be shown in a graph, as it is easy to
overlook.
Given the study design it is difficult to be sure how to interpret the different associations for different
factors.

Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data?
Message clear?
An analysis of observational data open to selection bias and possibly over- and under-adjusted for
confounders is not an ideal basis for action. The authors may well be correct that addressing poor
socio-economic circumstances may be critical to achieving healthy aging. It would be helpful if the
authors could explain how reversing the effects of poor socio-economic circumstances could be achieved
in a timely manner. Effects of socio-economic disadvantage on health have probably built up over a
lifetime. What are the means for reversing them now or will it take another lifetime? To put it another
way, how are these socio-economic disadvantages embodied and how can we answer the urgent
question of addressing them with immediate effect?
Another reason for a weaker association of socioeconomic status with physical functioning in LMIC is
greater selection bias in studies from those countries. Lifespan in LMICs is shorter, so older people in
LMICs are more strongly selected survivors than older people in HICs. If all the people in a study are
survivors of a harmful exposure, the exposure will not appear to be harmful in that study, which is a
manifestation of selection bias.
The limitations should consider in detail whether the study is open to confounding or selection bias and
how these biases might have affected the results.

References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds – reflect accurately what the paper says?
The abstract is a fair reflection of the paper.

CM Schooling 1/10/2017

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: CM Schooling
Job Title: Associate Professor
Institution: SPH, HKU
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/declaration-co
mpeting-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare them here: n/a

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
