* Overall, I think the authors have done a good job to address many of the comments raised by the
committee and the reviewers. In the discussion, the authors have added an eloboration on potential
mechanisms for an increased risk of cardiovascular outcomes (including MI) with clarithromycin.
Furthermore, stroke and arrythmia have been added as secondary outcomes, which provides a more
comprehensive overview of cardiovascular risks with clarithromycin.
* As in the previous version, current use of clarithromycin was associated with a more than twofold
significantly increased risk of non-cardiac mortality (negative control outcome). This would indicate that
the observed increased risk of MI, arrhythmia, and cardiac death in the cohort analyses is partially
explained by confounding by baseline characteristics. This is appropriately acknowledged by the authors
in the manuscript.
In the SCCS-analysis, which takes into account all time-invariant confounders, current use of
clarithromycin was also associated with an increased risk, which leads the authors to state (in the author
response) that the “two study designs strongly complement the findings with each other” for the
conclusion "that the use of clarithromycin is associated with short-term cardiovascular risk". However,
considering the potential for confounding in the cohort analysis, I am not convinced that the results from
this analysis can be regarded to support or complement those from the SCCS-analysis.
* In my previous comments, I expressed the concern that GI bleeding may be an independent risk factor
for MI, which could influence the risk of MI among patients with clarithromycin treatment against H.
pylori, and thereby threaten the validity of the SCCS-approach. In the new version, the authors have
extended the discussion about this potential source of error. The authors argue that if GI-bleeding
influenced (increased) the risk during current use of clarithromycin, it would also lead to an increased
risk in the time period preceding treatment, and that the absence of such an association supports the
validity of the SCCS-analysis. I agree that this seems plausible.