BMJ-2019-050786
“World Bank’s Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility—the Panacea against Pandemics?”
This is an interesting and useful piece, and it gets to the core of some very pressing issues
in global health governance and the financing of responses to health emergencies. By and
large, this article is quite strong, but there are three interrelated issues that I would
encourage the authors to consider.
First, what explains the WHO’s willingness to get on board with the PEF? What, if any,
connection does it have to PEF’s ongoing operations. From one perspective, I can see why
it would be attractive to WHO—get some more money in the system in an effort to stop
outbreaks earlier. On the other hand, though, it seems like it would be diluting WHO’s own
efforts and add exactly the sort of hurdles that WHO has been trying to get rid of. Was
WHO’s support in 2016 simply rhetorical, or does it maintain a connection to the program?
Second, it wasn’t clear to me how the insurance window actually operates. Is the same
steering committee that oversees the cash window also responsible for the insurance
window? Are funds automatically released as soon as an outbreak checks all of the
necessary boxes, or is that simply when PEF can consider releasing funds? Since the
outbreak necessarily has to cross international borders, who actually applies for the
funding—and who receives it? It’d be useful to know more about the process, especially
since much of the criticism against the PEF is process-based.
Third, have there been unsuccessful applications for funding? Given the relative flexibility
of the cash window, it seems like states could potentially use this avenue as a funding
source. Has the PEF turned cash window applicants down and, if so, on what grounds?
I recognize that these three questions may go beyond the scope of the piece or push it
past the word count limit, so I wouldn’t say that addressing my queries would be required
for publication. I do think that more information on the insurance window’s process would
be particularly useful, though.
Overall, this article will be a welcome addition to the literature.