To Editors
Meta-analyses are known to have multiple limitations as they put together trials that were carried
out heterogeneously, often for different purposes and, moreover, with no access of Authors to the
individual patients’ data. Notwithstanding these general limitations that need to be acknowledged by
the Authors, this meta-analysis seems to be carried out properly by experienced investigators.
However, its results are largely to be expected: when an active drug (or a class of active drugs as
the RASi in this case) are added on top of other multiple effective drugs, as those regularly used in
CAD patients, the detectable beneficial effect, if any, can be conceivably small.
Moreover, the CAD patients that they selected without LV dysfunction and HF, do not have an
activated RAAS (see below), which makes the chances to gain an advantage from RASi minute.
Hence, this is why they found a beneficial effect on outcomes only in those patients who are at
higher risk and only compared to placebo
Furthermore, even though meta-analyses have a higher power than individual studies, do the
Authors have any idea of the power of their meta-analysis? In other words, is it possible that their
negative findings are just because of a type 2 error?
To Authors
This meta-analysis provides some interesting, albeit largely expected results for the following
reasons.
Starting from the seminal Brunner’s paper in NEJM in the ‘70s the RAAS has been associated with
excess CV events in several studies. However, these studies involved patients where the system was
clearly activated, as those with high-renin essential hypertension (Alderman et al EHJ 2011),
renovascular hypertension (Rossi et al AJH, 1994, Stroke 1995), and HF. Conversely, the role for
RAAS inhibition is likely to be small if the system is not activated.

In CAD patients the system can be activated only if they have concurrent morbid conditions as those
just detailed, or drugs activating the RAAS, for example diuretics. Moreover, in these patients the
RAAS could play a role in the chronic process of atherogenesis rather, than in triggering events.
These considerations imply that studies on RAAS inhibition using hard CV events as endpoints should
recruit patients where the RAAS is activated and also plan a follow-up time long enough to record a
number of events sufficient to warrant enough statistical power. They also explain why the HOPE
Study came out positive.
Meta-analyses have in essence a higher power than meta-analysed studies, but carry a number of
limitations, as detailed above in my comments to Editors. Unfortunately, none of the meta-analysed
studies, possibly with the exception of HOPE, recruited patients with an activated RAAS. Moreover,
the majority of the studies were small, with a tiny number of events, and probably not long enough.
Specific comments
1) Choice of the CAD population/RCTs. Since the RAAS does not seem to play a major role in plaque
destabilization, at least when compared to other mechanisms (endothelial dysfunction, fibrous cap
rupture, thrombosis haemorrhage) it was altogether likely that the Authors could not see any
favourable effect, with meta-analysing RCTs that had a relatively short follow-up, particularly when
the RASI were compared to other active and effective treatments.
2) The RAAS likely plays a role in atherogenesis by interacting with multiple other systems.
Moreover, its role can be substantial when the system is activated. While this undoubtedly occurs in
high renin hypertension, renovascular hypertension, heart failure and even liver cirrhosis (Circulation
Cardiovascular Imaging 2016) this may not occur in CAD patients without LV dysfunction. Please
comment on this.
3) Methods and Sample size. They Authors mentioned that they tested for heterogeneity among
trials and for small study effect: however, I could find about this in the reported results. The latter
were most driven by three studies (EUROPA, HOPE, PEACE) while some of the studies selected for
this meta-analysis were small with a number of events truly tiny for example 1 vs 4. 1 vs 2, 2 vs 1 in
Fig 3a. The Authors correctly placed a column with the weight of the study. However, a sensitivity
analysis should be carried out by excluding the patients with a small number of patients.
3) Do the Authors have any idea of what power their meta-analysis had to show a significant effect
of RASI on their primary endpoints? In my view this should be discussed appropriately.
4) The reduction in the risk of stroke, angina, HF with RASI is interesting. Do the Authors correct this
for the BP reduction?
5) Even more interesting is the significant reduction of risk of diabetes both us placebo and us active
treatment. A comment and explanation for the finding should be offered.
6) Among the active drug used as comparators the Authors cared to mention CCB and specifically
amlodipine without giving any further data information. As two senior Authors served as consultants
with Pfizer, this may sound a bit disturbing and should be removed or better presented with support
of the actual data if available.
Minor points
• Title. The title should be more informative and regards to the main results.
• Abstract. In my view the conclusions tend to generate the impression in the reader that the RASI
are poorly effective drugs, which turned out to be superior only when compared the placebo and/or
only in high-risk patients. In truth, there are multiple reasons for the findings of this meta-analysis
including:
choice of the Target population.
- Low risk of event in some RCTs.
- Type 2 error.
Lack of reduced LVEF, etc.
Hence, the last sentence "RASI should no longer be considered...." is too strong and by no means
supported by the results presented
• Many abbreviations can be removed: (for example, SIHD on page 13) to improve readability.
• Line 52 should be “whereas”.
• Figures: Even in spite of use of a log scale it is very difficult to see, as presented, what is
overlapping. I would suggest that for all the Forest plots the orientation should be in landscape to
allow for a better separation of symbols and CI.
• Limitations. This section should be expanded to account for the issues that I raised above.
• Moreover, in none of the trials BP was measured with ABPM. Therefore, the claim of BP
independence is not fully justified. Please refer to Ted Kurtz’s Commentary in Hypertension some
years ago on this.
• Methods. The statement (page 7 line 56) that Dr. Bangalore had full access to all the data is odd:
in fact, in meta-analysis: there is no access to the individual data. The Authors should care to
acknowledge that as in all meta-analyses they did not have access to the individual patients data.
• Abbreviations should not be used unless repeated. See (pag. 7 line 22).
• The sentences on page 7 line 20 are cryptic: they should be better explained for readers who are
not statisticians also providing enogh details to allor reproduction of the analysis.
• Pag. 13 line 8 Quoting the well respected Dr. Braunwald is not acceptable without a reference for a
scientific paper.
• Discussion: This section needs reorganizations: The text on page 12-13, line 8-30 should be letter
placed in the Introduction. The Discussion should focus on the results and put them in the contest.
