Dear Authors,
Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. I commend the innovation and courage of
the authors for tackling a controversial but much needed area in health care. It is encouraging that
the researchers have come together to tackle a problem that brings many disabled persons
unneeded delay and discouragement.
Due to the complexity of this report it would be well served by a summary to ground readers and
orientate them to the work. For example, I had difficulty understanding whether these were
studies into general reproducibility, or studies into the ability to replicate assessments of disability
by different health-care professionals using the same criteria. It could be that adding numbers in
the abstract would help as well. Fortunately in ‘Relevant MeSH-Terms’ (on page 1, line 33-4) one
of the terms is reproducibility of results, which makes it clear, but I had missed this during the first
reading. It is an important subject however, and more studies of this type need to be encouraged.
In Results (on page 2, lines 39 to 42):
Even though authors prioritized studies in real world settings with genuine patients they still
included studies where ‘actual disability claimants were imitated by actors’ instead of studies that
only used genuine claimants with identities obscured. (I also wondered why these studies used
actors). The researchers chose studies by insurance companies where actors were used, and even
examples of studies using scenarios rather than genuine case-studies. This seems certain to reduce
accuracy and increase the chances of flawed results and is a concern if the aim is to affirm validity
and increase standardization.
In the section on Eligibility Criteria, the second sentence makes no sense to me (page 2, line 289). It begins:
Study conduct may occur… what do they mean by this phrase? (Perhaps it will make more sense to
research scientists.) The first sentence is even more confusing and difficult to understand without
help from Google, but at least it makes grammatical sense.
In insurance claims repeated testing for validation makes examiners money but can increase the
harms in healthcare, increasing the time between the event and treatment, and between treatment
and compensation for claimant. This can have long-term social and emotional consequences for
patients, carers and their families who may not have savings to allow them to wait for
reimbursement. This is even worse in countries without socialized medicine, or disability benefits

where claimants may run out of options for continued care that would enable rehabilitation and
eventually sufficient fitness to allow them to return to work.
• Are the study's aims and the issue and questions that the paper addresses relevant and
important to you as a patient? Do you think it would be relevant to other patients like you? What
about carers?
As a recipient of Disability Living Allowance, these aims are highly relevant to me, but not many
patients and/or carers could follow much of this report. These writers either have not heard about
the Crystal Mark (http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/services/crystal-mark.html award for clarity) or
feel that this requirement does not apply to them. I realise that they are probably limited by a
word-count that prevents definitions in brackets but did they have to use words like reproducibility,
concordance instead of agreement, normative instead of standardised, or verisimilitude instead of
credibility?
• Are there any areas that you find relevant as a patient or carer that are missing or should be
highlighted?
It is important for interested patients to understand the data collection and results sections, but
like so many research reports, these sections were very difficult for patients to understand.
Although I did not expect to understand mathematical tests like fishers, kappa, or Kendal’s W,
these can be looked up online, I hope there are tables or graphs that will be inserted within the
document that could have made the results easier to understand.
• From your perspective as a patient, would the treatment, intervention studied, or guidance given
actually work in practice? Is it feasible? What challenges might patients face that should be
considered?
Any standardised test necessarily focus on what claimants are no longer able to do, which is
important to define as these inabilities form the basis of their claim, but it is a shame that there is
nothing that focuses on the things that they can still do. I did not realise how severely disabled I
was until I filled in the D.L.A. claim form. Claimants are actively discouraged from exploring the
possibility of rehabilitation, or encouraged to learn new skills for fear of losing their benefits. I am
unsure how this could be addressed without adding to the claimant’s existing physical and financial
difficulties, especially for those whose disablements are permanent.
• Are the outcomes that are being measured in the study or described in the paper the same as
the outcomes that are important to you as a patient? Are there others that should have been
considered?
These outcomes are similar to those that are important to me, to some extent, but to a greater
extent they appear to concur with those that matter more to the government or insurance
companies. Of course taxpayers and insurance companies need to be protected from fraudulent or
exaggerated claimants. These cost everyone money but genuine claimants also need to be
protected from having their claims wrongly rejected at a time when it is critical for them to be fully
supported.
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper to make it
more useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients?
This report will be more useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients if they improved their
use of English grammar to make the article easier for patients and clinicians to read. It would also
help patients to understand it if the scientific and technical terms were described, especially in the
results, which could then be understood better by laypeople. Might I suggest that the researchers
include a plain language summary in this paper, perhaps they could invite persons with a disability
who have gone through this process to assist them with writing this in accessible format and they
could pilot test readability and comprehension with members of the public and clinicians.
• The level of patient involvement in the research described, and how it could have been improved.
Authors are now required to state if and how they involved patients in setting the research agenda
and the design and implementation of the study and include this information in a box within the
manuscript. If there was no patient involvement we would welcome your ideas on how this could
have been done. We hope this will help authors think of the best ways to include patients in their
future research and further progressive patient involvement in the research enterprise.
Apart from those who were participants in the original research there is no patient involvement in
the preparation for this article.
Patients as test reviewers, volunteers with the disability being filmed for real world evaluation and
raters could have been trained and used as volunteers during the reviewing process, under the
guidance of qualified researchers, (before, during or after the relevant literature was chosen).
Patient-volunteers could also have been included in making the choice of articles for inclusion. If
they had involved patients the researchers would have been able to tailor the validation according
to individual patient’s input regarding their experiences of assessment methods. Additionally it
would help researchers to understand that it was more than the testing that causes problems.

A standardized test, where one size fits all is not sufficient given the opportunity for conflict of
interests. It would also be helpful if a video recording was submitted as usual practice with the
assessment using standardised testing. This could serve as a way to rate performance and
accuracy in further research.
I was encouraged that the authors have considered dissemination to affected patients in their
strategy. Even though I have suggested some improvements this paper is an important first step in
fairer treatment and obejective assessment for those citizens who need to make a disability claim.
Thank you for this opportunity to review this paper as a BMJ Patient Reviewer