The authors have utilized a large healthcare database which contains rich clinical information with
longitudinal follow up. The results are cleverly conceived with sophisticated analyses. I have a few
comments listed below. Some definitions need more clarification in the manuscript.
1. Page 7: Exposure interval definition is confusion. The 90 day interval started from the first
prescription of any NIAA. In each 90 d-interval, patients may have experienced both SU-only and
Met-only. How was the current, recent, and past classified, from the outcome count backwards? It
will be better to explain more on the classification of the exposures. Drawing a graph to explain the
definition may be helpful.
2. Page 7: “We applied a new user design by excluding all patients who had a history of NIAA or
insulin prescriptions or the outcome of interest before the index date”. While the index date was the
first proscription date after the valid data collection, how to make sure the baseline period is
long/complete enough for a new user cohort? If a patient’s first NIAA date happened to be at the
same time when (or shortly after) the valid data collection started, the reliability of baseline
information (eGFR and other) will be questionable.

3. Table 3: SU user with renal impairment (RI) was compared to Met as overall (with and without
renal impairment). Met patients had better renal function at baseline, thus the magnitude of the risk
of hypoglycaemia associated with SU patients with RI might from mixed effect of SU and reduced
renal function. It will be helpful to compare SU-only users to Met-only users within RI patients. It will
give the evidence if Met is safer than SU in patients with RI and the magnitude of the risk associated
with SU in RI is the same as that in patients with normal renal function.
4. Other minor comments: Diabetes diagnosis was not examined. Some non-diabetic patients may
also take NIAA for off-label use and the risk of hypoglycemia in those patients may be different from
that in diabetic patients. Hypoglycemia may be a short term event. Some experienced diabetic
patients may manage it without seeking medical care. Thus the rate of the event may be
underestimated.