Stevens et al. conducted a comprehensive systematic review with meta-analyses on the association
between blood pressure variability and the risk of all-cause mortality and vascular events in adult
populations. Studies were included if they were prospective in design, and were allowed to be conducted
in any adult population other than in haemodialysis patients. Hazard ratios were extracted from the
individual studies, and standardised using a measure of variability (which was allowed to vary between

studies). The study methods are thoroughly discussed and the paper provides detailed insight into many
of the methodological issues in the study of blood pressure variability and disease endpoints, which could
be of benefit for future research. The authors identified 31 relevant studies, most of these were not
included in the primary analyses because of methodological limitations potentially inducing bias. Results
from the main analyses indicate that blood pressure variability was associated with an increased risk of
all-cause mortality and CVD.
Comments
Studies were categorised as sensitivity analyses studies and main analyses studies, based upon
predefined quality criteria. Despite possible sources of bias, the results from the sensitivity analyses
studies and the main analyses studies are generally very similar and could possibly be combined to
increase power. The studies were conducted in a range of different populations, and the direction and
magnitude of the relationship might vary considerably depending on sociodemographic and clinical
characteristics. It would be worth expanding on to which populations the current results apply to,
possibly through formal sensitivity analyses.
The authors mention that their analyses overlap with other recent systematic review and meta-analyses.
They also argue that their analyses are additive, as their methods allowed for inclusion of more studies in
the meta-analyses. While the studies are not exactly identical, the overlap with a meta-analysis on the
association between visit-to-visit blood pressure variability and cardiovascular disease and all-cause
mortality (Hypertension. 2014 Nov;64(5):965-82) seems considerably substantial. Further discussion on
the novelty of the current findings seems to be required.
The authors had to standardise the extracted hazard ratios to enable comparison between studies using
different units of measurements. From a clinical perspective, the absence of the size of unit increase
makes it difficult to determine how large the effect size is relative to other risk factors, such as
cholesterol, which effect size the authors state to be of similar size. Further discussion on the clinical
implications might be warranted.
The terminology for blood pressure variability is somewhat confusing and could be more consistent
throughout the paper. The authors asses long, short, and very short term variability, which is measured
through clinic, home, and ambulatory measurements. Are these similar to visit-to-visit, day-by-day, and
daytime ambulatory measurements?
The last search for papers was conducted in February 2014, and would benefit from an update to check
for more recent studies.
The authors present a large amount results (there are 31 online Figures, and Table 2 spans over 20
pages), which makes it difficult to follow the analyses conducted and to interpret to results. The
readability of the paper would benefit from relocation and reduction of the tables and figures. The choice
to only present the results for the association between blood pressure variability and stroke as a main
Figure (Figure 2) is also unclear.