The article is well conceived and constructed and has several strengths e.g., multicentre,
international sites, consecutive patient recruitment and a large cohort of patients (> 3000) which add
weight and credibility to the observations and conclusions drawn. The number of participants
included in this study is significantly larger than in the majority of similar studies published before,
most of which have been retrospective analyses at single centres and have not followed patients
prospectively for a defined time period. The article is well set out and the key pieces of data and
learning points are clear to the reader.
The article provides further evidence of the clinical benefit of employing a pre-endoscopy decision
making tool for UGI bleeding at the point of presentation to hospital. In particular it highlights the
role that clinical decision making tools can offer in terms of facilitating early discharge from
hospital/avoiding hospital admission and in this regard it is of value to Emergency department and
assessment unit clinicians who are non-gastroenterologists. This is the key learning point which
comes through in the article. In the discussion section there is a useful passage debating the pros

and cons of using a GBS score cut off of ≤1 or ≤2 to identify low risk patients suitable for early
discharge.
The assessed scoring tools demonstrate a limited ability to robustly predict a range of clinically
significant outcomes in patients with high risk bleeds eg need for endoscopic intervention, blood
transfusion or death. This has been a consistent finding in previous studies looking at this area.
Although the data presented here identified the GBS as the most accurate tool for predicting clinical
intervention or death this combined endpoint is of limited clinical value in the initial assessment of
patients with an upper GI bleed (45% of all patients (1348) required hospital intervention or died
within 30 days; overall 30 day mortality was 6.9% (208)). Whilst the authors do express support for
the GBS in the abstract conclusions as having “the highest accuracy” at predicting need for hospital
based- intervention they do emphasise that AUROCS for other (more clinically useful) endpoints
indicate limited utility of the scoring tools for this purpose and in the concluding paragraph of the
article it is highlighted that more studies are needed in this area.
Bearing in mind the large amount of data captured here and the experience of the researchers in this
field, it would be insightful if the authors could offer their opinion regarding the key components of a
scoring system which they think might create a useful predictive tool for specific clinical outcomes
and why they believe that the current tools lack robustness in this area?
Considering the above and in order to emphasise the key findings to the non-specialist reader might
it be worth considering a revision of the order of the key findings in the abstract conclusions? eg 1) –
GBS ≤1 appears to be the optimum threshold for directing patients to outpatient management. 2)
AUROCs for scoring tools for clinically defined endpoints (eg rebleeding, need for endoscopic
intervention, mortality) indicate limited clinical utility in this area. 3) GBS had the highest predictive
accuracy for predicting need for combined endpoint of any hospital based intervention or death.
A recent paper by Robertson in GIE (Robertson M, Majumdar A, Boyapati R et al. Gastrointest
Endosc. 2016;83:1151-1160. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.gie.2015.10.021) directly compared AIMS
65, GBS and pre and post endoscopy Rockall scores and reported that AIMS65 compared favourably
to GBS and pre-endoscopy RS in terms of predicting in-patient mortality (AUROC 0.80 vs. 0.76 and
0.74 respectively). It also found that AIMS65 was superior to all other scores in terms of predicting
ICU admission and length of stay. GBS was found to be superior to all other scores in predicting need
for blood transfusion. In terms of identifying low-risk patients who could avoid hospital admission it
found that there was 0% in-patient mortality with AIMS65 score 0 and 1.7% mortality with a score of
1. Whilst this paper was retrospective and at a single centre and looked at a smaller number of
patients (approx 400) it might be worth considering referencing this paper and discussing the
different outcomes reported between the 2. In the submitted article there are a large number of
missing values for AIMS65 score – 511 in all. The reason for the large number of missing values is
not discussed but I wonder if this represents a group of patients with relatively low risk bleeds who
were not considered to be unwell enough to require an albumin or INR to be checked? (65% pts with
complete AIMS65 classifed as high-risk compared with 50% with complete GBS and 57% with
complete ARS). If this was the case could it potentially lead to an underestimation of the ability of
AIMS65 to safely identify low risk bleeds? It would be interesting to know the range and average
GBS scores split in to patients with or without a complete AIMS65 to see if there is any difference
between the 2?
There appears to be a typographical error in table 1 – mortality number given as 2087?? I was
unclear about reported numbers in regards to the following - In the text (page 13 line 15) the results
report “1348 needed hospital-based intervention or died within 30 days”. In table 1 (page 24 line 40)
the outcome “no need for intervention or death” 1636 is recorded giving a total of 2984 which differs
from the total number of 3012 study participants and 2868 with complete follow-up.
Overall I think the article is very well presented and offers interest for a non-specialist secondary and
primary care audience and there are impactful learning points which will influence clinical decision
making in this important area.