This study examined the relationship of parental mental illness and the risk of injuries
among the offspring using national registry data. The topic is of significance. Statistical
analyses were properly conducted, with rich results presented.
Here are some comments for your consideration:
1. The validity and reliability of data from different register systems is critical for readers to
understand findings of this paper, thus they should be provided in the Method section.
2. The authors reported that common mental disorders like mood or anxiety were with
higher risk compared to severe disorders. This is an important and unexpected finding,
however, its implications (e.g. most resources are targeting on severe mental disorders
and there is a wider gap in support to parents with less severe mental illness) have not
been full discussed.
3. Authors reported that (on P12, lines 54-7) ‘we found a higher proportion of CAPRI had a
diagnosis of child psychopathology compared to unexposed children (13.9% vs 6.2% for all
ages).’ If the distribution of child psychopathology is unbalanced between groups and it is
known to be related to the exposure, then the factor of child psychopathology should be
adjusted for analysis.
4. More information should be provided on the inclusion of violence as one type of injury in
this analysis.
In injury Epidemiology, violence injuries are categorised as intentional and all other injuries
types listed in this paper are unintentional. For young kids (0-5 years), violence might be
more associated with their direct carers, like parents. But for elder kids, it is hard to say
whether the violence injuries come from parents or other social network.
The authors need to provide a definition used for violence in this paper, as well as what
strategies have been used by the authors to avoid mis-categorising bias related to
violence, e.g. burn could be accidental, but could also be caused by violent behaviours.

5. Given the high prevalence of maltreat happened among families with mental illness, the
particularly high risk related to violence found in this paper should be highlighted in the
results section and discussed more in the discussion section.
6. The interpretation of data results needs to be mined deeply and interpreted more,
including:
6.1 Data in supp tab 3 shows that, the effect of parent mental illness on injuries of
different age groups varied. Specifically, for kids aged 0-5, any kinds of mental illness
(except non-affective psychotic) is associated with increased risk of injuries, but for kids
aged 6-17, such influence mainly related to disorders of mood and anxiety. This is
consistent for both maternal mental illness and paternal ones. Such findings have not been
presented in the manuscript.
6.2 Data in supp tab 3 shows that maternal mental illness is related to all most all types of
injuries while the effect of paternal mental illness is limited to certain injuries, suggesting a
particular importance of maternal mental illness. This point deserves to be highlighted in
the manuscript.
6.3 It could be more helpful for readers to access the key findings of this analysis if
replacing the Tab 2 with Supp Tab 3, as the latter provided more information.
7. Regarding Fig.2:
7.1 Add parental results
7.2 Show aRR, rather than the crude RR
7.3 Add necessary legend (e.g. adjusted factors) to the figure
7.4 The colours of different illness are hard to distinguish.
8. Suggestions to Fig.2 can be applied to Fig.3
9. Other minor comments:
9.1 Supp fig.2 and fig.3 are not really helpful, and corresponding contents can be explicitly
explained by texts.
9.2 Data of supp tab.3&4 are key findings of this paper, therefore I suggest moving them
to the manuscript, though the information covered in Figures 2 and 3 duplicated with the
two tables.
9.3 Using aRR or adjusted consistently in the manuscript.
9.4 P3, line 35: Our recent UK primary care study should be ‘A recent UK…’
9.5 P7, lines 25-7: List the specific disease categories of these ICD codes to improve
readability.
