General comments
This is a critical and urgent topic on an enduring challenge that we have a great deal of knowledge
about. Highlighting, and elevating debate on the existence of underlying inequalities that will shape
the outcomes of this pandemic in both the short-term, and the long-term, is definitely a message that
needs repeating. Overall, I found the central message of the article very important, but that the
depth of analysis and structuring of the argument could be significantly better - including how they fit
with the current state of knowledge in this area.
There were two standout areas where the article could be improved. The first is how the
socioeconomic gradient is defined, taking into account what we already know about health inequality
in general. It is currently left rather loosely defined. The second area for improvement is in the
actions that are argued need to be taken in response to recognising the gradient. As the article
states, there is a long history of thinking about the gradient, however, little detail is given in the
article as to what that thinking entails. Here are three articles that might be helpful for reflecting on
the gradient, health inequalities and action.
Graham, H. (2004). "Tackling inequalities in health in England: Remedying health disadvantages,
narrowing health gaps or reducing health gradients?" Journal of Social Policy 33(1): 115-131.
Whitehead, M. (2007). A typology of actions to tackle social inequalities in health. Journal of
Epidemiology and Community Health, 61(6), 473–478. https://doi.org/10.1136/jech.2005.037242
Baum, F. (2007). Cracking the nut of health equity: top down and bottom up pressure for action on
the social determinants of health. Promotion & Education, 14(2), 90–95.
https://doi.org/10.1177/10253823070140022002
Furthermore, the Michael Marmot references that this article cites are quite old ones, and ones that
are prior to his work as Chair of the WHO Commission on the Social Determinants of Health. The
Commission produced a wealth of knowledge and literature about the evidence relating to health
inequalities and what actions need to look like. It would be useful to use more current literature.
Consequently, as currently written, the gradient is not explained well enough which means that the
‘health-wealth’ phrasing is also not well defined and could be read as the gradient being
predominantly about income, rather than the understanding we have that a gradient in health
outcomes is shown with virtually all measures of social circumstance.
More could also be made of the intent of the title. What does flattening of the curve entail? And how
are existing inequities interacting with this approach? It could be interesting to reflect on what this
may mean for countries (such as New Zealand) that have gone for elimination, rather than
containment and flattening the curve.
Another area for attention in the article is where actions are suggested that should be taken. Given
the issue at hand, and what we know, I would have expected a stronger and more urgent comment

on action. Focusing not only on immediate, remedial and long-term actions targeting disadvantaged
groups, but also considering what other policy actions may need to happen?

Specific comments
Line 90-93 The tone of the article in a few of places could be improved. For example, the word
‘powerful’ is used and is identified with the authors/audience through using the word ‘us’. But in
contrast, later (line 139) where the ‘vulnerable’ (a term that is not entirely in favour these days) or
disadvantaged are referred to – the word ’they’ is used.
Line 93 Clarify who is suggesting these things and indicate that these are selected examples.
Line 118 What is the bigger challenge of health inequality?
Line 132 What particular knowledge are you referring to?
Line 132 I would argue it is not just that we can imagine these things, but that we have robust
evidence already. Your first suggestion here, to examine incidence and severity – is there a more
urgent course of action that could be taken? Along with already knowing the gradient, many countries
also have a lot of their own detailed data about how inequalities play out and what are the underlying
causes.
Line 198 This is a very light analysis of health inequities within the health system - it highlights how a
clearer definition of the gradient would be very useful upfront within the article, to help link up more
clearly the particular issues that have been chosen for emphasis.
Line 222 Given what we already know about health inequalities, I would argue that new data
(although important) is not the most important thing to suggest as what needs to happen to avoid
perpetuating inequalities.
Is the article important?
I think the central message of the article is a critical one.
Will it help our readers to make better decisions and, if so, how?
The argument could be organised better to do justice to the evidence we already have, and what we
already know about how we can act to address health inequities. I would challenge the authors to be
bolder in their suggestions for policy action.
Will the article add enough to existing knowledge?
More work could be done to situate this argument within the current state of knowledge.
Does the article read well and make sense? Does it have a clear message?
The article reads well, although the structuring of the arguments could be tighter and more thorough.
The explicit message is clear, but the argument does not yet carry this through in a compelling way.
