Description
This is an enormous study, looking for the rare outcomes of 3 suppurative but treatable infections
(cellulitis, peritonsillar abscess, and pneumonia), and 3 more serious infections (mastoiditis, empyema,
and Lemierre’s Fusobacterium thrombophlebitis of the internal jugular vein). Studying the medical
records of 610 UK general practices of around 400,000 patient, and 45,000,000 patient-years of followup, they correlated practice visits and antibiotic prescribing for selected acute respiratory infections
(ARIs) with these complications.
The study is particularly important in an era of increasing focus on decreasing the antibiotic prescribing in
primary care for ARIs, when it is likely that one reason for this over-prescription is anxiety about infective
complications of ARI. If right, then the conclusions are that serious infection of the sort that GPs will
worry about are so unlikely to occur that these data should provide an enormous level of comfort to GPs
and patients alike about a parsimonious antibiotic prescribing approach. This is likely to influence policy
and practice, and the paper to be cited extensively. However it will come under scrutiny because the
inference is causal, and, coming from observational data, vulnerable to challenge. The paper is very well
written. It is slightly long, but this is compatible with the BMJ’s ‘pico’ policy.
Comment
1 The choice of all the 5 respiratory secondary infections that could be ‘missed’ are uncontroversial.
However the inclusion of cellulitis is interesting, and may be something that most GPs would not have
thought of, or worried about, since it appears to be unrelated to respiratory infections. Indeed of the 2
references cited to support its inclusion by the Authors, the Zwart 2003 described only one case of
impetigo!
This begs the question of what else might have been included as credible, commonly worried-about,
infections that might have been avoided by antibiotic use. And they might include meningitis (which GPs
really worry about, and although rare, must be more common than Lemierre’s disease) and urinary
infections. Presumably the data are right there for analysis, although this might be a very unwelcome
suggestion for the authors…
Since skin infections are likely only uncommonly and distantly caused by ARIs, presumably the effect on
cellulitis must be preventive: if people take antibiotics more often for any reason, they’re more likely to
be protected against infection of any kind. The causal direction of course may go the other way: perhaps
the patients of GPs who prescribe antibiotics commonly for skin infections will also have fewer ARIs.
But in any case we are not sure we believe the result because of an inappropriately chosen primary
outcome measure (see 3 below).
2 The data for these analyses are highly dependent on GPs’ coding (through Read codes) correctly.
Coding always has an element of subjectivity (especially with ARIs, which all sit on a variety of spectra).
These analyses must assume that GPs who are high antibiotic prescribers code the same away as those
who are not. Actually there is some evidence from 45 years ago this is not true in Scotland, and there is
nothing to suggest that it might be better today. [Howie JG, Richardson IM, Gill G, Durno D. Respiratory
illness and antibiotic use in general practice. J R Coll Gen Pract. 1971;21:657-63.; and also Howie J.
Diagnosis--the Achilles heel? JR Coll Gen Pract. 1972;22:310-5.] These data suggest that GP who use
antibiotics are more likely to use diagnostic labels of ‘antibiotic-justified diagnoses’.

So there should be some speculation about how differences in coding ARIs might have affected the
results. This might affect the data about ARI consulting rates, and then secondarily the antibiotic
prescribing rates.
Unfortunately we can’t see any way to check if this is a problem, unless the organisation holding the
electronic medical record database has previously undertaken validity testing of the diagnostic codes
independently.
3 Primary Outcome.
The Methods describes “For each CPRD general practice, we estimated the rate of RTI consultations per
1,000 registered patients; the antibiotic prescribing rate for RTI per 1,000 registered patients; and the
proportion (%) of RTI consultations with antibiotics prescribed”.
The higher the rate of ARI consultations the higher the incidence of infective complications. This is
perhaps what would be expected, and therefore is unsurprising.
Also the higher the proportion (percentage) of antibiotics prescribed, also the lower the incidence
suppurative complications, supporting the hypothesis that the liberal use of antibiotics suppresses a rage
of downstream infections. However we know from past work of Little’s that high antibiotic prescribers
also are associated with high ‘returns’ with new subsequent RTIs. So the proportion of antibiotics
prescribed has to be adjusted for higher consulting rates (working in the opposite direction).
Instead we are provided with the actual rates of antibiotic prescribing, although unfortunately relegated
to supplementary information, (as Suppl Fig 1), although reported in Results (p10 li48), but not really
explored further.
We actually think this is the least biased data: as the actual rate of antibiotics prescribed per thousand
patients, it is free of the consultation rate bias. It shows only one of the potentially downstream
infections (pneumonia) is associated with increased antibiotic activity, and this is a very important
result.
Chris Del Mar, Amanda McCullough
Centre for Research in Evidence Based Practice
Bond University, Queensland, Australia