Diagnostic interpretation of breast biopsy specimens is of great significance for people (women/men) with breast
lesions. The breast pathology diagnosis provides the basis for clinical treatment and management decisions; that being
the case, diagnostic accuracy is substantially important to ensure the most applicable therapy plan. Misclassification of
identified lesions may result to either overtreatment or undertreatment. These issues are particularly important if we
consider the widespread mammography screening and the consequently increasing incidence/detection of breast
lesions. Millions of breast biopsies are performed annually around the world. The economic, psychological and societal
burden of mistreatments could be enormous.
Based on such research both lay people and doctors can be educated in the management of a health crisis, reduce
anxiety and decrease the burden of misclassification and mistreatment. A second opinion adds value and it is
desirable. Lay people learn to be involved in management of their own health and to contribute effectively with doctors
in their health plan. Additionally, they get duly informed of the eligible criteria of research (low vs high volume doctors
and/or academic affiliation) in order to make the best health decisions.
Last but not least, this research highlights some system failure. For example, pathology laboratories’ policy to require
a second review mainly in case of diagnosed invasive cancer where the diagnostic disagreement is significantly lower
than other cases such as atypia and DCIS.^1 ; although such reviews are requested by pathologists themselves and
they are reported to improve their diagnostic accuracy.^2 Furthermore, the majority of pathologists hasn’t completed
fellowship training in breast pathology.^3
Note: regarding the strategy that has been implemented in case of total disagreement of diagnostic interpretation
among (3) doctors I consider that further estimation should be applied (i.e. arbitrary assigning ambiguous diagnoses
in the middle of the diagnostic hierarchy arises ethical considerations).

^1
^2
^3
^4

pages 35,38, figures 1,3 &
page 6
page 37, table 2
page 10 BPATH-Dx
