Introduction
- The introduction is well-written. The aims/objectives of this study are highly clinically relevant and original. We are
only recently beginning to recognize that total hip arthroplasty (THA) after hip fracture has several unique advantages
over hemiarthroplasty for a subgroup of high-functioning patients. If we indeed continue to progress in the field of
orthopaedics, the future will likely bring many more THAs for hip fracture patients. The authors undertake a timely study
which will substantially contribute to understanding the present state of hip fracture patient care, while identifying
potential areas for improvement.
- I am not aware of any major studies (certainly not of this scale), that attempt to understand how THA is presently
being used in the hip fracture population. Therefore this study is meets the originality requirement.
- Given the number of hip fractures that occur annually around the world, and the expected increase in incidence over
the next few decades, this work is very important not only to orthopaedic surgeon, but to all those involved in
perioperative care, policy-makers, as well as patients.
- Page 5, Line 6 – change “in regards access” to “in regards to access”
Methods
- Overall, the methodology is comprehensive and adequate for the stated objectives. The intricacies of the statistical
analysis should be further evaluated by a statistician, as it is beyond my expertise.
- Page 5, Line 13: It should be clarified that this is a retrospective observational cohort study.
- Can the authors justify using 60 as the cut-off age for inclusion? Why not 55, or 50? Younger patients are more likely
to derive a benefit from THA.
Results
- The results are well-presented, and flow clearly from the objectives and methodology. Figures and tables are used

effectively to summarize key information for readers.
- The number of patients is impressive. Approximately half of patients included had a displaced intracapsular fracture,
which is fairly consistent with the current hip fracture epidemiological literature.
- Page 9, Line 55: The authors state, “Admissions during the working week (Sunday-Thursday) had the highest rates of
THA provision (1.12, 1.04 to 1.21)”. This sentence should be reworded in terms of “odds” of THA provision to be more
accurate and consistent with the analysis.
Discussion
- It would be important to mention (especially for those readers outside the UK), the quality of evidence upon which the
NICE guidelines are based (i.e., expert consensus, observational data, small vs large randomized trials). While there
may be a sub-population of hip fracture patients that are high functioning who may benefit for total hip arthroplasty, the
evidence to date is hardly irrefutable; there are downsides to THA after hip fracture (e.g. dislocation risk). There are
presently ongoing multi-national randomized trials (e.g. the HEALTH trial) attempting to better answer this question. In
fact, the authors themselves state, “This guideline is consistent with a developing evidence base…”. I understand that
much of this is beyond the scope of this manuscript, but having an understanding regarding the strength of the evidence
in support of THA is important background information.
- Page Line 48: The authors state, “Regionalisation of hip fracture services is one possible means of ensuring equal
access to THA throughout the week”. As this study was not able to demonstrate a volume-outcome relationship,
appropriate references for this line should be provided.
- It seems that much of the disconnect between guidelines and practices is with the NICE guidelines themselves. These
guidelines may be far too broad to provide any meaningful guidance to orthopaedic surgeons (which makes sense,
because the literature on this is still evolving), and therefore surgeons are compelled to have their own individual
indications for THA (resulting in wide variability in practices). Therefore, perhaps one of the conclusions from this
manuscript should be that we need to better understand the indications for THA after hip fracture. For instance, a
potential indication that is not discussed in this manuscript is patients with underlying hip osteoarthritis who incidentally
sustain a hip fracture. This is only one example of a consideration which the NICE guidelines do not even consider. We
need clear indications and contraindications for THA before being able to comment on appropriateness of practice
patterns.
- Conclusion – Page 13, Line 39: The authors state that “Compliance with NICE guidance on THA for hip fracture is poor,
with many eligible patients failing to undergo THA.” Stating that eligible patients are failing to undergo THA is an overly
strong conclusion, especially since the NICE guidance is far from perfect, and this study has not been able to
comprehensively describe the patient population (in terms of indications, co-morbidities, etc).
- Overall, this is a very well-conducted study with an important message. The discussion is comprehensive and touches
on key limitations to the study (e.g., unmeasured confounding) and barriers to implementing THA routinely (i.e., access
to hip arthroplasty surgeons). This is an important study that can help inform future health care policy. I recommend
publication after consideration of a few minor issues pertaining to framing of the results.
References
- The references are up-to-date and adequate.
Abstract and Key Points
- Adequately and accurately summarize the manuscript. No issues.
Sincerely,
Harman Chaudhry, MD