Thanks for the opportunity to review this paper by dr. He et al.
The paper is, as far as I can see, a narrative review with some data also. It is not clear
whether these data are original.
The authors address the global challenge of unnecessary antibiotic use, and it seems, on
the comparisons made in the text, that antibiotic overuse is frequent in China. The
evaluation of this goes mostly without mention of precise data, and is more of a qualitative
judgment by the authors.
I have some specific concerns:
Title: ” Rational Use of Antibiotics Under the Context of China’s Health System Reform”
Seems rather “technical”. People do not necessarily know anything about China´s Health
system reform”. And probably there have been several. Which one?
Hypothesis:
No clear hypothesis is stated.
It is not clear which design was used. Was this an epidemiological study or a narrative
review?
If it is a narrative review, at least an aim with the review should be stated clearly.
The discussion of the solutions to antibiotic overuse, seems somehow superficial:
“Improving rational use of antibiotics not only requires comprehensive interventions,
including regulations, health and economic policies, healthcare delivery transformation and
clinical guidelines33, but also the participations of multiple stakeholders, especially active
engagements from physicians and patients19. We have a set of recommendations
(system-level, provider-level and patient-level) to improve rational use of antibiotics as the
follows: Firstly, the central government needs to establish an effective system with
cross-sector coordinated mechanism and comprehensive surveillance network to improve
combined interventions on rational use of antibiotics. The first step is to coordinate
multiple intra-sector interventions in health care sectors and systematically evaluate their
effects at all levels of health care facilities. The second is to integrate inter-sector
stewardship system on antimicrobials. For example, it is imperative to establish shared
information system between health care and agricultural departments to coordinate the
monitoring and management of antibiotic use in humans and animals. The third is to
secure the effective implementation of top-to-down policies in both hospital and
community settings”
I suggest reading some recent international literature on this. Many initiatives have shown
to work, and although political involvement and priority is important, many other elements
must be implemented, to succeed.
Structure:
The paper uses a highly unusual structure. First an introduction, which would normally be
followed by a “Methods” section. But the next section is called “Combined reforms to
improve antibiotic prescription and reduce antimicrobial resistance”

The section after that is called “Achievements and challenges”. Some results in graphs and
estimates are integrated in the text, but it is not clear if these are original data or data
from other sources. This should be clear.

Language:
Example:
“Manifested by polypharmacy, overuse and inappropriate use of antibiotics and injections,
over a half of antibiotic medicines have been irrationally used around the world1 . “
I am not quite sure I understand this sentence. A grammatic check could be done.
“The situation of irrational use of antibiotics are exacerbated by decades’ misperception of
antibacterial medicines as the panacea to cure infections2 , and no major breakthrough in
antibiotics development during the last 30 years3”
This sentence lacks a “has been observed” or alike
Another example. “Without urgent action, we would have no new antibiotics available on
the top of less effective or even ineffective antibacterial drugs in the future.”
I think the text should be thoroughly revised grammatically by a native English speaker –
this would help the reader to acknowledge the scientific quality, which is hard in the
current edition.
