This is an interesting and well conducted trial. Here we see secondary (I think, though it could be clearer) analyses of a
previously conducted and published trial. I have reviewed this from a statistical perspective and have some comments and
suggestions as follows:
Is this a negative trial? I’m not as sure as the authors are. All of the effect sizes are in the direction that favours bivalirudin,
but are not statistically significant. CIs are wide (e.g. 0.70 to 1.16, 0.67 to 1.05, etc). Therefore, how can the authors strongly
state: “A bivalirudin monotherapy strategy, as compared with heparin with or without GPI, does not reduce MACE or NACE in
patients”. I suggest the authors revisit this conclusion. Is it not a case that further research is needed should be the message?
I assume the strong statement is based on non-significant p-values (CIs containing 1). Perhaps low power is causing the nonsignificance of the findings? Or are the authors inferring that no clinically relevant values are in the CIs? Please clarify. A RR of
0.70 for example would seem to be quite beneficial to me (though I’m not a clinician). In short, the authors should be clear
and justified) about whether there conclusion is based on statistical significance, or clinical magnitude of effects, or indeed
both.
At end of the Introduction it says ‘here we present the primary results …’ – what does primary mean here? Does this mean
primary outcomes of the trial? I think these are not primary analyses of the trial? Thus I would be clearer at the end of the
Introduction that this is a secondary analysis of a trial but for pres-specified outcomes / groupings. Indeed, the statistical
analysis section should make clearer that the trial was powered on a different main analysis (I think?). This issue relates to the
point above about potential low power.
I would also like more motivation in the Intro as to why these secondary but pre-specified analyses were not already reported
in the main trial publication.
I do not think it is necessary to present p-values in table 1, as the study is not aimed (powered) to detect differences at
baseline.
In terms of the analyses, what is the Mantel-Cox method? No reference is given, and I was expecting a Cox regression analysis
to have been used to estimate rate ratios.
Was the assumption of proportional hazards evaluated for each analysis? That is, were any treatment effects time-dependent
(non-constant hazard ratio)? Please discuss in the manuscript.
Why did the main analysis not adjust for centre? Would conclusions change if the analysis was stratified by centre? These
centres are across different countries, therefore there is the potential for differences in baseline risk, and thus clustering by
centre might be important. Further, is there any evidence of heterogeneity in treatment effect across centres (or at least
across countries)? These points could be considered in a sensitivity analysis, with results shown in a supplementary material
perhaps
There are lots of analyses being done in terms of subgroups and interactions and tests for trend (See methods for list and table
2, though I think more analyses have been done than shown in table 2. with tests for trends and interactions). Therefore, even
I struggle to believe anything beyond chance to be honest. This weakens the robustness of the paper, in my opinion, and
reflects perhaps the secondary nature of the work compared to the original trial. Perhaps I am wrong, and the authors could
respond to this, but this is my instinct from reading.

For example, the authors have a paragraph about a significant interaction effect. They say: “Rates of myocardial infarction
were similar between bivalirudin and heparin in ACS patients
with and without ST elevation (RR 1.24, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.76 and RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.78 to
1.16 respectively, p for interaction=0.19). Notably, event rates at 30 day differed markedly
between the two population: 3.3% in patients with STEACS and 15% in those with NSTEACS.
Randomised treatment effect on stroke were directionally opposite in patients with and
without ST elevation (P for interaction=0.0052) with bivalirudin associated with lower risk of
stroke as compared to heparin in STEACS patients (RR 0.35, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.97, P=0.035)
and higher risk of stroke in NSTEACS patients (RR 4.02, 95% CI 0.85 to 18.95, P=0.057).”
- the focus on 30 days is worrying. Is this because it was significant? The overall effect (across all times) is noted as not
significant in the first sentence, but then the authors focus on 30 days. Also, what is an ‘event rate’ at 30 days. Do the authors
mean event risk by 30 days?
The start of the methods intrdocues 3 MATRIX trials, but then it is not clearly specified which trial is used going forward (just
the MATRIX Anti-Thrombin one?).
Some results are slipped into the discussion I think. In the discussion it say: “In secondary analyses we observed that
bivalirudin was associated with a reduction in all-cause mortality due to lower CV mortality, a difference that in this analysis
was similar in patients with STEACS and with NSTEACS (p for interaction=0.72) while in the updated meta-analysis was limited
to patients with STEACS (with a p value for difference for STEACS vs NSTEACS of 0.07)”. I can’t see the meta-analysis
mentioned earlier.
Some of the points in the discussion are debatable. “While we did not observe significant differences in the rate of acute stent
thrombosis between randomised strategies in ACS patients with and without ST elevation, the present analysis indicates that
the risk of acute ST with bivalirudin is probably limited to patients with STEACS” – why? What results support this.
In summary, in the context of an important and well conducted trial, I do have some concerns about the potential low power
for these additional analyses, and the over-emphasis (at times) of either non-significant findings being conclusively negative,
or subgroup effects being important (beyond chance). Therefore I currently struggle to identify firm findings that will be useful
to the BMJ readers. Further, some analysis issues remain to be addressed / clarified. I hope the authors can take my
comments as constructive and allow them to revise the paper going forward.
