Thank you for providing me the opportunity to review the paper BMJ-2019-051538
Induction of labour at 41 weeks versus expectant management until 42 weeks (the Swedish
postterm induction study - SWEPIS), a multicentre, open label, randomised, superiority trial
.
The authors performed a randomised clinical trial comparing Induction of labour at 41 weeks
and expectant management until 42 weeks in low risk women with an uncomplicated
singleton pregnancy.
The editors should know that I have met some of the authors a couple of times at an early
stage when they were planning their Swedish network. I have not been involved in the
design of any specific trial, including this one.
First, I want to congratulate the authors who did a fantastic job by recruiting so many
women in such a short time. The study finds that
I think only one major issue needs to be repaired in this manuscript; the decision to stop the
trial on a secondary endpoint should be made clearer. While understandable to stop the
study with 6 versus 0 perinatal deaths, I do not see what was prespecified. This should be
clarified.
Also, it should be described in more detail
Specific comments
Trial registration ISRCTN261136529 should be ISRCTN26113652
Abstract:
Line 12: As the primary outcome is neonatal, I would rephrase the aim of the study as: “The
objective was to evaluate if induction of labour at 41 weeks compared with expectant
management and induction of labour at 42 weeks may improve neonatal and maternal
outcome. “
Line 26; what is meant by; “were randomised (1:1) by the Swedish Pregnancy Register.”
How can a register randomise.?
Suggest to add under the subhead ‘main outcome measures’ that
I think it should be clear from the abstract that the study was stopped at an interim analysis.
The introduction contains the relevant literature and is well structured, but could be written a
bit clearer.
Methods
(ISRCTN261136529 should be (ISRCTN26113652)
What is (<-2 standard deviations [SD] according to the sex specific Swedish reference)
Estimated fetal weight?
Page 5;
From line 48 onwards this should be under “study logistics”; not under “Participants”
line 60.
If the fetus had a mean abdominal diameter >110 mm and normal amniotic fluid …..
Do not repeat the inclusion criteria;
Page 6: I would have used variable block size, and there is stratification for centre, so
concealment not optimal. Not a big deal, but for future open label studies I would not use a
fixed block size; no big deal.
Under procedures I would suggest to add more detail on the two strategies;

In the expectant management group; how was fetal surveillance done; were there criteria
for earlier induction. Extra visit at 41+3? The lines 26.29 should be replaced under
Procedures.
I suggest to change the heading ‘procedures’ to ‘strategies’ and describe the strategies
induction at 41 and expectant management till 42 weeks.
In both groups; what were criteria for caesearean section? Was fetal blood sampling applied
during labour?
Outcomes: Adequate, and largely conform the trial registration.
However, not completely the same: for example, Birth weight (grams), Macrosomia (no/yes)
and Apgar score <4 at 5 minutes (no/yes) are not reported.
Please check with the trial register and report everything in accordance with the trial
register.
“To estimate selection bias, background data and pregnancy outcome of our study
population was compared with the Swedish background population. “ this is a very strong
point. Suggest to replace the word ‘background data’ by ‘baseline characteristics’.
Safety monitoring
I would replace the subhead ‘Safety monitoring’ with ‘monitoring’.
“…Serious adverse events were continuously reported …. “. Suggest to replace continuously
by immediately or promptly.
What is missing in the methods is a statement on how the study was monitored by the
DSMB. Were there formal interim analyses planned? The published protocol is not helpful
either.
Analysis
Since randomization was stratified for parity and centre, analysis should be stratified for
these factors, too.
Results
. the pre-planned interim analysis showed statistically significant difference in perinatal
mortality between the groups…..”
This is a weakness in the study:
It is not clear what was ‘pre-planned’?
The study is stopped on a secondary endpoint; i.e. perinatal mortality. I think this is very
justifiable, but it should be worded correctly. I think the study is stopped because the
unsafety of the expectant management strategy. If that was indeed the reasoning of the
DSMC
If it is pre-planned, it should be announced in the methods.
Outcome reporting is logic and complete; I would add 5 minute Apgar score < 4 as well as
hypertension and preeclampsia.
I would suggest to move gender to the baseline table.

Discussion
Well balanced.
Page 21; the comment in line 29 can be deleted; mortality numbers are too low to make an
argument.
Add on page 21-22 that NIVU admittance and neonatal morbidity are lower after induction.
I would not call premature closure a limitation; It was correct that the study was stopped,
and the distribution of the primary outcome is secondary to that point.
One weakness might be that the primary outcome is to widely defined, with low Apgar (5
minute <7) diluting the impact of IOL on perinatal outcome.

I would dedicate a paragraph to the fact that this was a registry study, which is unique.
What were the costs of the study. Which info was obtained from the registry? Make clear(er)
that randomisation was incorporated in the national registry software, which is really unique.

In summary; great study; I wholeheartedly recommend publication; congratulations! I look
forward to the next SNACK study; it saves lives!
