BMJ sugar strategy paper review
This is a well-written paper about an important topic of general interest; reducing
the obesity burden remains a challenge to societies around the world. I think this
paper is a welcome addition to the literature, and could influence policy decisions in
England and elsewhere.
Title and abstract adequately reflect the content of the paper. The methods are fairly
straightforward and robust. The disease model is not described in any detail, but has
been previously used. I am familiar with the general modelling approach, which is
state-of-the-art. The conclusions are well justified and balanced.
I have the following specific comments, which are all minor.
Page 8: Nutrition surveys tend to underestimate population energy intakes due to
selection- and measurement bias. This would lead to underestimation of the impact
of interventions to reduce energy intake. Is anything known about the likely size of

this bias in the NDNS? This is mentioned as a ‘perennial issue’ but could perhaps be
explored quantitatively.
Page 9, “Where more than one sugar reduction mechanism was being employed, it
was assumed that each mechanism was responsible for equal amounts of sugar
reduction.” This is not quite clear to me – were the effects added (-40%), or
multiplied (*0.8*0.8)?
Page 10: I am not familiar with the Christiansen and Garby method, but the authors
appropriately explore the impact of possible alternative approaches, including Hall’s
equations, in the discussion and Table S2.
Page 11: Why was a 10-year time horizon applied? Most of the impact would be
after that period, even if the intervention effect on BMI (and hence incidence)
ceased immediately at that point in time, due to the pool of (prevented) prevalent
disease cases given rise to additional life years until the exposed cohorts die out.
This choice should be explained.
Page 21, “reformulation may not lead to calorie reduction if people replace sugar
calories with other calories.” I know of no evidence for such an effect, and in any
case, in this study, it doesn’t apply to children because the effect size is based on
RCTs in which this hypothetical compensation would have been incorporated.
Personally, I also don’t believe that it is necessary to speculate on the body failing to
recognise sugar calories to explain overweight; Barbara Rolls’ experiments suggest
that it may simply be the case that we eat to fill our stomachs, and if that is with
energy dense foods we gain weight. But this is not commonly accepted and magical
thinking abounds in this area, so I guess the speculations in this section are
acceptable.
Table S2: I am not sure what the numbers on the right-hand side mean. Are these
kcal values based on an input of kgs weight change? But then how was that weight
change calculated, if not with one of the methods examined in this table?
The supplementary tables need to be reformatted.
Lennert Veerman