I reviewed the manuscript “oral fluconazole use in the first trimester and risk of congenital
malformations.” The manuscript is of great clinical importance, as the prevalence of
vulvovaginal candidiasis and the use of azoles during pregnancy are high, and it is
important to estimate the risk of congenital malformations associated with fluconazole use
during the first trimester.
This paper is based on the nationwide Medicaid Analytic eXtract (MAX) data from
2000-2014, including pregnant women exposed to oral fluconazole during the first
trimester compared with women without a prescription for oral antifungal agents, and
pregnant women who were exposed to topical azole during the first trimester. This study is
of high importance as previous studies were not consistent, and the results of this study
confirm an increased risk of musculoskeletal malformations but exclude the risks of
conotruncal malformations, oral clefts and other malformations, following fluconazole use
during the first trimester.
The study is appropriately conducted and the paper is well written. Its strengths include a
cohort study design with two reference groups, a large sample size, adjustment to
wide-range of confounding variables, and a reliance on dispensation rather than just
prescriptions. Furthermore, the statistical analysis, including propensity scores and
sensitivity analysis, is an excellent approach that enables quantifying the impact of the
potential selection bias resulting from including live births only in the cohort.
I believe this important research should be published and the following comments aim at
improving the quality of the presentation:
1) The Abstract should include a sentence or two on statistical methods.
2) You should consider including the following paper, which has been recently published, in
the Background: Fetal outcomes after maternal exposure to oral antifungal agents during
pregnancy: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Liu D, Zhang C, Wu L, Zhang L, Zhang
L. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2019 Nov 5.
3) In the Methods (page 7 lines 8-15) the authors wrote: “To reduce the risk of
confounding, we selected topical azoles as a reference group in the primary analysis
because they are considered safe due to minimal systemic absorption and recommended
for the treatment of VVC during pregnancy.[1-3 27-30]”
- Please specify the type of confounding, is it confounding by indication?
- Please specify the topical azoles that were included in this reference group.
- References 27-30 represent studies that point out that topical azoles are considered safe
during pregnancy. These studies were published in the years 1998-2009; other newer
relevant studies have been published since, including: Risk of major congenital
malformations following first trimester exposure to vaginal azoles used for treating
vulvovaginal candidiasis: a population based retrospective cohort study. By Rotem R et al.
BJOG. 2018 Nov;125(12):1550-1556. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.15293.
You should consider updating your references list.
4) In the Analyses (page 9 line 14), the authors wrote: “The unit of analysis was
pregnancy”. The authors should detail the cluster analysis they used (as mentioned in the
footnote of Figure 1 and 2) to account for correlations within mothers with multiple
pregnancies.
5) In the Results, the authors should provide details on: 1. the number of multiple
pregnancies and 2. the highest cumulative dose of fluconazole included in the group of
>450 mg.
6) The cohort included multiple gestation (Table 1 and eTables 4, 6, 7, 8). The risk for
major malformations was previously shown to be increased among multiple gestations
compared with singleton pregnancies (Glinianaia SV et al. Congenital Anomalies in Twins: A
register-Based Study. Hum reprod 2008).
Please explain why those pregnancies were included in the study, and in addition, you may
consider conducting a sensitivity analysis.

7) In the Discussion, please detail the type of confounding you are referring to (page 21
line 12).
