The increasing use of surgical mesh for pelvic prolapse surgery in the context of
recent FDA warnings cautioning its use is a very important and timely health policy
topic in the US. In this study, the authors sought to assess the frequency of mesh
use and its outcomes over a four year period of time (2008-2011) following the FDA
warning. They used an administrative database from the state of New York that they
analyzed using propensity score matching. They found an over 40% increase in mesh
use as well as 1.53 hazard ratio for for re-intervention at 1 year in the mesh group.
They conclude that this information should be helpful for clinicians, health policy
makers and regulators to make decision about appropriate mesh use for prolapse
surgery.
Comments
1. Introduction: Consider reviewing (and citing) the 2013 Cochrane review on the use
of mesh for prolapse surgery as a high quality evidence synthesis on the benefits and
harms of mesh.
2. The rationale for the (pre-defined) subgroup analysis based on age should be
made clearer; I assume it is to explore the use of mesh in women under the age of
65, which are not captured in CMS-based data-sets, which is particular appeal of
SPARCS data source.
3. It is unfortunate that SPARCS data is not available beyond 2011; information on
the more recent years would have been of great interest.
4. I'd encourage the authors to provide effect sizes (i.e. differences in proportions)
with the corresponding confidence intervals both in the tables as well as the text;
these tend to be more meaningful that p-values.
5. The paper could be strengthened by placing less emphasis on urinary retention as
an adverse outcome (which in this arena of medicine may not be of critical
importance) and placing more emphasis of that of re-intervention for various reasons
including mesh erosion; this is where the main newsworthiness of this study lies.
6. This study would provide an excellent backdrop to provide the reader with an
introduction of the limitations of the current FDA system, the total life-cycle initiative
and the work the Oxford-based IDEAL Collaboration has done in this space.