It is unfortunate timing that the authors submitted this interesting review just before
two important and relevant papers on the subject were published. The first paper by
Cook et al Red blood cell storage and in-hospital mortality: a secondary
analysis of the INFORM randomised controlled trial. The Lancet Hematology
Published online October 9, 2017 describes a sophisticated secondary analysis of the
31,497 patients in the INFORM study examining the effect of the very oldest and
very freshest red cells on mortality and found no effect. The second paper,
describing the TRANSFUSE study by Cooper et al , Age of Red Cells for Transfusion
and Outcomes in Critically Ill Adults was published online in the NEJM Sept 27, 2017.
This study randomized 5000 critically ill patients to fresher or older blood and
included a predefined secondary analysis of the patients who received the very
freshest and the very oldest units. This study also found no effect on mortality of
transfusion of the oldest units and did find among the sickest patients with higher
APACHE III scores increased mortality with the freshest units. These 2 trials
directly address many of the points raised by the authors and really require
incorporation into the review to make it accurate, current and relevant.
Specific comments:
Page 3 Box 2 needs to add the TRANSFUSE study
Page 3 line 51 It is not strictly true that none of the trials has considered the
possibility that the youngest RBCs might have some adverse effects. The RECESS
study was not designed as a superiority or inferiority trial but instead was powered
to detect a very small difference in the change in MODS score in the fresher or older
strategy without assumption as to which arm might be superior. The TRANSFUSE
study was designed to detect 4.2% difference in mortality using a 2 sided p value
of 0.05. Thus these studies were structured to be able examine whether either
storage strategy was associated with adverse effect on the primary outcome.
Page 4 In my opinion the case mix issue seems to be adequately addressed by
now having nearly 40,000 adult patients randomized to a fresher vs older storage
strategy. It is difficult to argue that more patients are needed because the Results
are not generalizable. Approximately 30,000 patients would be considered "low risk"
general patient population and 10,000 are higher risk, ICU and cardiac surgery
patients. A lack of a signal in either group would argue against further study in these
populations.
Page 5 line 30-42 The architects of the clinical trials were well aware of the
anticipated overlap in duration of storage in the arms and adjusted the sample size
to account for the expected overlap.

Page 5 Line 51-60. While there is merit to the limitations of a cutpoint the INFORM
trial design was pragmatic randomizing 30,000 patients to either the freshest
available or the oldest available whatever that might be. There is no defined cutpoint
but it is dichotomized addressing two strategies for providing blood in a pragmatic
way. It also maximizes the ability to see an effect by comparing extremes. If no
effect is found in this design (as was the case) it becomes an artificial exercise to
study the very freshest or very oldest in that it is no longer reflecting actual patient
practice (no longer pragmatic). The RECESS study was specifically designed to
maximize differences in storage duration between the arms to identify a signal
should one exist. This would also seem to have merit as an approach to this
question.
Page 7 multiple transfusion line 46. "and as yet no analysis has been published" is
now no longer true with the 2 publications above.
Page 8 lines 31-35. Agree with the authors that an IDP analysis has value in
improving the statistical power with which the very freshest or oldest units might be
examined. This is preferred over entering yet more RCTs
Page 8 line 43-44. The authors show their own bias here. Suggest that the sentence
should read:
"Any evidence of benefit or harm of fresher RBCs, or benefit or harm of older RBCs,
across trials would have significant implications for Blood Transfusion Services."
Page 8 Line 46-47 Overall I must disagree, that particularly with the publication of
the 2 papers above, the existing data provide much reassurance that no change in
the red cell storage policies are required.