Current standard of care for post-surgical thromboprophylaxis is low molecular weight
heparin (LMWH) and graduated compression stockings (GCS). This is a large, practically
designed randomised controlled trial which found that LMWH alone was non-inferior to
LMWH and GCS for patients undergoing elective surgery. This trial should result in review
of national VTE prevention guidelines and is therefore likely to be practice changing.
Patients were venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk assessed and given standard LMWH
prophylaxis +/- GCS as per hospital guidelines. Study design was revised Dec 2017 due
to low event rate following a blinded analysis, and resulted in higher VTE risk patients
being recruited.
Key groups of patients excluded were patients with a previous history of VTE,
thrombophilia or thrombotic disorder, those requiring extended thromboprophylaxis
(therefore excluding major abdominal cancer surgery, and total hip and knee
replacements), and those in whom LMWH was contraindicated.
Because of its practical design, different LMWH types will have been used and different GCS
types (including above or below knee). Details of GCS brands are not included in the paper,
only stipulation of 18mmHg compression at level of the ankle.
Whilst specific elective surgical procedures were not excluded, very few were orthopaedic
surgery (1-2%) and the majority were upper GI surgery (31%) and obs and gynae surgery
(17%) with 5.7% ENT. The authors state that this case mix is similar to the proportions
undertaken nationally in the UK, however arguably because patients requiring extended
thromboprophylaxis were excluded, the patients did not undergo the highest risk surgical
procedures. The authors comment on this in ‘unanswered questions and future research’,
as well as applicability of these results to patients undergoing surgery in the emergency
setting.
I recommend that this paper is accepted for publication subject to minor revisions.

Minor revisions/further comments below:
Current assumption that all GCS have conformed to British Standards, please could authors
confirm that this is correct?
The surgical procedures are currently only listed in table S5 and I think that it is crucial to
bring this in to the main paper, or at least a description of the different procedures into the
main paper.
How many DVTS were above knee compared to below knee for asymptomatic and
symptomatic DVTs?
Advise to clarify severity of bleeding in table 4
In introduction, clarify whether systematic review and metaanalysis (ref 20) included
patients who had been given LMWH in addition to GCS.
Consort criteria:
1 – primary outcome described in pre-specified intention to treat analysis (p<0.001 for
non-inferiority)
2 – Sample size determination, including revision due to low event rate, described clearly
in supplementary material
3 – randomised through web-based application using a minimisation algorithm
incorporating centre
4 – allocation not concealed to clinicians/patients
5 – technicians performing duplex USS were blinded
7 – harms in table 4 and S9, although the severity of the bleeding complications is not
clear
8 – NIHR HTA project number 14/140/61 stated
9 – Yes stated trial design and protocol previously published (ref 12) and protocol also
within supplementary material
10 – Yes, funding source NIHR, clearly stated including role
