I think it worth to compare Atosiban with Fenoterol as most studies compared Atosiban to a placebo as
Fenoterol is proven effective for uterus relaxation and much cheaper if proven safe and effective during
an ECV attempt.
Therefore it is a good reason to consider this study for publication.
My remarks on the manuscript are:
page 3 R27 till how many time after the ECV procedure adverse events are included as related to the
procedure?
page 3 R31 this is a very long study period. If 3-4 % of all birhts in the Netherlands are breech, the
number of breeches yearly are around 5500 breeches. Why did it took such a long period before the
power of the study was reached?
page 5 R 35 randomized controlled trial
page 5 R 57 I wonder why the study took so many years to reach the number of wanted inclusion. As I
take 3-4% breech yearly in the Netherlands, than should the number of breeches in these hospitals be
480 breeches a year. Why took the inclusion period 5 years and overruled the studyprotocol? Please
clearify.
page 6 R 16 in the studyprotocol the inclusion criteria is 'Gestational age of 32 weeks and onwards',
what changed this inclusion criterium?
page 6 R 18 are the mentioned contraindication for ECV based on a guideline?
page 6 R 42 Both medication need some time to reach their maximum level before they are effective.
Just before is how many time before? and is this in accordance with the medication advices?
page 7 R 3 Not all Dutch midwives are qualified and competent to do ECV, please clearify
page 7 R 8 Who did the ultrasound? trained sonographers or midwives or obstetricians?
page 7 R 14 Was the study medication given during the electronic fetal heart rate monitoring of after the
monitoring and before the ECV procedure?
page 7 R 9 Didn't obstetricians or midwives check these parameters before counselling for ECV? Or did
they inform the clients that even short before the procedure starts, inclusion could be refused based on
the mentioned exclusion criteria?
page 8/9 R 53-18 The numbers in the text are not in line with the numbers in table 2
page 17 R 25 table 1, there is a significant difference in frank breeches between groups. Why is this not
mentioned in the text and do the researcher think the presentation of the fetus can be a reason of a
lower succes percentage of ECV in their study compared to other studies?
page 18 table 2 there is a large difference in the number of suspected fetal distress between both
groups. Although there is no significant difference between groups for CS delivery, I think it is wise to
describe the rate of suspected fetal distress in the text and if possible, to give a RR and CI for this
reason.

page 19 table 3 Please pay attention in the text to the Apgarscore as this can be one of the points that
should be mentioned during counselling for ECV with fenoterol as uterine relaxantium. Is their a relation
between the use of Fenoterol and the latter outcome of the Apgarscore?
page 20 table 4 In the text no adverse events due to medication are mentioned but in table 4 1 adverse
event due to medication is mentioned in the Fenoterol group
page 20 table 4 what is the definition of minor side effects as these appear to be rather present in both
groups
