This is a carefully conducted analysis of the outcomes of elderly Medicare patients over the age of 65 y
receiving an ICD versus those that do not based upon low Ejection Fraction. Due to the nature of the
datasources employed a large number of assumptions have had to be made in order to undertake the
analysis with adjustment for confounding variables. However, the data lacks important prognostic

variables including presence of LBBB and NYHA class on which to base robust conclusions regarding
prognosis. The most important issue is the fact that outcomes in hospitalised patients with equivalent
indications for a primary prevention ICD are not assessed. The comparison with an otherwise healthy
cohort as used in the primary prevention trials ignores a potential survival benefit that could be
potentially realised in the hospitalised cohort. This deficiency needs to be addressed if more clinically
relevant conclusions are to be drawn from the data.
The study conclusions are also potentially misleading as they cannot identify primary prevention ICD
recipients most likely to benefit.
A further concern with this manuscript is that these elderly patients with the key guideline
recommended primary prevention indications for CRT-D implantation have been excluded from the
analysis leaving only those other ICD patients incidentally identified on hospital admission for heart
failure or other causes. Since a significant proportion of these patients had heart failure this is an
important omission.
The conclusions made from the data that survival is no different in ICD recipients following acute
hospital admission versus non-recipients matched for EF and adjusted for other co-variates is less
surprising if heart failure decompensation is operative. I would be more convinced by a comprehensive
analysis that included the standard ICD with previous MI, non-sustained VT and LBBB as independent
variables plus analysis compared to a matched cohort of hospitalised pts who did not receive an ICD.
Major Amendments:
1. Although significant differences are alluded to between ICD recipients and non-recipients, these
should be stated as P values in Table 1-are they significant on multivariate analysis?
2. A more detailed breakdown of outcomes based on presence of LBBB and documentation of VT would
be of value to assess whether this actually identifies a higher risk group liable to benefit from an ICD.
Similarly high BNP levels may identify a group less likely to benefit due to likelihood of a pump failure
death.
3. Incorporate an analysis of CRT-D recipients and compare these with the trials.
4. Heart failure admission skews the data toward patients more likely to die of pump failure-an
analysis that takes this into acct should be performed to dissect out those pts most likely to benefit
from a primary prevention ICD.
