In this study the lifetime attributable risk for cancer induction is described for a lung cancer
screening population over 10 years. Based on data for the COSMOS study, the authors
approximate based on BEIR VII data that radiation may theoretically induce 3 cancers in their
population of 5203 and can be compared to the 259 lung cancers diagnosed over that time.
The strength lies in the real world population and the clear writing. It provides a reference point
for discussing the risks and benefits of screening.
It should be noted (and addressed in the discussion) that they did not assess the benefit of the
detection of other important findings and that they did not consider the additional risks that may
occur due to CT studies of the neck or abdomen to follow up incidental findings that occurred in
those regions.
The authors provide the ratio of 3 induced cancers to 259 detected lung cancers for the entire
population or 92.5 lung cancers detected for every theoretical cancer induced. I would suggest
that the authors provide this ratio as a separate column in table 3 for each age/gender group.
The authors discuss both the NLST and screening in the US as approved by CMS. To the extent
possible the authors should draw some distinctions between their population and the US based
statistics.
-The COSMOS population is both younger and has a lower smoking amount for study entry
-For lung cancer screening in the US, CMS recommends a CTDIvol of <3 mGy which is higher than
the radiation reported in this study.
-The current US screening nodule management paradigm in the American College of Radiology
Lung-Rads guideline, which is somewhat more conservative with follow up than what was done

during COSMOS
The above concepts can be collated into a recommendation that screening programs evaluate and
identify their practice based risk/benefit ratio for screening
As they highlight new technologies that may allow for lower CT doses, they should not forget the
fact that limiting follow ups between screening exams through more conservative nodule follow up
and more judicious use of PET/CT than initially prescribed by COSMOS will also lower population
doses
I do not believe the last line of the conclusion is necessarily supported by the evidence in this
manuscript as written. I think it is important to consider that the risk benefit profile differs by age
and may inform individual assessment, but I do not believe that blanket enrollment criteria can be
similarly adopted from this data. The last sentence could be either omitted or rephrased
Minor comments:
p. 10 ln45 change “esteem” to “estimate”
p.12 ln25-31 is a bit confusing as written. Stating in two sentences may better delineate the
appropriate risk estimate procedure (BEIR VII age and gender) from effective dose which is not a
risk estimate and a measure better suited for comparisons when discussing radiation
protection/reduction