Tong et al. investigated associations of vegetarianism with risks of Ischaemic Heart Disease (IHD) and
stroke in a large prospective UK-based cohort study including 48188 males and females who were
followed for 18.1 years. In this cohort with a large proportion of non-meat eaters, low-meat eaters and
vegetarians/vegans had lower risks of IHD, but higher risks of stroke compared to regular meat-eaters.
Ischaemic stroke occurred more often in vegetarians below 70, which the higher risk of haemorrhagic
stroke was higher in vegetarians/vegans above age 70. These results are interesting and contrary to
previous findings on stroke mortality. However, after reading the manuscript I have several questions on
methodology and potential explanations to help improve the manuscript.
Introduction
Line 43: I am wondering if this a reliable estimation of the number of vegetarians/vegans in the UK?
How does this compare to the number of vegetarians/vegans in the NDNS? Data from the latter may
give a better representable estimation.
Line 44-46: If the EPIC-Oxford study has already published that vegetarians have a 32% lower risk of
IHD compared to meat eaters, then what is the reason and novelty of this paper? It may be useful for
the reader to mention the purpose of this study earlier in the introduction.
Line 53: Considering dietary intake was collected between 1993 and 2001, how should the reader
interpret the contemporary setting?
Methods
Line 81-86: If available, please add or cite validation results of the used FFQ and additional
questionnaire on vegetarianism against e.g. 7-d food diaries and biomarkers.
Line 86-87: To classify participants by diet group, it is not clear responses to which questionnaire were
exactly used? How compared responses to the full questionnaire and FFQ? Also, what was done in case
of discrepancies?
Line 80-94: As nutrient values are presented in table 2, please add how nutrient values were calculated
and which food composition table was used?
Line 95-101: Please add which ICD codes were included per outcome e.g. were transient ischemic
attacks included or not? Please add which dates were used for follow-up per circumstance.
Line 106: What is meant with ‘had no follow-up’? Were these not linked or wrongly matched to the NHS
register?
Line 107: What is meant with had an ‘unknown diet group’? Does it mean these participants didn’t fill in
dietary assessment questionnaires?
Line 108: Many participants were excluded based on unreliable nutrient data. Please give add on which
nutrients this was based and cut-offs.
Line 126-139: Given the dietary exposures and clear differences in energy intakes between diet groups,
models should be adjusted for total energy intake. This is generally also included if adding energy intake
to the model does not alter the model to take into account for big eaters.
The methods section misses measurements details of BMI, blood pressure, and lipids e.g. how was BP
measured and how many times?
Discussion

Lines 254-255: Apart from the difference in follow-up time, were the analyses performed completely the
same (e.g. same confounders, ICD-coding etc)?
Lines 255-256: The review by Kwok et al, Int J Cardiol 2014, shows in Table 2 various studies with
published data on vegetarian diets and cerebrovascular mortality. It may be useful to add these studies
for comparison.
Line 258-266: It may be worthy to add that vegetarians and vegans generally have much healthier diets
with e.g. higher fruit, vegetable, soy milk intake and higher fiber intakes (table 2). In addition to the
lower LDL cholesterol there is many evidence of increased intakes of these food groups on e.g. lower
inflammation, delayed development of atherosclerosis etc.
Line 289-293: The sensitivity analyses showed that the risk of haemorrhagic stroke was higher in low
meat eaters and vegetarians above the age of 70. There is some literature that suggests that low blood
pressure can lead to lower cerebral blood flow in elderly (e.g. Standgaard Cardiovasc Drugs Ther 1991).
This means that low blood pressure may not be so useful in old age. It may be worth looking into details
of this topic as a possible explanation of your results.
It may be worth mentioning that dietary patterns may have changed during time, which may have
influenced the results.
Table 2: It may be informative to include data on foods used as meat replacement in vegetarian/vegans.
Vegetarians/vegans are advised to eat more pulses and soy products. Evidence is established on
cardiovascular benefits of these foods, which may help explain the results.
I hope this helps. Many thanks for the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript.
Kind regards,
Linda Oude Griep, PhD
Senior Research Associate
MRC-Epidemiology Unit
Cambridge University
