cyp genetic variants and toxicity related to anti-tubercular agents: a systematic review and meta-analysis

abstract
background
treatment with anti-tuberculosis drugs may cause patients to experience serious adverse effects. genetic factors, such as polymorphisms of cyp genes, may increase the likelihood of a patient experiencing such adverse drug reactions. in this systematic review and meta-analysis, we synthesised evidence for associations between cyp genetic variants and anti-tuberculosis drug-related toxicity outcomes.

methods
we searched medline, pubmed, embase, biosis and web of science to identify relevant studies. we performed meta-analyses to obtain an effect estimate for each genetic variant on each outcome, and stratified all analyses by country. we qualitatively assessed the methodological quality of the included studies.

results
we included data from 28 distinct cohorts of patients in the review. we identified many areas of concern with regard to the quality of included studies. patients with homozygous mutant-type or heterozygous genotype at the cyp2e1 rsai polymorphism were significantly less likely to experience hepatotoxicity than patients with homozygous wild-type genotype (odds ratio [or] = 0.75, 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.56–1.00; p = 0.047, i2 = 58.2%). no significant differences were observed for the cyp2e1 drai and psti polymorphisms. for the 96-bp deletion-insertion single-nucleotide polymorphism (snp) of the cyp2e1 gene, homozygous mutant-type significantly increased hepatotoxicity risk compared with homozygous wild-type (or = 8.20, 95% ci 1.38–48.68, i2 = 0%); no significant difference was observed for heterozygous genotype compared with homozygous wild-type (or = 0.77, 95% ci 0.19–3.21, i2 = 0%).

conclusions
generally, we identified that coverage of the association between snps of cyp genes and anti-tuberculosis drug-related toxicity outcomes is incomplete. we observed significant associations between the rsai and 96-bp deletion-insertion snps of the cyp2e1 gene and anti-tuberculosis drug-related hepatotoxicity. we were unable to comment on the impact of ethnicity on the investigated associations, as information on participants’ ethnicity was sparsely reported in the included studies.

background
tuberculosis (tb) is an infectious disease caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria and is the second most common cause of death from an infectious disease in adults (hiv/aids being the first) [1, 2]. for individuals with drug-susceptible tb, the world health organisation currently recommends combination treatment with four first-line drugs: isoniazid, rifampicin, ethambutol and pyrazinamide [1].

treatment with anti-tb drugs may cause patients to experience serious adverse effects, such as anti-tb drug-induced hepatotoxicity (atdh). incidence rates of atdh for patients treated with the standard combination treatment have been reported to vary from 2 to 28%, depending on the treatment regimen, patient characteristics (e.g. age, race and sex) and definition of atdh [3]. atdh may be fatal, with reported mortality rates of 6–12% if treatment is not stopped promptly [4]. atdh and other anti-tb drug-related toxicity outcomes may also lead to poor patient adherence, which in turn may result in treatment failure, relapse and the emergence of drug resistance [3].

proposed genetic risk factors for atdh include polymorphisms of the cytochrome p450 (cyp) genes. cyp genes encode the drug-metabolising cyp enzymes [5]. therefore, cyp gene polymorphisms may affect cyp enzyme activity, altering the metabolic pathway of anti-tb drugs in the liver. consequently, hepatic adverse reactions may occur. toxic metabolites may also cause other adverse reactions, such as maculopapular eruption (mpe), although hepatotoxicity is the most widely studied outcome in pharmacogenetic studies of anti-tb drugs.

isoniazid is the anti-tb drug for which mechanisms of the genetic contribution to atdh have been most widely studied. in the liver, isoniazid is first metabolised into acetylisoniazid via n-acetyltransferase 2, followed by hydrolysis to acetylhydrazine [6]. acetylhydrazine is proposed to be oxidised into hepatotoxic intermediates by cyp2e1 [7]. therefore, variants of the cyp2e1 gene may be associated with isoniazid-related hepatotoxicity, as cyp2e1 is one of the main enzymes involved in the metabolism of isoniazid [5].

rifampicin and pyrazinamide have also been reported to cause hepatotoxicity [8], although the biological mechanisms for rifampicin- and pyrazinamide-induced hepatotoxicity remain unknown [9]. the oatp1b1*15 haplotype has been reported to be an important risk factor for rifampicin-induced liver injury [10]. no research into genetic risk factors for pyrazinamide-induced hepatotoxicity has been reported [11]. ethambutol has not previously been reported to cause hepatotoxicity [8].

the aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate the current evidence for associations between cyp genetic variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity. meta-analyses investigating the association between cyp2e1 genetic variants and hepatotoxicity have previously been published [12,13,14,15,16]. however, these meta-analyses have produced some conflicting results. for example, wang et al. [16] identified that the cyp2e1 c1/c1 genotype significantly increases the risk of atdh (odds ratio [or] = 1.32, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.03–1.69, i2 = 55.9%%); however, cai et al. [12] found no significant association for this same comparison (or = 1.28, 95% ci 0.97–1.69, i2 = 34.2%). three other published meta-analyses [13,14,15] identified a significant association between the cyp2e1 c1/c1 genotype and increased risk of atdh, although the pooled ors reported by these meta-analyses ranged from 1.36 to 2.22. furthermore, the previously conducted reviews have the following limitations:

cai et al. [12], deng et al. [13], sheng et al. [14] and wang et al. [16] all excluded studies if data required for meta-analysis were not included in the study report.

cai et al. [12] excluded three studies that were non-randomised controlled trials (rcts), and deng et al. [13], sheng et al. [14] and sun et al. [15] all included only case–control studies. important evidence may have been omitted from these reviews, as pharmacogenetic data may be reported in rcts, case–control studies or cohort studies.

cai et al. [12] did not assess the methodological quality of included studies. the other previously conducted meta-analyses used a checklist developed by little et al. [17] to assess study quality.

none of the previously conducted meta-analyses aimed to identify and synthesise data for cyp genetic variants other than cyp2e1 genetic variants, or for outcomes other than hepatotoxicity; such exclusions may limit evidence-based recommendations.

we planned to overcome these limitations in our systematic review by: contacting study authors to obtain data required for meta-analysis when it was not included in the study report; including relevant studies regardless of their design; and performing a rigorous quality assessment of included studies. in addition, we did not exclude studies that did not report hepatotoxicity, and we aimed to identify and synthesise data for all cyp genetic variants. therefore, the scope of our review is wider than the previously conducted meta-analyses.

methods
the current study forms part of a series of systematic reviews and meta-analyses evaluating the influence of different genetic variants on toxicity to anti-tb agents, the protocol for which has been published (prospero registration number: crd42017068448) [18]. this review has been conducted in accordance with the prisma statement [19]; a completed copy of the prisma checklist is provided in additional file 1.

the described search strategy and study selection methods were used to identify studies that investigated the effect of any genetic variant (rather than specifically cyp genetic variants) on anti-tb drug-related toxicity. however, in this article, we focus only on studies that reported data for the association between cyp variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity outcomes. studies investigating associations between other genetic variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity will be reported separately.

selection criteria
types of studies
eligible study designs were cohort studies, case–control studies and rcts.

types of participants
we included studies that recruited tb patients who were either already established on anti-tb treatment or were commencing treatment (at least one of isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide or ethambutol), and who had been genotyped, in order to investigate the association between genetic variant(s) and anti-tb drug-related toxicity outcomes. specifically, we only included studies where over 50% of included patients were tb patients receiving anti-tb treatment, as we would then contact study authors to obtain data for the subgroup of tb patients, as suggested in the cochrane handbook [20] for studies where only a subset of the population is eligible.

types of outcomes
studies that measured any anti-tb drug-related toxicity outcomes were eligible for inclusion.

search strategy
an information specialist (eleanor kotas) designed the search strategy (provided in additional file 2). medline, pubmed, embase, biosis and web of science were searched for relevant studies. we hand searched the reference lists of relevant studies, and contacted experts in the clinical area to identify further eligible studies. only studies published in english were included, but we did not restrict by year of publication or by publication status.

study selection
we imported the results of the search into covidence [21]. one author (mr) removed duplicates and scanned the study abstracts to remove obviously irrelevant studies. a second author (alj, jk or kd) independently screened a sample of 10% of studies.

one reviewer (mr) obtained the full text for each potentially relevant study and assessed eligibility based on the eligibility criteria. a second author (alj, jk or kd) independently screened a sample of 10% of studies for inclusion. any disagreements between the two reviewers at both the abstract and full-text screening stages were resolved through discussion, or by consulting a third author if necessary.

outcomes
the primary outcome of our review was hepatotoxicity by any definition used by the original investigators. the secondary outcomes were all other toxicity outcomes reported in the included studies.

data extraction
we pre-piloted a data extraction form, which was designed to enable collection of data on study design, participant characteristics, treatment regimen, genotype groups and outcomes. one author (mr) extracted data, following methods described in the cochrane handbook [20] and the hugenet huge review handbook [22]. a second author (alj, jk or kd) independently extracted all outcome data. any disagreements between the two reviewers were resolved through discussion, or by consulting a third author if necessary. we contacted study authors if outcome data required for meta-analysis were not included in the study report.

we examined author lists, locations, dates of recruitment and other study characteristics to identify cases of multiple articles reporting data for overlapping or identical patient cohorts. if we suspected that this may be the case, we contacted authors to clarify whether patient cohorts were distinct. if an author clarified that multiple articles reported outcomes for the same patient cohort, or overlapping cohorts, or if we suspected this based on reported study characteristics, we assigned a group identifier (gi) to these articles. assigning this gi ensured that data for each patient cohort were only included once in any meta-analysis.

quality assessment
one author (mr) used the criteria developed by jorgensen and williamson [23] specifically for pharmacogenetic studies, to assess the methodological quality of each included study. a second author (alj) independently assessed the quality of a sample of 10% of studies. any disagreements between the two reviewers were resolved through discussion. we summarised the number of studies meeting each criterion in the text.

data synthesis
primary analyses
the primary analyses assessed the risk of hepatotoxicity in individuals with homozygous mutant genotype or heterozygous genotype and compared it with the risk in those with homozygous wild-type genotype for three key single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) of the cyp2e1 gene, commonly known as the rsai, psti and drai polymorphisms; these snps are the most widely studied polymorphisms of cyp genetic variants in the context of atdh. data were pooled from studies that reported data for each genotype group separately with data from studies that combined homozygous mutant-type and heterozygous genotype groups.

for each snp, sensitivity analyses were conducted to investigate the robustness of the primary analysis by performing pairwise comparisons of heterozygous versus homozygous wild-type genotype, and homozygous mutant versus homozygous wild-type genotype. for these analyses, it was only possible to include data from studies that reported on each genotype group separately.

we produced funnel plots for each of the primary analyses (where at least ten studies were included) to investigate the possibility of publication bias.

secondary analyses
the secondary analyses investigated all other associations between cyp genetic variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity outcomes. we performed meta-analyses for all associations that were investigated by at least two studies:

for snps where all studies presented data for each genotype group separately, we performed two pairwise comparisons; heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type and homozygous mutant-type versus homozygous wild-type.

for snps where all studies presented data for combined genotype groups, we performed one comparison of the combined genotype groups.

for snps where the approach varied between studies, we pooled data for studies that reported data for each genotype group separately with data from studies that reported data for combined genotype groups. we also performed pairwise comparisons including data from studies that reported on each genotype group separately.

for snps investigated by one study only, ors comparing genotype groups were calculated and summarised with their 95% cis in a table, together with the pooled estimates from all meta-analyses.

all meta-analyses were performed using the metan package in stata 14 [24]. a random-effects model was employed because we anticipated heterogeneity between studies due to differences in study design, quality of methods, ethnic background of participants and outcome definitions. we assessed statistical heterogeneity by visually examining the forest plots, and by referring to the i2 statistic. the random-effects model used the method of dersimonian and laird [25], with the estimate of heterogeneity being taken from the mantel–haenszel model [26]. if no events occurred in one of the genotype groups, a continuity correction of 0.5 was applied [20]. if there were no patients in one of the genotype groups in a comparison for a particular study, data from this study were excluded from the meta-analysis.

according to the hugenet huge review handbook, meta-analyses of genetic association studies should be stratified by ethnicity; results across different ethnic groups should only be pooled if effect estimates across these groups appear sufficiently similar [22]. information on participants’ ethnicity was sparsely reported; however, in an attempt to adhere with this recommendation, we performed analyses stratified by the countries in which studies were conducted.

results
included and excluded studies
a prisma flowchart, showing selection and elimination of studies during the literature search, is provided in fig. 1. we included 77 articles, and identified 53 distinct cohorts of patients.

thirty-three articles reported data for the association between cyp genetic variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity; we identified 28 distinct cohorts of patients from these articles. we did not include data from one article [27], as we suspected that this article reported data for the same group of patients included in another paper [28]; furthermore, the data presented were unclear and we were unable to clarify the data with the authors. it was also excluded from our quality assessment. therefore, in this review, we include data from 32 articles [28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59] (28 distinct patient cohorts). the characteristics of studies included in this review are provided in additional file 3: table s1.

quality assessment
choosing which genes and snps to genotype
twenty articles provided justification for the choice of gene and snp to be investigated. for the 12 articles [31, 33, 36, 44, 46, 48, 52, 54,55,56, 58, 59] that did not provide justification for each investigated gene and snp, no articles limited their reporting to only statistically significant associations. therefore, selective reporting of genes and snps does not appear to be an issue of concern.

sample size
the median sample size of included studies was 220.5 (interquartile range 155.5–332). typically, much larger sample sizes are required to detect genetic effects [23]. only one article [59] reported the a priori power to detect pre-specified effect sizes. therefore, most studies are likely to be at risk of being underpowered [23].

study design
twelve articles used a case–control design [29, 35, 38, 39, 41, 42, 47, 50,51,52,53, 55]; however, only 1 article [39] reported that the 2 groups were genotyped in mixed batches. separate genotyping in case–control studies could potentially bias the results of a study [23]. a total of 19 articles reported prospective cohort studies [28, 30,31,32,33,34, 36, 37, 40, 43,44,45,46, 48, 49, 54, 56,57,58], and 1 article reported a retrospective cohort study [59].

reliability of genotypes
only 5 articles [34, 39, 50,51,52] mentioned genotype quality control procedures, and therefore 27 articles may be at risk of incorrect genotype allocation [23]. only five articles [37, 38, 44, 46, 49] compared genotype frequencies of all investigated snps to previously published genotype frequencies for the same population. such a simple check can be an effective method of identifying problems with genotyping. for case–control and retrospective cohort studies, genotyping personnel should be blinded to outcome status in order to minimise the risk of bias during the genotyping procedure [23]. however, only 4 articles [39, 50,51,52] of 13 case–control/retrospective cohort studies mentioned that genotyping personnel were blinded to outcome status.

missing genotype data
for most articles (19/32, 59.4%), the number of participants included in the analyses was the same as the study sample size, so it was clear that there were no missing genotype data. for the remaining 13 articles [34, 38, 41,42,43, 46, 47, 50, 51, 53, 58, 59], only 6 articles [34, 38, 47, 53, 58, 59] summarised the extent of missing data for all genes and snps analysed. no articles described checking whether missing data were missing at random; therefore, 13 articles are at risk of bias from non-random missing data [23].

population stratification
two articles [36, 46] conducted tests to detect population stratification, but did not identify any population stratification. one article applied a strict exclusion criterion, which ensured that included patients were from a non-diverse ethnic group [48]. all other studies are at risk of confounding due to population stratification.

hardy–weinberg equilibrium
testing for deviation from the hardy–weinberg equilibrium (hwe) can highlight genotyping errors, population stratification and other problems [23]. sixteen articles [28, 34,35,36,37, 40,41,42, 46, 50,51,52, 56,57,58,59] tested for hwe for all snps investigated, and a further 3 [29, 44, 53] tested for hwe for a subset of snps. the remaining 13 articles did not report on hwe testing.

mode of inheritance
nineteen articles assumed a specific underlying mode of inheritance [29, 31, 32, 35, 37, 39, 42, 43, 45,46,47, 49, 53,54,55,56,57,58,59]. three of these 19 articles detailed their reasoning behind this assumption [32, 47, 56]; for the remaining 16 articles, several analyses assuming different modes of inheritance may have been performed, with only the most statistically significant being reported [23]. there is therefore a risk of selective reporting within these 16 articles. three articles [41, 50, 51] conducted analyses assuming different modes of inheritance, but only one of these articles [41] adjusted their analyses for multiple testing; therefore, there is a risk of an inflated type i error rate in the other two articles.

choice and definition of outcomes
definitions of hepatotoxicity (additional file 4: table s2) varied considerably between the included studies. of the 30 articles reporting data for this outcome, 1 article did not define hepatotoxicity [45], 1 provided a vague definition [39] and the remaining 28 articles provided 22 different definitions.

definitions of other toxicity outcomes reported are provided in additional file 5: table s3. these definitions were generally not sufficiently detailed to assess how similar they were to each other.

twenty-eight articles all provided justification for the choice of outcomes. four articles [30, 34, 53, 59] did not provide justification for the choice of outcomes, but the choice of outcomes was appropriate to address the main study aim as described in the article introduction. therefore, there is no evidence to suggest that selective reporting of outcomes is an issue of concern for the included articles.

treatment adherence
only three articles [33, 34, 42] reported that treatment adherence was assessed. for two of these articles, it was not necessary to adjust for adherence in the analyses, as patients were reported to have good treatment adherence [33, 34]. the third article that assessed treatment adherence excluded patients who did not adhere to treatment [42]. one article [48] reported that anti-tb drugs were administered by directly observed therapy, short-course, so it was unnecessary to assess adherence.

association between cyp genetic variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity
data from 28 distinct cohorts across the 32 included papers were considered for the analyses of association reported below.

primary analyses: key cyp2e1 snps and hepatotoxicity
forest plots displaying the results of the primary analyses are provided in figs. 2, 3 and 4.

patients with tt or ct genotype at the cyp2e1 rsai polymorphism were significantly less likely (p = 0.047) to experience hepatotoxicity than patients with cc genotype (or = 0.75, 95% ci 0.56–1.00) (fig. 2). moderate heterogeneity was observed in this analysis (i2 = 58.2%). the results of the sensitivity analyses are provided in additional file 6. for the cyp2e1 rsai polymorphism, no significant differences were observed for either pairwise comparison (heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type: or = 0.80, 95% ci 0.58–1.10, i2 = 48.4%; homozygous mutant-type versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.03, 95% ci 0.68–1.55, i2 = 2.7%).

there was no significant difference in the risk of hepatotoxicity between patients with aa or ta genotype at the cyp2e1 drai polymorphism and patients with tt genotype (or = 1.23, 95% ci 0.92–1.66) (fig. 3). minimal heterogeneity was observed in this analysis (i2 = 3.1%). the sensitivity analyses (two pairwise comparisons) also showed no significant differences between genotype groups (heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.28, 95% ci 0.93–1.77, i2 = 6.4%; homozygous mutant-type versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.34, 95% ci 0.57–3.16, i2 = 29.4%) (additional file 6).

there was no significant difference in the risk of hepatotoxicity between patients with cc or gc genotype at the cyp2e1 psti polymorphism and patients with gg genotype (or = 0.78, 95% ci 0.46–1.34) (fig. 4). moderate heterogeneity was observed in this analysis (i2 = 50.3%). the sensitivity analyses (two pairwise comparisons) also showed no significant differences between genotype groups (heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.05, 95% ci 0.66–1.65, i2 = 0%; homozygous mutant-type versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.04, 95% ci 0.36–2.99, i2 = 0%) (additional file 6).

the heterogeneity observed in the analyses for the rsai and psti polymorphisms may be due to the variable distribution of genotypes in different geographic areas, which we assumed to be a proxy for ethnic group. owing to the small numbers of studies conducted in each country, it is difficult to draw firm conclusions from the stratified analyses about the effect of country on the investigated genetic associations.

we produced a funnel plot for each of the primary analyses (additional file 7). there was no evidence to suggest that publication bias was an issue of concern.

secondary analyses: cyp genetic variants and hepatotoxicity
the included studies reported data for 8 cyp genes and 24 snps (in addition to the cyp2e1 snps reported in the primary analyses). a summary of all data for the association between cyp genetic variants and hepatotoxicity is provided in table 1. there were sufficient data to perform meta-analyses for three snps, and forest plots showing the results of these meta-analyses are provided in additional file 8. the findings from these meta-analyses are:

for the 96-bp deletion-insertion snp of the cyp2e1 gene, homozygous mutant-type significantly increases hepatotoxicity risk compared with homozygous wild-type (or = 8.20, 95% ci 1.38–48.68, i2 = 0%), but no significant difference was observed for heterozygous genotype compared with homozygous wild-type (or = 0.77, 95% ci 0.19–3.21, i2 = 0%).

for the rs4918758 snp of the cyp2c9 gene, no significant differences were observed for either pairwise comparison (heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.11; 95% ci 0.53–2.31, i2 = 66.7%; homozygous mutant-type versus homozygous wild-type: or = 0.87, 95% ci 0.51–1.50, i2 = 0%). the heterogeneity observed in the heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type comparison may be due to the variable distribution of genotypes in different geographic areas.

for the rs3745274 snp of the cyp2b6 gene, no significant differences were observed for either pairwise comparison (heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.49, 95% ci 0.87–2.55, i2 = 0%; homozygous mutant-type versus homozygous wild-type: or = 1.51, 95% ci 0.55–4.13, i2 = 4.2%).

due to the small numbers of studies conducted in each country, it is difficult to draw firm conclusions from the stratified analyses about the effect of country on the investigated genetic associations additional files 3, 4 and 5.

secondary analyses: cyp genetic variants and other toxicity outcomes
a summary of all data for the association between cyp genetic variants and toxicity outcomes (other than hepatotoxicity) is provided in additional file 9: table s4. it was not possible to perform meta-analyses for any toxicity outcomes other than hepatotoxicity as there were no comparisons for which more than one study provided data, so each reported result is based on data from a single study.

considering the impact of the cyp2e1 drai polymorphism on the outcome of “adverse drug-induced hepatotoxicity outcome” (definition unclear, this was reported as a separate outcome to atdh), no significant association was reported for homozygous mutant-type or heterozygous genotype versus homozygous wild-type. for the outcome of anti-tb drug (atd)-induced mpe, no significant associations were observed for any of the three investigated snps of the cyp2e1 gene (rsai, rs2070672, rs2070673), for two snps of the cyp2c9 gene (rs4918758, rs1057910) and for one snp of the cyp2c19 gene (-1418 c-t). for the rs9332096 snp of the cyp2c9 gene and the rs4986893 snp of the cyp2c19 gene, homozygous mutant-type or heterozygous genotype was found to significantly decrease the likelihood of atd-induced mpe compared with homozygous wild-type (rs9332096: or = 0.23, 95% ci 0.07–0.78; rs4986893: or = 0.30, 95% ci 0.10–0.88).

discussion
meta-analyses
where possible, we synthesised the results of the included studies in meta-analyses. three [13, 14, 16] of the five previously mentioned meta-analyses performed analyses for the rsai and psti polymorphisms combined, presumably because these polymorphisms have been reported to be in linkage disequilibrium [60]. the approach taken for the analysis of cyp2e1 polymorphisms in the other two meta-analyses was unclear. however, we identified studies reporting data for these two polymorphisms separately [31, 35], so we performed separate meta-analyses for each polymorphism.

we found that patients with homozygous wild-type (tt) or heterozygous (ct) genotype at the cyp2e1 rsai polymorphism were significantly less likely to experience hepatotoxicity than patients with cc genotype (or = 0.75, 95% ci 0.56–1.00; p = 0.047). this result is consistent with the findings of four previously conducted meta-analyses [13, 14, 16]. in general, the plausibility of the findings for a significant association between the cyp2e1 rsai polymorphism and atdh is well supported by the theory that cyp2e1 plays a role in the pathway of the metabolism of isoniazid in the liver [5], forming hepatotoxic intermediates [7].

we observed no significant association for the cyp2e1 drai polymorphism and atdh, a result which is consistent with previous meta-analyses [14, 16]. we also observed no significant association for the cyp2e1 psti polymorphism and atdh; this result is not consistent with the findings of previously conducted meta-analyses [13, 14, 16]. this may be because we only included studies that explicitly stated that results were for the psti polymorphism or the rsai/psti polymorphisms combined (if these alleles were in complete linkage disequilibrium), whereas the previously conducted meta-analyses do not mention using such an approach. the number of studies contributing data to the analysis of the cyp2e1 psti polymorphism was relatively small (n = 8) compared with the number of studies contributing data to the analysis of the cyp2e1 rsai polymorphism (n = 23).

we identified that for the 96-bp deletion-insertion snp of the cyp2e1 gene, homozygous mutant-type significantly increases hepatotoxicity risk compared with homozygous wild-type (or = 8.20, 95% ci 1.38–48.68, i2 = 0%). to the best of our knowledge, no meta-analyses have been previously conducted for this variant. furthermore, we are unaware of the publication of any other meta-analyses for snps of cyp genetic variants other than the rsai, drai and psti polymorphisms, so our results add to the existing understanding of the association between cyp genetic variants and hepatotoxicity.

quality assessment
we identified many areas of concern with regard to the quality of included studies. most studies had considerably smaller sample sizes than would typically be required to provide power to detect a genetic association [23]. furthermore, readers of almost all of the included studies would not be aware of the possibility of false-negative findings, due to the fact that only one study reported an a priori power calculation. we also had concerns about the possibility of incorrect genotype allocation in the included studies, as 84% of studies did not describe any genotyping quality control procedures. no studies described checking that missing data were randomly distributed. any deviation from random missingness is a potential source of bias [23].

most (91%) studies were at risk of potential bias due to population stratification. furthermore, 41% of the studies did not report on testing of hwe, which can be useful for identifying genotyping errors, population stratification and other problems [23]. we noted that 50% of included studies may be at risk of selective reporting of analyses assuming different modes of inheritance, as these studies did not provide rationale for their selected mode of inheritance. most of the included studies (88%) were at risk of bias from not adjusting for treatment adherence; the proportion of variability explained by genetic factors in these studies may be underestimated [23].

although we identified methodological limitations of the included studies relating to some of the quality criteria, we did not identify any studies that were thought to be of particularly poor quality overall, so we did not consider it necessary to exclude any particular study in sensitivity analyses.

limitations
while conducting this systematic review and meta-analysis, we found that conducting robust synthesis of the existing evidence base is challenging, owing to variability between studies in terms of the genetic variants investigated, how participants are classified according to genotype, choice and definition of outcomes, ethnicity of participants and methodological quality. in order to address this variability, we performed meta-analyses stratified by genetic variants, genotype contrasts and outcomes. we also stratified further by the country in which the study was undertaken as a proxy variable for ethnicity, which was not widely reported.

clearly, our approach of stratifying by country instead of by ethnicity is not ideal, as the population of any country is often ethnically diverse. however, multiple studies from a single country are likely to be relatively similar with regard to the ethnicity of participants, so stratifying by country was considered to be the most suitable alternative to stratifying by ethnicity. consequently, we were unable to comment on the impact of ethnicity on the investigated associations; this is an important limitation of the review as the distribution of cyp alleles differs considerably between different ethnic populations [61].

due to the number of references identified by the search strategy and the number of studies included in this review, dual abstract screening, full text assessments and quality assessments were only performed for a sample of the included studies. at the abstract screening stage, if there was any uncertainty about the relevance of an abstract, the abstract would be included. at the full text eligibility assessment and quality assessment stages, agreement was good and all discrepancies were minor. all outcome data were extracted independently by two reviewers. therefore, we believe that any errors during study selection, quality assessment and data extraction are likely to be minimal and unlikely to influence the results of our review.

an additional challenge encountered was the inconsistent use of snp nomenclature, which made gathering data for meta-analyses problematic. in particular, the cyp2e1 snps considered in the primary analyses were referred to in various ways in the included studies. for example, the cyp2e1 snp identified by rs2031920 was referred to in articles using one or more of the following: rs2031920, “rsai polymorphism”, “1053c > t”, “-1019c > t”, “-1055c > t”. since rs numbers are unique to each snp, in the first instance we identified studies reporting data for the same snps by using the rs numbers. if an article did not report the rs number, then we searched the literature to match the reported snp (whatever nomenclature was used) to the rs number for that snp. this process was especially challenging, as we were unable to identify a comprehensive database listing all the various alternative names for each snp identified by a unique rs number.

the inconsistency in definition of hepatotoxicity across the included articles (22 different definitions across 30 articles) introduced heterogeneity into the meta-analyses. jorgensen et al. [62] and contopoulos-ioannidis et al. [63] also observed variability in definitions of outcomes across pharmacogenetics studies. if outcome definitions were more comparable between pharmacogenetic studies, the extent of heterogeneity observed in meta-analyses would be reduced. in the area of tb research and clinical practice, there appears to be inconsistency in how atdh is defined. it would be beneficial for consensus to be reached between experts in this clinical area on the definitions of outcomes that are commonly reported in pharmacogenetic studies of anti-tb drugs.

furthermore, most studies reported that patients were treated with a combination of anti-tb drugs, meaning that it is very difficult to link pharmacogenomic factors to specific medications with the available data. it is possible that some of these studies included patients with rifampicin- or pyrazinamide-induced hepatotoxicity, for which biological mechanisms are unknown [9]. if genetic variants of the cyp2e1 gene do not contribute to rifampicin- or pyrazinamide-induced hepatotoxicity, the inclusion of patients with rifampicin- or pyrazinamide-induced hepatotoxicity may have contributed to the lack of association identified between the drai and psti polymorphisms and atdh.

finally, our review is limited by the lack of evidence from studies conducted in africa. genotype frequencies of cyp genes vary greatly across the african continent [64], where tb is endemic. only two studies included in this review were conducted in africa; one was conducted in tunisia [37], and one in ethiopia [58]. therefore, most of the evidence included in this review is not representative of the global population most affected by tb. to better understand the relationship between cyp genetic variants and anti-tb drug-related toxicity outcomes in african populations, more pharmacogenetic studies are required from this setting.

conclusions
generally, we identified that coverage of the association between snps of cyp genes and anti-tuberculosis drug-related toxicity outcomes is incomplete. we observed significant associations between the rsai and 96-bp deletion-insertion snps of the cyp2e1 gene and anti-tuberculosis drug-related hepatotoxicity. we are unaware of the publication of any other meta-analyses for snps of cyp genetic variants other than the rsai, drai and psti polymorphisms, so our results add to the existing understanding of the association between cyp genetic variants and hepatotoxicity. a stratified medicine approach to tb treatment would allow the benefit-risk ratio to be improved, therefore improving patient outcome and reducing healthcare costs. whilst the findings from our meta-analyses alone lack the strength of evidence required to support a stratified approach at this time, they suggest, particularly in the case of the cyp2e1 gene, that comprehensive genotyping in a wider range of populations is required to establish the value of pharmacogenetics testing in the treatment of tb.

<|EndOfText|>

protocol for the development of the strengthening the reporting of pharmacogenetic studies (strops) guideline: checklist of items for reporting pharmacogenetic studies

abstract
introduction large sample sizes are often required to detect statistically significant associations between pharmacogenetic markers and treatment response. meta-analysis may be performed to synthesise data from several studies, increasing sample size and consequently power to detect significant genetic effects. however, performing robust synthesis of data from pharmacogenetic studies is often challenging due to poor reporting of key data in study reports. there is currently no guideline for the reporting of pharmacogenetic studies. the aim of this project is to develop the strengthening the reporting of pharmacogenetic studies (strops) guideline. the strops guideline will facilitate the conduct of high-quality meta-analyses and thus improve the power to detect genetic associations.

methods and analysis we will establish a preliminary checklist of reporting items to be considered for inclusion in the guideline. we will then conduct a delphi survey of key stakeholder groups to gain consensus opinion on which reporting items to include in the final guideline. the delphi survey will consist of two rounds: the first round will invite participants to score items from the preliminary checklist and to suggest additional relevant items; the second round will provide feedback from the previous round and invite participants to re-score the items. following the second round, we will summarise the distribution of scores for each item, stratified by stakeholder group. the steering committee for the project and representatives from the key stakeholder groups will meet to consider the results of the delphi survey and to finalise the list of reporting items. we will then draft, pilot-test and publish the strops reporting guideline and accompanying explanatory document.

introduction
pharmacogenetic studies investigate associations between genetic variants and treatment response for a particular drug of interest, in terms of both benefits (therapeutic effect) and harms (adverse effects). the aim of performing such studies is to identify ways that drug efficacy may be maximised, and that toxicity may be minimised. if a significant association between a genetic variant and a treatment response outcome is identified, patients may eventually be genotyped in clinical practice before being prescribed a certain treatment. the healthcare provider may then refer to the results of the genotyping test when determining whether to prescribe the drug, and if prescribed, the appropriate dosage of the drug. such an approach is known as ‘personalised medicine’.

outcomes from pharmacogenetic studies are often likely to be complex traits; genetic influence may be explained by several genetic variants each having only a small effect on outcome. consequently, large sample sizes are typically required to detect statistically significant associations between a genetic variant and treatment response. meta-analysis improves sample size and consequently increases the power to detect significant genetic effects. however, significant differences are often observed between pharmacogenetic studies in terms of the genetic variants investigated, definition of genetic subgroups and outcomes, and assumptions made in the analyses for example about the underlying mode of inheritance. this can significantly reduce the number of studies available to contribute to a single meta-analysis. this problem is compounded by poor reporting of key data in study reports. for example, if the authors of a particular study do not report the number of participants in each genotype group and outcomes for each genotype group separately, it may not be possible for researchers conducting a systematic review to include this study in a meta-analysis. furthermore, lack of reporting of participants’ ethnic backgrounds can also severely hinder investigations of heterogeneity, which form a key part of any systematic review and/or meta-analysis. genetic associations are likely to vary according to ethnicity; it is therefore recommended that meta-analyses are always stratified by ethnicity, and pooling of results should only be performed if effect estimates for different ethnic groups appear sufficiently similar.1

the aim of our project is to develop a guideline for the reporting of pharmacogenetic studies and an explanatory document using methodology proposed by equator (enhancing the quality and transparency of health research).2 such a guideline would facilitate the conduct of high-quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses, thus improving power to detect genetic associations.

delphi participants
participants in the delphi survey.

methods and analysis
we (the steering committee) will develop the guideline for pharmacogenetic studies in five stages:

establish a preliminary checklist of reporting items to be considered for inclusion in the reporting guideline for pharmacogenetic studies (stage 1).

conduct a delphi survey to gain consensus opinion on reporting items to be considered within a reporting guideline for pharmacogenetic studies (stage 2).

hold a consensus meeting to consider the results of the delphi survey and to finalise the list of items for the reporting guideline (stage 3).

develop and publish a high-quality reporting guideline and a detailed explanatory document (stage 4).

dissemination activities to raise awareness of the published guideline, including presenting the guideline at relevant conferences (stage 5).

stage 1: preliminary checklist of reporting items
we will establish a preliminary checklist of reporting items by:

including items from existing relevant guidelines: existing relevant guidelines will be identified by considering all guidelines listed on the equator website,3 under the clinical area of genetics. two authors (mr and alj) will assess existing guidelines to be relevant if they are applicable to pharmacogenetic studies from their experience of reviewing and undertaking meta-analyses of pharmacogenetic studies. we will include items from these existing guidelines in our preliminary checklist if they ensure transparency of reporting of pharmacogenetic studies and consequently will enable future evidence synthesis.

supplementing this list with any additional items thought to be important: additional items will be identified by consideration of the quality assessment checklist for pharmacogenetic studies developed by jorgensen and williamson,4 and through discussion among the steering committee.

providing an explanation and/or example of each reporting item: one author (mr) will draft the explanation and/or example for each reporting item. this will ensure that each reporting item is clear to participants in the delphi survey.

all members of the steering committee will review and approve this preliminary list of reporting items and explanations/examples before the delphi survey begins.

stage 2: delphi survey
design
the delphi process will consist of two rounds of electronic-based survey, response and feedback. the first round survey will include scoring of reporting guideline items from the preliminary list formed at stage 1 and will invite additional items not included in this list. a second round survey will then be undertaken providing feedback from the previous round and inviting participants to re-score these items. any additional reporting items identified by participants in the first round will be included for scoring by participants in the second round of the delphi process.

participants
we will invite three groups of stakeholders to participate in the delphi survey. stakeholder groups will be chosen to encompass all aspects of pharmacogenetic research.

1. those who undertake primary pharmacogenetic research

we will ask members of pharmacogenetic networks, such as the pharmacogenomics research network (pgrn) and the uk pharmacogenetics and stratified medicine network, to participate in our delphi survey. we will perform searches to identify these networks and contact experts in the field to ensure that all major networks across the globe are identified.

2. those who systematically review pharmacogenetic research data

we will email the contact authors of systematic reviews of pharmacogenetic studies identified by searching pubmed, using appropriate search terms such as ‘pharmacogenetics’, ‘pharmacogenomics’, ‘systematic review’ and ‘meta-analysis’. we will consult an information specialist (eleanor kotas) to design the search strategy. we will ask these authors to complete the survey if they participated in the data extraction and/or data synthesis of the review, and we will also ask this author to forward the survey on to other authors who participated in the data extraction and/or data synthesis.

3. those who publish pharmacogenetic research

we will identify these individuals by contacting the editors-in-chief of key pharmacogenetic journals. we will perform searches to identify key journals, using search terms ‘pharmacogenetics’, ‘pharmacogenomics’, ‘precision medicine’, ‘personalised/personalized medicine’. we will also consider journals listed on the ‘the scimago journal & country rank’ portal5 under the subject category ‘genetics’. we will contact experts in the field to ensure that we have not missed any key journals. we will ask the editors-in-chief to participate in the survey themselves and also to forward the survey on to editors at their journal.

the decision of how many individuals to invite to complete a delphi survey is not based on statistical power and often must be a pragmatic choice.6 generally, there should be good representation of experts from the key stakeholder groups who have a deep understanding of the relevant issues. our aim is to maximise the number of participants who complete the delphi survey to ensure that the total number of participants within each stakeholder group is sufficiently large to yield a meaningful statistical analysis.

for the stakeholder group of primary researchers, we are confident that a sufficiently large number of individuals will complete the survey; two of the networks (the pgrn network and the uk pharmacogenetics and stratified medicine network) whose members we will invite to complete the survey together have over 1000 members. for the stakeholder groups of systematic reviewers and journal editors, we hope that the snowballing technique, that is asking review authors and editors-in-chief to forward the survey on to other individuals, will ensure that the number of participants in these groups is sufficiently large.

recruitment process and ethical considerations
we will email the individuals listed above with information about the strops project and the delphi process and an invitation to complete round 1 of the delphi survey within 3 weeks (see online supplementary file 1). we will inform invitees that participation in the survey is optional and that we will assume informed consent if an invitee responds to round 1 of the survey. we will inform invitees that all data will be anonymised, and we will allocate a unique identification number to each participant in the delphi survey. when registering for the study on the survey website, participants will also be asked to tick a box if they agree to participate in the study.

we will send a reminder email at the end of the second week to prompt completion of the survey. we will not be able to send a reminder email to individuals who received forwarded invitations, as we will not have contact information for these individuals at this stage. all participants who complete the first round of the delphi survey will be invited to participate in the second round. however, we will inform invitees that completion in the first round does not necessitate completion in the second round, and we will remind participants of the first round that this is the case, when we invite them to complete the second round.

if attrition rates (the degree of non-response to the second round of the survey) are high, either for a particular stakeholder group or overall, then we will adopt strategies to increase response rates. generally, a response rate of around 80% for the second round of a delphi survey can be considered satisfactory in most scenarios.6 strategies for increasing response rates to round 2 may include sending personalised reminder emails, offering acknowledgement in the published reporting guideline and extending the period of time for which the second round is open.

if participants who do not respond to round 2 have different opinions to participants from the same stakeholder group who complete both rounds, then attrition bias has occurred and this will affect the results of the delphi survey. if response rates to round 2 are less than 80%, we will investigate the risk of attrition bias. we will calculate average round 1 scores for each participant, and then plot these scores according to whether participants completed round 2 or not for each stakeholder group. we will visually examine these plots to assess the likelihood of attrition bias.

participant characteristics
we will ask participants to provide their name, email address and their consent to be acknowledged as a participant in the delphi survey in publications arising from this project. demographic data regarding the participant’s profession and previous involvement with reporting guideline development will be collected; all demographic data will be anonymised.

delphi scoring
participants will be asked to score each of the reporting guideline items listed using a scale of 1 to 9, with 1 to 3 labelled ‘not important for inclusion in the guideline’, 4 to 6 labelled ‘important but not critical for inclusion in the guideline’ and 7 to 9 labelled ‘critical for inclusion into the guideline’.7 participants will also be given the option to score a reporting guideline item as ‘unable to score’ if they are unable to offer an opinion as to whether the item is important or not.

software
the delphi survey will be conducted using delphimanager, a web-based system designed by the comet initiative ( http://www.comet-initiative.org/delphimanager/) to facilitate the building and management of delphi surveys.

delphi round 1
reporting guideline items will be presented in the order in which they would be addressed in the pharmacogenetic study report and will be grouped under relevant headings (ie, title and abstract, introduction, methods, results, discussion and other information). participants will be asked to score each item as described previously. participants will also be given the chance to add items that they believe should be included in the reporting guideline.

round 1 analysis
for each item, the number of participants who have scored the item and the distribution of scores will be summarised. participants who scored an item as ‘unable to score’ will be excluded from the analysis for that particular item. we will review all additional guideline reporting items listed by participants to ensure that they are not covered by the existing list of reporting guideline items. additional reporting guidelines items that are not already covered will undergo formal review and discussion by the steering committee, and if appropriate, will be added to the list of reporting guideline items presented in round 2.

delphi round 2
in round 2, each participant who participated in round 1 will be shown the number of respondents and distribution of scores for each item from round 1, for each stakeholder group separately. participants will also be reminded how they personally scored each item in round 1. participants will be asked to consider the responses from other delphi participants and to re-score the items.

in addition, if a participant changes their score from ‘not critical’ in round 1 to ‘critical’ in round 2 or from ‘critical’ in round 1 to ‘not critical’ in round 2, they will be asked to provide their reasoning for this change.

additional items identified as part of round 1 will be scored by participants in round 2.

round 2 analysis
for each item, the number of respondents and the distribution of scores will be summarised. participants who scored an item as ‘unable to score’ will be excluded from the analysis for that particular item. we will assess the possibility of attrition bias occurring by comparing item scores from participants who completed round 1 only, to item scores from participants who completed both round 1 and round 2. we will also examine changes in scores between rounds and summarise the reasons given for changes from ‘critical’ to ‘non-critical’ and vice versa.

consensus definition
guideline reporting items will be prioritised if at least 70% of participants score them as ‘critical’. the rationale for this threshold is that consensus that an item ought to be included in the reporting guideline requires agreement by the majority regarding the critical importance of the outcome. this threshold for consensus has been used previously in the development of the cos-star reporting guideline.8

stage 3: consensus meeting
the steering committee and one or two representatives from each stakeholder group will meet to consider the results of the delphi survey and to finalise the list of items for the draft reporting guideline. representatives from each stakeholder group must have completed both rounds of the delphi survey. furthermore, we aim to include at least one non-uk representative from each stakeholder group in the consensus meeting. the meeting will be conducted via conference call.

at the meeting, mr will present a summary of the results of how each stakeholder group had scored each reporting guideline item (from stage 2), and the number of stakeholder groups who achieved consensus. meeting attendees will discuss each reporting guideline item in turn and will make a decision on whether to include the item in the reporting guideline or not. items that reached consensus from all stakeholder groups in the delphi survey will be considered first. each remaining item will then be considered in turn according to the number of stakeholder groups where consensus was achieved, that is, the next batch of items to be considered will be those that reached consensus in all but one stakeholder group.

stage 4: development and publication of reporting guideline and explanatory document
we will draft the initial reporting guideline and the explanatory document concurrently. the purpose of the explanatory document is to provide the meaning and rationale for each reporting item alongside examples of good reporting practice. for each item, we will also document the origin of the item (steering committee or delphi participants) and the degree of consensus achieved from the delphi survey.

we will pilot-test the draft reporting guideline with researchers who are yet to publish the findings of their pharmacogeneticstudy and with researchers who have already published a pharmacogenetic study. we will identify these individuals by contacting pharmacogenetic researchers based at the university of liverpool and by contacting authors of published pharmacogenetic studies listed on pubmed. we will incorporate feedback on the content, format and usefulness of the guideline from these researchers in the final reporting guideline.

stage 5: dissemination of the reporting guideline
dissemination activities will include presenting the final reporting guideline at conferences relevant to pharmacogenetic research.

patient and public involvement statement
the strops guideline will be developed without patient involvement. patients were not invited to contribute to the writing or editing of this document for readability or accuracy.

discussion
we plan to conduct our project using robust methodology for developing reporting guidelines proposed by the equator network.2 using such methodology will ensure that the resulting reporting guideline is useful and widely disseminated. the equator approach includes a face-to-face consensus meeting, which follows the delphi survey. this meeting often involves the steering group and a selection of stakeholders who took part in the delphi survey. simera et al 9 conducted a survey of authors of 37 reporting guidelines and reported that the median number of people participating in consensus meetings for these reporting guidelines was 22. due to a lack of funding for this project to cover travel and accommodation costs, we will be unable to arrange a face-to-face consensus meeting including such a large number of participants. our consensus meeting will only involve the members of the steering committee (n=6) and one or two representatives of the key stakeholder groups, and the meeting will be conducted via conference call. we will invite a large, international and multidisciplinary cohort to participate in the delphi survey, so that meeting attendees are able to base their decisions on the opinions of this wider cohort.

we will prioritise items for inclusion in the guideline if at least 70% of participants score them as ‘critical’. although the choice of this threshold is somewhat subjective, pre-specification of the threshold in this protocol ought to provide assurance that we will not define consensus in a post-hoc way, and therefore our own opinions will not bias the results of the delphi survey.10

there is currently no guideline for the reporting of pharmacogenetic studies that has been developed using a widely accepted robust methodology. the final guideline will not only improve the transparency of reporting of pharmacogenetic studies but also facilitate the conduct of high-quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses, and thus improve the power to detect genetic associations. with the increasing number of meta-analyses of pharmacogenetic studies that are being undertaken, it is important that reporting of key data in study reports is improved in order to allow robust synthesis of the studies.

<|EndOfText|>

abstract
background: improving the completeness of reporting of biomedical research is essential for improving its usability. for this reason, hundreds of reporting guidelines have been created in the last few decades but adherence to these remains suboptimal. this survey aims to inform future evaluations of interventions to improve adherence to reporting guidelines. in particular, it gathers editors’ perceptions of a range of interventions at various stages in the editorial process.  
methods: we surveyed biomedical journal editors that were knowledgeable about this topic. the questionnaire included open and closed questions that explored (i) the current practice of their journals, (ii) their perceptions of the ease of implementation of different interventions and the potential effectiveness of these at improving adherence to reporting guidelines, (iii) the barriers and facilitators associated with these interventions, and (iv) suggestions for future interventions and incentives.
results: of the 99 editors invited, 24 (24%) completed the survey. involving trained editors or administrative staff was deemed the potentially most effective intervention but, at the same time, it was considered moderately difficult to implement due to logistic and resource issues. participants believed that checking adherence to guidelines goes beyond the role of peer reviewers and were concerned that the quality of peer review could be compromised. reviewers are generally not expected to focus on reporting issues but on providing an expert view on the importance, novelty, and relevance of the manuscript. journals incentivising adherence, and publishers and medical institutions encouraging journals to take action to boost adherence were two recurrent themes.
conclusions: biomedical journal editors generally believed that engaging trained professionals would be the most effective, yet resource intensive, editorial intervention. also, they thought that peer reviewers should not be asked to check rgs. future evaluations of interventions can take into account the barriers, facilitators, and incentives described in this survey.

keywords
completeness of reporting, journal policies, quality of reporting, reporting guidelines, survey, barriers, facilitators

abbreviations
rgs: reporting guidelines; consort: consolidated standards of reporting trials; rct: randomised controlled trials; equator: enhancing the quality and transparency of health research; miror: methods in research on research; strobe: strengthening the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology; prisma: preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses; apcs: article processing charges; cme: continuing medical education; icjme: international committee of medical journal editors.

introduction
transparent and accurate reporting of research is essential for increasing the usability of available research evidence. reporting guidelines (rgs) can be useful tools to help authors report research methods and findings in a way that they can be understood by readers, replicated by researchers, used by health care professionals to make clinical decisions, and included in systematic reviews1. since the inception in 1996 of the consolidated standards of reporting trials (consort) for the reporting of randomised controlled trials (rcts)2, more than 400 rgs for different study types, data, and clinical areas have been developed. these rgs can be found in the library of the enhancing the quality and transparency of health research (equator) network3.

biomedical authors’ adherence to rgs has been observed to be suboptimal4. consequently, in recent years various stakeholders have proposed, and sometimes evaluated, the impact of different types of interventions to improve this adherence. these interventions were identified and classified in a recently published scoping review5. we found that the strategies most widely used by journals have been shown not to have the desired effect6–9 and this highlighted the need for the implementation and evaluation of the other interventions proposed5.

this paper reports a survey aimed to inform the future evaluation of interventions to improve adherence to rgs. in particular, we focused on interventions that can be implemented at various points in the editorial process. our specific objectives were to explore the perceived ease of implementation of different interventions and the potential effectiveness of these at improving adherence to rgs; to map the barriers and facilitators associated with these interventions; to determine possible solutions to overcome the barriers described, and to identify further editorial interventions that could be implemented and subsequently evaluated.

methods
participants
purposive sampling was used to recruit biomedical editors that were expected to be knowledgeable and experienced in the topic we aimed to explore. we recruited participants not based on their representativeness of all medical journals but on the fact that they were “information-rich cases”10.

participants were sampled from three sources: (i) editors of journals that had published studies describing interventions to improve adherence to rgs identified in our scoping review5, (ii) members of the methods in research on research (miror) network with current editorial positions and (iii) editors of the top-10 journals (based on impact factor) of bmj publishing group which, apart from being one of the partner institutions of miror, has published the main rgs2,11–13) and has traditionally performed research to improve the transparency and quality of biomedical publications14. the authors of this survey who met the eligibility criteria were excluded as potential participants.

recruitment
the survey was only open to editors that we invited to participate. we contacted three editors (including the editors-in-chief) of each of the sampled journals, as well as individual editors from the group (ii) above. by replying to our invitation email, participants could suggest further editors that they considered could contribute to the survey. to contact editors not known to us we sought email addresses in the public domain. the survey was not advertised on any website.

survey administration
the survey was administered by surveymonkey15 and was open between 27 november 2018 and 24 february 2019. participants were sent a personalised email inviting them to complete an online survey investigating their opinions about different editorial interventions to improve author adherence to rgs. each invitation was tied to a unique email address. two reminders to complete the survey were sent to non-responders at four and eight weeks after the initial mailing.

participants could edit their responses while completing the survey. however, they could not re-enter the survey once it was completed as no two entries from the same ip address were allowed. we did not offer any incentives for completing the survey.

response rates
we recorded the view rate of the invitation email (subjects opening the invitation email/subjects invited), the response rate (subjects completing the survey/subjects invited), and the completion rate (subjects completing the survey/subjects completing the first question of the survey).

questionnaire development
our previous scoping review5 identified 31 interventions targeting different stakeholders in the research process. for use in this survey we chose a smaller subset of nine interventions that could be implemented during the editorial process as our focus was on journal editors’ perceptions (see box 1).

box 1. interventions included and their targets
a. interventions targeting authors:

• a requirement for authors to submit a completed rg checklist (using all appropriate extensions, if applicable) indicating the page numbers where each item is addressed (intervention 1)

• a requirement for authors to submit a populated rg checklist with text from their manuscript in order to facilitate the peer review process (intervention 2)

• a requirement for authors to highlight in the manuscript where each rg item is addressed (intervention 3)

• a requirement for authors to include new subheadings within their manuscript corresponding to different rg items within the traditional imrad format (introduction, methods, results, and discussion) (intervention 4)

• a requirement for authors on submission to use a freely available writing aid tool that guides authors through the rg checklist items, shows the key elements that need to be reported, and includes examples of adequate reporting (e.g. cobweb) (intervention 5)

b. interventions targeting peer reviewers:

• instruct peer reviewers to use the appropriate rgs when assessing a manuscript (intervention 6)

• instruct peer reviewers to scrutinise the completed rg checklist submitted by the authors and check its consistency with the information reported in the manuscript (intervention 7)

c. interventions targeting editorial staff:

• an evaluation of the completeness of reporting by a trained editor (or editorial assistant), who would return incomplete manuscripts to authors before considering the manuscript for publication (intervention 8)

d. interventions targeting authors, peer reviewers, and editors:

• training for authors, peer reviewers, and editors on the importance, content, and use of rgs (e.g. the equator network toolkits) (intervention 9)

the survey combined open and closed response questions to seek participants’ perceptions of a series of interventions to improve authors’ adherence to rgs that could potentially be implemented during the editorial process. we pilot tested the draft survey questionnaire with two collaborators of the miror project who currently hold editorial positions. they were asked to review the survey for its clarity and completeness and to provide suggestions on how to improve its structure.

based on feedback from the pilot we decided not to include the intervention “implementation of the automatic tool statreviewer16” since participants were not aware of this software and stated that their perceptions would strongly depend on details about how it operates which are not publicly available.

the survey combined open and closed response questions to seek participants’ perceptions of a series of interventions to improve authors’ adherence to rgs that could potentially be implemented during the editorial process. we structured the questionnaire (see figure s1, extended data17) as follows:

part 1: current practice. participants were asked to describe the measures their journal currently takes to improve adherence to rgs.

part 2: perceptions of nine potential interventions. participants were asked to indicate on 5-point likert scales (i) how easy it would be (or was) to implement these interventions at their journals (1-very difficult, 2-moderately difficult, 3-neither difficult nor easy, 4-moderately easy, 5-very easy) and (ii) how effective they thought the interventions would be (or was) at improving adherence to rgs if these were implemented at their journals (1-very ineffective, 2-moderately ineffective, 3-neither ineffective nor effective, 4-moderately effective, 5-very effective). we included images to clarify meanings and context to prompt participants to think about the benefits and drawbacks of the interventions. free text boxes were included so participants could justify their responses.

part 3: identifying the barriers and facilitators. participants were asked to choose which intervention they considered potentially the most effective for their journal at improving adherence to rgs. they were asked to describe (i) why they thought that intervention would be the most effective, (ii) what the main difficulties in implementing that intervention would be, and (iii) how they would try to overcome these difficulties.

part 4: further interventions. participants were asked for further suggestions of possible interventions, including modifications and combinations of the interventions previously discussed.

part 5: demographic questions.

the survey was distributed over 18 pages with 1 to 3 items per page. these items were not randomised.

data analysis
for quantitative data (part 2 of the questionnaire), we used r version 3.6.018. as these data were ordinal, we calculated medians together and the 1st and 3rd quartiles. we excluded from the analysis one questionnaire where the participant just opened the survey and left without answering any question. we did not exclude any questionnaire based on the amount of time that the participant needed to complete it.

for qualitative information, the lead investigator (db) used the software program nvivo 1219. we mapped the barriers and facilitators for each of the interventions explored, as well as other key themes such as the incentives for the use of rg and the implementation of further editorial strategies. the initial mapping made by the lead investigator was discussed with another investigator (ss) and subsequently refined.

for part 1 of the survey (current practice) the unit of measure were the journals and therefore editors of the same journal were grouped. this was due to the fact that participants’ answers represented an overarching policy and not an individual’s opinion. for all other parts of the survey (part 2 to part 5), we analysed editors’ responses independently, no matter what their journal was.

ethics approval & informed consent
the research committee of the governing council of the universitat politècnica de catalunya (upc) granted ethical approval for this study (reference ec 01, date 2 may 2018).

in the invitation email, we informed survey participants that (i) the completion of the survey indicated consent to participate, (ii) they were free to stop and withdraw from the study at any time without providing a reason, (iii) the estimated time to complete the survey was 15 minutes, (iv) any identifiable information obtained in connection with this survey would remain confidential, and (v) the results would be submitted for publication and the anonymised dataset would be made publicly available in the zenodo repository. the original dataset was kept in a password-protected folder in google drive.

reporting guidelines
we consulted the checklist for reporting of results of internet e-surveys (cherries)20 and the consolidated criteria for reporting of qualitative research (coreq)21 guidelines to produce this research report.

results
of the 99 editors invited, 42 opened the invitation (view rate 42%), and 24 completed the survey (response rate 24%) from the 25 who started it (completion rate 96%). the average time spent completing the survey was 15 minutes (sd = 8.5 minutes). among the 24 participants who completed the survey, nine (37%) worked for seven different journals that had published studies on improving adherence to rgs, seven (29%) worked for five top-10 bmj journals, four (17%) were members of the miror network that hold editorial positions in four journals, and a further four (17%) were suggested by other participants based on their expertise on the topic and were editors of three different journals. the 20 journals represented in the survey are listed in table 1.

participants had a variety of editorial roles (editor-in-chief, senior editor, associate editor or others). most of them were involved in manuscript decision-making and had less than 15 years of experience as journal editors (see table 2). the anonymised responses from all 24 participants can be accessed in zenodo22.

current practice
respondents worked at 19 journals. most respondents’ journals (11/19, 58%) request authors to submit a completed rg checklist with page numbers indicating where the items are addressed when they submit their manuscript. a further seven (37%) instruct but do not request authors to do it, and one (5%) does not request or instruct authors. among the journals requesting the submission of checklists, four (4/11, 36%) also explicitly ask peer reviewers to use the completed rgs when assessing manuscripts, one (1/11, 9%) asks peer reviewers general questions about the completeness of reporting, and one performs an evaluation of the completeness of reporting by a trained editor using rgs before the initial decision is made on the manuscript. we observed no incongruences between the answers of editors from the same journal. some respondents mentioned that in their journals (n=4) the interventions described were only applicable to the study types corresponding to the most established rgs (consort, prisma11, or strobe12) for trials, observational studies and systematic reviews respectively.

perceptions of nine potential interventions
the mean scores for perceived ease of implementation and potential effectiveness for each intervention are shown in figure 1.

the two most common interventions were considered the easiest ones to implement: the median scores (1st, 3rd quartiles) for requesting authors to submit checklists with page numbers (intervention 1) and for asking peer reviewers to use rgs (intervention 6) were 5 (q1: 4, q3: 5) and 4 (q1: 3, q3: 5), respectively. by contrast, interventions related to training (intervention 9), editor involvement in checking completeness of reporting (intervention 8) and reformatting of the text based on rg requirements (intervention 4, intervention 5) were considered the most difficult to implement.

an evaluation of the completeness of reporting by a trained editor was considered the most effective intervention at improving adherence to rgs (median: 4, q1: 4, q3: 5) and the two targeting peer reviewers (interventions 6 and 7) were perceived as being the least effective (median: 4, q1: 2, q3: 4; median: 3, q1: 2, q3: 4).

identifying the barriers and facilitators
this section presents the perceived barriers and facilitators of the interventions considered and editors’ suggestions for making the interventions more effective. table s1 in extended data17 shows a full description of these.

a) interventions targeting authors (1–5)

the main barriers associated with all of the interventions targeting authors was that authors have to state their adherence to the relevant rg and this does not equate to actual compliance. moreover, it is resource intensive for journals to check that these requirements are appropriately met by authors. some editors highlighted that interventions 3, 4, and 5 would involve special formatting of the submitted manuscript, which could be cumbersome for authors given that manuscripts are often submitted to multiple journals with different formats before being accepted. this is particularly relevant for journals with high rejection rates as it could cause frustration for authors. some participants mentioned logistical issues as their journal’s manuscript tracking system is not set up to accommodate these interventions. in addition, changes in the manuscript’s format could be incompatible with the journal’s house style.

intervention 1 was generally considered quick and straightforward for authors, but several participants indicated that there is published empirical evidence of little effectiveness if the checklist is not assessed by a trained editor or administrator5–8.

as interventions 3, 4, and 5 force authors to tailor the manuscript to rg requirements, participants reported that these could make editors’ and peer reviewers’ jobs easier as the manuscript would be better structured. importantly, readers would also be able to locate information more easily. some editors pointed out that, to make these interventions effective, journals would need to provide templates to authors or to integrate these interventions in the submission system. however, some of these interventions (interventions 2 and 5) were seen as more effective if they were implemented earlier on in the research process, prior to writing the manuscript.

b) interventions targeting peer reviewers (6, 7)

most respondents were negative about the potential effectiveness of implementing the two interventions targeting peer reviewers (intervention 6 and 7) as they felt these would create too much additional work for reviewers. participants were concerned that the quality of peer review could be compromised as reviewers are not expected to focus on reporting issues but on providing an expert view on the importance, novelty and relevance of the manuscript. furthermore, peer reviewers may not know which rgs to use and, even if they do, the effectiveness would be dependent on their willingness to use rgs and their expertise in applying them. several participants indicated that this work should be delegated to paid editorial staff.

c) interventions targeting editorial staff (8)

this intervention was considered difficult to implement but potentially effective. the main facilitating factor for its successful implementation was that it is performed by a paid or trained professional, which lends credibility to the intervention, reduces the workload of unpaid peer reviewers, and avoids authors overclaiming adherence. the main barriers outlined for this intervention were (i) the budget issues the journal would need to face to train or hire additional editorial staff that could perform the evaluation, especially if the journal receives a large volume of manuscripts, (ii) the editorial delays it may cause, and the (iii) the potential inefficiency of assistant editors or administrators having to delegate decisions in case of doubt, given that sometimes assessing completeness of reporting is a subjective task.

to make this intervention more feasible for journals, editors suggested that the completeness of reporting evaluation could be performed only for manuscripts that are sent out for peer review and, it could be focused on a few core items (different for each rg) that would enable reproducibility. if this intervention was implemented in a journal that requires the submission of a completed checklist, editors could take advantage of the checklist to locate information.

d) interventions targeting authors, peer reviewers and editors (9)

training was seen as a potentially effective intervention but difficult to implement. some participants highlighted that training with follow up sessions would be resource intensive for journals, and especially difficult to enforce. one participant mentioned that credits (such as cme credits23) could be used to recognise hours of training. the fact that sometimes the editorial staff is based in different places and zones makes it crucial to consider flexible forms of training, such as online courses. as an example, the equator network toolkits section provides resources for authors, peer reviewers and journal editors24. however, some participants emphasised that training should also be delivered by research institutions and medical centres.

further interventions and incentives for authors and journals
when asked about further potentially effective interventions that were not discussed in the survey, some editors mentioned statreviewer, a reading tool that automatically assesses adherence to rgs and is currently under evaluation16. other respondents also mentioned the possibility of combining some of the interventions discussed in the survey, such as requiring the submission of checklists and trained editors assessing the responses with the information reported in the manuscript.

moreover, several incentives for authors were listed, including (i) discounts on article processing charges (apcs) for authors that comply with rg requirements, (ii) academic institutions including rg use in the promotion and tenure files, and (iii) credits (such as cme credits23) to recognise hours of training on the use of rgs. journals could also be encouraged to implement certain interventions if (i) there is empirical evidence that these interventions actually improve the reporting quality of the papers or (ii) publishers or the international committee of medical journal editors (icmje) mandate these as a condition of submission to their journals. even if some of these interventions are proven to be effective, some respondents reported that it is essential to convince publishers that improving the quality of reporting is a worthy investment to resource.

discussion
this survey explores biomedical journal editors’ perceptions of the practical aspects of the implementation of different interventions to improve adherence to rgs.

several messages arise from this study. first of all, most editors agreed that the most effective way to improve adherence to rgs is for journals to involve trained editors or administrative staff. interventions targeting these stakeholders were considered to be difficult to implement for most journals, either because of logistic or resource issues. however, improving the performance of editorial staff is critical25 and has been shown to have a positive impact on completeness of reporting in the context of a dentistry journal26. to make these type of interventions more feasible, journals could implement them only for manuscripts that are sent out for peer review. the editorial staff could also take advantage of the rg checklists submitted by authors, that could be automatically populated with text using specific software such as the the tool proposed by hawwash et al.27

most editors considered that checking reporting issues is beyond the role of peer reviewers. given the voluntary nature of peer review, requiring reviewers to use rgs would cause an additional workload that could compromise the overall quality of the reviews. if checking reporting issues becomes a standard exercise for peer reviewers, some editors are concerned that peer reviewers may be less likely to comment on important aspects of a manuscript, such as its novelty, clinical interest or implications. furthermore, as finding peer reviewers is becoming increasingly difficult for editors28, these requirements could make them even less willing to review papers. additionally, some editors considered that the average peer reviewer does not have enough expertise to go over rg requirements.

we observed that the interventions perceived as potentially most effective improving adherence to rgs appear to be more difficult to implement. conversely, the most common strategies seem to have been implemented based on their feasibility and not on their potential to improve completeness of reporting. this could be one of the reasons why they have failed to achieve the desired results6–9). some of our respondents insisted that a key element is that journals, universities, and medical institutions find ways to incentivise author’s compliance with rgs. at the same time, the scientific community needs to find ways to convince publishers that improving the quality of reporting is a worthy investment so that publishers can encourage their journals to adopt strategies to boost completeness of reporting. a recent article indicates that implementing rgs through the editorial process may increase the number of citations to the research reported29.

a common observation by the survey participants was that the effectiveness of the interventions proposed could depend on the types of articles considered. while rgs for randomised trial protocols, randomised trials or systematic reviews are more established, some others, including most rg extensions, are not well known to the stakeholders involved in the publication process. for this reason, it is important for journals to be clear in their “instructions for authors” on what rgs they mandate.

it is noteworthy to mention that, regardless of how checklists are implemented in the editorial process and who has to engage to make the interventions successful, the evaluation of completeness of reporting is a subjective task. this is mainly due to the fact that rgs are not originally designed as evaluation tools but as guidance for authors on how to report their research. for this reason, evaluators could sometimes have different views on whether authors are providing enough information to consider that certain rg items are adequately reported.

this study is subject to several limitations. the response rate was low (24%). however, researchers in health science have witnessed a gradual decrease in survey participation over time30, especially among health professionals due to the demanding work schedules and increasing frequency of being approached for surveys31. some recent surveys in the field of peer review show even lower response rates (10–20%) among researchers, peer reviewers and readers32,33. it is also noteworthy that we took a pragmatic approach to identify relevant editors and the sample was small due to not many having conducted or published research on improving adherence to rgs. whilst n=24 is a small number, the detailed and rich responses that we received showed a high level of engagement with the topic. despite having the option to increase the sample size by contacting more editors at a lower level of hierarchy in the journals we targeted, we decided not to do it based on the response rate of the survey. that approach would have changed our sampling frame and we would potentially have had less experienced editors commenting. we took that decision as the purpose of the survey was to tap into the experience of those who had tried interventions or had shown interest in this area, instead of seeking a representative sample of editors.

connected with this, we could expect survey participants to be more prone to adopt interventions than general biomedical editors. however, their experience could also make them more critical of certain strategies that appear to be more effective than they actually are. this could be the case for the intervention of requesting authors to submit checklists on manuscript submission, which has become popular among medical journals despite having little or no impact on completeness of reporting6–9). editors with less experience of editorial strategies to improve adherence to rgs might expect authors and peer reviewers to respond to certain interventions in a different way than they would do.

we encourage researchers to perform further evaluations of interventions in collaboration with biomedical journals, such as the rct our research team is currently undergoing34. our study aims to evaluate the effect on completeness of reporting of a trained researcher assessing during peer review the consistency between the consort checklists submitted by authors and the information reported in the manuscript, and providing authors with a report indicating any inconsistencies found.

providing high quality evidence of the effectiveness of different interventions at improving adherence to rgs and discussing how to make them less burdensome are key aspects needed to convince all stakeholders that this effort is worth it.

conclusions
biomedical journal editors generally believed that engaging trained professionals in the process of checking adherence to rgs would be the most effective, yet moderately resource intensive, editorial intervention. also, they thought that standard peer reviewers should not be asked to check rg requirements.

future evaluations of interventions to improve adherence to rgs can take into account the barriers, facilitators, and incentives for implementing editorial interventions that are described in this survey.

<|EndOfText|>

abstract
background: improving the completeness of reporting of biomedical research is essential for improving its usability. for this reason, hundreds of reporting guidelines have been created in the last few decades but adherence to these remains suboptimal. this survey aims to inform future evaluations of interventions to improve adherence to reporting guidelines. in particular, it gathers editors’ perceptions of a range of interventions at various stages in the editorial process.  
methods: we surveyed biomedical journal editors that were knowledgeable about this topic. the questionnaire included open and closed questions that explored (i) the current practice of their journals, (ii) their perceptions of the ease of implementation of different interventions and the potential effectiveness of these at improving adherence to reporting guidelines, (iii) the barriers and facilitators associated with these interventions, and (iv) suggestions for future interventions and incentives.
results: of the 99 editors invited, 24 (24%) completed the survey. involving trained editors or administrative staff was deemed the potentially most effective intervention but, at the same time, it was considered moderately difficult to implement due to logistic and resource issues. participants believed that checking adherence to guidelines goes beyond the role of peer reviewers and were concerned that the quality of peer review could be compromised. reviewers are generally not expected to focus on reporting issues but on providing an expert view on the importance, novelty, and relevance of the manuscript. journals incentivising adherence, and publishers and medical institutions encouraging journals to take action to boost adherence were two recurrent themes.
conclusions: biomedical journal editors generally believed that engaging trained professionals would be the most effective, yet resource intensive, editorial intervention. also, they thought that peer reviewers should not be asked to check rgs. future evaluations of interventions can take into account the barriers, facilitators, and incentives described in this survey.

keywords
completeness of reporting, journal policies, quality of reporting, reporting guidelines, survey, barriers, facilitators

abbreviations
rgs: reporting guidelines; consort: consolidated standards of reporting trials; rct: randomised controlled trials; equator: enhancing the quality and transparency of health research; miror: methods in research on research; strobe: strengthening the reporting of observational studies in epidemiology; prisma: preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses; apcs: article processing charges; cme: continuing medical education; icjme: international committee of medical journal editors.

introduction
transparent and accurate reporting of research is essential for increasing the usability of available research evidence. reporting guidelines (rgs) can be useful tools to help authors report research methods and findings in a way that they can be understood by readers, replicated by researchers, used by health care professionals to make clinical decisions, and included in systematic reviews1. since the inception in 1996 of the consolidated standards of reporting trials (consort) for the reporting of randomised controlled trials (rcts)2, more than 400 rgs for different study types, data, and clinical areas have been developed. these rgs can be found in the library of the enhancing the quality and transparency of health research (equator) network3.

biomedical authors’ adherence to rgs has been observed to be suboptimal4. consequently, in recent years various stakeholders have proposed, and sometimes evaluated, the impact of different types of interventions to improve this adherence. these interventions were identified and classified in a recently published scoping review5. we found that the strategies most widely used by journals have been shown not to have the desired effect6–9 and this highlighted the need for the implementation and evaluation of the other interventions proposed5.

this paper reports a survey aimed to inform the future evaluation of interventions to improve adherence to rgs. in particular, we focused on interventions that can be implemented at various points in the editorial process. our specific objectives were to explore the perceived ease of implementation of different interventions and the potential effectiveness of these at improving adherence to rgs; to map the barriers and facilitators associated with these interventions; to determine possible solutions to overcome the barriers described, and to identify further editorial interventions that could be implemented and subsequently evaluated.

methods

participants
purposive sampling was used to recruit biomedical editors that were expected to be knowledgeable and experienced in the topic we aimed to explore. we recruited participants not based on their representativeness of all medical journals but on the fact that they were “information-rich cases”10.

participants were sampled from three sources: (i) editors of journals that had published studies describing interventions to improve adherence to rgs identified in our scoping review5, (ii) members of the methods in research on research (miror) network with current editorial positions and (iii) editors of the top-10 journals (based on impact factor) of bmj publishing group which, apart from being one of the partner institutions of miror, has published the main rgs2,11–13) and has traditionally performed research to improve the transparency and quality of biomedical publications14. the authors of this survey who met the eligibility criteria were excluded as potential participants.

recruitment
the survey was only open to editors that we invited to participate. we contacted three editors (including the editors-in-chief) of each of the sampled journals, as well as individual editors from the group (ii) above. by replying to our invitation email, participants could suggest further editors that they considered could contribute to the survey. to contact editors not known to us we sought email addresses in the public domain. the survey was not advertised on any website.

survey administration
the survey was administered by surveymonkey15 and was open between 27 november 2018 and 24 february 2019. participants were sent a personalised email inviting them to complete an online survey investigating their opinions about different editorial interventions to improve author adherence to rgs. each invitation was tied to a unique email address. two reminders to complete the survey were sent to non-responders at four and eight weeks after the initial mailing.

participants could edit their responses while completing the survey. however, they could not re-enter the survey once it was completed as no two entries from the same ip address were allowed. we did not offer any incentives for completing the survey.

response rates
we recorded the view rate of the invitation email (subjects opening the invitation email/subjects invited), the response rate (subjects completing the survey/subjects invited), and the completion rate (subjects completing the survey/subjects completing the first question of the survey).

questionnaire development
our previous scoping review5 identified 31 interventions targeting different stakeholders in the research process. for use in this survey we chose a smaller subset of nine interventions that could be implemented during the editorial process as our focus was on journal editors’ perceptions (see box 1).

box 1. interventions included and their targets
a. interventions targeting authors:

• a requirement for authors to submit a completed rg checklist (using all appropriate extensions, if applicable) indicating the page numbers where each item is addressed (intervention 1)

• a requirement for authors to submit a populated rg checklist with text from their manuscript in order to facilitate the peer review process (intervention 2)

• a requirement for authors to highlight in the manuscript where each rg item is addressed (intervention 3)

• a requirement for authors to include new subheadings within their manuscript corresponding to different rg items within the traditional imrad format (introduction, methods, results, and discussion) (intervention 4)

• a requirement for authors on submission to use a freely available writing aid tool that guides authors through the rg checklist items, shows the key elements that need to be reported, and includes examples of adequate reporting (e.g. cobweb) (intervention 5)

b. interventions targeting peer reviewers:

• instruct peer reviewers to use the appropriate rgs when assessing a manuscript (intervention 6)

• instruct peer reviewers to scrutinise the completed rg checklist submitted by the authors and check its consistency with the information reported in the manuscript (intervention 7)

c. interventions targeting editorial staff:

• an evaluation of the completeness of reporting by a trained editor (or editorial assistant), who would return incomplete manuscripts to authors before considering the manuscript for publication (intervention 8)

d. interventions targeting authors, peer reviewers, and editors:

• training for authors, peer reviewers, and editors on the importance, content, and use of rgs (e.g. the equator network toolkits) (intervention 9)

the survey combined open and closed response questions to seek participants’ perceptions of a series of interventions to improve authors’ adherence to rgs that could potentially be implemented during the editorial process. we pilot tested the draft survey questionnaire with two collaborators of the miror project who currently hold editorial positions. they were asked to review the survey for its clarity and completeness and to provide suggestions on how to improve its structure.

based on feedback from the pilot we decided not to include the intervention “implementation of the automatic tool statreviewer16” since participants were not aware of this software and stated that their perceptions would strongly depend on details about how it operates which are not publicly available.

the survey combined open and closed response questions to seek participants’ perceptions of a series of interventions to improve authors’ adherence to rgs that could potentially be implemented during the editorial process. we structured the questionnaire (see figure s1, extended data17) as follows:

part 1: current practice. participants were asked to describe the measures their journal currently takes to improve adherence to rgs.

part 2: perceptions of nine potential interventions. participants were asked to indicate on 5-point likert scales (i) how easy it would be (or was) to implement these interventions at their journals (1-very difficult, 2-moderately difficult, 3-neither difficult nor easy, 4-moderately easy, 5-very easy) and (ii) how effective they thought the interventions would be (or was) at improving adherence to rgs if these were implemented at their journals (1-very ineffective, 2-moderately ineffective, 3-neither ineffective nor effective, 4-moderately effective, 5-very effective). we included images to clarify meanings and context to prompt participants to think about the benefits and drawbacks of the interventions. free text boxes were included so participants could justify their responses.

part 3: identifying the barriers and facilitators. participants were asked to choose which intervention they considered potentially the most effective for their journal at improving adherence to rgs. they were asked to describe (i) why they thought that intervention would be the most effective, (ii) what the main difficulties in implementing that intervention would be, and (iii) how they would try to overcome these difficulties.

part 4: further interventions. participants were asked for further suggestions of possible interventions, including modifications and combinations of the interventions previously discussed.

part 5: demographic questions.

the survey was distributed over 18 pages with 1 to 3 items per page. these items were not randomised.

data analysis
for quantitative data (part 2 of the questionnaire), we used r version 3.6.018. as these data were ordinal, we calculated medians together and the 1st and 3rd quartiles. we excluded from the analysis one questionnaire where the participant just opened the survey and left without answering any question. we did not exclude any questionnaire based on the amount of time that the participant needed to complete it.

for qualitative information, the lead investigator (db) used the software program nvivo 1219. we mapped the barriers and facilitators for each of the interventions explored, as well as other key themes such as the incentives for the use of rg and the implementation of further editorial strategies. the initial mapping made by the lead investigator was discussed with another investigator (ss) and subsequently refined.

for part 1 of the survey (current practice) the unit of measure were the journals and therefore editors of the same journal were grouped. this was due to the fact that participants’ answers represented an overarching policy and not an individual’s opinion. for all other parts of the survey (part 2 to part 5), we analysed editors’ responses independently, no matter what their journal was.

ethics approval & informed consent
the research committee of the governing council of the universitat politècnica de catalunya (upc) granted ethical approval for this study (reference ec 01, date 2 may 2018).

in the invitation email, we informed survey participants that (i) the completion of the survey indicated consent to participate, (ii) they were free to stop and withdraw from the study at any time without providing a reason, (iii) the estimated time to complete the survey was 15 minutes, (iv) any identifiable information obtained in connection with this survey would remain confidential, and (v) the results would be submitted for publication and the anonymised dataset would be made publicly available in the zenodo repository. the original dataset was kept in a password-protected folder in google drive.

reporting guidelines
we consulted the checklist for reporting of results of internet e-surveys (cherries)20 and the consolidated criteria for reporting of qualitative research (coreq)21 guidelines to produce this research report.

results
of the 99 editors invited, 42 opened the invitation (view rate 42%), and 24 completed the survey (response rate 24%) from the 25 who started it (completion rate 96%). the average time spent completing the survey was 15 minutes (sd = 8.5 minutes). among the 24 participants who completed the survey, nine (37%) worked for seven different journals that had published studies on improving adherence to rgs, seven (29%) worked for five top-10 bmj journals, four (17%) were members of the miror network that hold editorial positions in four journals, and a further four (17%) were suggested by other participants based on their expertise on the topic and were editors of three different journals. the 20 journals represented in the survey are listed in table 1.

participants had a variety of editorial roles (editor-in-chief, senior editor, associate editor or others). most of them were involved in manuscript decision-making and had less than 15 years of experience as journal editors (see table 2). the anonymised responses from all 24 participants can be accessed in zenodo22.

current practice
respondents worked at 19 journals. most respondents’ journals (11/19, 58%) request authors to submit a completed rg checklist with page numbers indicating where the items are addressed when they submit their manuscript. a further seven (37%) instruct but do not request authors to do it, and one (5%) does not request or instruct authors. among the journals requesting the submission of checklists, four (4/11, 36%) also explicitly ask peer reviewers to use the completed rgs when assessing manuscripts, one (1/11, 9%) asks peer reviewers general questions about the completeness of reporting, and one performs an evaluation of the completeness of reporting by a trained editor using rgs before the initial decision is made on the manuscript. we observed no incongruences between the answers of editors from the same journal. some respondents mentioned that in their journals (n=4) the interventions described were only applicable to the study types corresponding to the most established rgs (consort, prisma11, or strobe12) for trials, observational studies and systematic reviews respectively.

perceptions of nine potential interventions
the mean scores for perceived ease of implementation and potential effectiveness for each intervention are shown in figure 1.

figure 1. scores for perceived ease of implementation and perceived effectiveness.
box plots show the 1st, 2nd (medians, represented as blue horizontal lines), and 3rd quartiles of the data. the whiskers extend up to 1.5 times the interquartile range from the top (bottom) of the box to the furthest datum within that distance. interventions whose names are shown in red target authors, those in brown target peer reviewers, the one in grey target editors or administrative staff and the one in green targets all these stakeholders. box 1 shows a detailed explanation of each intervention.

the two most common interventions were considered the easiest ones to implement: the median scores (1st, 3rd quartiles) for requesting authors to submit checklists with page numbers (intervention 1) and for asking peer reviewers to use rgs (intervention 6) were 5 (q1: 4, q3: 5) and 4 (q1: 3, q3: 5), respectively. by contrast, interventions related to training (intervention 9), editor involvement in checking completeness of reporting (intervention 8) and reformatting of the text based on rg requirements (intervention 4, intervention 5) were considered the most difficult to implement.

an evaluation of the completeness of reporting by a trained editor was considered the most effective intervention at improving adherence to rgs (median: 4, q1: 4, q3: 5) and the two targeting peer reviewers (interventions 6 and 7) were perceived as being the least effective (median: 4, q1: 2, q3: 4; median: 3, q1: 2, q3: 4).

identifying the barriers and facilitators
this section presents the perceived barriers and facilitators of the interventions considered and editors’ suggestions for making the interventions more effective. table s1 in extended data17 shows a full description of these.

a) interventions targeting authors (1–5)

the main barriers associated with all of the interventions targeting authors was that authors have to state their adherence to the relevant rg and this does not equate to actual compliance. moreover, it is resource intensive for journals to check that these requirements are appropriately met by authors. some editors highlighted that interventions 3, 4, and 5 would involve special formatting of the submitted manuscript, which could be cumbersome for authors given that manuscripts are often submitted to multiple journals with different formats before being accepted. this is particularly relevant for journals with high rejection rates as it could cause frustration for authors. some participants mentioned logistical issues as their journal’s manuscript tracking system is not set up to accommodate these interventions. in addition, changes in the manuscript’s format could be incompatible with the journal’s house style.

intervention 1 was generally considered quick and straightforward for authors, but several participants indicated that there is published empirical evidence of little effectiveness if the checklist is not assessed by a trained editor or administrator5–8.

as interventions 3, 4, and 5 force authors to tailor the manuscript to rg requirements, participants reported that these could make editors’ and peer reviewers’ jobs easier as the manuscript would be better structured. importantly, readers would also be able to locate information more easily. some editors pointed out that, to make these interventions effective, journals would need to provide templates to authors or to integrate these interventions in the submission system. however, some of these interventions (interventions 2 and 5) were seen as more effective if they were implemented earlier on in the research process, prior to writing the manuscript.

b) interventions targeting peer reviewers (6, 7)

most respondents were negative about the potential effectiveness of implementing the two interventions targeting peer reviewers (intervention 6 and 7) as they felt these would create too much additional work for reviewers. participants were concerned that the quality of peer review could be compromised as reviewers are not expected to focus on reporting issues but on providing an expert view on the importance, novelty and relevance of the manuscript. furthermore, peer reviewers may not know which rgs to use and, even if they do, the effectiveness would be dependent on their willingness to use rgs and their expertise in applying them. several participants indicated that this work should be delegated to paid editorial staff.

c) interventions targeting editorial staff (8)

this intervention was considered difficult to implement but potentially effective. the main facilitating factor for its successful implementation was that it is performed by a paid or trained professional, which lends credibility to the intervention, reduces the workload of unpaid peer reviewers, and avoids authors overclaiming adherence. the main barriers outlined for this intervention were (i) the budget issues the journal would need to face to train or hire additional editorial staff that could perform the evaluation, especially if the journal receives a large volume of manuscripts, (ii) the editorial delays it may cause, and the (iii) the potential inefficiency of assistant editors or administrators having to delegate decisions in case of doubt, given that sometimes assessing completeness of reporting is a subjective task.

to make this intervention more feasible for journals, editors suggested that the completeness of reporting evaluation could be performed only for manuscripts that are sent out for peer review and, it could be focused on a few core items (different for each rg) that would enable reproducibility. if this intervention was implemented in a journal that requires the submission of a completed checklist, editors could take advantage of the checklist to locate information.

d) interventions targeting authors, peer reviewers and editors (9)

training was seen as a potentially effective intervention but difficult to implement. some participants highlighted that training with follow up sessions would be resource intensive for journals, and especially difficult to enforce. one participant mentioned that credits (such as cme credits23) could be used to recognise hours of training. the fact that sometimes the editorial staff is based in different places and zones makes it crucial to consider flexible forms of training, such as online courses. as an example, the equator network toolkits section provides resources for authors, peer reviewers and journal editors24. however, some participants emphasised that training should also be delivered by research institutions and medical centres.

further interventions and incentives for authors and journals
when asked about further potentially effective interventions that were not discussed in the survey, some editors mentioned statreviewer, a reading tool that automatically assesses adherence to rgs and is currently under evaluation16. other respondents also mentioned the possibility of combining some of the interventions discussed in the survey, such as requiring the submission of checklists and trained editors assessing the responses with the information reported in the manuscript.

moreover, several incentives for authors were listed, including (i) discounts on article processing charges (apcs) for authors that comply with rg requirements, (ii) academic institutions including rg use in the promotion and tenure files, and (iii) credits (such as cme credits23) to recognise hours of training on the use of rgs. journals could also be encouraged to implement certain interventions if (i) there is empirical evidence that these interventions actually improve the reporting quality of the papers or (ii) publishers or the international committee of medical journal editors (icmje) mandate these as a condition of submission to their journals. even if some of these interventions are proven to be effective, some respondents reported that it is essential to convince publishers that improving the quality of reporting is a worthy investment to resource.

discussion
this survey explores biomedical journal editors’ perceptions of the practical aspects of the implementation of different interventions to improve adherence to rgs.

several messages arise from this study. first of all, most editors agreed that the most effective way to improve adherence to rgs is for journals to involve trained editors or administrative staff. interventions targeting these stakeholders were considered to be difficult to implement for most journals, either because of logistic or resource issues. however, improving the performance of editorial staff is critical25 and has been shown to have a positive impact on completeness of reporting in the context of a dentistry journal26. to make these type of interventions more feasible, journals could implement them only for manuscripts that are sent out for peer review. the editorial staff could also take advantage of the rg checklists submitted by authors, that could be automatically populated with text using specific software such as the the tool proposed by hawwash et al.27

most editors considered that checking reporting issues is beyond the role of peer reviewers. given the voluntary nature of peer review, requiring reviewers to use rgs would cause an additional workload that could compromise the overall quality of the reviews. if checking reporting issues becomes a standard exercise for peer reviewers, some editors are concerned that peer reviewers may be less likely to comment on important aspects of a manuscript, such as its novelty, clinical interest or implications. furthermore, as finding peer reviewers is becoming increasingly difficult for editors28, these requirements could make them even less willing to review papers. additionally, some editors considered that the average peer reviewer does not have enough expertise to go over rg requirements.

we observed that the interventions perceived as potentially most effective improving adherence to rgs appear to be more difficult to implement. conversely, the most common strategies seem to have been implemented based on their feasibility and not on their potential to improve completeness of reporting. this could be one of the reasons why they have failed to achieve the desired results6–9). some of our respondents insisted that a key element is that journals, universities, and medical institutions find ways to incentivise author’s compliance with rgs. at the same time, the scientific community needs to find ways to convince publishers that improving the quality of reporting is a worthy investment so that publishers can encourage their journals to adopt strategies to boost completeness of reporting. a recent article indicates that implementing rgs through the editorial process may increase the number of citations to the research reported29.

a common observation by the survey participants was that the effectiveness of the interventions proposed could depend on the types of articles considered. while rgs for randomised trial protocols, randomised trials or systematic reviews are more established, some others, including most rg extensions, are not well known to the stakeholders involved in the publication process. for this reason, it is important for journals to be clear in their “instructions for authors” on what rgs they mandate.

it is noteworthy to mention that, regardless of how checklists are implemented in the editorial process and who has to engage to make the interventions successful, the evaluation of completeness of reporting is a subjective task. this is mainly due to the fact that rgs are not originally designed as evaluation tools but as guidance for authors on how to report their research. for this reason, evaluators could sometimes have different views on whether authors are providing enough information to consider that certain rg items are adequately reported.

this study is subject to several limitations. the response rate was low (24%). however, researchers in health science have witnessed a gradual decrease in survey participation over time30, especially among health professionals due to the demanding work schedules and increasing frequency of being approached for surveys31. some recent surveys in the field of peer review show even lower response rates (10–20%) among researchers, peer reviewers and readers32,33. it is also noteworthy that we took a pragmatic approach to identify relevant editors and the sample was small due to not many having conducted or published research on improving adherence to rgs. whilst n=24 is a small number, the detailed and rich responses that we received showed a high level of engagement with the topic. despite having the option to increase the sample size by contacting more editors at a lower level of hierarchy in the journals we targeted, we decided not to do it based on the response rate of the survey. that approach would have changed our sampling frame and we would potentially have had less experienced editors commenting. we took that decision as the purpose of the survey was to tap into the experience of those who had tried interventions or had shown interest in this area, instead of seeking a representative sample of editors.

connected with this, we could expect survey participants to be more prone to adopt interventions than general biomedical editors. however, their experience could also make them more critical of certain strategies that appear to be more effective than they actually are. this could be the case for the intervention of requesting authors to submit checklists on manuscript submission, which has become popular among medical journals despite having little or no impact on completeness of reporting6–9). editors with less experience of editorial strategies to improve adherence to rgs might expect authors and peer reviewers to respond to certain interventions in a different way than they would do.

we encourage researchers to perform further evaluations of interventions in collaboration with biomedical journals, such as the rct our research team is currently undergoing34. our study aims to evaluate the effect on completeness of reporting of a trained researcher assessing during peer review the consistency between the consort checklists submitted by authors and the information reported in the manuscript, and providing authors with a report indicating any inconsistencies found.

providing high quality evidence of the effectiveness of different interventions at improving adherence to rgs and discussing how to make them less burdensome are key aspects needed to convince all stakeholders that this effort is worth it.

conclusions
biomedical journal editors generally believed that engaging trained professionals in the process of checking adherence to rgs would be the most effective, yet moderately resource intensive, editorial intervention. also, they thought that standard peer reviewers should not be asked to check rg requirements.

future evaluations of interventions to improve adherence to rgs can take into account the barriers, facilitators, and incentives for implementing editorial interventions that are described in this survey.

data availability
underlying data
zenodo: underlying data of the project “a survey exploring biomedical editors’ perceptions of editorial interventions to improve adherence to reporting guidelines”. doi: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.340772522.

this project contains the following underlying data:

survey dataset (dataset including all survey responses).

extended data
zenodo: extended data of the project “a survey exploring biomedical editors’ perceptions of editorial interventions to improve adherence to reporting guidelines”. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.340400217.

this project contains the following extended data:

figure s1: survey questionnaire (complete version of the survey questionnaire used in this project)

table s1: barriers, facilitators and possible improvements of the included interventions (table containing the barriers, facilitators and possible improvements identified for each of the interventions explored in the survey)

data are available under the terms of the creative commons attribution 4.0 international license (cc-by 4.0).

<|EndOfText|>

abstract
background
core outcome sets (cos) have the potential to reduce waste in research by improving the consistency of outcomes measured in trials of the same health condition. however, this reduction in waste will only be realised through the uptake of cos by clinical trialists. without uptake, the continued development of cos that are not implemented may add to waste in research. funders of clinical trials have the potential to have an impact on cos uptake by recommending their use to those applying for funding. the aim of our study was to assess the extent to which applicants followed the national institute for health research health technology assessment (nihr hta) programme’s recommendation to search for a cos to include in their clinical trial.

methods and findings
we examined the outcomes section and detailed project descriptions of all 95 researcher-led primary research applications submitted to the nihr hta between january 2012, when the recommendation to search for a cos was included in the guidance for applicants, and december 2015 for evidence that a search for a cos had taken place and rationale for outcome choice in the absence of cos. a survey of applicants was conducted to further explore their use of cos and choice of outcomes with a response rate of 49%. nine out of 95 applicants (10%) stated in their application that they had searched the comet (core outcome measures for effectiveness trials) initiative database for a cos and another nine referred to searching for a cos using another method, e.g. a review of the literature. of the 77 (81%) applicants that did not mention comet or cos in their application, eight stated in the survey that they had searched the comet database and ten carried out a search using another method. some applicants who did not search for a cos gave reasons for their choice of outcomes including taking advice from patients and the public and choosing outcomes used in previous trials.

conclusion
a funding body can have an impact on cos uptake by encouraging trialists to search for a cos. funders could take further steps by putting processes in place to prompt applicants to be explicit about searching for cos in their application and notifying the funding board if a search has not taken place. the sources of information used by trialists to make decisions about outcomes in the absence of cos may suggest methods of dissemination for cos.

introduction
core outcome sets (cos) are agreed sets of outcomes that should be measured and reported, as a minimum, in all clinical trials of the same health condition. they have the potential to reduce waste in research by: improving the consistency of outcomes measured in trials of the same health condition; ensuring that all important outcomes are measured; and reducing outcome reporting bias[1]. however, this reduction in waste will only be realised if cos are actually used by clinical trialists. indeed, without uptake, the continued development of cos that are not implemented may itself add to research waste by allocating resources to the development of something that is not put into practice.

several studies have been conducted to assess the uptake of individual cos[2–7]. one such study assessed the uptake of a cos for rheumatoid arthritis up to 15 years after it was published and reported an increasing level of use over time, with almost 70% of trialists measuring the cos at the end of the study period[2]. a subsequent update of this work demonstrated that uptake had continued to increase with 81% of trials in the study period measuring the cos[8]. one factor that may have influenced the uptake of this cos was its endorsement by the food and drug administration in 1996 and european medicines agency in 1998, after which an increase in uptake was observed. in contrast, other studies looked at uptake of cos between two and 17 years after publication of the cos[3–7] and reported low uptake; in most cases less than 7% of trials measured all of the outcomes in the cos with none of these studies reporting endorsement by a regulatory body for the particular cos. in order to encourage the uptake of cos by clinical trialists, it is important to investigate potential barriers and facilitators to their use, and doing so may suggest methods of implementation that would maximise uptake.

one strategy to encourage uptake by increasing trialists’ awareness of cos is for funders to recommend their use. in january 2012, the uk national institute for health research health technology assessment programme (nihr hta) added the following statement to its guidance for applicants for all randomised trials and evidence synthesis funding streams:

“details should include justification of the use of outcome measures where a legitimate choice exists between alternatives.

where established core outcomes exist they should be included amongst the list of outcomes unless there is good reason to do otherwise. please see the comet initiative website at www.comet-initiative.org to identify whether core outcomes have been established.”
the comet initiative supports the development and uptake of cos and facilitates this by providing a database of planned, ongoing and completed cos on its website. the database can be searched by trialists to find if a cos exists for the health condition that they will study.

building from the nihr hta’s endorsement, we aimed to investigate its impact, by examining applications to the researcher-led stream of the nihr hta programme since 2012 to determine whether trialists followed the guidance to search for a cos using the comet website, or some other source, and, if so, to find out how they used the information they found, or, if not, to find out how they chose the outcomes for their studies.

methods
accessing nihr hta funding applications for clinical trials
the nihr evaluation, trials and studies coordinating centre, through the research on research programme, provided access to data extracted from the outcomes section of all nihr hta full primary research applications submitted to the researcher-led funding stream between january 2012 and december 2015 (n = 95). this included funded and non-funded applications and we were also given the detailed project description for each application.

extracting the data
the outcomes section of each application form and detailed project descriptions were searched for information included about the comet website, cos, or other justification of choice of outcomes for the trial. the information was extracted and recorded in a matrix (see s1 appendix for example of matrix) by the first author (kh). for each application kh also searched the comet database to establish whether a cos existed at the time of submission, or whether a cos was available that may have been relevant to the application even if not an exact match. where no cos existed at the time of application the comet database was searched to determine whether a cos had since been developed. a sample of the database searches were checked for accuracy by pw and jk and any discrepancies were discussed until agreement was reached.

survey of chief investigators
a survey was then sent to all applicants by email from the nihr research on research team, to further investigate the researcher’s decision to search for and use a cos, or not, and to discover more about their strategies for selecting outcomes. the email contained a link to an online survey set up using selectsurvey software (https://selectsurvey.net/). one of four versions of the survey was sent to each applicant depending on the information extracted from their application:

survey 1 was sent to applicants who had mentioned the comet website or cos and had found and used a cos that had been published or was in development.
survey 2 was sent to applicants who had mentioned the comet website or cos and had not found a relevant cos for their trial.
survey 3 was sent to applicants who had not mentioned the comet website or cos but had given reasons for their choice of outcomes.
survey 4 was sent to applicants who had not mentioned the comet website or cos and had not given reasons for their choice of outcomes.
following the initial mailing follow up emails were sent to non-responders on three occasions. applicants were asked about their use of the nihr guidance when completing their application, their decision to search for and use a cos or not, including their assessment of the cos, and reasons for their choice of outcomes where a cos was not found or searched for (see s1 text for copies of the questions in each of the four surveys).

results
applications with a cos at the time of submission
a search of the comet database identified cos for 24 (25%) applications at the time that they were submitted. for three applications the search identified cos that, although not an exact fit, may have been relevant to the health condition in the application. of the remaining 68 applications that did not have a cos relevant to their health condition at the time, 32 now have cos that have since been developed (as of october 2018).

examination of application forms
applicants searching the comet database.
nine (10%) of the 95 applicants stated in their application that they had searched the comet database. three found a relevant published cos and proposed that it would be included in their study, two found a relevant cos that was in development and used the interim findings to inform their decision on which outcomes to include in their study, and four did not find a relevant cos (fig 1). a search of the comet database by one author (kh) identified that cos did exist for the conditions being studied in two of these four trials but the applicants stated that their search did not identify relevant cos. although a cos did not exist for one of the four applications at the time of submission, a cos in development was registered on the comet website, and for the fourth application there is no cos in the comet database as of october 2018. three of the four applicants who searched comet but did not find a cos relevant to their study explained how they reached the decision about which outcomes to include in their trial. fig 1 shows that reasons given included the opinion of patients or the public, information from a pilot trial, and the use of outcomes that had been used in previous trials of the same health condition.

nine (10%) applicants mentioned cos in their application but did not make reference to the comet database: one referred to a published cos that they intended to include in their study; five referred to a cos in development (with four of these using the cos to inform their choice of outcomes and the fifth stated that they would use the cos if it was published in time for their study but sought patient opinion in the meantime); two applicants stated that no relevant cos existed but did not explain the steps that they took to find this out; one applicant referred to core outcomes in terms of common outcomes used in trials of their health condition but a cos had not been developed (fig 2). a search of the comet database by one author (kh) confirmed that no relevant cos were recorded for the conditions of interest in the two trials that did not find a cos. these applicants used a combination of patient and public opinion, outcomes used in other trials and recommended by a professional body, funding board feedback, and information from a feasibility or pilot trial to inform their choice of outcomes in the absence of cos (fig 2).

of the remaining 77 applications that did not mention the comet database or cos, 58 contained information about how the researchers chose the outcomes to include in their study and some common themes were apparent. examples of the information extracted for each theme are presented in table 1.

patient and public opinion. thirty one applicants (53%) described seeking the views of patients and the public with knowledge of the condition of interest on the outcomes that had been chosen, or asking for their opinion on which outcomes should be included in the study. in some cases, the researchers described changing or adding outcomes based on public and patient feedback.

outcomes used in other trials. twenty two applicants (38%) looked at outcomes used in previous trials to inform their choice. one reason given for this was to enable comparison between trials.

recommendation from a professional body. thirteen applicants (22%) sought information from a professional body associated with the health condition that was the subject of their trial and included an outcome that had been recommended by the professional body.

feedback from the funding board. twelve applicants (21%) amended at least one of their outcomes following recommendations fed back from the funding board. this included adding outcomes not included in the preliminary application, reducing the number of outcomes included in the preliminary application, and in six of the 12 applications making changes to the primary outcome.

information from a feasibility/pilot trial. nine applicants (16%) used the results of a feasibility or pilot trial to inform their choice of outcomes. in three cases, the applicants amended their outcomes following the feasibility/pilot trial, for example, by reducing the number of outcomes to reduce patient burden and improve retention.

practitioner opinion. three applicants (5%) were explicit that they took on board the opinion of practitioners when selecting outcomes, referring to surveys of clinicians either published previously or conducted by the applicant.

applications that did not include reasons for choice of outcomes.
twenty (21%) applicants did not explain how or why they chose the outcomes to include in their proposal. one of these applicants had searched for but did not find a cos and 19 did not state whether they had searched for a cos before choosing outcomes for their study.

survey of chief investigators
forty-seven of the 95 applicants (49%) submitted a fully completed survey.

following the hta guidance for applicants.
all 47 applicants stated that they had referred to the nihr hta guidance for applicants when completing their application and ten of those 47 reported that they had followed the recommendation in the guidance to search the comet database for a cos. eight of these ten had not mentioned their search in their application, and of those eight, two found a relevant cos. although they had referred to the guidance, a further eleven applicants stated that they did not search for a cos. of the remaining 26 applicants, 19 reported that they had considered a cos using one or more resource other than the comet database. six considered a cos without a search of the comet database as they were involved in the development of the cos, 12 carried out a search of the literature either as their only source of information or alongside other sources, seven applicants discussed the existence of cos with personal contacts and experts in the field, and it was not clear from seven applicants’ responses if they searched for a cos before deciding on their outcomes (table 2). ten of these 19 applicants that searched for a cos had not mentioned this in their application and one of those 10 found a cos.

applicants who found and used a cos, either through a search of the comet database or some other source, provided a number of reasons for deciding to use the cos. applicants referred to the benefits of cos (e.g. enabling comparison of studies and including outcomes that had been peer reviewed), external influence (e.g. from a clinical trials unit and journal), and being involved in the development of a cos. table 3 shows examples of applicants’ comments. some applicants who found a cos that was relevant to the health condition in their study, even if not an exact fit for this, explained how they used the cos to inform their choice of outcomes. this included facilitating discussions of the applicants, experts and patient and public focus groups around which outcomes to choose, and incorporating some outcomes from the cos. table 3 shows examples of applicants’ comments. in contrast, one applicant who found a cos that was relevant explained how they chose not to use it and instead used their experience of conducting trials and researching outcomes in the relevant health area to inform their choice of outcomes.

those applicants who responded to the survey and had already provided justification of choice of outcomes confirmed what they said in their applications. additional information came from seven applicants who had not mentioned comet or cos, or explained their choice of outcomes in their application. in the survey, these applicants echoed reasons given by others for their choice of outcomes, i.e. two were informed by a feasibility trial, six chose outcomes that had been used in other trials, five were informed by feedback from the funding board and three considered patient or public opinion.

discussion
our study set out to assess the impact of a funder’s recommendation to clinical trialists to search for and use a cos in their study, and to discover how trialists choose outcomes to measure when a cos is not available. a number of trial funders endorse the use of cos and the comet database (http://www.comet-initiative.org/cosuptake) and this study focused on the impact of the recommendation by the nihr hta programme.

our results suggest that a funding body has the potential to have an impact on cos uptake by encouraging trialists to search for a cos. based on the information provided by applicants in their application forms, and answers to survey questions, it is evident that at least 17 of 95 applicants searched the comet database and seven of those applicants found a published cos to use in their trial or a cos in development to help inform their choice of outcomes. in addition another 19 applicants searched for cos using other sources, for example, a literature search, and 6 of those applicants found a published cos or a cos in development to inform their study. out of a possible 24 applications that could have included a completed, published cos, seven (29%) applications did so.

however, it is possible that more applicants may have searched for and included a cos in their application but it was not possible to determine this in our assessment of the applications. this is because not all nihr hta applicants mention their search for a cos in their application form. the survey of chief investigators identified 18 applicants who had searched for a cos using the comet database or another source but had not mentioned this in their application. therefore, there may be more steps that could be taken by funding bodies beyond making the recommendation about cos that could further encourage uptake, make it possible to accurately assess the full impact of the recommendations, and ascertain whether the guidance is being adhered to.

for example, if the nihr staff conducted their own search they might identify cos that should have been considered by the applicant. it would be useful for the funding board to be notified of the results of such a search, but it is important to acknowledge that this would require extra resources for staff to carry out the checks. for some funders this additional process may prove to be too resource intensive. a possible solution that would eliminate the need for additional resources in these circumstances might be for a member of the funding board to carry out a search of the comet database during discussions about the outcomes included in the applications. it is evident from the application forms that 12 applicants in the cohort took advice about outcomes from the funding board and seven more applicants who had not mentioned this in their application forms reported having done so in the survey. if the board established whether a cos was available when discussing applications they could recommend its uptake in the feedback provided to the applicant. the search for a cos using the comet database is a relatively quick process where a disease category or name can be selected and results can be restricted to show relevant cos for clinical trials. although some applicants in our study used other ways to search for cos, e.g. by conducting their own search of the literature, the comet database is recommended as it collates information about existing and developing cos in one place making it an effective resource for trialists. the content for the database comes from a systematic review[9] that is updated annually to ensure that the information held in the database is current[10–13].

as our study shows that some researchers are not explicit in their application about searching for cos, it may help to prompt them to report this by including a check list alongside the application form where the applicant can indicate what search they had done (e.g. of the comet database). this would also provide further encouragement for applicants to search for a cos because although all survey responders stated that they used the guidance notes, eleven went on to report that they did not search for a cos. while it could result in extra burden for applicants to complete an additional checklist some journals have demonstrated that introducing such processes is possible by incorporating reporting guidelines as recommended by the equator network (http://www.equator-network.org/toolkits/using-guidelines-in-journals/). this may include a requirement for authors to follow reporting guidelines and complete a checklist to confirm which guideline they have used that can be checked by editorial staff or peer reviewers. an alternative approach would be to include the recommendation about cos in the outcomes section of the application form, as well as in the guidance to applicants, to act as a further prompt to applicants. this approach has been put into practice by kce, the belgian health care knowledge centre (https://kce.fgov.be/en/kce-trials-2018-investigator-led-call). if the recommendation to search for and use cos became common practice across all funders of clinical trials, and the suggested processes for checking and further advising applicants were put in place, there would be great potential for funding bodies to have a significant impact on the uptake of cos in clinical trials.

along with funders it is recognised that recommendations from other sources, such as trials registries, could facilitate the uptake of cos[14]. in addition, support from end users of cos, for example, clinical guideline organisations, hta bodies and payers, may encourage uptake[15].

as well as the facilitators to cos uptake it is also important to consider the barriers. for example, one survey respondent in our study chose to use their team’s experience in trials and outcomes research to select outcomes for their study rather than using a cos. it is key that trialists are invested in a cos for their condition of interest for uptake to be achieved[16]. without the investment of end users, the development of a cos is, as noted above, likely to result in research waste through poor uptake.

although there are over 300 published cos available[13], there are still many conditions in need of a cos, and for 68 of the 95 applications assessed in this study a cos, or potentially relevant cos, did not exist at the time of submission. if those 68 applications were submitted now 32 would find a cos that has since been developed. although the gaps are being filled, if a cos has not been developed, researchers need to access other sources to inform their decision about which outcomes to include in their trials and identification of the sources they use might highlight opportunities for cos developers to improve access to their work and its output. for example more than half the applicants included in this study sought the opinions of patients and the public on outcomes that should be included in their trial. this greater role for patients and the public supports the increasing focus on the inclusion of patients and the public in the development of cos[17, 18]. it also suggests that patients and the public could play an important role in the dissemination and implementation of cos.

achieving full compliance by trialists to search for a cos when planning their trial is likely to take time to achieve as trialists become accustomed to the process, and it may require a change in culture for consideration of cos to become standard practice in clinical trials[15, 19]. as the number of cos continues to grow, and to allow time for trialists to adapt to searching for cos, we will endeavour to carry out another assessment of funding applications in three years’ time to determine if uptake of cos has increased. we recognise that future assessments should also include applications to other funders and not be limited to those submitted to the nihr hta. this will provide a wider view of the influence of funder recommendations on cos uptake.

to build on the findings of this study, we plan to conduct interviews with clinical trialists to solicit their opinions of cos and their development, and find out how trialists assess if a cos is relevant to their trial. this will allow a deeper understanding of the barriers that may limit, and facilitators that may encourage, uptake of cos.

to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to assess the impact of a funder’s recommendation to search for and use cos on the choice of outcomes in applications for funding for clinical trials, building on efforts of funders to reduce research waste[20]. we analysed data from two sources (application forms and a survey of applicants) but acknowledge that that was limited to applications to a single funder, albeit the largest source of public funding for clinical trials in the uk. the survey included the need for the respondent to identify their project, which may have contributed to the proportion of non-respondents.

<|EndOfText|>

abstract
objective to evaluate the impact of an editorial intervention to improve completeness of reporting of reports of randomised trials.

design randomised controlled trial (rct).

setting bmj open’s quality improvement programme.

participants 24 manuscripts describing rcts.

interventions we used an r shiny application to randomise manuscripts (1:1 allocation ratio, blocks of 4) to the intervention (n=12) or control (n=12) group. the intervention was performed by a researcher with expertise in the content of the consolidated standards of reporting trials (consort) and consisted of an evaluation of completeness of reporting of eight core consort items using the submitted checklist to locate information, and the production of a report containing specific requests for authors based on the reporting issues found, provided alongside the peer review reports. the control group underwent the usual peer review.

outcomes the primary outcome is the number of adequately reported items (0–8 scale) in the revised manuscript after the first round of peer review. the main analysis was intention-to-treat (n=24), and we imputed the scores of lost to follow-up manuscripts (rejected after peer review and not resubmitted). the secondary outcome is the proportion of manuscripts where each item was adequately reported. two blinded reviewers assessed the outcomes independently and in duplicate and solved disagreements by consensus. we also recorded the amount of time to perform the intervention.

results manuscripts in the intervention group (mean: 7.01; sd: 1.47) were more completely reported than those in the control group (mean: 5.68; sd: 1.43) (mean difference 1.43, 95% ci 0.31 to 2.58). we observed the main differences in items 6a (outcomes), 9 (allocation concealment mechanism), 11a (blinding) and 17a (outcomes and estimation). the mean time to perform the intervention was 87 (sd 42) min.

conclusions we demonstrated the benefit of involving a reporting guideline expert in the editorial process. improving the completeness of rcts is essential to enhance their usability.

introduction
the lack of transparency and accuracy of research reports has been pointed out as one of the main factors causing research waste.1 adequate reporting allows researchers to replicate results, generate new hypothesis or compare the results of different studies; allows healthcare professionals to make clinical decisions; allows governments to change public policies; and helps patients to be aware of what healthcare options they have.2

reporting guidelines (rgs) are sets of minimum recommendations for authors, usually in the form of a checklist, on how to report research methods and findings so that no relevant information is omitted.2 since the inception in 1996 of the consolidated standards of reporting trials (consort) for the reporting of randomised controlled trials (rcts),3 hundreds of rgs for different study types, data, and preclinical and clinical areas have been developed.4 consort is currently one of the most well-established rgs and has been revised and updated twice.5 6

most rgs have not been evaluated as to whether they actually improve completeness of reporting. even for those that have been shown to be beneficial, such as consort, the degree of author adherence is poor.7 for this reason, a range of interventions aimed to improve adherence to rgs have been proposed, and the impact of some of these on completeness of reporting has been evaluated. a recent scoping review identified and classified 31 interventions targeting different stakeholders, including authors, peer reviewers, journal editors, medical schools and ethics boards.8 among these, only four were assessed in rcts and their effects were varied.9–12 most of the studies included in the scoping review described observational studies that evaluated the pooled effect of different journal strategies, which ranged from making available editorial statements that endorse certain rgs, recommending or requiring authors to follow rgs in the ‘instructions to authors’, and requiring authors to submit a completed rg checklist together with the manuscript. however, these actions have been shown not to have the desired effect.13–16 in contrast, completeness of reporting improved remarkably when editors were in the process of checking adherence to rgs.17

recently, many biomedical journals have opted for requiring the submission of rg checklists alongside the manuscript. while sometimes checking these is delegated to peer reviewers, journal editors generally report that this task goes beyond the role of these and that it may even decrease the quality of peer review reports.18 if checking reporting issues becomes a standard exercise for peer reviewers, some editors are afraid that peer reviewers may be less likely to comment on important aspects of a manuscript, such as its importance, novelty and relevance. involving trained experts or administrative staff could be a way to make the most of this editorial strategy.18

study objectives
we describe an rct to evaluate the effect of an editorial intervention performed by a researcher with expertise in consort on the completeness of reporting of trials submitted to bmj open, compared with the standard peer review process.

methods
trial design and study setting
this was a two-arm, parallel, randomised trial (1:1 allocation ratio) conducted in collaboration with bmj open, an open-access general medical journal (published by the bmj publishing group) that requests the submission of completed consort checklists for rcts. prior to recruitment, we registered the study in clinicaltrials.gov and uploaded the study protocol.19

eligibility criteria
manuscripts were eligible for inclusion if (1) they were original research articles reporting the results of an rct submitted to bmj open, (2) they had passed the first editorial filter and had been subsequently sent out for peer review, and (3) the authors of these manuscripts had provided a completed consort checklist as part of the submission process. apart from the standard, two-arm, parallel rcts, which are covered by the standard consort guidelines,20 we also included rcts that require the use of the official consort extensions for different design aspects (cluster,21 non-inferiority and equivalence,22 pragmatic,23 n-of-1 trials,24 pilot and feasibility,25 and within-person trials)26 and intervention types (herbal,27 non-pharmacological,28 acupuncture29 and chinese herbal medicine formulas30) in all areas of clinical research. we excluded studies that claimed to be rcts but used deterministic allocation methods and secondary trial analysis studies.

interventions
we designed a three-step intervention based on the results of our previous work,8 18 ensuring no disruption to usual editorial procedures. the lead investigator (db), a phd student with a background in statistics who had worked for 2 years on the topic of improving adherence to rgs and who had expertise in the content of consort, performed the intervention. first, he assessed completeness of reporting of eight core consort items (see the following paragraph) using the submitted checklist to locate the information corresponding to each item. second, he produced a standardised report containing precise requests to be addressed by authors. this report included a point by point description of the reporting issues found, requests to the authors to include the missing information (see example in box 1), as well as examples extracted from the consort explanation and elaboration (e&e) document.20 finally, db uploaded the report to the manuscript tracking system of the journal (scholarone) to make it accessible to the manuscript handling editor, who included this additional report in the decision letter to authors alongside the standard peer review reports. manuscripts randomised to the control group underwent the usual peer review process. in figure 1, we display a schema of the study design.

box 1 example of report reflecting the reporting issues found
please make the following revisions:

for consort item 8a (‘method used to generate the random allocation sequence’), please report the exact method you used to generate the random allocation sequence.

example from consort: ‘randomization sequence was created using stata m.n (statacorp, college station, tx) statistical software’.

for consort item 11a (‘if done, who was blinded after assignment to interventions and how’), please specify in ‘trial design and setting’ who was blinded in the study and do not just state that it was a double-blind randomised trial.

example from consort: ‘whereas patients and physicians allocated to the intervention group were aware of the allocated arm, outcome assessors and data analysts were kept blinded to the allocation’.

consort, consolidated standards of reporting trials.

the intervention was focused on eight core consort items (see box 2) which are essential for researchers evaluating the risk of bias of rcts when conducting systematic reviews31 and which are usually poorly reported.32

we considered an item as adequately reported if all subparts of it were adequately reported, according to the consort e&e document20 and the corresponding e&e documents for the extensions considered. for example, for consort item 6a (‘completely defined pre-specified primary and secondary outcome measures, including how and when they were assessed’), we required the following subparts to be adequately reported: (1) identified and completely defined primary and secondary outcomes, (2) analysis metric and methods of aggregation for each outcome, and (3) time points for each outcome.

the items corresponding to consort extensions were assessed in addition to the standard consort items. for example, we expected authors of a cluster randomised trial evaluating a pharmacological treatment to be using the standard consort checklist for all eight items and the cluster extension for items 6a, 9, 13a, 13b and 17a. in contrast, the items requested by the pilot and feasibility extension substituted the standard consort items, as specified in its e&e document.25 once the recruitment had begun, we decided to discard the extension for non-pharmacological interventions as it was not being requested by the editors nor sent by the authors.

in online supplementary file 1, we present further details on the rules we used to deal with not applicable items and with certain aspects of specific items.

outcomes
primary outcome: the mean score for completeness of reporting, defined as the mean number of adequately reported items in the first revised manuscript (0–8 scale).

secondary outcome: proportion of manuscripts where each item was adequately reported.

in the design phase of the study, we considered two potential scenarios where included manuscripts could potentially be lost to follow-up: (1) when editors rejected a manuscript after peer review and (2) when authors did not return the revised manuscript within the period requested by the handling editor after a ‘minor revision’ or ‘major revision’ editorial decision (14 and 28 days, respectively, plus, if necessary, the extra time that the editor considered appropriate). in the ‘statistical methods’ section, we report the methods used to impute the study outcomes for lost to follow-up articles.

outcome evaluation was performed independently and in duplicate by two senior researchers (ec, jjk) who were blinded to manuscript allocation and had experience as authors and reviewers of rcts. they also assessed outcomes at baseline. in cases where a manuscript was rejected after the first round of peer review, assessors could only evaluate it at baseline. however, they were not aware of the fate of that manuscript until after they had completed that evaluation. more details about the outcome assessment process can be found in online supplementary file 2.

for each of the manuscripts in the intervention group, we also recorded the amount of time it took the lead investigator to perform the intervention.

harms
we analysed whether our intervention caused the following unintended effects: higher proportion of manuscript rejections after the first round of peer review and delays in the submission of the revised manuscripts by authors.

pilot work
to inform the sample size calculation, the lead investigator assessed 12 randomly selected rcts published in bmj open between april 2018 and september 2018. the proportions of adequately reported items observed in these manuscripts were used to estimate the scores for completeness of reporting of the manuscripts in the control group (usual peer review).

furthermore, outcome assessors (ec, jjk) practised the evaluation of completeness of reporting by assessing 6 of the 12 rcts that were mentioned.

power analysis
according to the assessment described in the ‘pilot work’ section, the estimated probabilities that manuscripts in the control group adequately reported 0, 1, 2,…, and 8 items were 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.17, 0.33, 0.33 and 0.17, respectively. with the intervention, we aimed to bring this distribution to 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.5 and 0.5. in other words, manuscripts in the intervention group were expected to be adequately reporting seven or eight items 50% of the time, respectively.

in order to relax the strong required assumptions behind using a t-test for a reduced sample size, we used bootstrapping, a simple yet powerful non-parametric technique.33 first, given the probability distributions mentioned, we performed 10 000 simulations of the scores of n manuscripts. we resampled each of these simulations 10 000 times in order to calculate the 95% ci of the mean difference between groups. finally, we calculated the study power by counting for how many of the 10 000 simulations the lower limit of this 95% ci was over 0.

choosing a sample size of 24 manuscripts (12 per arm) and following the procedure above gave us 90% power (alpha=0.05, two-tailed). the r code used can be found in online supplementary file 3, script a.

randomisation and blinding
prior to recruitment of manuscripts, db screened automated reports listing original research submissions to bmj open on scholarone, daily, including their identification (id), date of submission, title, abstract and different parameters related to their peer review status. rcts were identified for possible inclusion based on the title and abstract and then checked against our eligibility criteria until the desired sample size was achieved.

every time a manuscript met our eligibility criteria, db introduced its id into an r shiny application34 created by a senior statistician (jag) (see online supplementary file 3, script b), which randomised the manuscript to the intervention or the control group (1:1 allocation ratio, blocks of 4). manuscripts were stratified according to whether there was an applicable consort extension for that study or not. to avoid allocation bias, each id could only be introduced once.

as part of the usual submission process, all authors are informed that the bmj publishing group has a quality improvement programme and their manuscript might be entered into a study. however, authors of included manuscripts were not explicitly informed that their manuscripts were part of an rct.

outcome assessors were blinded to allocation and to each other’s evaluation. handling editors of the included manuscripts and the investigator performing the intervention (db) were not blinded.

statistical methods
we carried out statistical analysis using r v.3.6.0.35

for the primary outcome, we adjusted a linear regression model with the baseline score of the manuscript as the only covariate. we calculated the 95% ci using bootstrapping (see online supplementary file 3, script c).

the main analysis of the primary outcome was intention-to-treat: all manuscripts were included in this analysis regardless of whether they were lost to follow-up. we imputed the scores of lost to follow-up manuscripts with a value of 8-b, where b was the baseline score of the manuscript. this imputation strategy aimed to reflect the fact that rejecting rcts of low baseline quality could be considered an editorial success. in addition, we assessed the sensitivity of the results by carrying out a complete case analysis and analysing the best case (manuscripts in the intervention group reached the maximum score and controls did not improve) and worst case (manuscripts in the intervention group did not improve and controls reached the maximum score) scenarios.

we did not plan any subgroup analysis (see protocol19) and so none is reported.

deviations from the protocol
the last criterion (3: authors of the manuscripts had provided a completed consort checklist) was not included in the first version of the protocol, but we implemented it before recruitment started. the reason was that, despite the submission of the consort checklist for trials being mandatory, we observed that handling editors were occasionally overlooking this requirement and sending out manuscripts of trials for peer review that did not include one. second, we initially used a t-test to calculate the study power and planned to use it for the primary outcome analysis. however, for the reasons described in the ‘power analysis’ section, we used a bootstrap approach and the study power increased from the 85% stated in the protocol to 90%. third, we decided to assess the baseline scores for completeness of reporting for the included manuscripts in order to adjust for these in the primary outcome analysis. with this we tried to avoid that a difference in the baseline scores between the two groups could make the intervention seem to have a larger or smaller effect than it actually had. finally, we added a best-case and worst-case scenario analysis to assess the sensitivity of the primary outcome results.

reporting guidelines
we report this manuscript in accordance with consort 2010.6

patient and public involvement
patients were not study participants and were not involved in setting the research question, designing the study, in the conduct of the study or in the interpretation of the results.

results
between 31 october 2018 and 4 april 2019, we screened 62 manuscripts that described rcts submitted to bmj open. among these, we excluded 38 either because they were rejected without peer review (n=34) or because the authors did not provide the consort checklist (n=4). we randomised the remaining 24 to the intervention (n=12) or control (n=12) groups. six (25%) manuscripts were lost to follow-up (intervention n=3, control n=3) as they were rejected after the first round of peer review and therefore not returned to authors for revision (scenario 1 in the outcomes section). no manuscripts were lost to follow-up in scenario 2 as all authors returned the revised manuscripts within the given time. therefore, 18 manuscripts (intervention n=9, control n=9) were revised by authors. figure 2 shows the flow diagram of the study.

most manuscripts (n=19, 79%) required at least one extension: non-pharmacological (intervention n=10, control n=8), pilot and feasibility (n=3, n=4), and cluster (n=2, n=1). table 1 displays the baseline characteristics of the included manuscripts.

the mean (sd) baseline score for completeness of reporting (0–8 scale) prior to peer review in the intervention (n=12) and control (n=12) groups was 4.35 (1.88) and 4.85 (1.79), respectively. the mean (sd) baseline score of the manuscripts that later passed the first round of peer review (n=18) was much more complete (scores almost double) than those that were rejected after the first round of peer review (n=6): 5.23 (1.35) vs 2.68 (1.75).

primary outcome
for the intention-to-treat analysis (n=24), the manuscripts that received the intervention were more completely reported than the ones that underwent the standard review process (intervention group: mean 7.01 (sd 1.47) vs control group: mean 5.68 (sd 1.43)). after adjusting for the baseline score, the mean difference in scores between the two groups was 1.43 (95% ci 0.31 to 2.58); the manuscripts in the intervention group reported on average 1.43 (out of 8) items more adequately than those receiving the standard peer review. regarding the sensitivity analysis, for the complete case (n=18) the mean (sd) scores for the intervention and control groups were 7.45 (1.00) and 5.90 (1.35), giving an adjusted difference of 1.75 (95% ci 0.80 to 2.75). the best-case and worst-case scenario analysis (n=24) led to adjusted differences of 2.62 (95% ci 1.49 to 3.65) and 0.03 (95% ci −1.45 to 1.63), respectively. table 2 summarises these results.

figure 3 shows the evolution of the 18 manuscripts that were revised and resubmitted. from the nine manuscripts in the intervention group, six of them achieved the maximum score and another two improved. in contrast, the only manuscript in the control group that reached the maximum score already had that score at baseline. three manuscripts in the control group slightly improved (1, 1 and 2 points, respectively). we identified that three out of four of these improvements were the result of comments made by the standard peer reviewers, rather than the authors themselves.

secondary outcome
figure 4 displays the proportions of manuscripts where each consort item was adequately reported. we observed the main differences favouring the intervention group in items 6a (outcomes), 9 (allocation concealment mechanism), 11a (blinding) and 17a (outcomes and estimation).

feasibility of the intervention
the mean (sd) time taken to perform the intervention was 87 (42) min. online supplementary file 4 displays a scatter plot that compares the amount of time spent to perform the intervention and the baseline score of the 12 manuscripts in the intervention group. there was no correlation between these two variables (r=0.08).

harms
we did not identify any unintended effects. there were no differences between the intervention and the control groups for the proportion of manuscripts that were rejected after the first round of peer review (3 of 12, 25%, for each group). furthermore, all authors submitted the revised manuscripts within the period requested by the handling editor.

discussion
we found that the introduction during the peer review process of an editorial intervention performed by a researcher with expertise in the content of consort significantly improved the completeness of reporting of trials submitted to bmj open compared with standard peer review. six of the nine manuscripts in the intervention group achieved the maximum score and another two improved. in contrast, the only manuscript in the control group with the maximum score at follow-up already had reached that score at baseline. we observed the main differences favouring the intervention group in items 6a (outcomes), 9 (allocation concealment mechanism), 11a (blinding) and 17a (outcomes and estimation). moreover, providing authors with extra comments on reporting issues did not seem to discourage them from revising the manuscript as all authors returned the revised manuscripts within the standard 28 days requirement.

strengths and limitations
this study has several strengths: the randomised trial design; the fact that the intervention was performed in a real editorial context alongside peer review reports with no disruption to usual editorial procedures; and the fact that the outcome assessment process was blinded and in duplicate.

we also note some limitations that affect the generalisability of our results. our intervention was focused only on consort, which is one of the most well-established rgs. it could potentially be more difficult for authors to fully address reviewers’ comments about other less familiar rgs. we only included one journal and the same effect might not be observed in other journals. nonetheless, we purposefully selected a very large general medical journal receiving international submissions across multiple specialties. we considered only eight core consort items that are essential for evaluating the risk of bias of rcts and not the whole checklist.

implications
given the importance of improving the completeness of reporting of randomised trials and given the ineffectiveness of the strategies that biomedical journals are currently implementing,13–16 it is time to take a step forward. our study provides empirical evidence of the effectiveness of involving in the peer review process a researcher with expertise in consort. in this study, the intervention was carried out by a phd student and was implemented alongside peer review. however, this intervention could potentially be done by trained editorial staff, editors or external consultants. the demonstrated benefits of our intervention should encourage journal editors to find the best way to make this feasible.

we note that the complete case analysis and the best-case scenario of the sensitivity analysis point to a larger effect of the intervention than the main analysis. the worst-case scenario shows no effect. however, this scenario would assume (1) that the three rejected manuscripts in the intervention group would not improve from baseline; and (2) that all manuscripts in the control group would reach the maximum score. this scenario seems highly unlikely given that eight out of nine manuscripts that were not rejected in the intervention group improved from baseline and that only three controls improved and none of these reached the maximum score.

more than two decades ago, scientists started to discuss the importance of including statistical reviews as part of the publication process.36 nowadays, statistical reviews have become widespread among top medical journals. these are usually performed by a statistician and focus on the methodological and statistical aspects of the study. as methodological issues are often not fixable, statistical reviews are key to determining the fate of manuscripts and preventing unsound research getting published.37 completeness of reporting reviews should also become a key component in the publication system. as reporting issues are often improvable, these reviews should not generally aim to determine whether a manuscript should be published or not, but to improve their transparency. this would both help editors and peer reviewers make decisions on the manuscripts and improve the usability of published papers.

a few other rcts have assessed different strategies for improving adherence to rgs. a recent rct did not show that requesting authors to submit a checklist improves completeness of reporting and called for more stringent editorial policies.16 the implementation of a writing aid tool for authors (consort-based web tool) led to a moderate improvement in the completeness of reporting,11 whereas getting a statistician to perform an additional review against rgs showed a slightly positive but smaller than hypothesised effect.10 suggesting peer reviewers to check rgs9 and implementing the web-based tool webconsort at the manuscript revision stage showed no positive impact.12 however, comparisons between the results of our study and these rcts must be made with caution as they targeted different rgs and were carried out in different settings.

the time taken for us to perform the intervention (87 min on average, with great variation between manuscripts) is clearly a barrier to wider implementation. future research could evaluate whether this intervention should be focused on the whole consort checklist, which would make this strategy even more time-consuming, or only on a few core items (such as those we found to be poorly reported). also, it would be interesting to assess whether similar benefits can be obtained for other widely used rgs, such as the standard protocol items: recommendations for interventional trials38 or the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses.39 furthermore, this intervention could also be tested at other points in the editorial process, for example before the first decision is made on the manuscript or between the first decision and the invitation of external peer reviewers. for this study, we discarded both options for pragmatic reasons, as we did not want to alter the usual editorial process. while the first could be too resource-intensive for journals, the latter would imply the same effort and the manuscript would undergo more transparent and accurate peer review, which could make the task of peer reviewers and handling editors easier and more efficient. we strongly recommend that journals always carry out experiments in real editorial contexts, such as this study, before considering making any changes in their policies.

conclusions
this study provides evidence that involving a researcher with expertise in consort in the process of evaluating rg checklists submitted by authors significantly improves the completeness of reporting of randomised trials. this is essential to reducing the research waste associated within adequate reporting of rct methods and findings. journal editors should consider revising their peer review processes to find ways to make this intervention workable, tailoring it to their preferences.

<|EndOfText|>

summary
background
the suitability of disease activity indices has been challenged, with growing interest in objective measures of inflammation.

aim
to undertake a systematic review of efficacy and safety outcomes in placebo‐controlled randomised controlled trials (rcts) of patients with crohn's disease.

methods
medline, embase, cinahl and cochrane library were searched until november 2015, for rcts of adult crohn's disease patients treated with medical or surgical therapies. data on efficacy and safety outcomes, end‐point definitions, and measurement instruments were extracted and stratified by publication date (pre‐2009 and 2009 onwards).

results
one hundred and eighty‐one rcts (110 induction and 71 maintenance) were identified, including 23 850 patients. about 92.3% reported clinical efficacy endpoints. the crohn's disease activity index (cdai) dominated, defining clinical response or remission in 63.5% of trials (35 definitions of response or remission). cdai < 150 was the commonest endpoint, but reporting reduced between periods (46.4%‐41.1%), whilst use of cdai100 increased (16.8%‐30.4%). fistula studies most commonly reported fistula closure (9, 90.0%). reporting of biomarker, endoscopy and histology endpoints increased overall (33.3%‐40.6%, 14.4%‐30.4% and 3.2%‐12.5%, respectively), but were heterogeneous and rarely reported in fistula trials. patient‐reported outcome measures were reported in 41.4% of trials and safety endpoints in 35.4%. many of the common adverse events relate to disease exacerbation or treatment failure.

conclusions
trial endpoints vary across studies, over time and are distinct in fistula studies. despite growth in reporting of objective measures of inflammation and in patient‐reported outcome measures, there is a lack of standardisation. this confirms the need for a core outcome set for comparative effectiveness research in crohn's disease.

1 introduction
defining the key outcomes of therapeutic interventions and the best way to measure those outcomes is essential for clinical and regulatory decision‐making. due to the complexity of crohn's disease and the multitude of treatments, a number of different outcomes and outcome measures have been reported in clinical trials including symptom scores, composite disease activity indices and quality of life questionnaires.1, 2 decision‐making also relies on the availability of good information on the unintended effects (harms) from treatments.

heterogeneity in reporting of outcomes or measurement instruments within clinical trials may hinder the comparison of results within systematic reviews and inhibit the meaningful interpretation of individual studies.3 one way to mitigate this problem is the introduction of an agreed minimum set of standardised outcomes, to be measured and reported in all trials for a particular condition, referred to as a core outcome set.4 there is no core outcome set for crohn's disease, although a model has been proposed for classifying outcomes for all inflammatory bowel diseases using the world health organisation international classification of functioning, disability and health (icf).5 recently, the international consortium for health outcomes measurement developed a “standard set” for inflammatory bowel disease with recommendations for the pragmatic measurement of outcomes in routine care to support benchmarking.6 also recently published is a study protocol for the development of a core outcome set for inflammatory bowel disease7 and a core outcome set for fistulising crohn's disease,8 indicating the importance of this research area. future trial design and core outcome set development for crohn's disease would benefit from a systematic synthesis of outcome reporting across published clinical trials, incorporating statistical testing and consideration of adverse events.

in this study, we systematically reviewed the literature to extract data on the outcomes and measurement instruments used, and the safety outcomes reported, in randomised clinical trials (rcts) of treatments for crohn's disease. our aims were to explore the extent of heterogeneity among existing trials, to examine time trends in reporting and to generate insights to support future trial design and core outcome set development. our results extend beyond the recently published literature in this area by including a broader set of interventions, offering statistical testing of time trends in outcome reporting and bringing new evidence on harms reporting in crohn's disease.8, 9

2 methods
2.1 systematic search
we registered review protocols with the international prospective register of systematic reviews (prospero) database (crd42016027656 http://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero) and the core outcome measures in effectiveness trials (comet) database (http://www.comet-initiative.org/studies/details/867).

we conducted a systematic electronic search of the cochrane register of controlled trials (central), embase, medline and the cumulative index to nursing and allied health literature (cinahl) until november 2015, with no date limits. the disease term “crohn's disease” and the key word “outcome” were used. see tables s1 to s4 for detailed search criteria.

2.2 eligibility criteria and study selection
randomised control trials of drug therapies (corticosteroids, 5‐asas, immunosuppressants, biologics and antibiotics), surgery and nondrug therapies (enteral nutrition, complementary and alternative medicine, probiotics and prebiotics) were included, as were rcts of treatments for complications (strictures, fissures, abscesses and perforations). eligible trials were conducted in adult patients (aged 18 or over) with crohn's disease. studies of inflammatory bowel disease populations were eligible provided outcomes were reported separately for crohn's disease. studies had to be published as full text in english.

duplicates were removed after a complete list of rcts was generated. two reviewers (hc and jk) independently assessed the sample of 100 studies against eligibility criteria at the title and abstract screening stages and resolved discrepancies by discussion. a random sample of 100 was selected for review due to time constraints. the sample was generated by assigning each article a number and using a random number generator. there were no issues found when screening the 100 articles and the primary researcher (hc) screened the remaining papers independently. full copies were obtained of all potentially eligible studies and reassessed against eligibility criteria by the primary researcher (hc). reference was made to the second reviewer (jk) where needed.

2.3 data collection
data were extracted from the studies by the primary researcher. a randomly generated sample of 10 studies were reviewed and data extracted by the primary researcher and the secondary researcher (jk) checked the extraction. no inaccuracies were found in the data extraction of the sample of 10 papers and the primary researcher extracted data from the remaining papers independently. studies were categorised as induction or maintenance with subcategories of medical vs surgical induction and maintenance of medically induced vs surgically induced remission. rcts focusing solely on patients with fistulising disease were flagged to identify differences in reported outcomes. efficacy and safety outcomes were recorded as reported as primary or secondary outcomes, or not specified as either. the efficacy outcomes were categorised in line with the method used by ma et al10 as clinical or composite‐clinical, endoscopic, histologic, biomarkers and patient‐reported outcomes (pros). safety‐related outcomes were recorded as primary or secondary outcomes.

adverse event reporting was recorded in specific categories: adverse events, serious adverse events, treatment‐related adverse events, treatment‐related serious adverse events, study withdrawal, abnormal laboratory results and adverse events by preferred term according to the medical dictionary for regulatory activities (meddra).11 study withdrawals were categorised as due to adverse events, serious adverse events, treatment‐related adverse events, treatment‐related serious adverse events, treatment failure (insufficient therapeutic effect, exacerbation of crohn's disease, development of complications or need for additional therapy, surgery or hospitalisation) or other reasons (protocol noncompliance, lost to follow‐up, prohibited medicine use or withdrawal of consent).

a critique of the methodological quality of the studies was unnecessary, as this project did not involve synthesis of outcome data.

2.4 synthesis of results and analysis
a comprehensive record of efficacy and safety outcomes was generated and organised by outcome type. our main analysis of efficacy outcomes focused on those designated as primary or secondary endpoints. we adopted a similar approach for safety‐related outcomes but also analysed all reported data for adverse events and study withdrawals. adverse event reporting was considered at two levels of the meddra hierarchy: system organ classification (soc) and higher level group term, the latter of which is considered a clinically relevant grouping of meddra preferred terms.11 adverse events were grouped by meddra higher level group terms and ranked in the order of frequency of reporting. the top 10 ranked higher level group term adverse events were compared by trial type and drug class.

a secondary analysis considered the reporting of outcomes were not specified as primary or secondary endpoints. to mirror the increased focus on the importance of mucosal healing,12 the number of studies that reported additional endoscopic or histologic outcomes or the faecal calprotectin biomarker was assessed.

the proportion of studies reporting each type of outcome was calculated, by trial type. the results were stratified by into pre‐2009 and 2009 onwards and the changes over time in reporting were summarised in matrix form with outcome categories listed in rows and frequency of outcome reporting plotted in greyscale on a time axis.10 the statistical significance of any changes between time periods in outcome reporting was tested using the chi‐squared test (with 1 df, the critical value of chi is 3.84).

the review was reported in line with the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta‐analyses (prisma) statement and harms the checklist.13, 14

3 results
3.1 systematic search results
the search identified 9561 unique records (figure 1) and included 181 rcts (characteristics in table s5). induction of remission was the focus of 110 studies: 104 (94.5%) through medical15-118 and six (5.5%) through surgical approaches119-124(table 1). nine (of 110, 8.2%) induction studies solely treated patients with fistula with medical36, 64, 79, 86, 91, 110, 113 or surgical119, 120 therapies.

maintenance of remission was the focus of 71 studies: 52 (73.2%) sought to maintain remission achieved through medical therapies125-176 and 19 (26.8%) aimed to maintain surgically induced remission.177-195 one study aimed to maintain medically induced remission in fistula patients.146

in total, 23 850 patients were involved in the studies, with median follow‐up of 16 weeks (iqr: 8.0‐25.1) in induction studies and 52.0 weeks (iqr 48.0‐60.0) in maintenance studies. over 30% of studies were published after 2009 (56 of 181, 30.9%). biologics were the intervention of interest in 33.7% studies (61), either as monotherapy or in combination.

table 2 shows a summary of the primary and secondary outcomes reported in crohn's disease rcts and highlights the wide range of outcomes and outcome measures. the reporting of outcomes not specified as primary or secondary endpoints was common (158 studies, 87.3%) and was consistent across the two time periods.

3.2 efficacy outcomes
3.2.1 clinical or composite‐clinical
clinical or composite‐clinical efficacy outcomes were reported as primary or secondary endpoints in 92.3% of trials, which was consistent across the two time periods (figure 2a).

clinical response was reported by 70.0% (77) induction studies, 75 (of 104, 72.1%) medical and two (of six, 33.3%) surgical interventions (table s6). clinical response was reported less frequently in maintenance trials (31 of 71, 43.7%) but was more common in studies of maintenance of medically induced remission (26, 50%) than surgically induced (5, 19.3%). clinical response was an outcome in 80% (eight) of studies of patients with fistulae.

clinical remission was reported in 65.5% (72) of induction studies (all medical) and 19.7% (14) of maintenance studies. clinical remission was not reported as a trial endpoint in surgical studies or studies of fistula patients.

disease relapse or worsening was a primary or secondary outcome in 12.7% of induction studies (13 medical and one surgical) and 38 (73.1%) studies of maintenance of medically induced remission. recurrence was reported in 14 (73.7%) maintenance studies of surgery‐induced remission and one (16.7%) surgical induction study.

fistula response and remission were commonly reported in fistula studies (nine (90%) and six (60%), respectively). overall, 14 (12.7%) induction studies and one (1.4%) maintenance study reported fistula response and 10 (9.1%) induction and two (2.8%) maintenance studies reported fistula remission.

corticosteroid sparing and corticosteroid‐free remission were reported in 11 (10.6%) and eight (7.7%) medical induction studies and three (5.8%) and four (7.7%) maintenance studies of medically induced remission respectively. all studies, with one exception,173 were published prior to 2009.

the crohn's disease activity index (cdai) dominated as the primary measurement tool for primary and secondary outcomes with 77.9% (141) of studies reporting its use, which was common across both induction (86, 78.2%) and maintenance (55, 77.5%) studies. the use of cdai to measure primary and secondary outcomes reduced from 79.2% of studies pre‐2009, to 75.0% from 2009 onwards, although the chi‐squared value of 0.4 demonstrates that this was not a statistically significant result at the 95% confidence level. outcome definitions using the cdai were heterogeneous with 35 different definitions of response or remission reported (table s6). cdai 100 was the reported response measurement in 38 (21.0%) studies, only one before 2000.21 cdai 70 was also reported in 38 (21.0%) studies, all but three after 2001. the remission benchmark cdai <150, was the commonest (81, 44.8%), but reporting reduced between the two time periods (46.4%‐41.1%). conversely, the reporting of cdai 70 and cdai 100 increased between the periods (20.8%‐21.4% and 16.8%‐30.4% respectively). the increase in cdai 100 reporting was statistically significant at the 95% confidence level (chi‐squared value of 4.29). fistula studies most commonly reported the change in cdai score (5, 50%).

other tools used less frequently to measure clinical response or remission include the harvey bradshaw index,19, 28, 48, 49, 87, 100, 118, 131, 157, 196 physician global assessments19, 20, 25, 48, 99, 111, 180 and the van hees activity index19, 41, 66, 87, 131 (table 2). the perianal disease activity index was used in four (40%) studies of fistula patients and in one nonfistula study. 36, 64, 91, 94, 120

there were 30 definitions of disease worsening or relapse, or recurrence using the cdai, many of which required the cdai to exceed a benchmark level such as 150, 200 or 250, with or without an increase from baseline score (table s6). the need for additional therapy and/or surgery were commonly used to define worsening or relapse of disease.

studies of penetrating disease most commonly used physician assessments of draining fistulas (50% [9, 90.0%] or 100% [6, 60%] reduction from baseline) as trial endpoints. two (20.0%) studies of fistula patients used imaging techniques, mri and diagnostic ultrasound, to assess response, one in each time period.64, 120

3.2.2 endoscopy
the reporting of endoscopic outcomes doubled between the two time periods, from 14.4% to 30.4% of studies (figure 2a). this increase was statistically significant with a chi‐squared value of 6.31 (95% confidence level). endoscopic outcomes were reported in 31% (22) of maintenance trials, with reporting more likely in studies of surgically (19, 100.0%) than medically (3, 5.8%) induced remission. endoscopic outcomes were infrequently reported in induction trials (13, 11.8%) and in trials in penetrating disease (1, 10.0%).120 reporting of endoscopic outcomes is a more recent phenomenon in induction trials, with their first use in a study reported in 2000, as compared with 1984 in maintenance trials.

endoscopic recurrence was the most frequent endpoint, especially in maintenance trials (19, 26.8%). only two induction studies122, 123 reported endoscopic recurrence, both of which involved surgery. endoscopic response was more frequently reported in induction trials (10, 9.1%) than in maintenance trials (6, 8.5%). endoscopic mucosal healing was reported in two (1.8%) induction88, 111 and two (2.8%) maintenance162, 189 studies and endoscopic remission in one (0.9%) induction study.102

endoscopic recurrence was commonly defined with the rutgeerts endoscopic score>=2 (14, 7.7%),122, 179-181, 183, 185, 187, 188, 190-193, 195 although many benchmarks were used (table s7). endoscopic outcomes in induction (and fistula) trials report changes in the crohn's disease endoscopic index of severity (cdeis) score (9, 5.0%)40, 69, 73, 76, 93, 98, 102, 112, 120 or changes in the simple endoscopic score for crohn's disease (ses‐cd) (4, 2.2%)88, 98, 111, 120 in place of the rutgeerts score. the d'haens162 and marteau191 endoscopic scores were used infrequently.

endoscopic outcomes were reported in 13.3% of studies (24) as additional outcomes and reporting increased pre‐2009 to 2009 onwards (12.0%‐16.1%), with the reporting growth exclusively in maintenance studies. this result was not statistically significant at the 95% confidence level (based on a chi‐squared test value of 1.58).

3.2.3 histology
histology‐based outcomes have shown a statistically significant increase between the two periods (chi‐squared test statistic of 5.86) (figure 2a), but remain uncommonly used (11, 6.1%) and are unused in studies of fistula patients. three (medical) induction studies (1.7%)62, 102, 112 reported histologic response, one maintenance study (1.9%) of medically induced remission162 reported histologic remission and four maintenance studies (21.1%) of surgically induced remission179, 182, 188, 193 reported histologic recurrence. three induction studies (1.7%)40, 62, 97 and one maintenance study (1.4%)194 reported outcomes related to cytokine expression in mucosal tissues. a number of histology scores are used including d'haens,62, 112, 182, 188 dieleman102 and reguiero193 (table s8). the reporting of histologic outcomes as additional outcomes increased between the time periods from 3.2% of studies to 7.1%, but this is not statistically significant at the 95% confidence level.

3.2.4 biomarkers
biomarker outcomes were reported in 39 (35.5%) induction studies, 38 (36.5%) medical interventions and one (16.7%) surgical120 and 21 (29.6%) maintenance trials. reporting has increased over time with 35.7% of trials since 2009 reporting a primary or secondary biomarker outcome (figure 2a). however, this increase was not statistically significant. only one (10.0%) study of penetrating disease reported a biomarker outcome.120 serum c‐reactive protein was the most reported biomarker (34, 18.8%), followed by serum erythrocyte sedimentation (16, 8.8%). faecal calprotectin was reported as an outcome in only two studies (1.1%),66, 101 one in each time period. the biomarker was an additional outcome in three (1.7%) further trials,114-116 all reported between 2014 and 2015.

3.2.5 patient‐reported outcomes
patient‐reported outcomes (pros) were reported in 47 (42.7%) induction studies, 45 (43.3%) medical induction studies and two (33.3%) surgical induction studies.120, 121 reports of pros were similar in studies of fistula patients (4, 40.0%). primary or secondary pros were reported in 28 (39.4%) maintenance studies, 24 (46.1%) of medically induced remission (46.1%), and four (21.1%) of surgically induced remission.179, 189, 190, 194 the use of pros has increased over time, although not with statistical significance at the 95% confidence level, with almost half of rcts reporting a primary or secondary pro since 2009 (figure 2a). quality of life was the most common outcome, reported in 40.3% (73) of studies (table s9). the inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (ibd‐q) was frequently used to record quality of life (59, 32.6%), and typically outcomes were specified as the final score or changes in the score (from baseline, mean or median). the use of ibd‐q to measure pros increased from 30.4% to 37.5% between 1979‐2008 and 2009‐2015. the growth in use was in maintenance studies (25.5%‐50.0%), whilst its use in induction studies reduced (33.3%‐28.1%). whilst the overall change in ibdq use and the decline in induction trials were not statistically significant at the 95% level, the increase in ibdq studies in maintenance trials was significant (chi‐squared test value of 0.89, 0.28 and 4.25 respectively). reporting of ibd‐q in studies of fistula patients was in line with the overall average (3, 30.0%).

other tools for measuring quality of life included the short‐form 3640, 50, 106, 120, 121, 153, 160, 161, 169, 173 and its components,50, 121, 169 patient global assessments,48, 91, 179 the gastrointestinal quality of life index,111, 121 the hamilton depression scale81, 95 and the short ibdq.46, 120 patient diaries were used to measure outcomes related to bowel symptoms,38 defaecation functions19, 46, 86, 96 and pain19, 46, 86 (table 2), with reports comparatively high (2,20%) in fistula patient studies.86, 120

3.3 safety outcomes
safety outcomes were specified as primary or secondary outcomes in 42 (38.2%) induction studies, 38 (36.5%) medical and four (66.7%) surgical.119-122 twenty‐two maintenance studies (31.0%) also reported primary or secondary safety outcomes. safety outcome reporting increased from 32.8% of studies pre‐2009 to 41.1% between 2009 and 2015, although the increase was not statistically significant. safety‐related primary and secondary outcomes were reported in three (30.0%) studies in fistula patients, all since 2010.119, 120, 189

adverse events were the most common primary and secondary outcomes, reported in 39 (35.5%) induction and 22 (31%) maintenance studies. the reporting of adverse events as a primary or secondary endpoint was most frequently the totality of adverse events but some studies looked for specific treatment‐related adverse events or reported the stopping of treatment due to adverse events.

3.3.1 adverse events
reporting of any adverse events occurred in 88 (80%) induction studies and 61 (85.9%) maintenance studies. all of the fistula studies reported adverse events. reporting of adverse events increased slightly between the two periods from 80.0% to 87.5%. serious adverse events were reported in 60 (54.5%) induction and 31 (43.7%) maintenance studies, and were higher in fistula patient trials (6, 60.0%). the reporting of serious adverse events in studies increased from 46.4% before 2009 to 58.9% from 2009 to 2015. treatment‐related adverse events (including serious events), were reported in 69 (62.7%) induction and 44 (62%) maintenance studies. six (60.0%) fistula studies reported treatment‐related adverse events. the reporting of treatment‐related adverse events (including serious) grew from 56.8% to 66.1% between the time periods respectively. none of the changes in reporting of adverse events was statistically significant at the 95% confidence level.

gastrointestinal adverse events, including the exacerbation of crohn's disease and gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, were the most commonly reported adverse events by meddra soc, reported in 85 (77.3%) induction trials and 57 (80.3%) maintenance studies. the 10 most commonly reported adverse events by higher level group term (hlgt, a clinically relevant grouping) are shown in table 3. gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, including nausea, vomiting and pain, were reported as adverse events in 65.2% (118) of studies. two other higher level group terms within the gastrointestinal conditions were in the 10 most reported: gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions (71, 39.2%), which includes crohn's disease exacerbation as an adverse event, and gastrointestinal motility and defaecation conditions (63, 34.8%). joint disorders, another higher level group term possibly related to crohn's disease and the failure of treatment, were reported in 32.6% (59) studies.

3.3.2 adverse events by intervention group
five of the 10 most commonly reported adverse event groups for all therapies were also in the top 10 across all intervention groups (table 3). gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, infections (including anal abscess, post‐operative wound infection, urinary tract infection, upper respiratory tract infection and pneumonia) and headaches, the three most common adverse event groups for all trials, were ranked in the top four most reported for all trial subtypes. gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions (crohn's disease exacerbation) and gastrointestinal motility and defaecation were also commonly reported across all trial subtypes.

general system disorders, such as fatigue, pain, flushing, oedema, chills, influenza like illness, were commonly reported only in trials of medical induction or maintenance of medically induced remission interventions. neurological disorders, such as dizziness, dysgeusia, paraesthesia, syncope and somnolence, and epidermal and dermal conditions, such as rash, pruritis, skin disorder, erythema and eczema, were in the list of ten most recorded adverse event groups across all trials, but were only commonly reported in medical induction trials.

body temperature, specifically pyrexia, was one of the 10 most commonly reported adverse events in induction trials, but not maintenance. procedural related injuries and complications, such as post‐operative ileus, post‐procedural haemorrhage, post‐procedural complication, infusion‐related reaction, anastomic leak and the need for therapeutic procedures and support care, such as surgery, hospitalisation and fistula repair, were only commonly reported in surgical induction and post‐operative maintenance trials.

3.3.3 adverse events by drug class
gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, and infections were the only two adverse event groups that were consistently ranked in the 10 most commonly reported across all drug classes (including cam, dietary and prebiotic/probiotic interventions) (table 4). general system disorders, such as fatigue, asthenia, pain and chills, gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions (crohn's disease exacerbation) and joint disorders were in the 10 most common adverse events across all but one drug class (corticosteroids, immunosuppressives and cam respectively).

headaches were one of the 10 most common adverse event groups in all drug classes except antibiotics and prebiotics. gastrointestinal motility and defaecation conditions were one of the 10 most commonly occurring adverse events across all drug groups, with the exception of corticosteroids and immunosuppressives.

differences between drug classes and from the overall average were found. skin appendage conditions were the fourth most common adverse events for 5‐aminosalycylic acid (5‐asa) therapies, specifically alopecia and night sweats. skin appendage conditions were the second most common adverse event grouping for corticosteroids, including acne, alopecia, hypertrichosis, hyperhidrosis and abnormal hair growth. adrenal gland disorders, specifically cushingoid, cushing's syndrome, adrenal disorder and adrenal suppression, were the most common adverse events recorded by group and lipid metabolism disorders (lipohypertrophy) and were the fifth most common for corticosteroids. neither adverse event group was commonly reported in any other drug class.

for the antibiotic drug class, bacterial infectious disorders (specifically clostridium difficile infection and furuncle) were the third most common adverse events, and were not common for any other drug class. therapeutic procedures and supportive care, specifically surgery, hospitalisation and abscess drainage, were the third most commonly reported adverse event group for antibiotics, as it was for dietary treatments. procedural related injuries and complications (procedural complication and feeding tube complication), gastrointestinal haemorrhages and gastrointestinal stenosis and obstruction, were also ranked the third most common adverse event groups for dietary treatments.

commonly occurring adverse events, unique to immunosuppressive (ranked fifth and above) were white blood cell disorders, specifically leukopenia and lymphopenia. body temperature conditions (pyrexia), musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (back pain, fistula and anal fistula) and hepatobiliary investigations (including alanine aminotransferase increased and liver function test abnormal) were also in the top five most commonly reported adverse events for immunosuppressives, although each was also commonly reported in other drug classes.

injuries were the fourth most commonly reported adverse event groups for cam and prebiotic or probiotic trials. however, with underlying terms including stab wound and road traffic accident, these are likely to be unrelated to the interventions.

surgical interventions offer a different pattern of adverse events, as shown in table 3. infections are most commonly reported, followed by procedural related injuries and complications (including post‐operative ileus, post‐procedural haemorrhage, post‐procedural complication, infusion‐related reaction and anastomic leak), and therapeutic procedures and supportive care (surgery, hospitalisation, adhesiolysis and abscess drainage). gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, which are generally very commonly reported in drug classes (ranked first to third most common), are the fourth most common adverse event for surgical interventions, along with headaches and a number of other adverse event groups (table 3).

3.3.4 study withdrawals
withdrawals were most frequently reported due to adverse events (102, 56.4%) and least frequently for serious adverse events (7, 3.9%). withdrawals due to treatment failure were reported in 41.4% of studies, and in 45.9% of studies for reasons related to noncompliance and loss to follow‐up, the reporting of both reduced between periods (45.6%‐32.1% and 52.0%‐32.1% respectively). withdrawals due to treatment‐related adverse events (including serious) were reported by 13.8% (25) studies, but the proportion fell from 15.2% to 10.7% between the two time periods. the reduction in the reporting of study withdrawals was common across all categories except serious adverse events, which rose slightly from 3.2% to 5.4% of studies. it was not possible to test the increase in serious adverse events for statistical significance, as the requirement for 80% of numbers to be over five was not met. no changes in reporting reached statistical significance, except the reduction in withdrawals due to other reasons, which was significant at the 95% confidence level (chi‐squared test value of 6.14).

4 discussion
we conducted a comprehensive and independent systematic review of the outcomes and outcome measures reported in rcts of interventions for crohn's disease, summarising data from 181 rcts. a key strength of our review was the focus on synthesising data on safety outcomes and adverse events, which goes beyond anything reported previously in the literature. furthermore, we have not only described temporal trends in outcome reporting but have tested the statistical significance of these findings. our results demonstrate that trialists have adopted a wide and variable approach to outcomes measurement and highlight commonalities and differences in the reporting of adverse events between a variety of interventions to induce or maintain remission in crohn's disease. these results provide insights to guide future trial design and support core outcome set development.

the cdai was developed over 40 years ago as a composite measure incorporating symptoms, signs and simple laboratory parameters.197 it was the dominant measurement instrument used in the published trials, but with substantial variation including 35 definitions of response or remission. whilst this observation highlights a need for greater standardisation of endpoints, the cdai per se is increasingly regarded as suboptimal as an endpoint for comparative effectiveness research and regulatory approval. the index does not correlate closely with objective signs of inflammation or with mucosal healing at endoscopy.198, 199 the time trends we observed in clinical trials outcomes reporting, specifically the statistically significant increase in endoscopy and histology outcomes reporting, illustrate how the emphasis is shifting towards inclusion of discrete, objective measures of the inflammatory process. whilst the use of cdai overall has shown nonstatistically significant growth, the use of cdai 100 has significantly increased, highlighting a continued interest in this measure of response. this confirms that the cdai 100, which is a 100 point reduction in cdai score, is increasingly preferred to the cdai 70 (70 point reduction in response), as a measure of response.200

c‐reactive protein is a routinely employed biomarker in clinical practice and was frequently reported among clinical trial outcomes, albeit rarely as a primary outcome (five studies). however, c‐reactive protein lacks sensitivity for active intestinal inflammation in crohn's disease,201 and this limits its value as a primary endpoint. there remains active exploration of alternative serum markers of disease activity202 but our review suggests no strong candidate has emerged.

stool biomarkers offer potential to reliably measure gut‐related inflammation and in recent years faecal calprotectin has become available in routine ibd practice.203 uncertainty remains as to its performance properties particularly for measuring small bowel, rather than colonic, disease activity204 and research continues to explore other stool assays to measure the inflammatory process.205 faecal calprotectin was reported as an endpoint in only two trials included in this review.66, 101

we found a statistically significant increase in the report of endoscopy and histology‐based outcome measures over time, albeit they remained at a low level and without emergence of a standardised approach. this heterogeneity likely reflects the current suboptimal psychometric properties of individual measurement tools, both for endoscopic and histologic scoring systems.206, 207 in addition to the cost and invasiveness of ileocolonoscopy, endoscopy is not able to fully characterise small bowel disease or quantify the overall extent of intestinal inflammation in crohn's disease. there is a growing body of research on the potential use of quantitative imaging such as ct and mri,208 but only one trial included in this review included radiological outcomes.120

patient‐reported outcome measures (proms) were reported as endpoints in almost half of studies reported since 2009, although commonly as a secondary outcome (60, 33.1%) rather than a primary outcome (10, 5.5%). questionnaires administered in clinical trials ranged from ‘generic” (eg eq‐5d) and “disease specific” (eg ibd‐q) health‐related quality of life instruments to tools focusing on individual domains (eg fatigue impact score). the ibd‐q was the most frequently reported prom in the trials (85% of studies reporting proms) and there was a statistically significant increase in its use for measuring outcomes in maintenance studies over the time of the review (from 25.5% to 50.0%). however, it was not developed according to the latest fda recommendations for product labelling claims.209 new disease‐specific proms tools are under development to meet the stringent guidelines and enable proms to support future regulatory approvals of licencing for crohn's disease.

our review covered data for safety outcomes in clinical trials and we found substantial heterogeneity in reporting, which highlights the challenges in categorising adverse events for a complex, chronic condition with a variable disease course and multisystem manifestations. lack of treatment efficacy in crohn's disease may manifest with a diversity of symptoms, which are difficult to distinguish from genuine treatment side effects. many of the most commonly reported adverse events, such as gastrointestinal signs and symptoms and gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions may reflect disease course. nevertheless, these data demonstrate differences in the adverse event profile of different intervention groups and should support renewed attempts to define disease‐ and intervention‐specific adverse events and to standardise safety outcomes as discrete endpoints. this is an important consideration for future core outcome set developers.

our results highlight how the reporting of outcomes in trials in fistula patients align with overall reporting. the use of proms and safety‐related endpoints is common across all trials, regardless of disease type. clinical response was less commonly measured by cdai, and more frequently measured by fistula closure and the pdai. these three outcome measures were the most commonly used in fistula trials identified by this review, which supports the findings of a recently developed core outcome set for fistulising disease.8 biomarker, histology and endoscopy outcomes were rarely used in fistula trials and are not included in the core outcome set either, contrary to the general shift in outcomes reporting in crohn's disease trials. however, patient reports (eg incontinence and drainage) were more common endpoints in trials of fistula patients than in nonfistula trials, and their importance is borne out in the core outcome sets, which lists several proms to be reported in future trials.

our review independently supports the key findings of a recently published systematic review of outcomes in crohn's disease.9 we confirm heterogeneity in definitions of response and remission and the need for a core outcome set to standardise endpoint definitions. both studies identified the use of cdai as the most popular outcome measurement tool overall and of ibd‐q as the most commonly used prom. our results confirm statistically significant increases in the use of cdai100 across all trials and of ibd‐q reporting in maintenance trials across the time periods of the review. similarly, the cdeis and the ses‐cd are highlighted as endoscopic tools most used in induction trials and rutgeerts in post‐surgical trials. both reviews confirmed the common use of c‐reactive protein and increasing use of biomarkers.

however, our study had less restrictive inclusion criteria, leading to inclusion of a larger number of rcts (181 vs 116) with a wider variety of interventions included. our research included dietary, cam, probiotic/prebiotic and surgical interventions, which results in extra heterogeneity in our findings. our results are arguably more extensive, particularly in the reporting of safety‐related outcomes and adverse events, and go beyond the descriptive in the analysis of changes between time periods by including statistical testing. furthermore, we focused on primary and secondary endpoints (with supplementary analysis of other outcomes), whereas ma et al considered all outcomes in a singular analysis. this results in differences in the breadth and depth of scope of the reviews and some nuances in key findings between the two studies. for example, ma et al found that a higher proportion of studies used cdai, which likely reflects the requirement that trials must have used cdai (or the harvey‐bradshaw index) at enrolment to be included. their focus on a more restricted range of therapies may also explain the higher proportion of studies reporting adverse events, as our results included trials of less traditional therapies. ma et al also found that cdai 100 was more prevalent as a measure of response than in our results (although we found a statistically significant increase in use over time), and reported an increased use of faecal calprotectin. these results may reflect some more recent trials included in their review. the use of cdai as a requirement for trial inclusion in their systematic review reduces the ability of the ma et al review to assess changes in the use of cdai. we have been able to include such analysis in our paper, and confirm a statistically significant increase in cdai100, whereas the use of cdai overall has remained relatively consistent.

our study has limitations. whilst it includes a comprehensive listing of outcomes from available crohn's disease trials, we cannot account for publication bias. the results would have been strengthened by the consideration of nonrandomised controlled trials and observational studies. in particular, this would help to characterise important longer term harms. we did not assess the validity or reliability of the outcome measures identified in the review, although this would form a part of any core outcome set development process.

our study confirms the variability that exists in reporting of outcomes in published clinical trials of interventions for crohn's disease. these data provide a comprehensive resource to support current efforts7 to redefine optimal outcomes and measurement tools to be included in future studies of comparative effectiveness.