a unification of models for meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies

abstract
studies of diagnostic accuracy require more sophisticated methods for their meta-analysis than studies of therapeutic interventions. a number of different, and apparently divergent, methods for meta-analysis of diagnostic studies have been proposed, including two alternative approaches that are statistically rigorous and allow for between-study variability: the hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic (roc) model (rutter and gatsonis, 2001) and bivariate random-effects meta-analysis (van houwelingen and others, 1993), (van houwelingen and others, 2002), (reitsma and others, 2005). we show that these two models are very closely related, and define the circumstances in which they are identical. we discuss the different forms of summary model output suggested by the two approaches, including summary roc curves, summary points, confidence regions, and prediction regions.

1. introduction
there is increasing interest in systematic reviews and meta-analyses of data from diagnostic accuracy studies (deeks, 2001), (deville and others, 2002), (bossuyt and others, 2003), (khan and others, 2003), (whiting and others, 2004), (tatsioni and others, 2005), (gluud and gluud, 2005). typically, the data from each primary study are summarized as a 2×2 table, based on dichotomized test result against true disease status, from which familiar measures such as sensitivity and specificity can be derived.

several statistical methods for meta-analysis of data from diagnostic test accuracy studies have been proposed (moses and others, 1993), (rutter and gatsonis, 2001), (dukic and gatsonis, 2003), (siadaty and shu, 2004), (reitsma and others, 2005). these methods reflect two important characteristics of such data. first, a negative correlation between sensitivity and specificity is expected because of the trade-off between these measures as the test threshold varies (moses and others, 1993), (deeks, 2001). second, and in contrast to meta-analysis of data from randomized controlled trials, substantial between-study heterogeneity is to be expected and must be incorporated in the models (lijmer and others, 2002). the inferential focus of these methods is also a matter of debate. some authors propose estimating summary measures of sensitivity and specificity, or prediction regions within which we may expect the results of a future study to lie (reitsma and others, 2005), while others suggest that in the presence of substantial heterogeneity, the results of meta-analyses should be presented as summary receiver operating characteristic (sroc) curves (rutter and gatsonis, 2001).

littenberg and moses (1993) see also moses and others, 1993 proposed a method of generating a sroc curve using simple linear regression that has been frequently used. however, the assumptions of simple linear regression are not met and the method is therefore approximate. there is also uncertainty as to the most appropriate weighting of the regression (walter, 2002), (rutter and gatsonis, 2001).

two statistically rigorous methods for the meta-analysis of data from diagnostic test accuracy studies have been proposed (reitsma and others, 2005), (rutter and gatsonis, 2001) that overcome these problems but are necessarily more complex. in this paper, we review the characteristics of these methods. we show that although these have been discussed as alternative ways to analyze such data, they are equivalent in many circumstances and hence often lead to identical statistical inferences. section 2 describes the bivariate model, while section 3 describes the hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic (hsroc) model. in section 4, we explain the relationship between these two models. in section 5, we discuss the different focus of inference and presentation of model estimates suggested by the two parameterizations. a worked example is presented in section 6, and the implications of the work are discussed in section 7.

2. the bivariate model
the bivariate model is based on an approach to meta-analysis introduced by van houwelingen and others (1993) (see also van houwelingen and others, 2002). it has recently been applied to meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies by reitsma and others (2005).

following reitsma and others (2005), we define μai as the logit-transformed sensitivity in study i, and μbi as the logit-transformed specificity. we use the letter μ where reitsma and others (2005) used θ to avoid a clash of notation with the hsroc model defined in section 3. the bivariate model is a random-effects model in which the logit transforms of the true sensitivity and true specificity in each study are assumed to have a bivariate normal distribution across studies, thereby allowing for the possibility of correlation between them (reitsma and others, 2005):

covariates that affect either sensitivity or specificity or both can be included in a natural way by replacing one or both of the means μa and μb by linear predictors in the covariates. for example, for a single covariate z that may affect both sensitivity and specificity, we could replace μa by μa + νazi and μb by μb + νbzi.

3. the hsroc model
the hsroc model (rutter and gatsonis, 2001) was motivated by a model for ordinal regression (mccullagh, 1980) that has been used to estimate a receiver operating characteristic (roc) curve from a single study with data available for multiple thresholds (tosteson and begg, 1988). the model is formulated in terms of the probability πij that a patient in study i with disease status j has a positive test result, where j = 0 for a patient without the disease and j = 1 for a patient with the disease. in the usual terminology of diagnostic accuracy studies, πi1 is the true-positive rate or sensitivity in study i, while πi0 is the false-positive rate, equal to 1 − specificity. the hsroc model is defined by separate equations for within-study variation (level i) and between-study variation (level ii). (the bayesian formulation originally presented by rutter and gatsonis (2001) requires an additional third level specifying the priors for the model parameters.)

3.1 hsroc level i (within study) model
the level i model for study i takes the form

where xij is a dummy variable denoting the true disease status for a patient in study i with disease status j. rutter and gatsonis (2001) chose to code xij=−12 for those without disease (j = 0) and +12 for those with disease (j = 1). both θi and αi are allowed to vary between studies. rutter and gatsonis (2001) refer to the θi as “cutpoint parameters" or “positivity criteria," as they model the trade-off between sensitivity and specificity in each study: true-positive rate (sensitivity) and false-positive rate (1 − specificity) both increase with increasing θi. the αi are “accuracy parameters," as they measure the difference between true-positive and false-positive fractions in each study. when β = 0, the diagnostic odds ratio for each study does not depend on the cutpoint parameter θi, and αi is then the log of the diagnostic odds ratio. β is a “scale parameter" or “shape parameter" which models possible asymmetry in the roc curve by allowing true-positive and false-positive fractions to increase at different rates as θi increases. when β≠0, the diagnostic odds ratio varies with θi even if the accuracy parameter αi is held fixed. β is assumed to be constant across studies, although this assumption can be relaxed somewhat, for example to allow a different value of β in each of several groups of studies (rutter and gatsonis, 2001).

3.2 hsroc level ii (between study) model
level ii models the variation of the parameters θi and αi between studies. in the simplest case, θi and αi are assumed to have independent normal distributions, with θi∼n(θ,σθ2) and αi∼n(λ,σα2). more generally, the means of the two distributions may be determined by linear functions of study-level covariates. for example, with a single covariate z that affects both the cutpoint and accuracy parameters,

where the coefficients γ and λ express the effect of the covariate z on the cutpoint and accuracy parameters, respectively. this model may be extended to include more than one covariate, or to allow the covariates that affect the accuracy parameters to differ from those that affect the cutpoint parameters.

4. relations between the two models
we now clarify the relationship between the bivariate and hsroc models. we shall start from the hsroc model. for brevity, first let b = exp(β/2). we can reexpress level i of the hsroc model by splitting (3.1) into separate equations for those with and without disease:

the bivariate model is written in terms of μai and μbi, the logit transforms of sensitivity and specificity in study i. in the notation introduced in section 3, the sensitivity in study i is πi1 and the specificity is 1 − πi0, so

we can therefore relate the random variables that form the basis of the two models:

this pair of equations tells us that μai and μbi are linear combinations of two random variables, θi and αi, which the hsroc model assumes to have independent normal distributions (conditional on any covariates). any pair of linear combinations of random variables with normal distributions has a bivariate normal distribution see, e.g. dudewicz and mishra, 1988, p. 242. therefore, the hsroc model implies that the joint distribution of μai and μbi is bivariate normal. so the hsroc model is precisely equivalent to the bivariate model. we give explicit expressions for the relationships between their parameters in the subsections that follow.

we can express the relationship more concisely using matrix notation. we may write (4.5) and (4.6) in a single matrix equation as

inverting this,
s is then the transformation matrix associated with the change from the bivariate model coordinates (logit-transformed sensitivity and specificity) to the hsroc model coordinates (cutpoint and accuracy parameters). note that s is not orthogonal (s − 1≠st). as illustrated in section 6, it follows that when plotted in bivariate model space (logit-roc space), the axes corresponding to the coordinates of the hsroc model are not perpendicular to each other.

4.1 relation between parameters of models with no covariates
we can then express the relationship between the parameters of the two models without covariates in terms of the transformation matrix s by taking the expectation and variance of both sides of (4.8):

the assumption of the hsroc model that θi and αi are uncorrelated, i.e. the off-diagonal elements above are zero, fixes the value of b and hence the transformation matrix s. so s is a non-orthogonal transformation that diagonalizes the variance–covariance matrix of the bivariate model. on expanding the right-hand side of (4.10), we find that these off-diagonal elements are zero if and only if b=σb/σa−−−−−−√ or, equivalently,

thus, the shape parameter (β) of the hsroc model is determined solely by the ratio of the variances of logit sensitivity and logit specificity in the bivariate model, and, perhaps surprisingly, is unrelated to their correlation. equations (4.9) and (4.10) then allow us to relate the other parameters of the hsroc model to those of the bivariate model:

we can also invert these equations to give the five parameters of the bivariate model in terms of those of the hsroc model:

4.2 relations between parameters of models with covariates
we now move on to examine the relationship between the models when covariates are included. if the bivariate model is extended to include a single covariate z that affects both the sensitivity and specificity, (4.10) is unchanged, while (4.9) for the expectation of (4.8) becomes

the extension to more than one covariate, with each covariate affecting both accuracy and cutpoint parameters, is straightforward. therefore, a bivariate model in which one or more covariates affect both sensitivity and specificity is equivalent to an hsroc model in which the same covariates are allowed to affect both accuracy and cutpoint parameters.

however, a bivariate model in which different covariates are allowed to affect sensitivity from specificity, or covariates are included for only sensitivity or only specificity, will not be equivalent to an hsroc model including covariates, unless constraints are imposed on the relationship between the coefficients of the covariates in the hsroc model. the converse is also true.

5. focus of inference and model outputs
the two approaches lead to different forms of model output appearing more natural.

5.1 hsroc model
the hsroc model gives rise to a sroc curve by allowing the threshold parameter θi to vary while holding the accuracy parameter αi fixed at its mean λ. for the model without covariates, the expected sensitivity for a given specificity is then given by (rutter and gatsonis, 2001), (macaskill, 2004)

rutter and gatsonis (2001) suggest that the curve is restricted to the observed range of estimated specificities of the studies to discourage extrapolation beyond the data. if β = 0, the curve is symmetric about the “sensitivity = specificity” diagonal. this sroc curve does not depict the uncertainty in any of the parameter estimates and depicts the variability in threshold but not in accuracy.

5.2 bivariate model
as reitsma and others (2005) suggest, confidence and prediction regions in roc space can be constructed using the estimates from the bivariate model. as sensitivity and specificity may be highly correlated, separate confidence intervals for the mean logit sensitivity μa and mean logit specificity μb may be misleading. it is preferable to use an elliptical joint confidence region for both parameters. such an ellipse is most easily generated using a parametric representation (douglas, 1993):

where sa and sb are the estimated standard errors of μˆa and μˆb⁠, r is the estimate of their correlation, and varying t from 0 to 2π generates the boundary of the ellipse. the constant c has been called the boundary constant of the ellipse (alexandersson, 2004); asymptotically, to give a 100(1 − α%) confidence region, c=χ22;α−−−√⁠, where χ2;α2 is the upper 100α% point of the χ2 distribution with two degrees of freedom. when the number of studies is small, it may be preferable to use a more conservative approximate confidence region given by c=2f2,n−2;α−−−−−−−√⁠, where n is the number of studies and f2,n − 2;α is the upper 100α% point of the f distribution with degrees of freedom 2 and n − 2 (douglas, 1993), (chew, 1966). such an ellipse in logit-roc space can then be back-transformed to conventional roc space to give a confidence region for the summary operating point.

it is also possible to construct a prediction region giving the region which has a given probability (e.g. 95%) of including the “true" sensitivity and specificity of a future study. the covariance matrix for the true logit sensitivity and logit specificity in a future study is

in practice, both terms must be estimated by fitting the model to the data. the parameters sa, sb, and r in (5.2) and (5.3) can then be replaced by the corresponding quantities derived from this covariance matrix to give the prediction ellipse in logit-roc space. again, this can be back-transformed to a prediction region for the true sensitivity and specificity of a future study in conventional roc space.

6. example: lymphangiography for diagnosis of lymph node metastasis
as an example, we shall apply both methods to data on 17 studies of lymphangiography for the diagnosis of lymph node metastasis in women with cervical cancer, one of three imaging techniques in the meta-analysis of scheidler and others (1997) which has been much used as an example data set for methodological papers on diagnostic meta-analysis (rutter and gatsonis, 2001), (macaskill, 2004), (reitsma and others, 2005). a sroc plot showing the estimates of sensitivity and specificity from the individual studies is shown in figure 1.

we fitted both the bivariate and the hsroc models using the nlmixed procedure in the statistical software package sas (sas institute inc., 2003), using code similar to that given by macaskill (2004) and available from the authors on request. note that our results differ slightly from those in reitsma and others (2005) as they use empirical logit transforms and their standard errors followed by the mixed procedure in sas, where we choose to model the binomial error structure directly using the nlmixed procedure.

table 1 shows the parameter estimates obtained for both models, and the result of applying (4.11)–(4.20) to transform estimates from the hsroc model to the corresponding parameters of the bivariate model and vice versa. the standard errors of the transformed estimates were computed by the delta method using the estimate statement of the nlmixed procedure. as can be seen, the results are virtually identical. (the standard errors are identical in theory due to the close relationship between the delta method and maximum likelihood; cox, 1998; cox and hinkley, 1974, exercise 4.15.) by taking the inverse logit transforms of μa and μb, respectively, and assuming their estimates have a normal distribution, the summary estimate of sensitivity is found to be 0.67 (95% ci, 0.60–0.74) and that of specificity is 0.84 (95% ci, 0.76–0.89). in this example, σab is estimated to be positive, though with large standard error. this implies a positive correlation between sensitivity and specificity across the studies, not the negative correlation that would be expected if the between-study heterogeneity was due mainly to variation in threshold.

figure 2 shows the 95% confidence region for the summary operating point and a 95% prediction region for the true operating point in a single future study in both logit-transformed roc space (left panel) and back-transformed to conventional roc space (right panel). the prediction region covers a greater range of specificity than sensitivity, in contrast to the estimates from the separate studies shown in the sroc plot in figure 1, which exhibit more variation in estimated sensitivity than specificity. this is due to the fact that most of the studies had a considerably larger number of patients with negative results on the reference test than positive results, leading to greater sampling variability in the estimates of sensitivity than specificity. the prediction region is for the true sensitivity and specificity in a future study, not the estimated values.

also shown in figure 2 is the sroc curve (a straight line in logit-transformed roc space). note that the sroc curve takes a conventional shape despite the positive estimate of the correlation between sensitivity and specificity. the left-hand panel also shows the hsroc coordinate axes in logit-transformed roc space. note that these axes do not align with the major or minor axes of the ellipse. the θ axis is parallel to the roc curve, while its horizontal reflection is parallel to the α axis. the method of littenberg and moses (1993) (using unweighted linear regression) gives a curve similar to, but slightly above, the hsroc curve, as shown in macaskill (2004).

7. discussion
we have shown that the hsroc model and the bivariate random-effects model for meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies are very closely related, and in common situations identical. in the absence of study-level covariates, they are different parameterizations of the same model. the bivariate model allows inclusion of covariates that affect sensitivity or specificity or both, while the hsroc model allows covariates that affect accuracy or threshold parameters or both. an hsroc model that allows one or more covariates to affect both accuracy and threshold parameters is equivalent to a bivariate model that allows the same covariates to affect both sensitivity and specificity. however, the hsroc model can be more easily extended to include a covariate to affect the degree of asymmetry of the sroc curve.

the models may differ in the options for introducing greater model parsimony by dropping or combining parameters: the hsroc framework allows the analyst to drop the random effect for the accuracy parameter and assume this is fixed across all studies, and hence that only the threshold parameter varies between studies. this corresponds to perfect negative correlation between the logit transforms of sensitivity and specificity in the bivariate model (σab = − σaσb). the confidence and prediction regions then collapse to lie along the sroc curve. the hsroc framework also allows the assumption of a symmetric sroc curve with constant diagnostic odds ratio by setting β = 0, which in the bivariate model corresponds to equal variances of logit sensitivity and logit specificity (σa2 = σb2). the ability to enforce such constraints on bivariate model parameters may vary between software packages. by contrast, it does not appear natural to set any of the parameters of the bivariate model to zero. one practical advantage of the bivariate model is that it can be fitted in a wider range of software, for example mlwin, sas, or the stata package “gllamm" (rabe-hesketh and others, 2004), whereas the hsroc model is at present only estimable using winbugs or the nlmixed procedure in sas.

as we have seen, the different parameterizations of the hsroc and bivariate models arise from different ideas of the most appropriate meta-analytic summaries of the results of diagnostic test accuracy studies, and have primarily been used to produce these chosen summaries. the hsroc parameterization naturally leads to a sroc curve when the threshold parameter θ is allowed to vary between studies but the accuracy parameter α is fixed at its mean. this may be reasonable when there is little or no detectable heterogeneity in the accuracy parameter, i.e. σα2 is estimated to be close to zero, or when there is considerably greater variability in threshold than in accuracy. the bivariate model parameterization naturally leads to a summary operating point, i.e. a summary sensitivity and specificity, together with confidence intervals for each or a joint confidence region for both together. when there is a considerable degree of between-study heterogeneity, as is common in meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies, a prediction region may be preferable to a confidence region.

in our example in section 6, fitting both models to the same data gave near-identical results in agreement with the formulae derived in section 4.1, when both models were fitted using the nlmixed procedure in sas. however, such close agreement may not always be found in practice, particularly if the models are fitted using different approaches in different software. rutter and gatsonis (2001) originally proposed fitting the hsroc model using a bayesian markov chain monte-carlo method. unlike maximum likelihood estimates, bayesian posterior means or medians are not invariant under nonlinear transformations such as those in section 4.1. reitsma and others (2005) fit the bivariate model using the mixed procedure in sas, which, unlike the nlmixed procedure, requires first calculating empirical estimates of the logit transforms of sensitivity and specificity and their standard errors, treating the latter as fixed and approximating the within-study variability of the logits by a normal distribution. this approach is less computationally demanding but involves some degree of approximation when the study sizes are small. in addition, regardless of the method of estimation, there is typically little information on the covariance parameter σab of the bivariate model unless there are many studies of reasonable size with considerable variation in sensitivity and specificity between them. its estimation may therefore prove troublesome (r. riley and others, in preparation).

another reason for apparent discrepancies between results in previous publications is that when fitting models to the data of scheidler and others (1997), authors have made different assumptions about the equality of parameters between the three imaging techniques assessed, of which for simplicity we have only considered one, lymphangiography, in the example here. rutter and gatsonis (2001) allowed all five parameters of the hsroc model to differ between the three imaging techniques. macaskill (2004) assumed that the two variance parameters σα2 and σθ2 were the same while the other three parameters λ, θ, and β differed. reitsma and others (2005) estimated a bivariate model in which the three variance–covariance parameters σa, σb, and σab are the same for the three imaging techniques and the two location parameters μa and μb differ, thereby constraining the three sroc curves to have the same degree of asymmetry.

it may initially seem surprising that (4.11) for β, the shape parameter of the hsroc model, does not involve the covariance σab of the bivariate model but only the ratio of the variances. in fact, σab only enters (4.14) and (4.15) for the variances of the hsroc parameters. it follows that the equation for the sroc curve given by the hsroc model does not require this covariance. it is therefore possible to use (4.11), (4.13), and (5.1) to estimate the equation of the sroc curve from separate conventional “univariate” random-effects meta-analyses of logit-transformed sensitivity and logit-transformed specificity. these could be performed using any of the widely available packages for random-effects meta-analysis. the estimates obtained by such an approach will not be identical to those from the bivariate model as joint marginal normality of two random variables does not imply they have a bivariate normal distribution. however, if the bivariate normal model does hold, separate univariate analyses should give consistent estimates of the means and variances, with only a slight loss in efficiency (riley and others, 2006). separate univariate analyses may therefore provide an alternative to the method of littenberg and moses (1993) as a way of generating a sroc curve using widely available algorithms. separate univariate analyses may also be useful in providing starting values for the iterative procedures required to fit either the bivariate or the hsroc models, which may aid convergence.

there is empirical evidence that aspects of the design and conduct of diagnostic accuracy studies can lead to bias or increased variation in their results. exploration of potential sources of heterogeneity is therefore a crucial component of systematic reviews of such studies. sources of between-study heterogeneity may include differences in patient selection and clinical setting, disease severity, specifics of the index and reference tests, and interobserver variability (lijmer and others, 1999), (whiting and others, 2004). the expected effect of a covariate on test performance may lead to a preference for one of the two parameterizations implied by the hsroc and bivariate models. for example, “spectrum bias," in which the subjects included in a study are not representative of the patients who will receive the test in practice (whiting and others, 2003), might be expected to affect test accuracy rather than threshold, and might therefore be most appropriately investigated using the hsroc approach. conversely, between-study variation in disease severity will affect sensitivity but not specificity, leading to a preference for the bivariate approach. for most study characteristics, however, there are few a priori reasons to prefer one approach over the other; further empirical research on this issue is needed.

the methods explored in this paper assume that only summary data from each study are available in the form of a 2×2 table. meta-analysis of individual patient data may offer particular advantages for diagnostic research (khan and others, 2003). it would allow differences in patient spectra to be properly accounted for, and enable assessment of the additional information provided by a test above that already known from patient history and clinical examination. for test results that are originally numerical or ordered categorical, it would also capture within-study information about the roc curve that is lost when a particular threshold is chosen and the results collapsed into a summary 2×2 table.

in summary, we have demonstrated that the hsroc and bivariate models are very closely related and often identical. the parameter estimates from either model can be used to produce a summary operating point, an sroc curve, confidence regions, or prediction regions. the choice between these parameterizations depends partly on the degrees of and reasons for between-study heterogeneity. empirical evidence about this would be useful in guiding analysts.

we wish to acknowledge helpful discussions with petra macaskill. this work was supported by the mrc health services research collaboration. jonathan j. deeks is funded in part by a senior scientist in evidence synthesis award from the uk department of health. conflict of interest: none declared.

<|EndOfText|>

a systematic review of rapid diagnostic tests for the detection of tuberculosis infection

background
globally, there are 8 million new tuberculosis (tb) cases and 2 million deaths per year. once infected, active disease develops in about 10% of cases, usually within 1-2 years after exposure. remaining individuals enter into a state of latentcy [latent tuberculosis infection (ltbi)], which can reactivate at a later stage, particularly if the individual becomes immunocompromised.

active tb is predominantly pulmonary in nature. extra-pulmonary tb occurs in approximately 41% of tb cases in england and wales and includes lymphatic, pleural, meningeal, pericardial, skeletal, gastrointestinal, genitourinary and miliary tb. ltbi has no clinical manifestations and is not contagious.

given the infectious nature of pulmonary tb, fast and accurate diagnosis is an important element of tb treatment and control.

objectives
for each form of active tuberculosis, to conduct systematic reviews to evaluate the accuracy of the following groups of tests in patients suspected of active tb:
nucleic acid amplification tests
amplification molecular probe tests
serodiagnostic and biochemical assays
phage-based tests.
to conduct a systematic review to evaluate how effective fully automated liquid culture systems are for isolating and identifying tb.
to conduct a systematic review to evaluate the use of interferon-γ assays for detection of latent tb infection.
to examine the likely nhs and societal consequences of false-positive and-false negative tests.

methods
data sources
literature was identified from electronic databases and other sources. all databases were searched from 1975 to august 2003 for tests for active tb and to march 2004 for tests for ltbi. reference lists of included studies and relevant review articles were scanned for additional studies.

study selection
tests for active tb
any study comparing a rapid test for detection of active tuberculosis with any reference standard was included. 'rapid' tests were those for which a result could be obtained in less than the time taken for standard culture. only case series studies were included. accuracy studies had to report sufficient information to allow the construction of a 2 × 2 contingency table.

tests for latent tb infection
the study selection criteria were (1) testing for ltbi, (2) comparison between tuberculin skin test (tst) and interferon-γ assays based on esat-6 and cfp-10 antigens and (3) information on tb exposure or bacille calmette-guérin (bcg) vaccination or hiv status.

data extraction
data extraction and study quality assessment were undertaken independently by two reviewers.

data synthesis
tests for active tb
for each test comparison, the sensitivity, specificity and 95% confidence intervals (cis) were calculated. the method proposed by moses and colleagues to fit both symmetric and asymmetric summary receiver operating characteristic (sroc) curves was used. sources of heterogeneity were investigated by adding covariates to the standard regression model.

tests for latent tb infection
interferon-γ assays were examined to establish whether they were more strongly associated with high versus low tb exposure than tst. odds ratios (ors) were calculated for the association between test results and exposures from each study along with their 95% cis. within each study, the or value for one test was divided by that for another to produce a ratio of or (ror).

results
tests for active tb
a total of 212 studies were included, providing 368 data sets. a further 19 studies assessing fully automated liquid culture were included.

overall, nucleic acid amplification test (naat) accuracy was far superior when applied to respiratory samples as opposed to other body fluids. the better quality in-house studies were, for pulmonary tb, much better at ruling out tb than the commercial tests (higher sensitivity), but were less good at ruling it in (lower specificity), but it is not possible to recommend any one over another owing to a lack of direct test comparisons.

the specificity of naat tests was high when applied to body fluids, for example for tb meningitis and pleural tb, but sensitivity was poor, indicating that these tests cannot be used reliably to rule out tb. high specificity estimates suggest that naat tests should be the first-line test for ruling in tb meningitis, but that they need to be combined with the result of other tests in order to rule out disease. evidence for naat tests in other forms of tb and for phage-based tests is significantly less prolific than for those above and further research is needed to establish accuracy.

there is no evidence to support the use of adenosine deaminase (ada) tests for diagnosis of pulmonary tb; however, there is considerable evidence to support their use for diagnosis of pleural tb and to a slightly lesser extent for tb meningitis.

anti-tb antibody test performance was universally poor, regardless of type of tb. fully automated liquid culture methods were superior to culture on solid media, in terms of their speed and their precision.

tests for latent tb infection
in total, 13 studies were included. assays based on rd1-specific antigens, esat-6 or cfp-10, correlate better with intensity of exposure, and therefore are more likely than tst/purified protein derivative (ppd)-based assays to detect ltbi accurately. an additional advantage is that they are more likely to be independent of bcg vaccination status and hiv status.

conclusions
implications for healthcare
the naat tests provide a reliable way of increasing the specificity of diagnosis (ruling in disease) but sensitivity is too poor to rule out disease, especially in smear-negative (paucibacillary) disease where clinical diagnosis is equivocal and where the clinical need is greatest.

for extra-pulmonary tb, clinical judgement has both poor sensitivity and specificity. for pleural tb and tb meningitis, adenosine deaminase tests have high sensitivity but limited specificity. naats have high specificity and could be used alongside ada (or interferon-γ) to increase sensitivity for ruling out disease and naat for high specificity to rule it in.

all studies from low-prevalence countries strongly suggest that the rd1 antigen-based assays are more accurate than tst- and ppd-based assays for diagnosis of ltbi. if their superior diagnostic capability is found to hold up in routine clinical practice, they could confer several advantages on tb control programmes.

recommendations for research
active tb
diagnostic accuracy must be established, preferably prospectively, in a wide spectrum of patients, against an appropriate reference test, and avoiding the major sources of bias such as verification bias, lack of blinding, and inclusion of all indeterminate results.

for pulmonary tb, a study of the accuracy of naat in clinically equivocal smear-negative patients is needed, to identify how high a proportion of false-positive results would be generated in this population.
the place of ada, interferon-γ and lysozyme for diagnosis of pleural tb requires further investigation
the place of ada, for diagnosis of tb meningitis, needs to be established
for both pleural and tbm, the combination of naat tests with other tests such as ada should be examined
the incremental value of combinations of tests, particularly for samples of biological fluids, needs assessment in large, prospective, well-designed studies recruiting representative samples of patients.
interferon-γ assays for the rapid identification of latent tuberculosis infection
research is needed in different epidemiological and clinical settings, not only in developed countries, but also in developing countries, and countries with a high prevalence of tb, of non-tuberculous mycobacteria, in populations with high bcg coverage and in immunosuppressed populations.
trials to evaluate the performance of the main existing commercial assays [whole blood interferon-γ enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) and enzyme-linked immunospot assay (elispot)] in head-to-head comparison should be done in both developed and developing countries.
the role of adding more tb-specific antigens to try to improve diagnostic sensitivity needs to be assessed.
longitudinal cohort studies to confirm the positive predictive value of interferon-γ assays for subsequent development of active tb should also be performed.

<|EndOfText|>

efficacy, tolerability, and upper gastrointestinal safety of celecoxib for treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis: systematic review of randomised controlled trials

abstract
objective: to determine the efficacy, gastrointestinal safety, and tolerability of celecoxib (a cyclo-oxygenase 2 (cox 2) inhibitor) used in the treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.

design: systematic review of randomised trials that compared at least 12 weeks' celecoxib treatment with another non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) or placebo and reported efficacy, tolerability, or safety. trials identified from manufacturer and by searching electronic databases and evaluated according to predefined inclusion and quality criteria. data combined through meta-analysis.

participants: 15 187 patients with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis.

main outcome measures: efficacy: western ontario and mcmaster universities osteoarthritis index; american college of rheumatology responder index and joint scores for rheumatoid arthritis. tolerability: withdrawal rates for adverse effects. gastrointestinal safety: incidence of ulcers, bleeds, perforations, and obstructions.

results: nine randomised controlled trials were included. celecoxib and nsaids were equally effective for all efficacy outcomes. compared with those taking other nsaids, in patients taking celecoxib the rate of withdrawals due to adverse gastrointestinal events was 46% lower (95% confidence interval 29% to 58%; nnt 35 at three months), the incidence of ulcers detectable by endoscopy was 71% lower (59% to 79%; nnt 6 at three months), and the incidence of symptoms of ulcers, perforations, bleeds, and obstructions was 39% lower (4% to 61%; nnt 208 at six months). subgroup analysis of patients taking aspirin showed that the incidence of ulcers detected by endoscopy was reduced by 51% (14% to 72%) in those given celecoxib compared with other nsaids. the reduction was greater (73%, 52% to 84%) in those not taking aspirin.

conclusion: celecoxib is as effective as other nsaids for relief of symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and has significantly improved gastrointestinal safety and tolerability.

what is already known on this topic
long term nsaid use is associated with the development of peptic and duodenal ulcers

cox 2 specific inhibitors are claimed to cause fewer gastrointestinal complications

the national institute for clinical excellence has recently recommended that cox 2 specific inhibitors are used in patients with arthritis who are at risk of gastrointestinal complications but not in those taking prophylactic aspirin

what this study adds
systematic review of randomised trials shows that celecoxib is as effective as other nsaids for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis

celecoxib has significantly improved gastrointestinal safety and tolerability compared with standard nsaids

an improvement in gastrointestinal safety was still evident in patients who were also taking aspirin

introduction
arthritis is a widespread, potentially disabling disease. of the two common forms, osteoarthritis is more prevalent than rheumatoid arthritis. the impact of arthritis on pain, disability, and quality of life results in a considerable burden to the individual, health services, and society.

non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) are prescribed for the treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and provide effective relief from symptoms. however, serious gastrointestinal complications occur with their use. nsaids cause peptic and duodenal ulcers, which may perforate and bleed and even lead to death.1 there are between 2000-2500 deaths annually in the united kingdom due to use of nsaids. 2 3

nsaids control pain and inflammation by inhibiting cyclo-oxygenase 1 and 2 (cox 1 and cox 2) enzymes. inhibition of the cox 1 enzyme is responsible for the associated gastrointestinal toxicity. celecoxib was developed as a cox 2 specific inhibitor to provide relief without the associated gastrointestinal complications.

we conducted a systematic review of all published and unpublished trials to determine if celecoxib is as effective as other nsaids for the treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and if there is evidence of greater gastrointestinal tolerability and safety.

methods
inclusion criteria
for the assessment of efficacy we included randomised controlled trials if they were double blind, compared celecoxib at a licensed therapeutic dose for at least 12 weeks with placebo or another nsaid at a standard dose (defined as being within the range recommended within the british national formulary4) in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis, and reported efficacy, tolerability, or safety outcomes. in addition, to investigate safety we considered data on doses of celecoxib above those recommended for treatment. placebo comparisons were included to demonstrate the sensitivity of efficacy outcomes and to investigate gastrointestinal toxicity.

outcome measures
we present efficacy outcomes for results of the western ontario and mcmaster universities (womac) osteoarthritis index for pain (scored 0 to 20), stiffness (scored 0 to 8), and physical function (scored 0 to 68). we used the american college of rheumatology (acr-20) responder index and evaluations of improvement in the numbers of painful or tender and swollen joints for trials of rheumatoid arthritis.

drug tolerability was assessed by considering rates of withdrawal due to any adverse event, any gastrointestinal adverse event, and specific gastrointestinal adverse events at 12 weeks. gastrointestinal safety was assessed by comparing the incidence of ulcers detected by routine endoscopy at 12 and 24 weeks and the incidence of symptomatic ulcers, perforations, bleeds, and obstructions up to 24 weeks.

study identification
we aimed to include all randomised trials of celecoxib, regardless of whether or not they had been published. we obtained from the manufacturer reports from all industry sponsored randomised controlled trials that were completed by 25 may 2000 and that compared celecoxib with placebo or other nsaid in people with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. we also searched medline, embase, and the cochrane controlled trials register from 1998 to march 2001 using the search terms celecoxib, celebrex, and sc-58635.

appraisal of trial quality
the quality of the trials was assessed according to predefined criteria. to assess the potential for bias we considered the method of randomisation, concealment of allocation, blinding of trial investigators and patients, completeness of follow up, and analysis according to intention to treat.

data extraction
summary outcome data were extracted from the original company trial reports as these provided more comprehensive data than that given in the published peer reviewed literature. jjd abstracted data, which were checked by mdb. we combined multiple celecoxib treatment arms within trials that randomised to more than one dose.

data synthesis
separate meta-analyses were undertaken for each comparison and outcome. we analysed efficacy data separately for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis as the diseases manifest with different levels of pain, stiffness, and swelling and were assessed in the trials with different outcome measurements. data on patients randomised to receive 800 mg celecoxib per day (above the recommended dose) were included in tolerability and safety analyses but excluded from efficacy analyses. we analysed tolerability and safety data for the two diseases combined as there is no evidence for a causal link between the nature of the disease and adverse events related to treatment, and the biological plausibility of such a relation is considered low.

dichotomous data were summarised as relative risks and combined with the mantel-haenszel method; continuous data were summarised as differences in means and combined by using the inverse variance method.5 all results are given with 95% confidence intervals. we computed homogeneity statistics to test the agreement of the individual trial results with the overall meta-analytical summary.5 if we detected significant heterogeneity (p<0.1) we also calculated random effects estimates using dersimonian and laird method.5 analyses were carried out in stata v6.0 with the metan macro.

results
we obtained reports of 17 trials, nine of which (15 187 patients) fulfilled the inclusion criteria.6–14 we excluded eight in which follow up was less than 12 weeks. all included trials compared celecoxib with at least one nsaid (diclofenac, naproxen, or ibuprofen); five trials also had a placebo control group. all nine trials reported efficacy and tolerability outcomes, but we excluded three from the efficacy analysis as the results were not available separately for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. four studies assessed upper gastrointestinal safety by endoscopy at 12 weeks, 7–9 13 one study assessed the same outcome at 24 weeks.10 the largest study (n=7968) reported on symptomatic upper gastrointestinal disease after 26 weeks of treatment.11 the table gives full details of the studies.

trial quality
all nine trials were of high quality. all were randomised with adequate concealment of treatment allocation and achieved double blinding with double dummy tablets. they described withdrawals and exclusions and used intention to treat analyses with missing data for efficacy analyses being estimated by carrying the last value forward.

after 12 weeks of treatment, 56% of patients in the placebo group had dropped out due to poor efficacy or adverse events. dropout rates in celecoxib and other nsaid groups were lower (39% on celecoxib 200 mg per day; 32% on celecoxib 400 mg per day; 39% on naproxen 1000 mg per day; 26% on diclofenac 150 mg per day).

effectiveness of celecoxib for treatment at 12 weeks
rheumatoid arthritis—in two placebo controlled trials with 1373 patients celecoxib provided significant improvement in all outcomes compared with placebo: 49% more patients (95% confidence interval 25% to 78%) met the acr-20 responder criteria, 39% more (21% to 61%) had reductions in the number of painful or tender joints, and 34% more (14% to 56%) had reductions in the number of swollen joints (fig 1). 7 12 three trials with 2019 patients compared celecoxib with other nsaids (naproxen 500 mg twice daily in two trials 7 12 and diclofenac 75 mg twice daily in one10). there were no significant differences, with all drugs being equally effective for all outcomes. with celecoxib the acr-20 responder rate was 4% higher (−20% to 36%), 9% more (−10% to 32%) showed improvement in the number of painful or tender joints, and 2% more (−15% to 22%) showed improvement in the number of swollen joints (fig 1).

osteoarthritis—in three placebo controlled trials with 1947 patients, compared with placebo celecoxib resulted in significant (p<0.0001) improvement in all components of the womac scale—pain (mean difference−1.4, −1.7 to −1.0), stiffness (−0.7, −0.8 to −0.5), and physical function (−4.4, −5.7 to −3.3)—as well as the composite womac score (−5.7, −7.5 to −3.9) (fig 1). 6 13 14 the same three trials compared celecoxib with naproxen 500 mg twice daily in 1917 patients. there were no significant differences between celecoxib and naproxen, with both drugs being equally effective for all components of the womac scale: pain (0.0, −0.7 to 0.7), stiffness (0.1, −0.1 to 0.2), and physical function (0.4, −1.0 to 1.8) and the composite womac score (0.4, −1.5 to 2.3) (fig 1).

tolerability
celecoxib versus placebo—five trials with 3826 patients reported drug related withdrawals after 12 weeks' treatment (fig 2). 6 7 12–14 withdrawal due to adverse events occurred more often on celecoxib than on placebo, both for any adverse event (relative risk 1.49, 1.15 to 1.92) and for all gastrointestinal adverse events (1.68, 1.07 to 2.65). however, withdrawals due to abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, nausea, or vomiting were not significantly increased with celecoxib compared with placebo.

celecoxib versus nsaid—seven trials with 5425 patients reported drug related withdrawals after 12 weeks' treatment (fig 2). 6–9 12–14 in six trials the nsaid was naproxen 500 mg twice daily 6–8 12–14 and in the other one it was diclofenac 75 mg twice daily and ibuprofen 800 mg three times daily.9 there was no significant difference between celecoxib and nsaid in the incidence of withdrawals for all adverse events. however, there was a significant decrease in the number of withdrawals due to gastrointestinal adverse events (0.54, 0.42 to 0.71), corresponding to a number needed to treat of 35 at three months. of the specific gastrointestinal adverse events, there were significantly fewer withdrawals due to abdominal pain and dyspepsia in the celecoxib group compared with other nsaids (0.41, 0.26 to 0.67, and 0.59, 0.36 to 0.98, respectively). the incidence of withdrawals due to diarrhoea, nausea, or vomiting were not significantly different between celecoxib and other nsaids.

ulcers detected by endoscopy
celecoxib versus placebo—two trials with 933 patients reported on ulcers detected by endoscopy after 12 weeks treatment. 7 13 although there was no significant difference in the number of ulcers detected between the groups, the results were compatible with up to a threefold increase in the incidence of ulcers (fig 3).

ulcers, perforations, bleeds, and obstructions at 24 weeks
the class study of 7968 patients investigated the incidence of serious upper gastrointestinal events (bleeds, perforations, obstructions) in those taking celecoxib (3987 given celecoxib 800 mg per day; above the recommended dose) compared with other nsaids (1985 took ibuprofen, 1996 took diclofenac).11 patients were monitored and withdrawn from the trial due to adverse events, if endoscopy indicated a symptomatic ulcer, if prolonged use of an ulcer healing treatment was required, or if treatment did not control the symptoms of arthritis. at six months the overall rates of withdrawal were 40% for celecoxib, 42% for diclofenac, and 47% for ibuprofen. with celecoxib the incidence of serious adverse events, bleeds, perforations, or obstructions (n=11) was nearly half that with the other nsaids (n=20), but this difference was not significant (p=0.11, fig 4).

among the participants withdrawn from the trial for safety reasons, 19 patients taking celecoxib were found to have ulcers on endoscopy compared with 29 patients taking other nsaids. when ulcers were included within the definition of serious adverse events the reduction with celecoxib became significant (p=0.03, fig 4).

benefits of celecoxib in patients receiving low dose aspirin
four trials compared celecoxib with other nsaids and provided data on the incidence of ulcers detected by endoscopy in patients according to whether or not the patients were taking aspirin (up to 325 mg/day). 7–9 13 the benefit of celecoxib seemed greater in those not taking aspirin (73% reduction in incidence, 52% to 84%) compared with those taking aspirin (51% reduction in incidence, 14% to 72%), although the difference between subgroups was not significant (p=0.18, fig 5).

in the class study 1739 patients were taking aspirin.11 the reduction in the incidence of clinical ulcers, perforation, bleeds, and obstructions was smaller in those taking aspirin (19% reduction, −63% to 60%) than in those not taking aspirin (50% reduction, 8% to 72%). this difference between the subgroups was not significant (p=0.44).

discussion
in this review of randomised controlled trials we have shown that celecoxib is as effective as other nsaids for the relief from symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. the confidence intervals around the point estimates of efficacy were reasonably narrow, which mean that it is unlikely that there were clinically important differences. compared with other nsaids, however, celecoxib showed increased upper gastrointestinal safety and tolerability. rates of withdrawal due to gastrointestinal adverse event, dyspepsia, and abdominal pain were 40-60% lower, while the incidence of ulcers and serious upper gastrointestinal events was 40-75% lower.

our conclusions are robust and unlikely to be influenced by bias. beyond the stated involvement of mdb, the industrial sponsors had no involvement in the review process once the protocol had been agreed. we included published and unpublished studies, and we insisted that the companies involved provided a signed legal statement confirming that they had made available data from all celecoxib trials that were completed before our inclusion date. we evaluated the impact of including unpublished studies by sensitivity analyses for main outcomes (presented in figs 1–4); our findings and interpretation did not change. results of further phase 4 trials (the success trial) have recently been partially published in abstract form since we completed our search. we did not add these to our review as they are incomplete and could introduce bias.15

as we abstracted data directly from original trial reports we minimised the effects of missing data and errors in transcription. access to individual patient data would have allowed us to investigate further any variation in treatment effect with patient characteristics.

all included trials were designed and executed to meet standards required for licensing. although withdrawals were common, the potential biases due to unequal withdrawals act in a conservative direction.

for most analyses we did not detect any heterogeneity, which supports pooling of different doses of drugs and disease states. each analysis comprised large numbers of patients, baseline characteristics were similar, all patients had active disease at the start of the study, and efficacy outcomes assessed were those routinely required for licensing of drugs for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis (womac and acr-20). additional efficacy outcomes that we investigated but have not reported here showed similar patterns of benefit.

tolerability
withdrawals for adverse events have been used as a measure of tolerability because long term use of nsaids typically leads to gastrointestinal disturbances and discontinuation of the drug. estimates of withdrawal rates with placebo are difficult to interpret as a measure of tolerability because placebo groups had high attrition rates because of poor control of symptoms. withdrawal rates with active treatment were lower. significantly fewer withdrawals due to gastrointestinal adverse events occurred with celecoxib (about 3%) than with other nsaids (about 6%); withdrawals due to abdominal pain and dyspepsia approximately halved.

upper gastrointestinal safety
long term treatment with nsaids is associated with gastrointestinal ulcer disease.1–3 there was no significant increase in ulcers detected endoscopically with celecoxib compared with placebo, despite the difference in withdrawal rates. the incidence of ulcers was 70% lower with celecoxib compared with other nsaids. for every 100 patients treated with nsaids for 12-24 weeks, 23 developed either a gastric or duodenal ulcer, 16 of which would have been prevented if the patients had received celecoxib, giving a number needed to treat of six.

not all ulcers detected by endoscopy progress to a serious event as some heal spontaneously. a more informative outcome measure is the actual incidence of events. in a single trial the incidence of ulcers, bleeds perforations, or obstructions was determined in almost 8000 patients receiving celecoxib or another nsaid (diclofenac or ibuprofen). although the power of the study was reduced by a high withdrawal rate and a resulting low incidence of events, there was a significant 40% reduction in ulcers, bleeds, perforations, or obstructions in the celecoxib group, corresponding to a number needed to treat of 208 at six months. the dose of celecoxib used in this trial was twice the recommended maximum dose, which indicates that celecoxib does not exhibit the increased gastrointestinal toxicity with higher doses typical of other nsaids.

the publication of the class trial has been criticised for not reporting results beyond the six month follow up. 16 17 the company trial report indicates that while all participants started treatment at least six months before the study ended, the average follow up was only seven months. importantly, duration of treatment (medians of 273, 257, and 186 days), total withdrawal rates (55%, 53%, and 65% for celecoxib, diclofenac, and ibuprofen respectively), and reasons for withdrawal varied significantly between treatment groups. although variable follow up can be properly accounted for by using time to event analyses, withdrawal related to treatment cannot. we therefore present results at the longest follow up to which all participants could contribute, which reduces but does not eradicate these problems. upper gastrointestinal safety beyond six months cannot reliably be determined from this trial.

other potential adverse events
this review was limited to assessing only upper gastrointestinal safety. recently the vigor (vioxx gastrointestinal outcomes research) trial of rofecoxib has raised concerns about serious cardiovascular effects with the use of cox 2 inhibitors.18 while it is important to evaluate this concern, this was not possible here as the celecoxib trials we included did not report outcomes comparable with those assessed in vigor (all trials started recruitment before publication of vigor). this issue should be a priority for a future systematic review when adequate data on both celecoxib and rofecoxib are available.

prophylactic use of aspirin
aspirin is commonly prescribed to prevent cardiovascular disease, and, like nsaids, it inhibits cox 1 thus increasing the risk of a gastrointestinal event. subgroup analysis of patients taking aspirin still showed a significant reduction (51%) in the incidence of ulcers detected by endoscopy in those taking celecoxib compared with other nsaids, though the reduction was greater (74%) in those not taking aspirin. while the class study was not adequately powered to investigate subgroup analyses for serious upper gastrointestinal events, the same pattern of results was observed, suggesting benefit in users and non-users of aspirin. the dose of aspirin used for prophylaxis in the united kingdom is typically 75 mg daily, considerably less than the 325 mg commonly prescribed in the united states, where most of these trials were conducted. the present weight of evidence does not suggest that celecoxib should be withheld from aspirin users as currently recommended by the national institute for clinical excellence (nice), but further research should clarify the size of the possible reduction in efficacy in this group.

in conclusion, this meta-analysis provides strong evidence of the effectiveness of celecoxib for relief of pain and inflammatory symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, the level of effectiveness being equivalent to that of other nsaid. however, the tolerability and gastrointestinal safety of celecoxib is substantially superior.

<|EndOfText|>

prospective evaluation of criteria for microbiological diagnosis
of prosthetic-joint infection at revision arthroplasty

a prospective study was performed to establish criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of prosthetic joint
infection at elective revision arthroplasty. patients were treated in a multidisciplinary unit dedicated to the
management and study of musculoskeletal infection. standard multiple samples of periprosthetic tissue were
obtained at surgery, gram stained, and cultured by direct and enrichment methods. with reference to histology
as the criterion standard, sensitivities, specificities, and likelihood ratios (lrs) were calculated by using different cutoffs for the diagnosis of infection. we performed revisions on 334 patients over a 17-month period, of whom
297 were evaluable. the remaining 37 were excluded because histology results were unavailable or could not
be interpreted due to underlying inflammatory joint disease. there were 41 infections, with only 65% of all samples sent from infected patients being culture positive, suggesting low numbers of bacteria in the samples taken. the isolation of an indistinguishable microorganism from three or more independent specimens was highly
predictive of infection (sensitivity, 65%; specificity, 99.6%; lr, 168.6), while gram staining was less useful (sensitivity, 12%; specificity, 98%; lr, 10). a simple mathematical model was developed to predict the performance
of the diagnostic test. we recommend that five or six specimens be sent, that the cutoff for a definite diagnosis
of infection be three or more operative specimens that yield an indistinguishable organism, and that because of its
low level of sensitivity, gram staining should be abandoned as a diagnostic tool at elective revision arthroplasty.

the bacteriological diagnosis of infection generally depends
upon the isolation of a recognized pathogen from a clinical
specimen, the nature and quality of which affect the validity
and utility of the culture results. specimens taken from sites
with colonizing flora, such as the throat or surgical wounds, are
of less diagnostic value than those obtained from normally
sterile sites such as joint spaces, the pleural cavity, the cerebrospinal fluid, the blood, or deep tissue. however these “sterile-site” specimens can be obtained only by puncturing the
skin, a tissue which is heavily colonized with microorganisms.
samples must then be transported to the diagnostic laboratory
for processing and culture.
the pathogens responsible for primary deep-space infections are usually distinct from normal commensal organisms on
the skin, but it is precisely these commensal organisms on the
skin that most commonly infect implantable biomedical devices (34). in this situation it is usually impossible to decide,
simply from the identity of the organism, whether it is clinically
significant or a contaminant derived from the skin of the patient, the medical staff obtaining the sample, or the laboratory
staff processing it.
these issues are of paramount importance in prosthetic joint
infection (pji). the development of prosthetic joints has been
one of the biomedical success stories of the century, with major
health-economic and quality-of-life benefits. as a consequence,
the number of joint replacements performed has increased
each year, with approximately 200,000 primary hip and knee
replacements performed in the united states and 75,000 performed in the united kingdom in 1995. despite improvements
in operative techniques, a proportion of prostheses fail, and
infection is one of the most serious causes of this.
pjis have been classified as “early” and “late,” although to
these categories have been added the classifications of “acute
hematogenous” and “positive intraoperative cultures,” the latter indicating a group with positive cultures without prior suspicion of infections (36). early infections present acutely with
overt wound infection; late infections present with worsening
pain in the joint accompanied by loosening of the prosthesis at
the bone-cement interface and sometimes by sinus tract formation with chronic discharge. it is usually necessary to remove the prosthesis and administer antibiotics, either locally
or systemically, to eradicate the infection; this is commonly
followed by reimplantation of another prosthesis to restore
function. there is controversy over the best surgical strategy,
with some advocating a one-stage exchange and others recommending a two-stage procedure (for reviews, see references 12
and 34). other important questions concern the necessary duration and route of administration of antibiotics in the management of acute and chronic infections. answers to such
questions will require multicenter studies, an essential prerequisite for which is an accurate and robust means of diagnosing
infection.
this is of particular importance because infection is not the
only cause of prosthetic loosening, and it may be difficult to
distinguish septic from aseptic loosening either pre- or peroperatively. the preoperative diagnosis of pji relies on a combination of clinical history, examination, and investigations
including erythrocyte sedimentation rate, c-reactive protein
analysis, plain radiography, isotope scans, and the microscopy
and culture of joint aspirates. despite numerous studies, none
of these diagnostic methods has achieved satisfactory specificity or sensitivity in common practice (11, 12, 14, 24). this may
in part be because of a lack of standardization in the criterion
standard(s) used to diagnose infection when tests are evaluated in studies or in day-to-day practice. the presence of a
sinus tract or of intra-articular pus at operation with organisms
visible on gram staining are specific criteria for defining pji
but are very insensitive (2). microbiological criteria and culture
methods are nonstandardized; histological appearances may
be helpful, with a number of studies reporting that the presence of acute inflammation (more than five neutrophils per
high-power field) in periprosthetic soft-tissue specimens is specific for infection, provided that the patient does not have
inflammatory joint disease (2, 10, 22, 24).
in 1995 we established a multidisciplinary team and a dedicated unit for the management and study of musculoskeletal
infection. with the long-term aim of improving the preoperative diagnosis of pji and of participating in multicenter clinical
trials, we have attempted to define reliable criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of infection at revision arthroplasty. we
have performed a prospective study to assess the significance
of positive cultures and the effect of sample number on our
ability to diagnose pji.
materials and methods
patient recruitment. the study was performed at the nuffield orthopaedic
centre, oxford, united kingdom, which is a secondary referral hospital for
elective orthopedics in southern oxfordshire and a tertiary referral center for
complex procedures including hip and knee revision surgery. all revisions performed between october 1994 and february 1996 (17 months) were studied
prospectively. any patient who had removal of one or both components of the
prosthesis was included. to evaluate microbiological results, we used the presence of acute inflammatory cells in histological specimens as the criterion standard (2, 10, 22, 24). patients were excluded if their histology results could not be
interpreted due to underlying rheumatoid arthritis or other inflammatory joint
disease.
tissue sampling. antibiotics were stopped (if they were previously taken) at
least 2 weeks preoperatively, and samples were taken before prophylactic antibiotics were given. the participating surgical teams were requested to send a
standard set of samples for culture and histology at the time of prosthesis
removal. for prosthetic hips these were (i) a swab of joint fluid obtained upon
entering the capsule, (ii) capsular tissue, (iii) acetabular membrane, (iv) femoral
membrane, or (v) other tissue (e.g., granulation tissue) if the tissue was abnormal. for prosthetic knees these were (i) a swab of joint fluid obtained upon
entering the capsule, (ii) capsular tissue, (iii) femoral membrane, (iv) tibial
membrane, or (v) other abnormal material. if only one component was revised,
multiple samples of relevant periprosthetic tissue were requested. each sample
was taken with a different set of instruments, including a fresh scalpel blade
where necessary, to reduce the risk of cross contamination, and each specimen
was placed into a separate sterile universal bottle prior to transport to the
diagnostic laboratory.
microbiological specimens. specimens were processed at the oxford public
health laboratory in a class 2 laminar-flow safety cabinet by aseptic technique.
samples were disrupted by vigorous manual agitation with sterile glass beads in
sterile diluent. aliquots of the resulting tissue suspension were inoculated onto
chocolate agar plates (incubated in co2) and blood agar plates (incubated in
co2 and anaerobically). gram staining was performed with a portion of the
sample, and the remainder of the sample was inoculated into robertson’s cooked
meat broth. the plates were examined daily for 7 days; broths were subcultured
terminally at 5 days or sooner if they were turbid. organisms were identified by
standard methods and antibiotic sensitivities were determined by the method of
stokes et al. (35), which is a comparative disc diffusion method (5, 35). the zone
of inhibition of the test organism around an antibiotic disc is compared to the
zone of inhibition of a standard, antibiotic-sensitive control strain. if the zone
size of the test strain is no less than 3 mm smaller than that of the control strain,
it is recorded as susceptible. this method differs from the standard disc diffusion
methods of the national committee for clinical laboratory standards, which
depend on zone size measurements that are interpreted against species- and
antibiotic-specific zone sizes. however, there is no major difference in the performance of the method of the national committee for clinical laboratory
standards and the methods of stokes et al. (4, 35). organisms of the same species
were deemed indistinguishable if they had the same colonial morphology, the
same basic biochemical features as determined by the biochemical profiles generated from appropriate api kits (biomerieux vitek inc., hazelwood, mo.), and
an identical extended antibiogram (13 antibiotics were tested). for subsequent
analysis of each patient, the number of samples yielding an indistinguishable
organism was recorded, together with the total number of samples sent for that
patient.
specimens for histological examination. multiple specimens were also taken
at surgery for histological examination and were fixed in a 10% solution of 40%
formaldehyde. they were routinely processed at the nuffield orthopaedic centre pathology laboratory, and tissue was embedded in paraffin. five-micrometer
sections were cut and stained with hematoxylin-eosin. tissue sections were examined by a single, experienced, osteoarticular histopathologist (n.a.), who was
unaware of the microbiological findings. on the basis of the histological changes
in these samples, an opinion was given on whether the histological appearances
were considered to be those associated with infection. this decision was made on
the basis of the degree of infiltration by neutrophil polymorphonuclear leukocytes as outlined in previous studies (10, 24, 25), which have shown that the
presence of at least five neutrophils per high-power field is very strongly correlated with significant bacteriological growth.
statistical methods. sensitivities, specificities, and likelihood ratios (lrs)
were used to summarize the performance of the alternative diagnostic criteria.
the clinical implications of the test results were investigated by a process of
bayesian probability revision (32), with the lrs being used to estimate posttest
probabilities of disease over a range of pretest probabilities (19). an lr expresses the ratio of the chance that a given diagnostic test result would be
observed for a patient with the target disorder to the chance that it would be
observed for a patient without the target disorder (19). it can be calculated from
sensitivities and specificities by the relationship lr 5 sensitivity/(1 2 specificity),
and it can be used to calculate the posttest odds of a positive result by the
relationship posttest odds 5 lr 3 (pretest odds). the posttest odds can then be
converted back into a posttest probability by the relationship probability 5 odds
/(1 1 odds).
mathematical modeling. for the purposes of the model, culture-positive samples obtained from patients for whom the histology suggested the presence of
infection were considered to be true positives. culture-positive samples obtained
from patients for whom the histology suggested aseptic loosening infection were
considered to be false positives.
a subject-specific true-positive rate was calculated by averaging the proportion
of culture positive samples from patients with positive histology. similarly, a
subject-specific false-positive rate was calculated by averaging the proportion of
culture-positive samples from patients with negative histology. this approach
was taken to ensure that the estimates were not biased toward the results for
patients from whom high numbers of specimens were available, who may represent a more severely diseased group.
a standard binomial expansion was used to compute the probabilities of all
possible test results for between one and seven samples, based on the estimates
of rates of true-positive and false-positive results. lrs were calculated for each
combination of test results and sample size, and bayesian probability revision
was used to investigate their implications for clinical decision making. in addition, receiver operator characteristic curves were plotted for each of the three
possible cutoffs of one, two, or three culture-positive specimens by using sensitivities and specificities predicted on the basis of varying sample numbers.
results
patient details. there were 334 hip and knee revisions performed in the 17-month period. histology results were not
received for 25 patients, and for a further 12 patients histology
results could not be interpreted for the purposes of this study
due to active rheumatoid arthritis or other inflammatory joint
disease, leaving 297 patients available for analysis. the patients
ages ranged from 29 to 95 years (mean age, 70 years). there
were 178 females and 119 males. there were 253 hip and 44
knee revisions. forty-one patients (13.8%) had an infected
prosthesis on the basis of histological findings.
three or more culture-positive samples are strongly predictive of infection. a range of organisms was isolated (table 1).
we used the numbers of culture-positive and culture-negative
specimens obtained from patients with positive and negative
histology results to calculate the corresponding sensitivities,
specificities, and lrs. the proportion of infected patients over
all (14%) was used as the pretest probability from which a
posttest probability of infection could be calculated.
a single culture-positive specimen was found to be of no
diagnostic value (lr 5 0.7; posttest probability of infection,
10.6%). if the cutoff for a diagnosis of infection is set at one or
more culture-positive specimens, the lr is 4.3 (sensitivity,
83%; specificity, 81%; posttest probability of infection, 40.7%).
increasing the cutoff to two or more specimens growing the
same organism raises the lr to 25.9, which is highly predictive
of infection (sensitivity, 71%; specificity, 97%; posttest probability of infection, 80.6%). however, these favorable results are
due largely to the impact of patients with three or more culture-positive specimens. when the limited number of patients
with exactly two positive specimens was analyzed (n 5 8), the
lr was found to be low (2.1; posttest probability of infection,
25.2%). by contrast, with a cutoff of three or more specimens
growing the same organism, the test becomes extremely powerful; lr 5 169; sensitivity, 66%; specificity, 99.6%; posttest
probability of infection, 96.4%).
the number of samples sent by surgeons is weakly predictive of infection. operations were performed by 12 orthopedic
surgical teams, one of which performed 133 operations (45%
of the total). the remaining teams performed a mean of 15
operations each. surgeons were requested to provide four or
five independent specimens, as described in the materials and
methods section. in total, 1,206 specimens were obtained from
the 297 patients, with a mean number of 4.06 specimens per
patient. there was variation within and between surgical teams
in the consistency of sampling technique. we were concerned
that these inconsistencies might reflect bias on the part of the
surgeon, with fewer samples being sent from joints believed
not to be infected. this could affect the validity of the study,
because low sample numbers might reduce the chance of diagnosing infection by either histology or culture, while high
sample numbers might increase this chance.
to assess this, we stratified the patients into three bands;
those from whom only one or two samples were received, those
from whom between three and six samples were received, and
those from whom seven or eight samples were received. we
calculated lrs for the presence of a positive histology result
on the basis of the number of samples obtained. the results,
shown in table 2, indicate a small but definite systematic trend
favoring a final diagnosis of infection if multiple samples had
been sent.
sampling bias has only minor effects on the overall performance of the test. because we were concerned about the potential importance of the findings presented above, we analyzed
the diagnostic value of different numbers of positive samples in
two subgroups (table 3). group b is the subgroup (n 5 213)
comprising only those patients from whom three, four, five, or
six specimens were taken. group c is an alternative subgroup
(n 5 239) which excludes all patients operated on by surgeons
with erratic sampling behavior on the basis of an interquartile
range for the number of specimens sent of greater than 2.
group c thus contains only patients operated on by surgeons
who sent between three and five specimens at least 50% of
the time. group a is the whole group (n 5 297), as discussed
above, and is included as a comparator. the three groups have
very similar lrs (and hence posttest probabilities of infection),
suggesting that the samples are drawn from a relatively homogeneous group, irrespective of sampling behavior.
lack of utility of gram staining in diagnosing infection. for
many samples, positive cultures were obtained only from the
enrichment broths, suggesting that the number of organisms
present in the sample was low. this impression was confirmed
by the very poor sensitivity of gram staining, the diagnostic
impact of which we evaluated. its sensitivity, measured against
a positive culture result for the same sample, was 6%, with a
specificity of 99.7% (lr 5 20). measured against a positive
histology result for a patient, gram staining of a single sample
has a sensitivity of 12% and a specificity of 98.8% (lr 5 10).
thus, although a positive gram staining result does predict
infection, the sensitivity is so poor that multiple samples from
a large number of infected patients must be examined for each
positive result. furthermore, management was not altered by
the gram staining result, since patients were treated empirically, once samples were obtained, if the clinical history or
examination of frozen sections of specimens obtained during
surgery were suggestive of infection.
age distributions of prostheses with positive culture or histology results. infection is known to be associated with early
failure of a prosthesis, and hence, the majority of patients with
positive microbiology results should have had revisions within
a few years of implantation. by contrast, the probability of
contamination should be constant, so that patients with falsepositive microbiology results should constitute a roughly constant proportion of the total number of revisions performed,
irrespective of the age of the prosthesis. the date that the
prosthesis was inserted was available for 281 patients (95% of
patients), and we plotted the number of patients against the
age of the prosthesis for histology-positive and -negative patients and separately for patients with none, one or two, and
three or more specimens that were culture positive (fig. 1).
the similarities between the curve for patients with histologypositive specimens and that for patients with three or more
culture-positive specimens is to be expected, but it is also
apparent that the curve for patients with one or two culturepositive specimens is as predicted if the majority of these are
positive because of contamination.
mathematical modeling of the number of samples that
should be taken. even though our study was based on data for
nearly 300 patients, the estimates of test performance for different diagnostic strategies could not be investigated reliably
due to insufficient data. the simple mathematical model offered an alternative approach to scrutinizing the predictive
behavior of alternative diagnostic rules.
the results, shown in table 4 and fig. 2, demonstrate that
the model predicts an excellent combination of sensitivity and
specificity if five or six samples are taken and a cutoff of two or
more culture-positive samples is used to diagnose infection.
use of a cutoff of three or more positive samples gave extremely high specificity, but in order to achieve a satisfactory
sensitivity, the number of specimens that the laboratory would
need to process would be impractical. conversely, by using a
cutoff of one culture-positive sample, for a given number of
samples the test was always more sensitive but lacked specificity.
discussion
we have prospectively evaluated the criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of infection at elective revision arthroplasty. we have demonstrated that the isolation of indistinguishable microorganisms from three or more independent
operative specimens is highly predictive of the presence of
acute inflammatory cells in specimens examined histologically,
our definition of infection. we have further used simple mathematical modeling to demonstrate that the culture of five or six
specimens obtained during surgery is necessary to produce a
diagnostic test that is both sensitive and specific. this appears
to be because this condition is associated with an extremely low
burden of microorganisms, as indicated by the lack of utility of
gram staining, the need for the use of enrichment broths to
obtain positive cultures for many samples, and the frequent
occurrence of culture-negative samples from infected patients.
the key assumption underlying our approach is that histology is a reliable means of diagnosing infection. we believe this
is correct, based on a combination of previously published data
from studies with animals and clinical studies. in a canine
model of prosthetic hip joint infection, there was a strong
correlation between infection and an acute inflammatory response (26, 27). this correlation was less strong if only limited
portions of randomly selected specimens of tissue were sent,
suggesting that infection and the inflammatory response were
multifocal. a similar relationship between the presence of
acute inflammatory cells and infection has also been found in
a number of studies with human tissue obtained during surgery
(6, 9, 22–25, 28, 29). our decision to use histology is also based
on the known unreliability of clinical features in predicting
infection (3). although some cases of prosthetic joint infection
are clinically obvious, many patients who come for elective
revision arthroplasty do not have a history of acute infection,
and for many patients the clinical presentation is indistinguishable from early aseptic loosening (16, 36). for these reasons we
believe that the presence of acute inflammatory cells in histologically examined specimens is a good criterion standard for
the diagnosis of infection at elective revision arthroplasty, provided that individuals with known inflammatory joint disease
are excluded and sufficient numbers of samples are examined
by an experienced pathologist. previous studies have used various criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of infection,
ranging from the isolation of organisms from one direct culture
or two or more broth enrichment cultures (2, 8, 12, 21, 34) to
requiring four of five, five of six, or even five of five specimens
(20) to yield the same organism. although several investigators
have mentioned the need to culture multiple samples in order
to increase sensitivity and to overcome the problem of contamination (1, 3, 8, 16, 20, 21, 25, 30, 31, 34, 36), a standardized
method has been neither defined nor validated. our prospective study indicates that the isolation of an organism from at
least three of several independent specimens is diagnostic of
infection.
for practical purposes we called two organisms indistinguishable on the basis of simple laboratory tests and the extended antibiotic sensitivity pattern. care is needed with this
approach, because the antibiotic sensitivity pattern is not an
infallible way of distinguishing strains, particularly among the
coagulase-negative staphylococci, the dominant group of both
pathogens and contaminants in this series. molecular methods
have shown that the same antibiogram may be shared by two
different strains, and conversely, organisms expressing different
antibiograms may appear to be indistinguishable by genotyping. furthermore, multiple strains can be present in the same
infected joint prosthesis (7, 17, 21, 25). nonetheless, our results do show that in a routine laboratory, simple methods of
identification appear to be adequate in most cases.
we found that a substantial proportion of samples (35%)
obtained from patients who were infected on the basis of
histological criteria failed to yield organisms, despite an extended culture regimen that included an enrichment broth
suitable for the recovery of many fastidious organisms. even
for those patients for whom three or more specimens were
culture positive, it was usual to have at least one other specimen with no growth. these data reinforce the multifocal and
low-grade nature of this infection, which means that sampling
error becomes an important reason for false-negative results.
furthermore, the possibility of sampling bias needs to be considered.
on examining our data, we found definite evidence of sampling bias, with an increasing proportion of infected patients as
more samples were sent. to examine the impact of this on our
results, we compared the whole data set with two subsets of
cases; one in which the “ideal” number of specimens (n 5 3 to
6) was sent and one that included only samples from surgeons
with consistent sampling behavior. results for all groups were
very similar, suggesting that the samples were all drawn from
essentially homogeneous groups of infected and uninfected
patients. the removal of data for patients for whom there were
too few or too many samples still leaves data for more than
70% of the patients, and the performance of the test is unchanged.
our impression that this is a condition associated with very
low numbers of bacteria is strengthened by the poor performance of gram staining. although the rapidity of gram staining makes it potentially useful as a peroperative test, in our
center considerable additional resources would have to be expended to make this possible. it is labor-intensive and has an
inherently low level of sensitivity, and on the basis of the results
of this study, we recommend that it be abandoned for specimens from elective revision arthroplasties.
the apparently low numbers of organisms and the problem
of sampling error mean that a number of culture-negative
specimens is probably inevitable. our modeling suggests that
even for an infected patient, when four samples are taken there
is still a 3.0% chance that all specimens will be culture negative
and a 16% chance that only a single specimen will be culture
positive (table 3). if five specimens are taken, these values fall
to 1.0 and 8.0%, respectively. use of the binomial expansion
assumes that all samples are truly independent. when the
calculated (expected) probabilities were converted into expected absolute numbers, there was very close agreement with
the observed values for the samples from the histology-negative patients (chi-squared 5 1.56; degrees of freedom 5 3; p 5
0.66). an exception was that the observed number of patients
whose specimens were all culture negative, despite positive
histology, was greater than expected (chi-squared
5 17.9; degrees of freedom 5 4; p 5 0.001). this may be due to unrecognized inflammatory joint conditions, accidental preoperative
antibiotic use, or infection with organisms that cannot be cultured by the methods used. our technique would fail to isolate
mycoplasma spp., l-form bacteria, and campylobacter spp., to
name a few, all of which have been described as pathogens in
prosthetic joint infection (15, 33, 37). design of a culture
protocol able to accommodate a very wide range of fastidious
organisms would be impractical for routine diagnostic laboratories.
these considerations may well explain the discrepancy between the conclusions from our modeling (five or six specimens
sent; an infection is diagnosed if two or more specimens are
culture positive) and the actual data themselves (infection was
unequivocally diagnosed if three or more specimens were culture positive). if specimens from a proportion of patients have
nonculturable organisms, the overall performance of the diagnostic rules is reduced by the effect of specimens that can never
yield diagnostic information, however many specimens are
sent. we are testing this hypothesis in a further prospective
study.
definitions of infection have been offered by using scoring
systems that take into account clinical, histological, and microbiological features (13, 18). such systems have not been validated. we have instead used an approach based on the calculation of lrs, which allows us to take into account clinical
epidemiological considerations in interpreting the culture results. we diagnosed infection in 30% of prostheses revised
within the first 4 years after implantation but in only 5% of
prostheses revised between 4 and 8 years postimplantation.
the likelihood ratio can be applied to these different pretest
probabilities of infection (table 5). this is particularly useful
because it demonstrates that when the prior probability of
infection is high (as in early failure), the isolation of bacteria
from only two specimens, while inconclusive, nonetheless
makes the diagnosis of infection more likely. clinical information is also amenable to this approach, so the pre- and peroperative probabilities of infection could be modified further on
the basis of symptoms, macroscopic appearances, and blood
tests. we are undertaking further studies to test this hypothesis.
it is possible that our diagnostic rules could be modified to
take account of organisms that are not part of the normal skin
flora and that have a known pathogenic potential. such cases
of infection might prove to be easier to diagnose on the basis
of the need to use a smaller number of samples. unfortunately,
the numbers of individual species of organism isolated were
too small to calculate organism-specific lrs. in any event,
because the identity of the organism is rarely known in advance, it is unlikely that the number of samples taken during
surgery can be modified on a patient-by-patient basis without
affecting the performance of the diagnostic test.
we conclude that the isolation of indistinguishable microorganisms from three or more independent specimens, to be
taken as part of a standard set of five or six specimens, is an
accurate and practical microbiological definition of infection
at revision arthroplasty. we stress that the use of meticulous
sampling technique for the prevention of the cross contamination of samples is central to this approach and that these observations do not apply to acute infections of prostheses, in
which the bacterial load is higher and for which the diagnostic
issues are more straightforward. culture techniques must make
use of enrichment media because of a very low burden of
microorganisms in most samples, and gram staining should be
abandoned for specimens from elective revisions. in centers
where histology is unavailable (and perhaps when histology
cannot be used), our microbiological criteria can be used alongside clinical data to make the diagnosis of infection more
reliable. we have used these findings to modify our practice.
patients with definite infections by these criteria are treated by
a two-stage revision protocol that includes appropriate antibiotics for 6 weeks before a new prosthesis is reinserted. patients
with fewer than two microbiologically positive samples and
negative histology have early reinsertion of a prosthesis and
receive only prophylactic antibiotics.
although our findings are specific to infected prosthetic hips
and knees, we speculate that they may also hold true for other
low-grade chronic infections wherever pathogens and commensal organisms overlap. this includes infections of other
prosthetic joints and implantable devices, fracture fixations
and nonunions, and other forms of chronic osteomyelitis including vertebral and contiguous osteomyelitis. finally, our
observations highlight the importance of considering sampling
error and bias whenever the result of a diagnostic test is a
qualitative one that depends on the analysis of multiple samples. this is the case for some other microbiological tests (such
as blood cultures) and for the histological diagnosis of multifocal inflammation or neoplasia, particularly lymph node metastasis in patients with cancer and gastric, colonic, or cervical
metaplasia.

<|EndOfText|>

a methodological review of how heterogeneity has been examined in systematic reviews of diagnostic test accuracy

background
systematic reviews of therapeutic interventions are now commonplace in many if not most areas of healthcare, and in recent years interest has turned to applying similar techniques to research evaluating diagnostic tests. one of the key parts of any review is to consider how similar or different the available primary studies are and what impact any differences have on studies' results. between-study differences or heterogeneity in results can result from chance, from errors in calculating accuracy indices or from true heterogeneity, that is, differences in design, conduct, participants, tests and reference tests. an important additional consideration for diagnostic studies is differences in results due to variations in the chosen threshold for a positive result for either the index or reference test.

dealing with heterogeneity is particularly challenging for diagnostic test reviews, not least because test accuracy is conventionally represented by a pair of statistics and not by a single measure of effect such as relative risk, and as a result a variety of statistical methods are available that differ in the way in which they tackle the bivariate nature of test accuracy data:

methods that undertake independent analyses of each aspect of test performance
methods that further summarise test performance into a single summary statistic
methods that use statistical models that simultaneously consider both dimensions of test performance.
the validity of a choice of meta-analytical method depends in part on the pattern of variability (heterogeneity) observed in the study results. however, currently there is no empirical guidance to judge which methods are appropriate in which circumstances, and the degree to which different methods yield comparable results. all this adds to the complexity and difficulty of undertaking systematic reviews of diagnostic test accuracy.

objectives
our objective was to review how heterogeneity has been examined in systematic reviews of diagnostic test accuracy studies.

methods
systematic reviews that evaluated a diagnostic or screening test by including studies that compared a test with a reference test were identified from the centre for reviews and dissemination's database of abstracts of reviews of effects. reviews for which structured abstracts had been written up to december 2002 were screened for inclusion. data extraction was undertaken using standardised data extraction forms by one reviewer and checked by a second.

results
a total of 189 systematic reviews met our inclusion criteria and were included in the review. the median number of studies included in the reviews was 18 [inter-quartile range (iqr) 20]. meta-analyses (n = 133) have a higher number with a median of 22 studies (iqr 20) compared with 11 (iqr 13) for narrative reviews (n = 56).

identification of heterogeneity
graphical plots to demonstrate the spread in study results were provided in 56% of meta-analyses; in 79% of cases these were in the form of plots of sensitivity and specificity in the receiver operating characteristic (roc) space (commonly termed 'roc plots').

statistical tests to identify heterogeneity were used in 32% of reviews: 41% of meta-analyses and 9% of reviews using narrative syntheses. the χ2 test and fisher's exact test to assess heterogeneity in individual aspects of test performance were most commonly used. in contrast, only 16% of meta-analyses used correlation coefficients to test for a threshold effect.

type of syntheses used
a narrative synthesis was used in 30% of reviews. of the meta-analyses, 52% carried out statistical pooling alone, 18% conducted only summary receiver operator characteristic (sroc) analyses and 30% used both methods of statistical synthesis. of the reviews that pooled accuracy indices, most pooled each aspect of test performance separately with only a handful producing single summaries of test performance such as the diagnostic odds ratio. for those undertaking sroc analyses, the main differences between the models used were the weights chosen for the regression models. in fact, in 42% of cases (27/64) the use of, or choice of, weight was not provided by the review authors.

the proportion of reviews using statistical pooling alone has declined over time from 67% in 1995 to 42% in 2001, with a corresponding increase in the use of sroc methods, from 33% to 58%. however, two-thirds of those using sroc methods also carried out statistical pooling rather than presenting only sroc models. reviews using sroc analyses also tended to present their results as some combination of sensitivity and specificity rather than using alternative, perhaps less clinically meaningful, means of data presentation such as diagnostic odds ratios.

investigation of heterogeneity sources
three-quarters of meta-analyses attempted to investigate statistically possible sources of variation, using subgroup analysis (76) or regression analysis (44). the median number of variables investigated was four, ranging from one variable in 20% of reviews to over six in 27% of reviews. the ratio of median number of variables to median number of studies was 1:6.

the impact of clinical or socio-demographic variables was investigated in 74% of these reviews and test- or threshold-related variables in 79%. at least one quality-related variable was investigated in 63% of reviews. within this subset, the most commonly considered variables were the use of blinding (41% of reviews), sample size (33%), the reference test used (28%) and the avoidance of verification bias (25%).

conclusions
the emphasis on pooling individual aspects of diagnostic test performance and the under-use of statistical tests and graphical approaches to identify heterogeneity perhaps reflect the uncertainty in the most appropriate methods to use and also greater familiarity with more traditional indices of test accuracy. this is an indication of the level of difficulty and complexity of carrying out these reviews. it is strongly suggested that in such reviews meta-analyses are carried out with the involvement of a statistician familiar with the field.

recommendations for further research
the following areas are suggested for further research.

further methodological work on the statistical methods available for combining diagnostic test accuracy studies is needed.
sufficiently large, prospectively designed primary studies of diagnostic test accuracy that compare two or more tests for the same target disorder are needed so that sources of heterogeneity are minimised and comparative accuracy can be established in a wide spectrum of patients.
use of individual patient data meta-analysis in diagnostic test accuracy reviews should be explored to allow heterogeneity to be considered in more detail.

<|EndOfText|>

serum he4 and diagnosis of ovarian cancer in postmenopausal women with adnexal masses

background
transvaginal ultrasound and serum ca125 are routinely used for differential diagnosis of pelvic adnexal mass. use of human epididymis 4 was approved in the united states in 2011. however, there is scarcity of studies evaluating the additional value of human epididymis 4.

objective
the objective of the study was to evaluate the performance characteristics of transvaginal ultrasound, ca125, and human epididymis 4 for differential diagnosis of ovarian cancer in postmenopausal women with adnexal masses.

study design
this was a cohort study nested within the screen arms of the multicenter randomized controlled trial, united kingdom collaborative trial of ovarian cancer screening, based in england, wales, and northern ireland. in united kingdom collaborative trial of ovarian cancer screening, 48,230 women randomized to transvaginal ultrasound screening and 50,078 to multimodal screening (serum ca125 interpreted by risk of ovarian cancer algorithm with second line transvaginal ultrasound) underwent the first (prevalence) screen. women with adnexal lesions and/or persistently elevated risk were clinically assessed and underwent surgery or follow-up for a median of 10.9 years. banked samples taken within 6 months of transvaginal ultrasound from all clinically assessed women were assayed for human epididymis 4 and ca125. area under the curve and sensitivity for diagnosing ovarian cancer of multiple penalized logistic regression models incorporating logca125, log human epididymis 4, age, and simple ultrasound features of the adnexal mass were compared.

results
of 1590 (158 multimodal, 1432 ultrasound) women with adnexal masses, 78 were diagnosed with ovarian cancer (48 invasive epithelial ovarian, 14 type i, 34 type ii; 24 borderline epithelial; 6 nonepithelial) within 1 year of scan. the area under the curve (0.893 vs 0.896; p = .453) and sensitivity (74.4% vs 75.6% ;p = .564) at fixed specificity of 90% of the model incorporating age, ultrasound, and ca125 were similar to that also including human epididymis 4. both models had high sensitivity for invasive epithelial ovarian (89.6%) and type ii (>91%) cancers.

conclusion
our population cohort study suggests that human epididymis 4 adds little value to concurrent use of ca125 and transvaginal ultrasound in the differential diagnosis of adnexal masses in postmenopausal women.

serum ca125 and transvaginal ultrasound (tvs) have been used in differential diagnosis of adnexal masses in postmenopausal women for the last 4 decades. these tests are the basis of guidelines in most countries for investigation of women with symptoms suspicious of ovarian cancer (oc).1, 2, 3
ajog at a glance
why was this study conducted?
the study was conducted to assess whether inclusion of human epididymis 4 (he4) improves the performance of serum ca125 and transvaginal ultrasound in the differential diagnosis of ovarian cancer in postmenopausal women with adnexal masses.

key findings
in 1590 women who underwent clinical assessment for an adnexal mass detected on the first screen in united kingdom collaborative trial of ovarian cancer screening, a model incorporating age, transvaginal ultrasound, and ca125 performed similarly to one that also included he4. both had high sensitivity for invasive epithelial ovarian cancer.

what does this add to what is known?
our population-based study suggests that he4 adds little value to concurrent use of ca125 and transvaginal ultrasound in the diagnosis of ovarian cancer, especially invasive epithelial disease in postmenopausal women with adnexal masses.


the 2 tests are often interpreted using models, the earliest of which, the risk of malignancy index (rmi),4 incorporates the ca125 value, menopausal status, and simple ultrasound features. since then, there have been numerous tvs-only models (simple rules,5 lr1, lr26), which include further features such as septal thickness, size of solid lesions, and doppler flow, with most recently described adnex model7 also including ca125. these models have been extensively evaluated in secondary care settings.8, 9

in 2011, based on encouraging secondary care data, human epididymis 4 (he4) received approval from the us food and drug administration for use in women presenting with an ovarian mass.

the main advantage of he4 is that, unlike ca125, it is not elevated in endometriosis.10 this led to biomarker algorithms incorporating he4 and ca125 such as the risk of ovarian malignancy algorithm (roma) and more recently the copenhagen index.11 however as highlighted in both recent systematic reviews,12, 13 there are currently not enough studies estimating he4 performance in detecting early-stage tumors in the most relevant group, postmenopausal women in this clinical scenario. in addition, there is a scarcity of studies that investigate the performance of ca125, he4, and tvs in women presenting to primary care physicians/gynaecologists.

a dualistic pathway of invasive epithelial ovarian carcinogenesis has emerged over the past decade. type i invasive epithelial ovarian cancers, which include low-grade serous, low-grade endometrioid, clear cell, and mucinous tumours, are slow-growing, genetically stable indolent cancers, usually diagnosed in the early stage. type ii, mainly high-grade serous cancers, which are the majority of the cancers, are aggressive, are genetically unstable usually harboring p53 mutations, and account for most of the mortality.14 in evaluating the role of he4, it would be important to consider the performance in the 2 groups separately.

in the screen arms of united kingdom collaborative trial of ovarian cancer screening (ukctocs), ultrasound data on adnexal masses detected during the initial screen and banked serum samples provided an opportunity to compare models incorporating ca125, he4, and tvs features of the adnexal mass both alone and in combination in a population-based cohort of postmenopausal women.

materials and methods
subjects
between 2001 and 2005, 202,638 postmenopausal women from the general population in england, wales, and northern ireland were randomized to multimodal screening (mms; n = 50,640) using serum ca125 (level i) interpreted by risk of ovarian cancer algorithm and a combination of ca125 and tvs as a second-line test (level ii), tvs screening (uss; n = 50,639), or no screening (n = 101,379) as described previously.15, 16

of 101,279 women randomized to screening, 98,308 (50,078 mms; 48,230 uss) underwent the initial annual (prevalence) screen.17 women with an abnormality underwent a repeat tvs by a senior specialist in gynecological scanning (level ii scan) in the uss group and a repeat ca125 and level ii scan in the mms group. those with a persistent abnormality underwent clinical assessment with the regional center clinical team, who arranged further investigations (tumor markers, tvs, magnetic resonance imaging/computed tomography pelvis as appropriate) and were either referred for surgery or managed conservatively. all women who underwent clinical assessment and had banked serum sample within 6 months of the scan were included in this analysis.

there were some women who had oc diagnosed within 18 months of the sample who were not included in the previously mentioned analysis because they did not undergo clinical assessment (no abnormality on screening). serum he4 and ca125 was assayed in those for whom a sample was available.

ca125 and he4 assays
ca125 values were available for all women in the mms arm because the assay was performed as part of their screening protocol, described previously.17 for those in the uss group, recruitment samples were assayed for ca125 using the same generation assay (roche diagnostics, burgess hill, united kingdom) on the roche cobas analyzer as used in the trial.17, 18 he4 assay (roche diagnostics) was run in parallel on all the samples included in the study from both groups.

ultrasound scan
annual scans (level i screen) were performed by level i (certified sonographers, trained national health service (nhs) midwives or doctors trained in gynaecological scanning) or level ii sonographers (senior sonographers, mostly at superintendent level, gynecologists or radiologists specialized in gyncological scanning), while repeat scans following the detection of an abnormality (level ii screens) were performed only by the latter.

the same model of the ultrasound machine (kretz sa2000; kretztechnik ag, zipf, austria) was used at all centers. the ukctocs tvs closest to diagnosis or the last scan in the year 1 screening episode for women managed conservatively was included in the analysis. scan findings recorded on the ukctocs ultrasound form (appendix a) were augmented by independent review of stored static 2-dimensional images. the features captured for each adnexal or midline mass were based on simple morphological groupings (normal, normal with inclusion cyst, unilocular, unilocular solid, multilocular, multilocular solid, solid, or not visualized) based on the international ovarian tumor analysis (iota) definitions from 2000.19

follow-up
follow-up for cancer notification and deaths was through nhs digital for england and wales and northern ireland cancer registry and business services organisation, health and social care northern ireland. women were sent 2 postal follow-up questionnaires (the first 3–5 years after randomization, the second in april 2014).16

medical notes of women diagnosed with oc (as per world health organization 2014 classification) were reviewed by an outcomes review committee who assigned the diagnosis, histological subtype, and stage, as described previously.16

statistical analysis
the primary outcome for this analysis was primary oc diagnosed within a year of the scan.

models were constructed using tvs, ca125, and he4. features used were as follows: (1) age at scan (years); or (2) tvs features, which included (a) the presence of a solid component (papillations, solid areas in cystic lesions, or entirely solid lesions) grouped as not present in either ovary; present in 1 ovary (unilateral); present in both ovaries (bilateral) (supplemental table 1, appendix b); this allowed for the risk associated with bilateral lesions with a solid component to be greater than that of unilateral lesions without the constraint of doubling of risk; (b) locularity defined as no locularity present in either ovary, which included both ovaries with normal morphology, normal morphology with inclusion cyst, solid or not visualized; locularity present in either or both ovaries (ie, morphology was unilocular or multilocular, irrespective of the presence of a solid component). this grouping was done as the model parameters for separate factor levels for uni/multilocular and either/both ovaries were deemed not statistically different, and some were even counterintuitively ordered (this was the only a posteriori decision made in terms of variable creation and model inclusion); (c) ascites (milliliters); or (d) dominant volume (dv). dominant lesion was defined as the adnexal lesion associated with the highest risk of malignancy, based on findings from our previous study in which the risk of epithelial oc was highest in multilocular solid (6.6%), then solid (3.8%), and unilocular solid (2.4%) and lowest in those with persistent normal morphology (0.07%)20; dominant volume was defined as a log volume of the ovary or lesion deemed dominant and not necessarily the largest; or (3) biomarker values: log values of ca125 and he4 were used as continuous rather than categories based on cutoffs.

all continuous variables were explored for whether a statistically superior transformation existed in terms of cancer prediction as well as for collinearity. all predictors collectively comprised the full model. subset versions (ultrasound features; ultrasound plus ca125; ultrasound plus he4; ca125 and he4; ca125 only; and he4 only) were created for purposes of comparison. all were adjusted for age.

two well-known published prediction models were also included: roma and rmi. a modified version (rmi-mod) of the latter was used because data on intraabdominal metastasis were not available. it was not possible to assess lr1, lr2, and adnex models because these were described later and data on the required ultrasound features were not prospectively collected. the ca125 and he4 only models were adjusted for age. there was no single cutoff; instead the ca125 and he4 cutoff varied with age.

multiple imputation was used to account for the missing values in ovary/lesion volume and morphology (details in appendix b). in total, all 20 imputation sets created were used in producing an overall risk prediction model using rubin’s rules.21 this was true also for all the subset models that relied upon imputed data.

the risk prediction model was estimated using a penalised maximum likelihood logistic regression method as proposed by firth22 (further details in appendix b). ten-fold cross-validation was used to explore the performance of the prediction model (and its subsets), in which the estimation for each of the 10 subgroups, and then prediction for the excluded group, was based using all 20 imputation sets.

roma and rmi-mod did not require cross-validation. receiver-operating characteristis curves were used to compare the discriminative ability of the prediction methods. formal comparison of the area under the curve (aucs) for each model was performed using the method of delong et al.23 sensitivity at 90% specificity (similar to most published he4 diagnostic studies)12, 24, 25 was also calculated and the mcnemar test for paired binary outcomes was used to compare differences in sensitivity.

confidence intervals for the aucs and sensitivities were derived using the bias-corrected percentiles from the bootstrap distribution (n = 5000). the brier score (mean squared error difference) and the hosmer-lemeshow test with 10 groups were used to assess model fit. positive and negative predictive values (ppvs, npvs) and numbers needed to treat were included for each of the models.

in addition, the npv and ppv across a range of sensitivities and specificities were calculated. because the prevalence of oc can increase in symptomatic patients presenting to primary care and in those referred to secondary care, the ppv and npv were also calculated at 10% and 15% prevalence.

results
in this study of differential diagnosis nested within the ovarian cancer screening arms of ukctocs, 2086 women (171 mms, 1915 uss) of the 98,308 (50,078 mms; 48,230 uss) who underwent the initial screen were found to have a persistent abnormality and underwent clinical assessment. a blood sample within 6 months of the scan was available in 1611 women (158 mms, 1453 uss). twenty-one women were excluded because they were diagnosed with oc more than a year after the last scan because the aim was to compare performance for detection of oc within a year of the test. in women who had multiple scans, the one within 6 months of the sample was chosen for this study.

the final cohort comprised 1590 women (158 mms, 1432 uss) with adnexal masses. median follow-up from randomization was 10.9 years. seventy-eight (36 mms, 42 uss) were diagnosed with an index cancer within a year of the last scan. the latter included 48 women with invasive epithelial (14 type i and 34 type ii), 24 with borderline epithelial, and 6 with nonepithelial oc. the noncases were similar to all women (n = 98,308) who underwent the prevalence screen (data not shown). cases were older at randomization and therefore at scan (median age, 64.4 vs 60.8 years), heavier, and less likely to have used an oral contraceptive pill (table 1).

cases had a median ca125 of 85.0 (interquartile range [iqr], 24.1, 231.6) ku/l vs 15.3 (iqr, 11.2, 22.1) ku/l in noncases. median he4 was also higher, 92.6 (iqr, 65.6, 215.0) pmol/l in cases vs 55.3 (iqr, 47.1, 68.9) pmol/l in noncases. ninety-six percent of scans (1526) used in the analysis were performed by level ii ultrasonographers and 4% (64) by level i.

the median volume of the dominant adnexal mass was 29.9 ml (iqr, 0.9, 40.9) in cases and 19.4 ml (iqr, 3.9, 27.5) in noncases, and the median largest diameter was 4.4 cm (iqr, 2.2, 7.4) in cases and 3.2 cm (iqr, 2.3, 4.8) in noncases. a solid component was identified in 65.4% of cases (51 of 76) vs 33.2% of noncases (502 of 1503). a total of 42.3% of cases had a multilocular solid cyst compared with 18.4% of noncases with the inverse for multilocular cyst (12.8% of cases and 40.2% of noncases) (table 2).

individual regressions on each predictor variable, using the mi paradigm where necessary, showed highly significant associations with oc except for locularity (supplemental table 2). on comparing the models, the full (ultrasound, ca125 and he4) (auc, 0.896) and the ultrasound plus ca125 model (auc, 0.893) had similarly high (test of difference, p = .453) cross-validated auc and similar sensitivity (75.6% vs 74.4%; p = .564) at fixed specificity of 90% (table 3 and figure).

roma had an auc of 0.854, which was statistically lower to the previously mentioned 2 models. however, its sensitivity did not differ from that of the full model (mcnemar test for paired outcomes, p = .0956) or to the ultrasound plus ca125 model (p = .414). the hosmer-lemeshow test on the cross-validated predictions suggested the full model fit was adequate (p = .316), and the supplemental figure plots the predictions against grouped outcomes in the logit scale.

brier scores showed that the full model had the most accurate predictions, although all scores were low. however, the brier scores for roma were not directly comparable and could not be calculated for rmi-mod. the ppv of the full model and that containing ultrasound and ca125 was 28.1 and 27.8, respectively (table 2).

for the key subgroup analysis by behavior, roma had similarly high sensitivity (87.5%) to the previously mentioned 2 models (89.6%, 89.6%) for invasive epithelial oc, and for type ii cancers (94.1%, 94.1%, 91.2%) (table 4). all 3 models had similar sensitivity for late-stage disease and seemed to detect more aggressive cancers. for the early stage, the ultrasound plus ca125 model had the highest sensitivity (84.2%) (supplemental table 3).

the npv and ppv of the full model and that containing ultrasound and ca125 did not vary significantly across a range of sensitivities and specificities (supplemental table 5) or oc prevalence (supplemental table 6).

thirteen women (12 invasive, 1 borderline epithelial) who developed ovarian cancer within 1.5 years of the sample were not included in this analysis because they were not referred for clinical assessment. samples were available in 7 of 8 women with a normal tvs. he4 levels were elevated (>128 pmol/l) in 1 woman and ca125 (>30 ku/l) in 2 (supplemental table 4). samples were not available for the he4 assay in the 5 women (4 invasive, 1 borderline) who had a normal ca125 (<30 ku/l) screen) and no tvs.

comment
principal findings
despite encouraging preliminary data on he4, our results suggest that in postmenopausal women its role in differential diagnosis of adnexal masses is limited. it adds little value to the concurrent use of serum ca125 and simple ultrasound features, either for detection of oc overall or the invasive epithelial oc subgroup.

results in context
our results suggesting ca125 and ultrasound have the best performance are in keeping with the us (american college of obstetricians and gynecologists)2 and scottish3 referral guidelines for women with symptoms/adnexal mass. neither biomarkers (ca125 or he4) alone nor tvs alone performed well, bringing into question the sequence of tests (ca125 followed by tvs) in the uk national institute for health and care excellence guidance for detection of ovarian cancer in primary care, especially in women older than 50 years. of note, the guidance does include repeat ca125 in women with persistent symptoms.1

roma, which combines he4 and ca125, had high sensitivity for invasive epithelial and type ii ocs (mostly high-grade serous), similar to that of the ultrasound, ca125, and he4 model, supporting its use as an alternative in settings where tvs may not be readily available. it is currently used in clinical practice in the united states and some private clinics in the united kingdom.26

in our study, he4 alone performed less well (lower sensitivity and auc) compared with ca125 alone, although the differences were not significant. the sensitivity of he4 alone in postmenopausal women was lower than the pooled sensitivity (77%; 95% confidence interval, 0.72–0.81) at similar specificity (91%; 95% confidence interval, 0.89–0.94) reported in the most recent systematic review.12 key contributing factors were the meta-analysis using a variety of tests (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, chemiluminescent microparticle immuno assay), blood and serum values, varying marker thresholds in different studies, and unavailability of raw data, resulting in categorizations as in the papers. equally important was the use of hospital cohorts with high oc prevalence (15–59%) compared with 5% in our population-based cohort.

because our cohort includes women who might never have presented with a symptomatic adnexal mass, we calculated the ppv and npv at higher oc prevalence of 10%, which may be closer to that in the primary care population, and 15%, similar to prevalence in secondary care referral clinics in the united kingdom. while both increased with higher disease prevalence, there was no additive value of he4. it would therefore be difficult to justify including he4 in triage unless tvs was not locally available.

it is also important to note that no definitive conclusions can be drawn that the model including he4 has lower sensitivity for differential diagnosis of early-stage ovarian cancer because the numbers involved are too small.

clinical and research implications
it is likely that symptom awareness campaigns will result in women presenting with masses midway between those described in our population cohort and those currently seen in secondary care and rapid access clinics.27 if 12–50%28, 29 of the 10 million uk women aged >55 years30 presented with alarm symptoms every year, this could equate to 1.2 million women requiring tests, with a significant proportion being referred to secondary care. therefore, a simple cost-effective protocol that is easy to implement is critical, given the widespread oc symptom awareness campaigns.

based on our findings, the additional cost and logistics of performing he4 is not justified because the positive and negative predictive values of including he4 with ultrasound and ca125 were similar. a prospective study to confirm these findings is needed. in the united kingdom, one such study is the refining ovarian cancer test accuracy scores,27 with data collection underway.

strengths and limitations
the key strength of our study is the minimization of selection bias seen in previous diagnostic studies through the use of a prospective-specimen-collection, retrospective-blinded-evaluation design.31 we included serum samples collected from all women with adnexal masses (population cohort) detected on the initial ovarian cancer screen of 98,308 ukctocs participants from the general population. completeness of follow-up through postal questionnaires and electronic health record linkage to cancer and death registry to ascertain diagnosis of oc in these women was 98.9%. oc diagnosis was independently confirmed by an outcomes review committee.16 while the numbers reflect the low incidence of oc, they are likely to be more representative of the proportion of women with oc who are seen in primary care as compared with secondary care case control sets. general practitioners in the united kingdom would expect to see a woman with oc every 5 years and typically carry out 25,000 consultations per 1 case of oc.32

the study of 1590 women with adnexal masses (78 ovarian cancers, 1512 controls) had 90% power to detect a difference in the auc of 10% between the full model (auc, 0.896) and another model. the small numbers, however, precluded a split of the data into training and test set. instead, 10-fold cross-validation of the models limited the upward bias of prediction using the same data. we used a bespoke multiple imputation model using chained equations for missing data, methodology designed to reduce the known small-sample bias of maximum likelihood, and use of age rather than menopausal status (as in roma, rmi) whose definition could be challenging.

there remains an element of selection bias because 12 women with invasive epithelial oc (4 mms, 8 uss) were not detected on the initial screen and therefore did not undergo clinical assessment. however, we were able to assay the samples in 7 of these cases. additionally, self-selection resulted in ukctocs participants being healthier and less deprived than the general population.33

of note, the cohort includes women with adnexal masses that might never become symptomatic. tvs alone in our cohort did not perform as well as in the iota group studies.8, 9 a number of factors are likely to contribute to this difference: the latter conducted in secondary care symptomatic patients with larger adnexal masses (median diameter of 10.6 cm in stage i and 8.5 cm in stage ii–iv7 vs 4.4 cm in our study), more advanced disease,7 additional features including doppler, and tvs performed by iota-trained sonographers.34

of note, the majority of our scans (96%) were performed by senior nhs ultrasonographers. similar variables were captured as those in the nhs, making our findings generalizable to this setting. capture of data using earlier iota definitions19 prevented evaluation of more recent iota models (which include size of the solid component, number of papillations, etc).

finally, it was not possible using this study design to evaluate the performance of he4 as a first-line test because all the women were triaged to clinical assessment based on ca125 or tvs findings. separate analysis of performance of he4 as a first-line screening test in ukctocs is underway using a different sample set.

our population-based study suggests that in differential diagnosis of ovarian cancer, especially invasive epithelial disease in postmenopausal women with adnexal masses, he4 adds little value to the concurrent use of ca125 and transvaginal ultrasound.