what predicts intergenerational change in anthropometry?

it is a truth universally acknowledged, that children
now are taller, heavier and fatter than their parents
and grandparents were. trends in adult height over
the past 100 years have recently been documented in
detail by the ncd risk factor collaboration, comparing
mean adult height by sex in 200 countries between 1896
and 1996 [1]. some countries have seen height increase by
up to 20 cm. in addition, the pace of growth in childhood
has accelerated, so that adult height is now reached at an
earlier age. this has the effect of inflating the apparent
increase in height during childhood, as children of a
particular age are both taller and more advanced in
developmental age [2]. weight has also been increasing in
line with height; but over the past half-century, it has
outstripped height, and this has led to the secular trend of
rising body mass index (bmi) and the public health
concerns of increasing obesity.
documenting these secular trends in child growth
usually involves comparing anthropometry in crosssectional studies at different times; for example national
surveys carried out every 10 or 15 years [3,4]. it is unusual
to be able to make a direct comparison of the growth of
children with their parents.
the article by sinha, et al. [5] in this issue of indian
pediatrics uses an interesting and unusual
intergenerational study design to do just that – the growth
patterns of children born around 1970 and recruited to the
new delhi birth cohort were compared with those of their
own children as measured more recently. the comparisons
focussed on the age groups 0-5 and 5-10 years, where the
outcomes were the intergenerational z-score changes in
height, weight and bmi, adjusted for age and sex. the
findings were striking – over the follow-up period, the
children increased in height by a whole standard deviation,
corresponding to 3.9 cm in the younger children and 6.4
cm in the older. weight increased similarly, by 1.3 and 5.4
kg in the two age groups; while bmi changed only in the
older children, by 1.9 kg/m2, and in the 0-5 year group it
remained the same. the authors concluded that children
tend to “grow up” before they “grow out.”
this is one surprise, that the younger children were not
fatter than their parents were at the same age, despite the
steep rise in obesity prevalence that has occurred over the
period. but the intergenerational study design also
provided other interesting insights, some of them counterintuitive: the increases were greater for smaller and older
parents, with poorer sanitation and higher education, and
for older children. it is instructive to consider each of these
associations in turn, and to explore their relevance to
health policy. by far the strongest association was with
parental size – the secular increase was appreciably greater
for shorter parents. the authors provide three potential
explanations for this: “statistical regression to the mean,
narrowing of socio-economic inequalities and greater
biological response among deprived strata”, and they are
optimistic that it represents a reduction in height inequity.
however, they are perhaps over-optimistic, in that the
most likely explanation is the first of the three, regression
to the mean, which is a statistical not a social or biological
construct. it states simply that extreme measurements (e.g.
height) are on average less extreme on remeasurement; so
shorter parents tend to produce somewhat less short
children, and vice versa for taller parents and children. it
was first described by francis galton, working in the same
context as here, with the heights of parents and children
[6]. as a statistical phenomenon, regression to the mean is
substantial and ever-present; so it tends to dwarf any other
factors that may be operating.
the next strongest association the authors found was
with parental age; the children of older parents tended to
be relatively taller. the authors speculate that the parents
being older meant they were exposed longer to improved
living conditions, and passed this on to their children.
however, there is another more likely explanation; the
parents were all born around 1970, so if they were older
when their children were born, the children must have been
born later and hence experienced more of the underlying
secular trend. in this sense, parental age is simply a
measure of passing time, and the child’s year of birth
would have been similarly predictive.
the child’s age was another important predictor of
secular change, which was appreciably greater in the older
age group. the authors view this as a proxy for exposure
duration, but again it is more likely to be structural,
reflecting the advanced developmental age of the children
compared to their parents; so they reach milestones
relatively earlier than their parents and hence appear taller.
this effect increases with age until puberty and then
disappears once adult height is reached [7]; so one would
expect it to be greater for age 5-10 y than age 0-5 y.
the secular change in developmental age may also
explain why bmi did not increase in the 0-5 year group.
the bmi curve typically rises steeply in infancy, peaks just
before 1 year, then falls until adiposity rebound at age 4-5 y
when it rises again [8]. the advance in developmental age
shifts this pattern to the left, with both the age at bmi peak
and the age at adiposity rebound getting earlier [9,10],
independently of any secular increase in bmi. because of
its shape, the age-shifted curve is slightly lower than the
original curve at some ages (fig. 1), and this generates an
apparent fall in bmi that partially compensates for the
secular bmi rise. so, in this sense the authors are right that
children tend to “grow up” before they “grow out.”
the wash (water, sanitation and hygiene) score, was
the one socio-economic factor to have a measurable effect
on the secular change in height, weight and bmi. it
presumably means that the children brought up in better
conditions than their parents grew better as a result. weight
and bmi were also relatively greater in children whose
parents were more educated; this though looks more like
greater obesity than improved growth, as there was no
associated height effect.
in summary, the study confirms intergenerational
increases in height, weight and bmi, and identifies several
factors that predict them. however, most of the factors
reflect either statistical or biological associations that may
not be very relevant to policy. in terms of policy relevance,
only sanitation in the parent cohort impacted significantly
on the secular height trend, suggesting that improved
sanitation is a worthwhile policy goal. sanitation in the
child cohort did not show an effect, but this may be because
it has improved materially in 30 years, making its impact
harder to detect.

<|EndOfText|>

optimal design for longitudinal studies to
estimate pubertal height growth in individuals

abstract
background: the sitar model expresses individual pubertal height growth in terms of mean size,
peak height velocity (phv) and age at phv.
aim: to use sitar to identify the optimal time interval between measurements to summarise individual pubertal height growth.
subjects and methods: heights in 3172 boys aged 9–19 years from christ’s hospital school measured
on 128 679 occasions (a median of 42 heights per boy) were analysed using the sitar
(superimposition by translation and rotation) mixed effects growth curve model, which estimates a
mean curve and three subject-specific random effects. separate models were fitted to sub-sets of the
data with measurement intervals of 2, 3, 4, 6, 12 and 24 months, and the different models
were compared.
results: the models for intervals 2–12 months gave effectively identical results for the residual standard deviation (0.8 cm), mean spline curve (6 degrees of freedom) and random effects (correlations
>0.9), showing there is no benefit in measuring height more often than annually. the model for
2-year intervals fitted slightly less well, but needed just four-to-five measurements per individual.
conclusions: height during puberty needs to be measured only annually and, with slightly lower
precision, just four biennial measurements can be sufficient.

introduction
growth in puberty is recognised as an important stage in the
life course, with the pattern of growth at this time impacting
significantly on later health. as a recent example, pubertal
height and weight growth in the british 1946 birth cohort
were found to have a clinically important effect on bone
health 50 years later (cole et al. 2016; kuh et al. 2016). it was
not only the individual’s size (i.e. mean height and weight) in
puberty that was influential, but also two aspects of their
pubertal growth spurt: its timing and intensity.
the timing of puberty based on height or weight in individuals is usually defined by the age when they are growing
fastest, their age at peak velocity (marshall & tanner 1969,
1970). equally, the intensity of puberty is summarised by
their peak velocity, which is inversely correlated with their
duration of puberty—the faster they grow, the sooner they
reach adult size. the mean age at peak height velocity (phv)
is 13–14 years in boys and 2 years earlier in girls, while
mean phv is 8–9 cm/year in the two sexes. however, both
timing and intensity vary enormously from one individual to
another; the population standard deviations (sd) of phv and
age at phv being 0.9 cm/year and 1 year, respectively (cole
et al. 2014). thus, the distribution of age at phv in the population spans more than 4 years in each sex.
in the past, the age at peak velocity in individuals was
estimated by fitting a growth curve to their serial growth
data, e.g. the five-parameter preece-baines curve (preece &
baines 1978) or a natural cubic smoothing spline curve
(sandhu et al. 2006). from this their age at peak velocity
could be obtained, either as the solution to a quadratic in
the parameters or from the first derivative of the spline
curve. however, the downside of this approach was the need
to repeat the analysis for each individual.
now, with the advent of non-linear mixed effects models,
it is possible to estimate puberty timing for individuals by fitting a single model to the entire cohort, and functions of the
subject random effects identify the timings for individuals. a
recent paper by simpkin et al. (2017) compared three such
methods for estimating age at phv: a multilevel model using
fractional polynomials (mlm-fp) (goldstein 1986), superimposition by translation and rotation (sitar) (cole et al. 2010)
and principal analysis by conditional expectation (pace) (yao
et al. 2005). each model was compared with the preecebaines model 1 fitted to individuals (preece & baines, 1978)
and the focus was the degree of bias in the estimated mean
age at phv. the authors concluded that, of the three models,
only sitar estimated age at phv, essentially without bias,
and they recommended it and the preece-baines model on
this basis.
the sitar model (cole et al. 2010) has a number of
advantages over the preece-baines model. it fits all the individuals in a single model, whereas preece-baines fits them
separately. it estimates the age at phv in individuals as a random effect relative to the mean age at phv, which is simpler
to obtain than calculating it from other parameters. it also
fits the mean curve as a cubic spline, which is more flexible
in shape than the parametric preece-baines curve. in addition, sitar includes two further subject-specific random
effects representing each individual’s relative size and growth
intensity (i.e. phv), which, together with the timing random
effect, account for most of the variance in pubertal height
growth—sitar consistently explains over 98% of the crosssectional variance (cole et al. 2010, 2014, 2015; prentice
et al. 2012).
the analysis by simpkin et al. (2017) simulated height
growth curves for boys from 10–19.75 years using the preecebaines model 2 (preece & baines 1978), while systematically
varying the measurement error, sample size, time interval
between measurements, and measurement balance. it found
that sitar performed well, irrespective of the selected measurement error, sample size, or time interval, with the exception of measurements every 24 months when the model
failed to converge or was seriously biased. simpkin et al.
(2017) also analysed the same four models using real data
for boys from christ’s hospital school, and found that the
correlations between age at phv estimated by the different
methods were generally low.
in their analyses simpkin et al. (2017) varied the frequency
of measurement occasions, but they did not address the specific design question as to which measurement interval is the
most efficient for estimating pubertal growth, and in previous cohort studies this interval has varied widely. j. m.
tanner’s harpenden growth study collected measurements
every 3 months during puberty (marshall & tanner 1969,
1970), while the edinburgh growth study saw subjects every
3 or 6 months (cole et al. 2014), the wrocław growth study
collected measurements annually (bielicki & waliszko 1975),
and the avon longitudinal study of parents and children
(alspac) clinically examined children every 1 or 2 years during puberty (boyd et al. 2013). it is evident that more frequent measurements will lead to better estimates, be they of
the timing or the intensity of the growth spurt. however,
there is likely to be an optimal measurement frequency, such
that extra measurements beyond the optimum improve the
estimates only marginally.
this study aims to use the sitar model to address the
question: what is the optimal time interval between measurements to quantify pubertal height growth in individual boys,
providing adequate accuracy at reasonable cost? in doing so
it will build on and extend the work of simpkin et al. (2017),
using the same christ’s hospital school dataset.
methods
data management
the analysis is based on a single dataset of 129 508 height
measurements collected on 3245 boys aged 9–19 years from
christ’s hospital boys school, horsham, sussex, uk, between
1939 and 1968 (heights were not measured in the ch girls
school). christ’s hospital is an independent school, established in 1552, which has always admitted pupils from a
wide social and geographical background, asking parents to
contribute towards fees according to their means. virtually all
the boys were born in the uk, so it is likely the vast majority
were of european descent. simpkin et al. (2017) used broadly
the same dataset, with 126 897 heights from 3123 boys.
height was measured with an avery yard-arm platform
scale with height standard attached and recorded to the
nearest 1/8th inch (3.2 mm) (friend 1935). for analysis, the
heights were expressed in centimetres to two decimal places.
the boys were measured at the start and end of each term,
i.e. six times a year, throughout their time at the school. the
first height per child was at a median age of 10.6 (interquartile range ¼ 9.8–11.3) years, the last height was at 17.5
(16.6–18.3) years, and the time interval from first to last
measurement was 6.8 (5.8–7.8) years. the scale of the dataset
makes it suitable to compare the performance of different
sampling designs.
the dataset was first cleaned by excluding measurements
whose residuals after fitting the sitar model (see next section) exceeded 4 residual standard deviations (3.1 cm) in
absolute value (n ¼ 382 or 0.3%). the same dataset, except
with 952 outlying measurements excluded, was used to validate the sitar growth curve model, see figure 3(c) of cole
et al. (2010).
the ideal dataset to address the research question would
consist of frequent regularly spaced measurements, from
which longer measurement intervals could be obtained by
selecting suitably spaced sub-sets of the data. however, the
school pattern at christ’s hospital consisted of a shorter
spring term, its length depending on the timing of easter,
and longer summer and autumn terms, while the holidays
were of 4 or 8 weeks duration. as a result, the distribution of
time intervals between measurements had three distinct
peaks at 5, 9 and 12 weeks. this complicated the selection of
suitable measurements to represent particular time intervals.
in addition, some measurements were inevitably missing, so
it was not realistic to expect every nth measurement to be
equally spaced in time. instead, an algorithm was developed
to extract equally spaced measurements, which has been
implemented as the timegap function in the sitar library
(cole 2016) of the statistical language r version 3.3.2 (r core
team 2016). the same library was used to fit the
sitar models.
timegap works as follows: (a) a target time interval is
specified (e.g. 6 months); then, for each individual, timegap
(b) calculates the differences in age between all pairs of
measurements; (c) expresses them as multiples of the target
interval; (d) restricts them to those within a tolerance of 10%
of (an integer multiple of) the target interval; and (e) identifies those providing the longest sequence of measurements.
in this way sub-sets of measurements for each individual
were obtained where the time gaps between measurements
were close to one or more target intervals.
the following time intervals were investigated as simple
fractions or multiples of 12 months: 2, 3, 4 and 6 months, 1
and 2 years, and sub-set datasets for each interval were constructed using timegap. the 2-year interval was included to
test the findings of simpkin et al. (2017). note that the actual
ages of measurement were not constrained. time intervals of
3, 4 and 5 years were also explored, but the sitar models fitted to them failed to converge and they are not considered
further. inevitably the numbers of subjects and measurements in each dataset differed, and, to address this, the data
were restricted to the sub-set of individuals with measurements in all six datasets.
statistical analysis
the purpose of the analysis was to compare the different
time intervals by summarising the data using a separate
sitar model for each interval; the model based on the
full dataset was also fitted for comparison. sitar
(superimposition by translation and rotation) is a shape
invariant growth curve model consisting of a natural cubic bspline mean curve and three subject-specific random effects
that have the effect of shifting the mean curve to match the
subjects’ own growth curves (beath 2007; cole et al. 2010;
lindstrom 1995). the three random effects are size, a measure of relative height in the individual, timing (or tempo), the
relative timing of their age at phv (aphv), and intensity, their
relative phv. in geometric terms the three random effects
can be thought of as size shifting the individual curves up/
down, timing shifting them left/right, and intensity stretching/
shrinking the age scale, to alter the average slope. the purpose of these adjustments is to—as closely as possible—
superimpose the individual curves on the mean curve. the
complexity of the mean spline curve’s shape was controlled
by choosing the degrees of freedom to minimise the
bayesian information criterion (bic).
the sitar models were fitted, as height vs log age, with
either 5 or 6 degrees of freedom for the mean curve, age
being log-transformed to reflect a multiplicative age effect.
with log age the timing random effect is a difference in log
age, which corresponds to a percentage difference in age
(cole & altman 2017). so individuals differ in developmental
age by a few percentage points, which corresponds to the
age scale being stretched or shrunk; this is more valid biologically than a linear age scale being shifted right or left.
the model included both random and fixed effects for
size, timing, and intensity. the size effect was in units of centimetres, while timing and intensity were in fractional units
(i.e. multiplied by 100 to give percentages) relative to aphv
and phv, respectively. the models were compared on the
basis of mean curve shape, residual standard deviation, mean
aphv (the age when the first derivative of the mean curve,
plotted as height vs age, was maximal), mean phv (the velocity at mean aphv) and the random effect standard deviations and their correlations across the models for different
time intervals.
to investigate the 2-year interval in more detail, separate
models were fitted for individuals with two, three, four and
five measurements.
results
the edited dataset consisted of 3172 individuals and 128 679
measurements (99.4% of the total), age range ¼ 9.0–20.5 years
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
0
500
1000
1500
number of measurements per child
number of children
2 years
1 year
6 months
4 months
3 months
2 months
all
figure 1. plot of the numbers of measurements per child vs the number of children in each time interval dataset. for example, 1700 children each had four measurements in the 2-year interval dataset (purple), while 428 had 42 measurements in the full dataset (red).
(median ¼ 14.0, interquartile range ¼ 12.2–15.8). figure 1
shows the numbers of children with specified numbers of
measurements for the different time intervals, e.g. for 2-year
intervals each of the 3172 boys had between two and six
measurements, with a mode of four.
sitar models were successfully fitted to the whole dataset
and to the sub-sets of data for the six time intervals from
2 months to 2 years. all the models converged with 6 degrees
of freedom, except for the 2-year model, which converged
with 5.
table 1 compares summary statistics for the data and fitted sitar models based on all the data and the six time
intervals. the numbers of measurements per dataset correspond to the areas under the corresponding curves in
figure 1. in theory, the numbers should be inversely related
to the time intervals, with proportionately more measurements for shorter intervals as seen for 6 months, 1 and
2 years. however, the intervals for 2, 3 and 4 months were
under-represented due to the non-uniform termly measurement pattern. the modal numbers of measurements per
child and the proportions of measurements spaced the nominal time interval apart (the remainder being two or more
intervals apart) confirm that many of the 2- and 3-month
measurements were actually spaced 4 or 6 months apart.
the last eight columns of table 1 summarise the sitar
models. the residual standard deviation rose very slightly with
increasing time interval and the percentage of variance
explained fell slightly, while the mean ages at phv and mean
phvs were very similar across models, as were the standard
deviations (sd) of the size, timing and intensity random effects.
multiplying the timing sds by median age converts them to
age units of 0.9 years, slightly less than the expected 1 year.
figure 2 shows the fitted mean height and height velocity
curves overall and for the six intervals. the seven curves
were remarkably similar, with those for all, 2, 3 and 4 months
almost completely obscured by the 6-month and 1-year
curves on top of them. as already seen in table 1, their
mean ages at peak velocity (marked with the vertical dotted
lines) were also virtually identical, averaging 14.4 years with a
range of only 0.03 years (11 days).
table 1. summary statistics for datasets and fitted sitar models for the six time intervals in 3172 boys.
time
interval
number
of heights
number of
heights per
child (mode)
proportion
of time gaps
of one time
interval (%)
degrees of
freedom for
spline curve
residual
standard
deviation
(cm)
variance
explained
(%)
mean age at
peak height
velocity
(years)
mean peak
height
velocity
(cm/year)
size random
effect
sd (cm)
timing
random
effect
sd (%)
intensity
random
effect
sd (%)
all 128 679 42 — 6 0.74 98.7 14.4 9.6 6.0 6.6 15
2 months 62 965 19 41 6 0.76 98.7 14.4 9.5 6.0 6.6 14
3 months 43 542 13 22 6 0.77 98.7 14.4 9.5 5.9 6.5 14
4 months 41 074 12 54 6 0.77 98.7 14.4 9.6 6.0 6.6 14
6 months 41 504 14 96 6 0.77 98.6 14.4 9.6 5.9 6.6 14
1 year 22 237 7 99.5 6 0.80 98.5 14.4 9.7 5.8 6.5 14
2 years 12 049 4 99.9 5 0.92 98.0 14.2 9.7 5.7 6.2 14
10 12 14 16 18 20
140
150
160
170
age (years)
height (cm)
0
2
4
6
8
height velocity (cm/yr)
height (cm)
height velocity (cm/yr)
2 years
1 year
6 months
4 months
3 months
2 months
all
figure 2. plot of mean height curves (solid lines) and mean height velocity curves (dashed lines) based on sitar models for the different time intervals. the vertical
dotted lines indicate the age at peak velocity for each model.
the 2-year model differed somewhat from the others,
with a larger rsd, less variance explained, an earlier mean
age at phv, larger mean phv, and smaller random effect sds
(table 1). however, the differences were not large. its height
and height velocity curves also differed in shape (figure 2).
however, the fact that the 2-year model fitted at all was
somewhat surprising, with a median of only four measurements per child (note that simpkin et al. (2017) also had
trouble fitting the 24-month model). table 2 compares the 2-
year time interval models restricted to individuals with two,
three, four and five measurements. at first glance they agree
well and even those based on two and three measurements
per child look plausible. however, in detail the 2- and 3-
measurement models were unreliable; the former only fitted
with the timing random effect omitted, and the latter did
not converge, both due at least in part to their young ages
of measurement (see table 2). figure 3 shows the separate
mean curves for the four models, which confirms that at least
four measurements were needed to provide reliable mean
curves, corresponding to 6 years of follow-up. this latter
group contained 1700 (54%) of the 3172 individuals and a
further 477 (15%) had five measurements, so their curves
were robustly estimated. note that the overall 2-year curve is
effectively the weighted average of the curves in figure 3.
figures 4 and 5 compare the subject random effects as
estimated by the different models, by looking at scatterplot
matrices of the correlations between them. due to the similarity of the models from 2 months to 6 months, the comparison is restricted to intervals of 6, 12 and 24 months. figure 4
covers size and timing, while figure 5 deals with intensity.
each individual graph shows the scatterplot of a pair of individual random effects (in grey), with the value of the correlation coefficient superimposed.
the correlations for size and timing between the models
with different time intervals (figure 4) all exceeded 0.9,
showing good agreement between the models, although
slightly smaller for 2 years. for intensity (figure 5) the correlations were smaller but still exceeded 0.8. thus, the models
for the different time intervals all provided reassuringly similar estimates for the subject random effects, particularly age
table 2. summary statistics for 2-year time intervals: separate sitar models according to the number of heights per child.
number of
heights
per child
number
of children
median age
(years)
proportion
of time gaps
of one time
interval (%)
degrees of
freedom for
spline curve
residual
standard
deviation
(cm)
variance
explained
(%)
mean age at
peak height
velocity
(years)
mean peak
height
velocity
(cm/year)
size random
effect
sd (cm)
timing
random
effect
sd (%)
intensity
random
effect
sd (%)
2 127 11.7 99.2 4 0.93 98.1 14.5 14.3 5.0 — 2
3 866 13.4 99.7 4 0.95 98.0 14.2 8.3 5.8 10.9 13
4 1700 14.1 100 5 0.89 97.7 14.3 9.4 5.6 6.2 14
5 477 14.0 100 5 0.97 97.6 14.4 9.1 5.7 6.4 13
6 2 ——————————
timing random effect omitted.
10 12 14 16 18 20
130
140
150
160
170
180
age (years)
height (cm)
all measurements
2 measurements
3 measurements
4 measurements
5 measurements
figure 3. plot of mean height curves for sitar models fitted to sub-sets of the 2-year interval dataset, based on the number of measurements per individual. the
vertical dotted lines indicate the age at peak velocity for each model.
at peak velocity. this in turn confirmed the value of the 1-
and 2-year interval models.
conclusion
on the evidence presented here, measurements in puberty
taken 1 year apart are as informative as measurements taken
2 months apart for estimating the timing and intensity of
peak height velocity in individuals. this insight could reduce
the annual number of measurements in future studies from
six to one, with little loss of precision—clearly a considerable
saving. extending the time interval to 2 years would further
halve the number of measurement occasions, but at a cost
of slightly greater imprecision. ideally the median age of
measurement (14 years here) should be close to mean aphv.
the fact that the 2-year interval model fitted as well as it
did is instructive. the modal and median number of heights
per boy was four (range is two-to-six), and the total number
of heights only 9% of that for the full model, yet the two
estimated mean ages at phv differed by only 0.2 years and
the two sds for the timing random effect, at 6.2% and 6.6%,
were also very similar. it seems to be a good example of
‘borrowing strength’, that just a few measurements per child
spread evenly across the age range can accurately estimate
the timing of puberty (cole et al. 2016).
with simpkin et al. (2017) the 24-month model failed, fitting poorly for the unbalanced design (each measurement
age within a 3-month window) and failing to fit at all for the
balanced design (all individuals measured at the same ages).
why this should be is unclear, as simpkin et al. (2017) gave
no details of the models they fitted, e.g. the number of
spline degrees of freedom. however, table 1 provides a clue,
at least for the unbalanced case, in that here the 2-year
model fitted with 5 degrees of freedom, but not 6. simpkin’s
model might well have fitted had they used fewer degrees
of freedom.
the study by simpkin et al. (2017) involved both simulated and real data, the simulations testing for bias in aphv
while the christ’s data explored model agreement in aphv.
the findings here rely on real data, which were obviously
less tightly controlled than simulated data. however, they
were largely equally spaced in time, thanks to timegap, and
the distribution of measurement ages reflected those likely
to be seen in practice. thus, the findings have face validity.
it has long been known that estimating the shape of the
mean curve in puberty without adjusting for the pattern of
growth in individuals attenuates the velocity curve and
biases the mean curve (cole et al. 2008; merrell 1931). by
adjusting for individual timing and intensity, sitar provides
an unbiased estimate of the curve, irrespective of the number of measurements. in this sense, the findings are unsurprising, that reducing the number of measurements (and
increasing the time interval between them) hardly affects the
mean curve (and hence aphv), as confirmed by simpkin
et al. (2017). however, the fact that the residual standard
deviation and the random effects are also largely unaffected
is an unexpected bonus.
how generalisable are the findings? it is impossible to
know without repeating the study in different contexts, but
several previous studies have shown that pubertal height
growth in both sexes is well modelled by sitar (cole et al.
2010, 2014, 2015; prentice et al. 2012). as such, it efficiently
estimates the variability in the age at phv, so it is well suited
to compare different designs for estimating it. a limitation of
the current dataset is its being restricted to boys, and the
pubertal growth spurt is known to be less intense in girls
(marshall & tanner 1969), which might make its timing
harder to estimate. against that the standard deviation of
aphv is similar in the two sexes (marshall & tanner 1969,
6 months 0.98 0.94
0.97 1 year 0.95
0.90 0.91 2 years
figure 4. scatterplot matrix of random effects for size (upper triangle) and timing (lower triangle) in sitar models restricted to 6-month, 1-year and 2-year
time intervals. the corresponding correlation coefficients are also shown. to
read off the values for a given pair of time intervals, focus on the rows and columns containing the two names; there are two cells where they intersect, the
one above the diagonal containing the size correlation and the one below the
corresponding timing correlation.
6 months 0.91 0.81
1 year 0.84
2 years
figure 5. scatterplot matrix of random effects for intensity in sitar models
restricted to 6-month, 1-year and 2-year time intervals. the corresponding correlation coefficients are also shown.
1970; cole et al. 2014), which suggests that the findings
should generalise. note that, because girls start puberty
2 years earlier than boys on average (marshall & tanner,
1969), their measurement ages need to be advanced
correspondingly.
the strengths of the study are the application of sitar
growth curve analysis to efficiently summarise the information available for each measurement interval and the large
number of subjects and measurements over an age range
exceeding 6 years, allowing comparison of time intervals
from 2 months to 2 years. limitations include the data being
restricted to boys, as discussed above, the ethnicity, and the
data being rather old, dating back 50–80 years. these factors
are likely to affect mean age at phv to some extent, but not
the paper’s main conclusions. in addition, the non-uniform
measurement pattern through the year has meant that the
shorter time intervals were under-represented compared to
those for 6 months or more.
the topic of optimal design for longitudinal studies as
addressed here has an extensive literature, which has tended
to focus on designed missingness (helms, 1992; morara et al.
2007; verbeke & lesaffre, 1999). this corresponds to the
mixed longitudinal design, where individuals are recruited
and followed up from different ages, as opposed to the pure
longitudinal design of the present study. however, the question addressed here could be extended to include designed
missingness by excluding individuals from further measurement once they have clearly passed their age at peak velocity. this would reduce the number of measurements
needing to be collected later in puberty, although whether
or not the saving was worthwhile would need further work.
in conclusion, the sitar analysis has demonstrated that
annual measurements are sufficient to estimate age at peak
height velocity to high precision, and that biennial measurements on as few as four occasions suffer only a slight loss
of precision.

<|EndOfText|>

low maternal capital predicts life history trade-offs in daughters: why adverse outcomes cluster in individuals

background: some individuals appear prone to multiple adverse outcomes, including poor health, school dropout, risky behavior and early reproduction. this clustering remains poorly understood. drawing on evolutionary life history theory, we hypothesized that maternal investment in early life would predict the developmental trajectory and adult phenotype of female offspring. specifically, we predicted that daughters receiving low investment would prioritize the life history functions of “reproduction” and “defense” over “growth” and “maintenance,” increasing the risk of several adverse outcomes.

methods: we investigated 2,091 mother-daughter dyads from a birth cohort in pelotas, brazil. we combined data on maternal height, body mass index, income, and education into a composite index of “maternal capital.” daughter outcomes included reproductive status at 18 years, growth, adult anthropometry, body composition, cardio-metabolic risk, educational attainment, work status, and risky behavior. we tested whether daughters' early reproduction (<18 years) and exposure to low maternal capital were associated with adverse outcomes, and whether this accounted for the clustering of adverse outcomes within individuals.

results: daughters reproducing early were shorter, more centrally adipose, had less education and demonstrated more risky behavior compared to those not reproducing. low maternal capital was associated with greater likelihood of the daughter reproducing early, smoking and having committed violent crime. high maternal capital was positively associated with the daughter's birth weight and adult size, and the likelihood of being in school. associations of maternal capital with cardio-metabolic risk were inconsistent. daughters reproducing early comprised 14.8% of the population, but accounted for 18% of obesity; 20% of violent crime, low birth weight and short stature; 32% of current smoking; and 52% of school dropout. exposure to low maternal capital contributed similarly to the clustering of adverse outcomes among daughters. outcomes were worst among daughters characterized by both low maternal capital and early reproduction.

conclusion: consistent with life history theory, daughters exposed to low maternal capital demonstrate “future discounting” in behavior and physiology, prioritizing early reproduction over growth, education, and health. trade-offs associated with low maternal capital and early reproduction contribute to clustering of adverse outcomes. our approach provides new insight into inter-generational cycles of disadvantage.

introduction
there is major public-policy interest in investing in children, in order to allow them to achieve their full potential in health and human capital, and flourish in adult life. this is particularly relevant to high-risk groups, who have been shown to contribute disproportionately to adverse adult outcomes. for example, a recent analysis of the dunedin cohort of ~940 individuals showed that “a segment comprising [only] 22% of the cohort accounted for 36% of the cohort's injury insurance claims; 40% of excess obese kilograms; 54% of cigarettes smoked; 57% of hospital nights; 66% of welfare benefits; 77% of fatherless child-rearing; 78% of prescription fills; and 81% of criminal convictions” (1). as childhood risks predicted these adult outcomes, the authors concluded that early interventions targeting this high-risk segment of the population could yield large returns on investment.

this study has important implications for public health. it highlights the benefits of considering a wide range of outcomes, embracing both health and human capital outcomes, within a single conceptual framework, and in addition, indicates that the clustering of adverse traits in adulthood has a developmental origin. nevertheless, the study also raises two related questions: first, we still need to explain why diverse adverse outcomes encompassing both physiological and behavioral traits should cluster within individuals; second, it remains unclear how early in the life-course interventions should be targeted, in order to maximize their benefits. we develop an evolutionary approach to address the first question, which has additional implications for the second.

physiological and behavioral outcomes are often addressed using very different conceptual approaches, reflecting contrasting theoretical perspectives widely used by biomedical or social scientists. however, a unique integrative framework is provided by evolutionary life history theory, which aims to predict phenotypic variability in general (2, 3), and which can therefore address both physical and behavioral traits. this theory assumes that organisms are under selective pressure to harvest resources from the environment throughout the life-cycle, and to allocate them to biological functions to maximize fitness (4). energy is allocated between competing functions (maintenance, growth, reproduction and defense), resulting in trade-offs between them (5).

most often, life history theory is used by biologists, in order to explain inter-species variability in traits such as reproductive strategy and longevity. for example, it has long been assumed that species exposed to high extrinsic mortality risk are unlikely to reap substantial pay-offs from investing in growth and maintenance, and will instead maximize fitness by prioritizing immediate survival and reproduction (6). such organisms therefore mature rapidly, and produce numerous offspring, few of which survive to adulthood. as extrinsic mortality risk falls, the pay-offs from investing in maintenance increase, thus extending average longevity (7). although this model is broadly supported, recent work suggests that the association between mortality risk and lifespan is more complex, and may depend for example on when in the lifespan mortality risk is greatest (8). nevertheless, this framework can explain the clustering of growth-, reproduction-, and longevity-related traits across species, with the trade-offs orchestrated through genetic adaptation (6).

however, life history theory may also be applied to investigate variability within a species, and for example has been invoked by biologists to explain the clustering of behavioral traits, offering an adaptive perspective on “animal personalities” (9). this approach assumes that individuals vary in the relative importance allocated to current vs. future reproductive opportunities, resulting in populations with contrasting strategies for risk-taking behavior. individuals prioritizing future reproduction are expected to be risk-averse in multiple different contexts, in order to realize those future opportunities, whereas those prioritizing immediate reproduction are predicted to discount the long-term future and to be more risk-prone in a range of contexts.

while genetic factors contribute to variability in life history traits, plasticity is also relevant. through norms of reaction (whereby a single genotype can give rise to a range of possible phenotypes, depending on the ecological stimuli or stresses encountered) (10) physiological and behavioral trade-offs may emerge within the life-course under the common logic of future discounting, and this approach can be extended to humans. regarding human behavior, for example, individuals exposed to harsh or unpredictable environments may have less incentive to invest in their health or education if they feel unlikely to realize the benefits at a later date (11, 12). regarding physiology, the “disposable soma” theory likewise assumes that the lower the likelihood of survival, the lower the pay-off from investing in cellular health (7, 13). constraints on somatic development may therefore undermine long-term health by favoring the prioritization of immediate survival and reproduction, increasing the rate of damage-accumulation with age (14, 15).

there is increasing interest in applying life history theory to both physiology and behavior in humans (16). nonetheless, attempts to address phenotypic plasticity in this context remain scarce, and the results to date have been mixed (17). the exposures most commonly studied relate to post-natal life, and include behavioral markers of parental investment or extrinsic mortality risk (18, 19). in most studies, the outcome is also a single life history function, such as reproductive schedule. we suggest that these approaches neglect other important environmental factors that induce differential responses during early development, including those acting during prenatal life, and that previous studies have rarely considered competition across life history functions.

we have developed a conceptual approach emphasizing that the initial source of environmental variability experienced by placental mammals derives not directly from the external environment, but from maternal phenotype (20). during the earliest stages of development, often termed “critical windows of development,” maternal phenotype represents a “safe harbor” (21) that can buffer the vulnerable fetus and infant from external stresses through multiple components of homeostasis (20). building on the “embodied capital” model (22), we refer to “maternal capital” as a suite of traits promoting investment in offspring in early life (20). maternal capital incorporates not only somatic traits (e.g., height, pelvic dimensions, energy stored in adipose tissue), physiological traits (e.g., homeostatic regulatory processes), social traits (e.g., supportive networks of kin or peers), cognitive traits (e.g., knowledge and skills acquired from formal education, or informally), and psychological traits (e.g., resilience to psychosocial stress), but also material assets (e.g., income, savings, housing etc.) that may benefit the offspring. maternal capital therefore represents a broad composite 'niche' to which the offspring is exposed during early life (20). since phenotypic plasticity is greatest in these early life periods, exposure to varying levels of maternal capital may generate long-lasting effects on offspring phenotype.

the magnitude of maternal capital may vary markedly within a population, through the differential exposure of mothers to factors such as poverty, malnutrition, infectious disease and gender inequality (20, 23), as well as life history trade-offs that emerge during maternal development (24). any insult to the “safe harbor” may therefore propagate effects into the next generation. our over-arching hypothesis is that maternal investment, a function of the magnitude of maternal embodied capital, may leave a unique imprint on the offspring during their early stages of development, driving subsequent trade-offs in both behavioral and physiological traits. in turn, the emergence of multiple trade-offs might result in the clustering of beneficial traits within some individuals, and the clustering of adverse traits among others.

such trade-offs may be especially relevant in hierarchical populations, in which social inequality is propagated over generations (23, 25). subordinate individuals are likely to experience reduced access to crucial resources throughout the life-course, generating the prediction that they must reorganize their life history strategy in order to maximize reproductive fitness under these harsh conditions (23). specifically, we hypothesize that lower maternal investment will induce trade-offs in the offspring that favor early reproduction to counter the elevated mortality risk (7), elevated immune defense to improve resistance to infectious disease (26), and more risk-prone behavior due to discounting of any long-term consequences (11, 12), at a cost to each of somatic growth, markers of cardio-metabolic health associated with homeostasis, and investment in education (figure 1). we lacked direct markers of immune function, and used central fat distribution as a marker of storing energy for this function (for example, many genes associated with immune function are highly expressed in visceral fat, and low levels of leptin, a hormone secreted by adipose tissue, predicts mortality following severe malnutrition) (27–29). through these cumulative trade-offs, we predict the clustering of adverse outcomes among those exposed to low maternal investment.

figure 1
www.frontiersin.org
figure 1. schematic diagram illustrating our theoretical model derived from life history theory. the greater the magnitude of maternal investment during early life, the higher the phenotypic quality of the offspring and the greater the expected returns in the long-term future. offspring fitness would then be maximized by investing in growth, maintaining health, acquiring education, and avoiding risky behavior, delaying reproduction until these other benefits have been realized. lower maternal investment reduces the likely long-term returns, and favors earlier reproduction at a cost to competing traits. central abdominal fat indicates greater allocation of energy to immune function, but at a cost to cardio-metabolic health.

we tested these hypotheses in a large prospective birth cohort in southern brazil, a country with very high levels of social inequality. we used early child-bearing (<18 years) as a key marker of life history trade-offs among the daughters, as reproduction before 18 years is associated with health risks and other penalties among both mothers and offspring (30), and is widely discouraged by policy-makers (31), while reproduction is the currency of fitness from an evolutionary perspective. we restricted our analyses to mothers and daughters, reflecting our interest in “maternal capital” as the key exposure, and because trade-offs in male offspring might show different patterns.

methods
the birth cohort we studied is located in the city of pelotas (~334,000 inhabitants), in the southern brazilian state of rio grande do sul. according to data for 1991, shortly before the cohort was established, 91.6% of pelotas inhabitants lived in urban areas, the crude birth rate was 19.3 births per 1,000 population, the human development index was 0.558 and the gini index for income distribution was 0.59 (32)1.

cohort profile
the birth cohort was established in 1993, when all mothers who delivered a newborn in the five hospitals of the city and who resided in the urban area were invited to participate in a birth cohort study (99% of all births in the city area) (33). through daily visits to all 5 hospitals, data were collected on 5,249 live births (both sexes) and only 16 individuals (0.3%) refused to participate. the cohort participants have been followed up at different time points thereafter. all visits were carried out by trained interviewers and fieldwork team members. further details of the methodology have been published previously (33, 34). among those not followed, small numbers had died or refused to participate, however the majority of losses were due to individuals not being traced, or having moved to other cities.

in all phases of the study, ethical approval was obtained from the medical school ethics committee of the federal university of pelotas and full informed consent was provided by parents or their legal representatives (if the subject was aged under 18 years) or by cohort members. verbal consent was provided in the perinatal phase.

data collection
at the initiation of the study when the cohort members were born, data were collected on maternal phenotype including nutritional status, behavioral traits, reproductive history, educational attainment and family circumstances (33). a strength of the study is its prospective nature, such that maternal phenotype was measured at the start of the life-course of the offspring.

data on family characteristics, pregnancy exposures, and early breast-feeding were obtained by questionnaires administered while the mother was still in hospital, and in a subsample at a 1 year follow-up. family income at the time of birth was assessed in units of minimum wages (in 1993, 1 minimum wage = us$ 31.4 per month). maternal smoking and alcohol consumption during pregnancy were collected retrospectively at birth. gestational age was recorded in weeks. exclusive breast-feeding was recorded in days. maternal parity was recorded, and was used to create several dummy variables for analysis as described in more detail below. maternal age was recorded in relation to the date of the daughter's birth.

offspring birth weight and length were measured at the hospital by the research team. weight and length at 12 months were measured in a subsample at the cohort participant's household. information on the daughter's age at menarche was obtained from the mother at the 15 years visit, and confirmed by the subject at the 18 years visit. age at menarche was assessed as the age of occurrence of the first menstrual cycle.

at 18 years, weight and height were measured and used to calculate body mass index (bmi). waist circumference was measured using a non-elastic measuring tape. fat-free and fat mass were assessed using air-displacement plethysmography.

cardiovascular risk markers measured at the 18-year follow-up included: glucose, glycated hemoglobin (hba1c), total cholesterol (tc), hdl-cholesterol (hdl-c), ldl-cholesterol (ldl-c), triglycerides (tgl), and systolic (sbp) and diastolic (dbp) blood pressure. the ratio of total cholesterol to hdl was also calculated, with higher values indicating a less favorable cholesterol profile. venous blood samples were collected regardless of fasting status, left at room temperature for 30 min and then centrifuged for 15 min at 2,000 g. serum aliquots were stored at −80°c until analysis. blood samples were not taken in pregnant or suspected pregnant participants (n = 59). random glucose was measured by an automatic enzymatic colorimetric method. hba1c was measured by the variant (bio-rad, hercules, ca) ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) method. lipids were measured using an automatic enzymatic colorimetric method in a biochemistry analyzer (bs-380 mindray; shenzhen mindray bio-medical electronics, china). we excluded two individuals with implausibly high triglyceride values. blood pressure was recorded in the seated position using a calibrated digital wrist monitor (omron hem-629, beijing, china) at the start and end of the visit, and the mean of the measurements used in the analysis.

a questionnaire was used to ascertain reproductive status at 18 years. for those who had reproduced, information was collected on the number of live offspring, the age at delivery, and the birth weight of the infant.

a questionnaire was used to establish schooling status at 18 years, including categorical data (whether studying now; whether studied in the last year) and continuous data (completed years of education). for those not studying (n = 317), participants were asked to select from a list of 10 possible reasons accounting for this: difficulty learning; illness; work; no school or travel available; education not considered important; having children; married; violence; failed vestibular examination; other.

participants were asked if they received any income from work, or an allowance (usually from parents) and the amount in reais (rs). questionnaires were also used to establish smoking behavior, and whether the participant had ever committed a violent crime.

data processing
we categorized daughters according to whether or not they had reproduced early (by 18 years) or not.

we categorized mothers according to the magnitude of their capital. this approach combined markers of somatic capital (height, pre-pregnancy bmi) and social or material capital (maternal education and family income) into a composite index. each of these four traits has been widely associated with phenotypic variability in the next generation (35–38). for each trait, a cut-off was identified defining approximately the lower tertile in the population, in order to identify those substantially below the median, as follows:

height: <157 cm

pre-pregnancy bmi: <21 kg/m2

maternal education: <6 years

family income: <3 minimum salaries

the four dummy variables were then summed, allowing mothers to be assigned a score based on the number of “capital penalties” with values ranging from 0 to 4 (i.e., mothers with high capital had few capital penalties). we used this variable to explore continuous associations of maternal capital with daughter outcomes. in addition, those with a score of 4 were categorized as the “low” composite maternal capital group, while those with a score of 0 categorized as the “high” composite maternal capital group. this allowed us to compare outcomes of daughters between these two contrasting maternal capital groups. for logistic regression analyses, we also divided maternal age into three groups, namely <22, 22–28, and >28 years. for the same purpose, we divided the daughters into three groups in relation to maternal parity, namely first-borns, second-borns, and third+-borns. however, for descriptive analysis we also generated a category for high maternal parity, defined as the daughter being fourth/fifth-born.

to assess clustering of adverse traits among the daughters, we defined several categorical variables. at 18 years, we defined obesity as bmi >30 kg/m2, short stature as height <157 cm, and school dropout as those reporting not studying during the last year. self-reported current smoking and having committed violent crime were additional adverse outcomes. finally, we included low birth weight as an adverse outcome, as those with this characteristic remain at elevated risk of non-communicable disease through adult life (39). we defined “low birth weight” as <2,500 g.

analytical steps
we undertook several analytical steps, which are summarized in a conceptual diagram (figure 2).

(a) our first analytical step was to test for inverse associations in the daughters between early reproduction (<18 years) and markers of growth, health and education, which we interpret as trade-offs as predicted by life history theory. for this purpose, we analyzed several broad groups of outcomes of the daughters. the first comprised growth trajectory, comprising birth weight, infant growth, age at menarche, and adult size (height, fat-free mass, fat mass and its regional distribution). the second comprised markers of metabolic health, blood pressure and blood biochemistry. the third comprised behavioral profile, focusing on education, income, and risky behavior (smoking). we used these outcomes to assess relative investment during development in the competing life history functions of growth, maintenance and reproduction. markers of risky behavior (smoking, committing violent crime), were considered indicative of future discounting. we conducted these analyses by comparing daughters with vs. without offspring at 18 years, using independent samples t-tests or chi-squared tests. to test for “developmental origins” of these trade-offs, we extended the comparison to the daughters' growth trajectories in early life. to begin to test our key prediction that maternal capital is associated with these trade-offs, we also extended the comparison to the characteristics of their mothers.

(b) our second analytical step tested our novel “maternal capital” model, by defining groups of mothers with different composite levels of maternal capital and quantifying associations with the daughters' phenotype. using the composite maternal capital index, we tested the hypothesis that variability in maternal phenotype predicted the likelihood of early reproduction by the daughter, and hence also predicted variability in the traits that either trade off against early reproduction, or correlate directly with it. we first fitted logistic regression models to confirm that multiple individual maternal traits predicted reproductive status of the daughter (had a child or not by age 18 years). these models included the four variables used to generate the composite index of maternal capital, but also additional markers of the capacity for maternal investment (age and parity) as well as “risky maternal behaviors” (smoking during pregnancy) that might constrain maternal investment.

(c) third, we then ran regression models testing dose-response associations of daughter traits with the number of maternal capital penalties. we highlighted the contrast between daughters of low- vs. high-capital mothers using graphic analysis, supported by independent-sample t-tests. outcomes included the daughters' gestational age and early growth trajectory, breast-feeding experience, adult size and body composition, cardio-metabolic risk markers, risky behaviors, educational attainment, and early onset of reproduction, as well as maternal parity and the mother's risky behavior (smoking, alcohol intake). for growth, we were able to assess whether differences extended to the third generation, by analyzing birth weight of the daughter's own offspring.

(d) our fourth analytical step followed the approach of caspi et al. (1) to evaluate the extent to which adverse outcomes were clustered among the minority of the daughters who had reproduced by 18 years, and among those who had been exposed to low maternal capital. we analyzed dichotomous outcomes for obesity (>30 kg/m2), short stature (<157 cm), current smoking, school dropout, violent crime, and low birth weight, as justified above. we also explored the interactive associations of low maternal capital and early reproduction by the daughter with these adverse daughter outcomes.

(e) associations between early reproduction in daughters and adverse outcomes might potentially be confounded by direct mother-daughter transmission of the outcome, due to shared genes or household environments. to exclude this possibility, we fitted regression models in which associations of the daughter's early childbearing with various outcomes were adjusted for equivalent traits in the mother.

figure 2
www.frontiersin.org
figure 2. conceptual diagram of the analytical steps. (a) comparison of outcomes between daughters who reproduced before 18 years vs. those who did not. (b) prediction of early reproduction by daughter from components of maternal capital, including those used to generate the maternal capital index and three other maternal traits. (c) analysis of the association of adverse daughter outcomes with maternal capital, involving both a comparison of mothers with 0 or 4 maternal capital penalties, and assessment of a dose-response trend across the full range of maternal capital penalties. (d) analysis of the interactive associations of early daughter reproduction and low maternal capital with adverse daughter outcomes.

statistical analysis
of the 2,645 female participants, 2,091 participated in the follow-up and provided questionnaire responses, of whom 2004 also underwent the physical measurements of anthropometry and body composition, and 1936 completed the blood test. there were small numbers of missing data for individual variables, hence we used all available data for every analysis. the subsample at 1 year (n = 723) over-sampled those with low birth weight. this was addressed using a weighting variable in the relevant regression models.

categorical outcomes were assessed using chi-squared tests and odds ratios. conditional growth was calculated as regression residuals of final size on starting size, divided by the standard error of the estimate (see) of the regression model to generate conditional z-scores. continuous outcomes reported in the main figures were all natural-log transformed, so that subsequent independent samples t-tests express differences (multiplied by 100) in sympercent terms (40).

to establish which maternal factors independently predicted daughters' reproduction status at 18 years, logistic regression models were fitted. maternal capital was divided into groups as follows, in order to identify high-risk groups and test for threshold effects:

age <22, 22–28, 28+ years

height <155, 155–162, 162+ cm

education 0–4, 5–7, 8+ y

income 0–2, 3–4, 5+ minimum wages

parity first-born, second-born, third+-born

smoking in pregnancy yes, no

maternal bmi <21, 21–23.5, 23.5+ kg/m2

logistic regression models were also used to test the association of daughter phenotype with the odds of early reproduction, without or with adjustment for the equivalent trait in the mother.

to test the interactive associations of low maternal capital and early daughter reproduction with adverse daughter outcomes, we conducted chi-squared tests on dichotomous variables (e.g., being short, out of school etc.). we compared simple exposures (2 groups, either high vs. low maternal capital, or early reproduction vs. no early reproduction) against a composite exposure (4 groups, differentiating reproductive status among each maternal capital groups). due to the small sample size of the lowest maternal capital group (4 capital penalties), we combined the 3 and 4 capital penalty groups to give a larger “low maternal capital” group for this analysis and compared them against those with 0 capital penalties. we used the likelihood ratio value to compare these models for their ability to explain variability in the dichotomous outcomes.

all analyses were conducted in spss version 24 (ibm corporation, chicago) and r version 3.4.1 (the r foundation for statistical computing, vienna).

results
a total of 2,091 female cohort participants (the daughters) were followed up at 18 years, representing a 79.0% retention rate of the 2,645 individuals originally recruited at birth. those not followed up had lower birth weight (δ = −103 g, 95%ci −53, −152), birth length (δ = −0.3 cm, 95%ci −0.1, −0.5), gestational age (δ = −0.3 weeks, 95%ci −0.1, −0.4) and maternal pre-pregnancy bmi (δ = −0.4 kg/m2, 95%ci −0.1, −0.8) compared to those followed up. though statistically significant, these differences were all of small magnitude, and no other differences in baseline maternal or child characteristics were evident (supplementary table 1).

missing data analysis
at 18 years, the proportion of missing data for daughter outcomes was as follows: 0% for reproductive status, education, work status and smoking status; 0.1% for birth weight and age at menarche; 0.9% for birth length; 1.5% for gestational age; 4.2% for the physical examination (blood pressure, anthropometry, and body composition); 7.4% for blood biochemistry; and 11.7% for violent crime. these missing outcome data could not be imputed, hence t-tests were used to assess whether these data were missing at random in relation to maternal capital predictors.

for birth weight, birth length, age at menarche, and gestational age, data was missing at random. daughters (n = 87) missing data from the physical examination at 18 years (anthropometry, body composition, and blood pressure) had mothers who were shorter (−1.7 cm, p = 0.018), younger (−1.4 years, p = 0.04), and less educated (−0.9 years, p = 0.015) compared to the mothers of daughters with complete data, but no other differences were apparent. daughters (n = 155) missing data from the blood sampling did not demonstrate any differences in maternal phenotype compared to daughters with complete data. daughters (n = 244) missing data on violent crime had mothers who had lower income (−0.6 minimum wages, p = 0.047) compared to the mothers of daughters with complete data, but no other differences were apparent.

the proportion of missing data for maternal predictors was low, being 0% for parity, smoking status and age; 0.1% for education; 0.5% for height; 2.0% for income; and 1.6% for weight. collectively, this meant that 2.1% lacked data on bmi. multiple imputation was implemented to address these missing predictor data. five imputed datasets were generated, and the results are discussed below.

life-history trade-offs in association with early reproduction of daughters
the comparison of daughters who had or had not reproduced by 18 years is summarized in figure 3a (see supplementary table 2 for numerical values). early-reproducing daughters were shorter (δ = 2.5 cm) than those without offspring, but similar in weight. they had higher bmi (δ = 1.0 kg/m2) and were more likely to be obese (or 1.5, 95%ci 1.1, 2.2). they had higher total fat mass index, however this was accompanied by lower triceps but higher subscapular skinfold, in combination indicating a more central fat deposition (figure 4). they had lower total cholesterol and hdl, and a less favorable ratio of total cholesterol to hdl (δ = −0.19, 95%ci −0.26, −0.12), but otherwise showed no differences in cardio-metabolic health.

figure 3
www.frontiersin.org
figure 3. differences in maternal and daughter traits from pregnancy to adulthood between (a) left hand panel: daughters with or without offspring by 18 years and (b) right hand panel: low-capital and high-capital mothers. categorical variables are shown as odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals, calculated by chi-square tests. continuous variables are shown as percent differences and 95% confidence intervals, calculated from natural log-transformed variables. numerical values for all comparisons are given in supplementary table 2.

figure 4
www.frontiersin.org
figure 4. subscapular skinfold plotted against triceps skinfold in the adult daughters, stratified by whether they had reproduced by 18 years (red scatter and line) or not (blue scatter and line). early reproducing daughters have significantly higher subscapular skinfold (δ = 2.0 mm, 95%ci 1.5, 2.6) for a given triceps skinfold, indicating a more central fat deposition.

these differences in adult size were associated with contrasting growth trajectories. daughters with children had been, at birth, significantly shorter (δ = 0.4 cm) and lighter (δ = 143 g), and had shorter gestation length (δ = 0.2 weeks). daughters with children also grew significantly less in length between birth and 1 year (−0.34 conditional z-scores, 95%ci −0.63, −0.16), but similarly in weight, while in adolescence the two groups had similar age at menarche. overall, the early-reproducing daughters showed a growth trajectory favoring weight gain at the expense of linear growth (figure 5), and the contrast in height had already reached its adult magnitude in z-score terms by 1 year of age.

figure 5
www.frontiersin.org
figure 5. trajectories of growth in length/height z-score and weight z-score in the daughters, stratified by whether they had reproduced by 18 years or not. early reproducing daughters showed poor linear growth between birth and 1 year, but increased in weight between 1 and 18 years, resulting in their achieving similar weight at 18 years to non-reproducing daughters at a cost to growth in height.

daughters bearing children early were much less likely than those still childless to have studied over the last year, or to be in school at the time of the follow-up, and had completed on average 2.4 (95%c1 2.2, 2.7) years less education. among a subset with relevant data (n = 317), the most common reason that daughters with children gave for not being in school was being a mother (69%) or being married (10%), whereas for those without children, the most common reasons were work (37%), or not considering education important (17%) (table 1). when those giving the response “having children” were omitted from this analysis (since this response was only relevant to one group), the chi-square test remained significant (p < 0.0001) and the strongest contrasts were daughters without children being more likely to have left school to work, for marriage, or for an unstated reason.

table 1
www.frontiersin.org
table 1. reasons for not studying, stratified by daughters' early reproduction status.

daughters with children were less than half as likely to have received a monthly allowance (in brazilian reais, rs) or payment for work in the last month, though if they had, the amount was similar to that received by daughters without children (allowance: δ = −13 rs, 95%ci −28, 53; work payment: δ = −29 rs, 95%ci −47, 92). they were more than three times as likely to declare themselves current smokers, and to have smoked at least once during the last week, and 1.5 times more likely to have committed violent crime.

the two groups further showed significant contrasts in the characteristics of their mothers. compared to those without children, early-reproducing daughters with children were less likely to be first-born and more likely to be fourth+-born. their mothers were twice as likely to have smoked in pregnancy, but were no different in terms of alcohol intake. their mothers were on average significantly younger (δ = −1.6 y; 95%ci −0.9, −2.8), shorter (δ = −2.0 cm; 95%ci −1.2, −2.8), poorer (δ = −2.1 minimum wages; 95%ci −1.7, −2.5), and had less education (δ = −2.1 y; 95%ci −1.8, −2.5), but they did not differ in bmi (−0.27 kg/m2; −95%ci −0.73, 0.18).

these findings were essentially unchanged if multiple imputation was used to address the small proportion of missing data relating to maternal predictors.

overall, early reproduction by daughters was associated with poorer growth and educational attainment, a more unhealthy distribution of body fat, and an increased likelihood of risky behavior. these trade-offs appeared to have their origins in early life, indicated by associations of early reproduction with growth trajectory and with maternal capital indicators.

which components of maternal capital predict daughter's early reproduction?
table 2 reports the results of logistic regression models, testing for independent associations of maternal characteristics with the risk of early reproduction by the daughter. young age, short height, low education, low income, higher parity, and smoking were all independent maternal predictors, whereas low maternal bmi was not.

table 2
www.frontiersin.org
table 2. multivariable logistic regression testing independent associations of maternal capital components with odds of daughter reproducing by 18 yearsa.

this analysis justifies our use of a composite index of maternal capital to explore variability in daughter phenotype, as the effects of maternal capital components on offspring life history trajectory are independent and therefore likely to be cumulative.

associations of maternal capital with daughter traits
our maternal capital score was expressed as the cumulative number of penalties across the four traits, ranging from 0 to 4. the characteristics of individual maternal traits varied in a dose-response manner in association with the composite score (table 3). thus, as expected, the fewer the maternal capital penalties, the greater the mother's height, bmi, income and education. the composite index showed an inverse dose-response association with maternal age (table 4), but a direct association with the frequency of high parity. thus, low capital mothers were younger but given their tendency to higher parity, their daughters must on average compete with more siblings for maternal investment.

table 3
www.frontiersin.org
table 3. dose-response associations of individual maternal capital traits according to the number of penalties in the composite maternal capital index.

table 4
www.frontiersin.org
table 4. dose response associations of maternal or daughter traits according to the number of penalties in maternal capital.

the composite maternal capital index also showed dose-response associations with diverse characteristics of the daughters (table 4, figure 6). of particular importance for our over-arching hypothesis, the greater the number of maternal capital penalties, the greater the likelihood of the daughter reproducing by 18 years, though the highest frequency of early reproduction occurred not in the lowest maternal capital group with 4 penalties (20%), but in the next lowest group with 3 penalties (27%). broadly, maternal capital was positively associated in dose-response manner with the daughter's growth trajectory and adult size, and the likelihood of her being in school, and inversely with the daughter's likelihood of smoking and of having committed violent crime. adjusting for triceps skinfold, subscapular skinfold increased in association with the number of maternal capital penalties (p = 0.002), indicating a more central fat distribution in daughters receiving low maternal investment (figure 7). however, associations with cardio-metabolic risk markers with the maternal capital index were inconsistent. the duration of exclusive breast-feeding fell with increasing number of maternal capital penalties (test for trend p < 0.004), but the magnitude of this effect was very small (figure 8).

figure 6
www.frontiersin.org
figure 6. dose-response associations between daughter traits and the magnitude of maternal capital, categorized in terms of a total composite score of “penalties” (ranging from 0 to 4) selected from the categories “short stature,” “low body mass index,” “low education,” and “low family income.” see text for details of how the index and its categories are defined. the greater the number of capital penalties, the lower the magnitude of maternal capital.

figure 7
www.frontiersin.org
figure 7. dose-response associations of subscapular skinfold, adjusted for triceps skinfold, according to the number of “penalties” in maternal capital (ranging from 0 to 4). lower maternal capital is associated with a more central fat distribution. test for trend p = 0.002.

figure 8
www.frontiersin.org
figure 8. dose-response associations of the duration of exclusive breast-feeding, according to the number of “penalties” in maternal capital (ranging from 0 to 4). test for trend p = 0.004.

figure 3b (see supplementary table 2 for numerical values) illustrates these patterns by contrasting the daughters from the highest and lowest maternal capital groups. the results show substantial similarity with the comparison of daughters with/without offspring, as shown in the figure 3a. the low and high maternal groups contrasted strongly in the individual maternal traits: low-capital mothers had substantially lower values for mean height (δ = 10.7 cm, 95%ci 9.9, 11.5), pre-pregnancy bmi (δ = 5.1 kg/m2, 95%ci 4.7, 5.6), educational attainment (δ = 6.1 y, 95%ci 5.6, 6.6), and family income (δ = 5.6 minimum wages, 95%ci 5.0, 6.2). low-capital mothers were more than twice as likely to smoke during pregnancy, but no more likely to drink alcohol. low-capital mothers were nearly three times more likely than high-capital mothers to be high-parity (4+ offspring), but were similarly likely to be first-time mothers. daughters of low-capital mothers were 3.2 times as likely as those of high-capital mothers to have reproduced by 18 years, and 8.6 (95%ci 1.4, 52.6) times more likely to have two or more children by this age.

daughters of low-capital mothers were lighter and shorter at birth and remained smaller at 1 year than those of high-capital mothers, and achieved menarche 5 months later. low-capital daughters remained 6.3 cm shorter and 1.2 kg lighter at 18 years, and had lower lean body mass and whole-body fat mass. they had lower triceps but similar subscapular skinfold, indicating a more central abdominal fat distribution. taking into account the average age at menarche and adult height of each group, we estimate that the daughters of low-capital mothers would on average have been shorter and lighter than those of high-capital mothers at the time of menarche.

daughters of low-capital mothers did not differ from those of high-capital mothers in their fasting glucose, triglycerides or blood pressure. they had lower total cholesterol, with this difference due to significantly lower hdl (“healthy” cholesterol) whereas “unhealthy” ldl cholesterol was similar between the groups. thus, in contrast to the associations with body size and body composition, maternal capital was not a good predictor of daughters' cardio-metabolic physiology.

daughters of low-capital mothers were only one fifth as likely as high-capital daughters to have studied over the previous year, or to be in school at the time of the follow-up, and on average they had completed 2.5 (95%ci 2.0, 2.9) fewer years education. low-capital daughters were less likely to have received a monthly allowance in the previous month, though if they did it was of similar magnitude to that received by high-capital daughters (δ = −40 rs, 95%ci −142, 63). they were equally likely to have been paid for work, and for those working, the monthly payment was similar to that received by high-capital daughters (δ = 32 rs, 95%ci −38, 101). low-capital daughters were almost twice as likely to smoke, and more than twice as likely to have committed violent crime.

overall, lower maternal capital was associated with an increased risk of early reproduction in the daughter, along with poorer linear growth, less healthy fat distribution, lower educational attainment, and greater likelihood of risky behavior.

clustering of outcomes and interaction analysis
we considered two possible drivers of clustering of adverse outcomes in the daughters: early reproduction and low maternal capital. first, we compared all daughters who had reproduced by 18 years against those who had not. daughters who reproduced by 18 years comprised 14.8% of the population, but accounted for 18.4% of obesity, 20.0% of violent crime, 20.3% of short stature, 32.2% of current smoking and 52.0% of school dropout. they also accounted for 20.2% of low birth weight.

in turn, we combined the daughters from the two groups characterized by the lowest levels of maternal capital (either 3 or 4 penalties, n = 359), and compared this group against the remainder of the cohort. the low capital group comprised 18.6% of the population of daughters, and accounted for 17.5% of obesity, 19.6% of violent crime, 24.9% of smoking, 27.7% of short stature, 28.6% of low birth weight, 32.1% of school dropout, and 34.1% of early reproduction. thus, the most common adverse outcome in the low capital segment was early childbearing.

the interactive associations of adverse outcomes with daughter's exposure to low maternal capital and early reproduction are given in table 5. compared to simple models, which compared the outcomes either across the low vs. high maternal capital groups, or between early reproducing daughters vs. those not reproducing, the model that compared across all four groups explained more variability in the distribution, indicated by higher likelihood ratio values. for most traits, the pattern was very similar: among early reproducing daughters, outcomes were worse if her mother was also in the low capital group, compared to the high capital group. similarly, among daughters with low maternal capital, outcomes were worse if the daughter had also reproduced early, compared to not reproducing early. thus, the worst outcomes for almost every trait were evident in daughters with both low maternal capital and early reproduction, however the one exception was overweight, where the worst outcome was evident in early reproducing daughters from the high maternal capital group.

table 5
www.frontiersin.org
table 5. chi-squared tests of interactive associations of maternal capital status and daughter reproductive status with adverse daughter outcomes.

both early reproduction and low maternal capital therefore contribute to clustering of adverse outcomes among individuals in this population, and they may represent different components of the overall causal chain. overall, the worst outcomes occurred among daughters characterized by both early reproduction and exposure to low maternal capital in early life.

adjusting for direct mother-daughter transmission of traits
given that early-reproducing daughters were both shorter, and also the offspring of shorter mothers, maternal phenotype should be controlled for when testing the association of early reproduction with the daughter's growth trajectory. such associations might be driven by shared genetic factors, or non-genetic inter-generational transmission. a similar scenario applies to behavioral traits, which might be replicated across generations due to shared family habits or opportunities.

adjusting for maternal height, length at birth and 1 year and adult height all remained inversely associated with the odds of early reproduction by the daughter (table 6). conversely, adjusting for maternal size, low weight at birth and 1 year was inversely associated with the odds of early reproduction by the daughter, whereas weight, bmi, and fat mass index at 18 years were positively associated with the risk. of particular interest, the model for bmi showed contrasting associations between the mother and daughter, with lower maternal bmi, and higher daughter bmi, predicting early reproduction by the daughter. overall, these associations indicated that poor early growth followed by greater gains in weight and fat after 1 year favored early reproduction, indicating an overall growth trajectory favoring weight gain over linear growth, as indicated in figure 4. moreover, the association between early reproduction and short adult stature was primarily driven not by reproduction curtailing adolescent growth, but rather by poor early growth patterns predicting early reproduction.

table 6
www.frontiersin.org
table 6. odds ratio of early reproduction associated with the daughter's growth phenotype, without/with adjustment for maternal phenotype.

likewise, adjusting for the equivalent component of maternal phenotype, early reproducing daughters had attained fewer years of education, were less likely to be in school, and more likely to smoke (table 7).

table 7
www.frontiersin.org
table 7. association of early reproduction with components of daughter phenotype, without/with adjustment for the same, or similar component of maternal phenotype.

in general, therefore, early reproduction was associated with unfavorable trade-offs relating to growth, health, education and risk-taking, independent of the potential direct maternal transmission of phenotypic traits.

discussion
the early developmental period, during which phenotype is most sensitive to the environment, is also the period when environmental stresses and stimuli are primarily transduced through maternal phenotype (20, 41). on this basis, we hypothesized that maternal capital, a marker of the resources available for investment, may leave a unique imprint on the offspring during early life, impacting both behavioral and physiological traits. specifically, we predicted that early reproduction in daughters would correlate with risk-prone behavior, and demonstrate trade-offs with each of growth, health, and investment in education. we further predicted that such trade-offs would be induced by exposure to low maternal capital in early life. our results support this conceptual approach, with several key findings.

first, supporting figure 2a, we found that early reproduction was indeed associated with reduced investment in competing traits, including adult height and lean mass, and levels of education. early reproduction was also associated with a greater propensity for risky behavior, and with some markers of poorer cardio-metabolic health, such as a higher risk of obesity, more central fat deposition and a less favorable cholesterol profile.

second, these trade-offs began to emerge early in development, indicated by contrasting growth trajectories. on average, early-reproducing daughters were smaller at birth than their childless peers and remained shorter in adulthood, but by 1 year of age they had negated their deficit in weight, and by adulthood they demonstrated higher bmi and markers of whole-body and central adiposity. these growth contrasts were not mediated by age at menarche, rather the significant factor was a trade-off between linear growth and weight gain, commencing in early life. on this basis, the trajectory to early reproduction had already started before birth, and any increase in nutritional supply in early post-natal life did not resolve earlier deficits in linear growth, but rather promoted weight gain. a more extreme version of this scenario is illustrated by international adoption studies, which have found that if poor early growth is followed by exposure to increased resources in childhood, sexual maturation is substantially accelerated without promoting linear growth (42, 43).

third, supporting figure 2b, early reproduction was associated with low maternal capital, with early-reproducing daughters born to younger, shorter, poorer, and less educated mothers. their mothers were also more likely to smoke and to have larger family size, indicative of greater inter-sibling competition for maternal investment. the importance of maternal investment for explaining variability in daughter phenotype was confirmed by comparing groups of daughters stratified by high or low levels of our composite index of maternal capital. supporting figure 2c, low maternal capital was associated with the daughter trading off growth and education in favor of greater likelihood of early reproduction, central adiposity, and risky behaviors. again, these patterns were initiated in early life, demonstrated by reduced birth weight and infant growth. menarche occurred later in the low capital daughters, despite their higher odds of reproducing by 18 years, indicating continued constraint of linear growth. sexual maturation therefore appears to have occurred at smaller body size rather than younger age in the daughters of low capital mothers, consistent with other studies in low-/middle-income countries (44, 45).

fourth, an important finding was that early-reproducing daughters did not simply replicate maternal traits. rather, holding constant the presence or absence of a particular adverse outcome in the mother, markers of poor growth, and development in the daughter were independent predictors of early reproduction by the daughter. likewise, early reproduction by the daughter was associated with lower educational attainment and current smoking, independent of the mother's education and smoking status at baseline. an intriguing finding was that lower maternal bmi, but higher daughter bmi, predicted early reproduction by the daughter.

fifth, supporting figure 2d, we found a synergistic association of adverse outcomes with exposure to low maternal capital and early reproduction. specifically, outcomes were worse among low-capital daughters if they had also reproduced early, while outcomes were worse among early reproducing daughters if they had also been exposed to low maternal capital.

these trade-offs indicate a generic link between low maternal investment and “future discounting” by the offspring that is both mediated by, and also exacerbated by, early reproduction. these findings are consistent with other studies linking poor early growth with lower educational attainment (46–48), earlier reproduction (49), reduced family income (50), and poorer adult health (51, 52). these associations furthermore demonstrate a dose-response nature, so that the greater the magnitude of maternal capital, the better the daughter's growth and educational progress, and the lower the likelihood of her reproducing by 18 years.

however, an interesting finding was that the highest frequency of early childbearing occurred not among daughters in the lowest maternal capital group, but in the second-lowest group. we speculate that the daughters of the lowest capital mothers experienced continued exposure to poverty during childhood, which may have constrained the magnitude of the resulting trade-offs, including the likelihood of reproducing early. consistent with that hypothesis, they had a later age of menarche than all the other groups (table 4). although low birth weight has been associated with earlier menarche in high-income populations, the magnitude of this effect is very small (difference of 2 months compared to high birth weights), whereas daughters with higher weight at 7 years underwent menarche a full year earlier compared with those with low weight at this age (53). there may be human societies in which access to resources during development is so constrained among those of lower rank that higher-ranking individuals reproduce earlier, and this scenario has been reported in several primate species (20). of relevance to understanding such variability in human populations, age at menarche in low-middle-income countries correlates with infant mortality rate (54), suggesting that when a greater proportion of energy intake is diverted to immune function the pace of maturation is reduced.

fifth, we showed that the segments of the population reproducing early, or exposed to low maternal capital, were characterized by a cluster of adverse outcomes including shorter stature, more central fat deposition, less education, and more risky behavior. the evidence for a trade-off between early reproduction and health markers was weaker, however this is most likely because non-communicable diseases primarily develop later in the adult life-course. early-reproducing daughters had few overt markers of cardio-metabolic risk, but their lower birth weight, shorter stature, higher bmi, and more central fat distribution all predict poorer cardio-metabolic health from middle age onwards. as mentioned in the introduction, the closer association of abdominal body fat than peripheral fat with markers of immune function allows us to consider variability in central adiposity as a broad marker of investment in immune function (28). our results therefore indicate that daughters exposed to low maternal capital prioritized the allocation of energy to immune defense, which may help resist infections in the short term, but at a cost to long-term cardio-metabolic health.

our results offer unique insight into why inter-generational cycles of disadvantage are perpetuated: exposure to lower maternal capital is associated with a life history trajectory that compromises physical and educational development, in favor of an increased susceptibility to early reproduction, accompanied by greater immune defense. those who realize this tendency for early reproduction compound these trade-offs. the capacity for facultative adjustment of life history strategy in response to maternal capital has been predicted to be crucial in hierarchical societies, due to the long-term consequences of variability in early growth trajectories (23).

our findings are consistent with previous research, which has linked parental investment with the life-history trajectory of offspring, especially daughters. for example, studies on us children have linked the timing of menarche with the quality of mother-child relationships (18), or markers of paternal investment (44). however, few studies have extended this approach to markers of pre-natal maternal investment. exceptions include a study of young south asian women living in the uk, which found that those with lower birth weight (indicating reduced maternal investment in utero) were characterized by trade-offs favoring reproductive potential over growth and the maintenance of health (55). in a larger uk birth cohort, low birth weight was associated with faster maturation and earlier anticipation of starting a family during adolescence, followed by increased likelihood of reproducing before 20 years (49). overall, such research remains largely limited to high-income western populations, and there is need for studies in other settings, and to address male offspring (56).

both the behavioral and physiological trade-offs we have documented are consistent with the logic of future discounting. a link between early reproduction with social or economic disadvantage during early life is well-recognized (57), as are associations in adulthood of early childbearing with poor health outcomes and reduced life opportunities (30, 31). likewise, previous research using similar conceptual models has linked higher perceived extrinsic mortality risk with higher rates of avoidable death at the population level, and with less effort in maintaining health and earlier reproduction at the individual level (19, 58). in terms of behavior, those whose family members typically perform low-skilled work may see less value in extended education, since it delays access to wages (59), while high community rates of adult violence and morbidity may negate public health advice to preserve health by avoiding smoking or high alcohol consumption (58). although markers of adversity during development seem to be universally associated with riskier behavior, the exact nature of the risky behavior undertaken may differ between populations according to cultural norms, which may account for our null findings for maternal alcohol consumption.

by the same logic, poor growth in early life reduces the constitutional somatic quality of the body, through depleting components of organ function that contribute to homeostasis. as encapsulated in the “disposable soma” hypothesis, the payoff for investing in “maintenance” to reduce the rate of deterioration in old age must inevitably decline, if the chances of reaching old age are reduced (7, 13). this may help explain the elevated diabetes susceptibility in old age among those with low birth weight, since investing in the capacity to prevent diabetes in the long-term will benefit only a minority of such individuals if the majority are likely to succumb to mortality earlier (7, 60). our analysis builds on these earlier studies, by linking early reproduction with both physiological and behavioral outcomes indicative of future discounting. our key new insight is that this future discounting is associated with low maternal investment.

a variety of theoretical frameworks have been used to study the consequences of exposure to adversity and deprived environments on markers of health and human capital (61, 62). a very simple conceptual approach, for example, could predict that adverse outcomes are inter-correlated, and that those at the lowest level of social hierarchies tend to have less of everything. however, our findings do not support such a simple model—it is not clear, for example, why mothers with low capital should have daughters who are more likely to smoke (a habit that incurs regular financial costs) or reproduce early (which also generates metabolic and material costs). life history theory offers a better fit with these findings, through its incorporation of the principles of trade-offs and future discounting. in a different vein, there are also other theoretical frameworks that are not necessarily inconsistent with life history theory, and which make similar predictions based on different theoretical assumptions (62). it is already recognized that different theories may be addressing proximate or ultimate levels of explanation, and that they may be complementary rather than contradictory (62).

in identifying trade-offs, it is important not to blame mothers for their low capital, or for the adverse outcomes in their daughters, or indeed the daughters themselves. as indicated by our evidence on inter-generational associations, being short, thin, uneducated, and poor are traits that are largely beyond individual control. it is noteworthy that relevant underlying trade-offs were already emerging during fetal life. interestingly, maternal capital status was only weakly correlated with the duration of exclusive breast-feeding, where mothers may have greater opportunity consciously to influence their investment in their offspring. early reproduction is widely considered an unsatisfactory trait by policy makers. however, a tendency to reproduce early in adverse environments is expected to have been favored by selection in ancestral environments, in the face of high extrinsic mortality risk. such trade-offs may continue to be elicited in contemporary environments, even though they adversely impact health and educational attainment in both generations. the emphasis should therefore be on improving environmental conditions, to reduce these trade-offs.

strengths and limitations
among the strengths of the study are the prospective data on maternal capital and early growth patterns of the daughters, the wide range of outcomes spanning both physiology and behavior assessed in the daughters, the large sample size, and the relatively high cohort retention rate at 18 years. moreover, very few studies have previously tested life history predictions in low-/middle-income country populations, in particular those characterized by very high levels of social inequality.

our study also had several limitations. first, a fifth of the cohort did not participate in the adult follow-up, however baseline differences between those followed and those not followed were few and of small magnitude, hence any bias from this source is unlikely to jeopardize our findings. the lower average weight and length at birth among those not followed up suggests that the magnitude of the association of poor growth with elevated risk of early reproduction we report may be conservative. however, the only maternal trait that varied by follow-up status was bmi, which showed no independent association with early reproduction by the daughter. hence there is likely to be negligible bias in our overall assessment of the association between maternal capital and adverse daughter outcomes.

second, a small amount of data was missing for both maternal and daughter traits, in most cases <2% but reaching a maximum of 11.7% for the violent crime outcome in daughters. however, we consider that these missing data had little effect on our results. for the mothers, the missing data were imputed, but the findings changed negligibly. for the daughters, those missing data on anthropometry and body composition tended to have shorter, younger and less educated mothers, while those missing data on violent crime had mothers with lower family income, but in each case the magnitude of these differences relative to the range in the entire population was small. data on the blood test appeared to be missing at random.

third, we elected to use a categorical approach to integrate the different components of maternal phenotype, rather than conducting analysis of continuous variables. this approach reduced our ability to assess daughter outcomes across the whole range of maternal capital, however the benefit was that it allowed us to focus on mothers who were in the bottom tertile of the population for any given trait, i.e., a high-risk group. moreover, by counting “maternal capital penalties,” we could analyse the consequences of mothers lacking capital across a range of different outcomes. we used the same categorical approach for daughters, in order to assess the odds of daughters falling into high-risk groups. overall, we suggest that this focus on high-risk groups among both mothers and daughters helps understand inter-generational cycles of disadvantage. while different approaches might have emphasized different associations in these data, we believe that our findings are robust and would have broadly emerged using other analytical designs.

fourth, we lacked data on paternal phenotype (education, income, height, nutritional status, presence in the household) and therefore could not test for independent effects of paternal investment. although we treated household income as a component of maternal capital, it may commonly relate to both parents' earning capacity. similarly, education is characterized by assortative mating, with men tending to marry women of equal or fewer years of schooling, hence we cannot differentiate a specific association attributable to the mother's education. if height of the two parents is correlated, then likewise, the reduced early growth rates of offspring of shorter mothers might in part reflect a low paternal growth drive. however, while acknowledging these paternal effects, we could also consider such assortative mating with low capital fathers to represent the “extended phenotype” of the low-capital mother (63), since high-capital mothers are likely to use their phenotype (greater wealth, education, and body size) to increase their chances of pairing with high-capital fathers.

fifth, we had information on only a single child within each family, and could not therefore test how maternal investment might vary through the reproductive career. the fact that low-capital mothers tended to have higher parity than high-mothers suggests greater competition between the offspring of low capital mothers for a smaller pool of maternal resources. since mothers may accumulate capital through the life-course, and since low capital mothers tend as we have shown to reproduce early, the adverse consequences for the offspring of low capital mothers might be greatest if they are also first-borns. given the birth order differences in our sample, our findings may therefore be conservative. more generally our findings relate to a specific time period and specific city in southern brazil, and it is unclear how they might generalize to other periods or geographical settings.

sixth, our analysis was observational, and could not demonstrate causal associations of maternal capital and daughter outcomes, nor direct trade-offs between the different daughter outcomes. while correlations between life history traits are widely interpreted as demonstrating trade-offs in human studies (64–66), an experimental approach would be necessary to demonstrate that increasing or decreasing energy allocation to one function causes the opposite effect on another function. however, mathematical modeling offers another opportunity to provide support for our interpretation (67).

future work in this area could extend our approach to male offspring, and could use alternative approaches to derive cumulative maternal capital scores. regarding outcomes, it would be valuable to assess more direct markers of immune function such as leptin, or the status of pro-inflammatory markers. finally, while our focus here was on the manifestation of trade-offs at the onset of adulthood when aging effects are modest, longer-term follow-up would allow us to investigate how these trade-offs might change across the daughter's reproductive career. in addition, it would be possible investigate how daughters' lifetime fitness itself varies in association with the timing of reproduction and the magnitude of maternal capital to which they were exposed in early life.

in conclusion, our study has shown that early reproduction is associated with an increased likelihood of adverse adult outcomes, which are expected to impact adversely on future generations. in this way, we highlight the central role of trade-offs associated with early reproduction in perpetuating inter-generational cycles of disadvantage. we further showed that the life history trajectory and adult phenotype of daughters can be predicted from a composite index of maternal capital, with both physical and socio-economic maternal traits contributing. both behavioral and physiological outcomes demonstrated a common pattern of future discounting.

our life history approach helps understand why some segments of a population may contribute disproportionately to traits that generate a large economic burden on the population (1). we explained less clustering than caspi et al., but this may be due to our focus on early reproduction to assess adult trade-offs, and to the relatively young age of the sample (18 years, compared to 38 years in the dunedin cohort). clustering may become more pronounced with age, particularly regarding health markers. although post-natal factors affecting adult outcomes are also relevant, our study is important in showing that factors acting in prenatal life and infancy already account for some clustering of adverse outcomes.

differences in female growth up to age 18 had largely been determined by the end of infancy in our study, while other studies indicate that secular trends in height are also largely accounted for by growth prior to 2 years (67). the policy implications are that interventions targeting childhood and adolescence are likely to come too late to resolve these high-risk developmental trajectories. while efforts to prevent early reproduction will reduce the consequences of exposure to low maternal capital, the most effective intervention to improve daughter outcomes would be to improve maternal capital, thus reducing the risks of poor early growth and early reproduction in the daughter. interventions on both health and education are likely to achieve their greatest beneficial effects if they target women before they conceive their offspring. moreover, interventions should be sustained over a multi-generational time-frame for the full benefits to emerge, through the cumulative exposure of each generation to favorable maternal capital during early critical windows. finally, societies need to become more gender equal so women have equal access to resources to accumulate their maternal capital. such an approach is likely to be essential to resolve inter-generational cycles of disadvantage that adversely affect both men and women. the incentive for such an approach is that successful interventions could produce benefits across a wide range of behavioral and physiological traits.

<|EndOfText|>

abstract
background: james tanner emphasised the “tempo” of growth, i.e. the adolescent spurt as summarised by its timing (age at peak velocity or apv) and intensity (peak velocity, pv).

aim: the paper applies the sitar growth curve model to pubertal growth data with the aim of clarifying the growth pattern across multiple measurements and the spectrum of apv and pv.

subjects and methods: data for 7–20 years on ten anthropometric measurements in 619 children from the harpenden growth study, and on height in 10410 children from the alspac study, were analysed using sitar (superimposition by translation and rotation). sitar models pubertal growth as a mean curve with apv and pv fitted as subject-specific random effects, and a random measurement intercept.

results: mean apv for harpenden girls and boys averaged 12.0 and 13.9 years across the ten measurements. pv expressed as percent per year lay in the narrow range 4–8%. splitting the alspac subjects into 9 by 5 apv and pv groups and fitting separate sitar models to each group confirmed sitar’s good fit while highlighting the spectrum of growth patterns.

conclusion: sitar works well to summarise pubertal growth. the disappointment is that tanner did not live to see it in action.
introduction
the human adolescent growth spurt is a remarkable phenomenon seen in few other primate species. occurring towards the end of the growth period, after height velocity has been falling steadily since early infancy, the velocity suddenly increases to a peak of around 10 cm/year in boys and 8 cm/year in girls, a growth rate not seen since late infancy. then, just as suddenly, the rate falls to zero and growth ceases (tanner 1962).

the pubertal growth spurt is unusual not only for its intensity but also for its timing. peak height velocity in individuals can occur as early as 10 years of age in girls or as late as 17 years in boys. on average boys peak two years later than girls, and this, coupled with their greater peak velocity (pv), explains the sex difference in adult height – the two sexes are very similar in height at 10 years (tanner 1962). the combination of the sharp change in velocity and the peak’s variable timing leads to an apparently chaotic pattern of height growth across individuals during puberty.

james ‘jim’ m tanner (1920–2010) was an eminent british auxologist (a term that he invented), whose contribution to the study of human growth throughout the second half of the 20th century was remarkably wide-ranging. he was perhaps most famous for his work on growth at adolescence, which was the title of his first of many books on growth (tanner 1962). in it he explored pubertal growth in depth, comparing the changes in the different organ systems in the two sexes, and discussing how to measure the progress of puberty in individuals. he emphasised the concept of the tempo of growth, a measure of passing time in individuals relating to their pubertal status as quantified by their developmental age.

developmental age is a measure of maturation and can be based on the appearance of the individual child’s bones, teeth or secondary sexual characteristics, including menarche in girls. they are all markers that over time progress through a series of consistent and well-documented developmental stages. the tanner stages of pubic hair, breast development and genitalia have proved popular for assessing developmental age, as they can be assessed on a single occasion and require no specialised equipment (unlike the radiographic images required for bones or teeth) (marshall and tanner 1969, 1970).

alternatively, developmental age can be based on the timing of growth landmarks such as peak height velocity. this however cannot be measured on a single occasion; it requires longitudinal data, with individuals measured repeatedly over time. the data then need to be analysed to generate the individual velocity curves and extract the ages at pv. thus, as tanner (1962) pointed out, there are two requirements to study growth: a cohort study of individuals followed over time and a trained anthropometrist to make the measurements.

in 1948 tanner’s developing interest in growth led him to set up the harpenden growth study, recruiting as his experimental officer reginald ‘reg’ h whitehouse, straight out of the royal army medical corps (tanner 1988). whitehouse quickly established himself as an anthropometrist of the highest calibre, making hundreds of thousands of growth measurements (by tanner’s own estimate), using equipment he himself designed, until his retirement in 1976.

whitehouse also proved himself indispensable in analysing the growth data, meticulously plotting the points and drawing smooth curves through them. this work led to the seminal two-part 1966 tanner, whitehouse and takaishi paper on height and weight growth reference charts, which has set the example for many subsequent studies on growth references (tanner et al. 1966).

later tanner and whitehouse (with statisticians marubini and resele) analysed the adolescent growth spurt in 55 boys and 35 girls from the harpenden growth study, fitting logistic curves to height, sitting height, leg length, shoulder width and hip width for each individual (tanner et al. 1976). the curves fitted well overall, and the ages at pv were highly correlated across measurements, but the corresponding velocities less so.

analytical methods for growth data have advanced since these papers were written. however the underlying aim remains the same: to summarise mean growth as a smooth curve and to express individual growth patterns relative to the mean. a recently described growth curve model, superimposition by translation and rotation (sitar) (cole et al. 2010) is well suited to growth in puberty. based on a group of individuals it estimates a mean growth curve and defines the individual curves relative to it in terms of their size, timing and intensity of growth. in particular, timing corresponds directly with the individual’s age at pv (apv), while intensity equates to pv, which means that applying sitar is a simple way to categorise individuals in terms of their “tempo of growth”.

tanner’s simple but elegant vision of pubertal growth was that individual growth patterns could be summarised largely by the timing and intensity of pv. conveniently, the sitar model makes this same assumption, and at the same time it assumes – as tanner did – that conditional on timing and intensity, the underlying velocity curve is essentially constant in shape.

the aim of this paper is to celebrate the legacy of tanner – and whitehouse – by using sitar to explore the adolescent growth spurt from two distinct perspectives: how it varies across ten distinct linear measurements from the harpenden growth study, and how in detail the shape of the height velocity curve depends on timing and intensity, using data from the much larger avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac). the first perspective builds on tanner’s paradigm whereas the second tests it, by seeing just how invariant the height velocity curve is to differences in timing and intensity.

subjects and methods
harpenden growth study
the harpenden growth study consisted of 701 white british children, 282 girls and 419 boys, born between 1929 and 1965 (median 1949) and recruited from the highfield children’s home, harpenden, uk between 1949 and 1969 at ages between 0.9 and 20 years. they were predominantly children of manual workers or the lower middle class (tanner 1981).

they were measured 6-monthly outside puberty and 3-monthly during puberty, up to 35 years of age, on a total of 8097 distinct measurement occasions, 95% of them at ages between 4 and 19 years. figure 1 is a lexis diagram for the study, with a slanting line for each child showing the date and their age at the time of their first and last measurements.

figure 1. lexis diagram for the harpenden growth study, showing the ages and dates of measurement for 701 children. each line represents one child, with their first (□) and last (▪) measurements marked.

whitehouse made all the measurements, including weight, height, other linear measurements and skinfold thicknesses. here ten linear measurements are selected for analysis, ranked by median size: height*, sitting height*, leg length* (by difference), thigh circumference, shoulder width*, foot length, hip width*, arm circumference, knee width and elbow width (the asterisked measurements were also analysed by tanner et al. (1976)). note that the technical names for shoulder, hip, knee and elbow width used by tanner were respectively bi-acromial, bi-iliac, bi-epifemur and bi-epihumerus width. all measurements were recorded to the last complete 0.1 cm. to focus on puberty the age range here is restricted to >7 to <20 years, during which period 619 children (248 girls and 371 boys) were measured on 6670 distinct occasions.

avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac)
the avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac) consisted of over 15,000 children from bristol uk recruited antenatally in 1990–1992 and followed up to age 20 (boyd et al. 2013). height was measured, to the nearest 0.1 cm, annually up to age 13, then at ages 15 and 17, by trained researchers. the present analysis involves 5183 girls and 5227 boys with 33122 and 31776 measurements aged from >7 to <20 years.

data cleaning
the two datasets had already been cleaned. for further cleaning sitar models (see below) were fitted, and outliers were identified with standardised residuals exceeding 4 in absolute value (only 0.006% of data are this extreme based on a normal distribution). there were very few outliers in the harpenden study, and they were inspected individually and either corrected (based on the context) or excluded. for the numerically larger alspac models the outliers were excluded. individuals with at least one measurement were included.

statistical methods
sitar is a mixed effects growth curve model featuring a cubic spline mean curve and three subject-specific random effects that adjust the mean curve to best match the subjects’ own curves (cole et al. 2010; cole et al. 2014). the random effects are called size, timing and intensity, and each represents a simple transformation of the mean curve. size indicates an up/down shift of the mean curve (in measurement units), reflecting how tall/short the individual is relative to the mean; timing reflects the individual apv (in age units e.g. years), seen as a right/left shift in the curve, positive for a later peak than average and negative for earlier; and intensity reflects the rate of passage through puberty as measured by pv (in fractional units), positive for faster than average and negative for slower. the degree of intensity shows itself by shrinking/stretching the age scale, which can be visualised as follows: imagine the image of a growth curve projected onto a half-open door. the effect of further opening the door is to make the curve appear narrower and steeper, corresponding to higher intensity, while closing the door makes the curve wider, shallower and lower intensity.

algebraically the sitar model is given by
yij=αi+h[(tij−βi)eγi]+εij
(1)
where i=1…n subjects, j=1…n measurements, y and t are length (or other outcome) and age respectively, h[.] is a cubic spline function, α,β,γ are the normally distributed random effects size, timing and intensity, and ε is the residual assumed distributed as n(0,σr2).

the smoothness of the natural cubic spline mean curve is controlled by the number of degrees of freedom (d.f.), each corresponding to a spline fixed effect, with the number chosen to minimise the bayesian information criterion (bic). in addition, there are fixed effects for size, timing and intensity, which ensure the corresponding random effects have mean zero. in nearly all the models here age was fitted after natural log transformation, to improve the fit, which effectively measures age differences in percentage units rather than years (cole and altman 2017). all the results were back-transformed to age for presentation purposes.

the output from each sitar model consists of the mean curve as defined by the fixed effect coefficients, plus fixed effects for α,β,γ, subject random effects for α,β,γ summarised by their standard deviations and correlations, the residual standard deviation ε and the percentage of variance explained by the model, calculated as 100(1−(σr2/σf2)) where σf2 is the residual variance of the model fitted without random effects, i.e. with just the cubic spline mean curve. for models fitted with log age, the timing random effect sd was multiplied by median age to give units of age. the intensity random effect sd is age-invariant and essentially unaffected by age transformation.

the mean velocity curve was derived (in units of cm per year) as the first derivative of the mean curve plotted against age. in addition, four outputs were estimated from each mean velocity curve: the mean ages of pv and takeoff velocity (the minimum velocity prior to the peak), and the corresponding mean velocities. note the mean curves are all plotted as length versus age, whether the sitar model used age or log age. standard errors for the outputs were obtained using the bootstrap.

for presentation purposes the curves were also compared in terms of percent velocity (i.e. in units of % per year), to adjust for the size differences between the measures. this was achieved by plotting length versus age with length on a 100 × natural log scale, and the first derivative of the curve is velocity measured in percent units (cole and altman 2017).

the aim of the alspac analysis was to test the sitar assumption that the underlying mean height curve is essentially the same shape for all individuals after adjusting for the timing and intensity of their growth spurt. to this end separate (global) sitar models were first fitted for boys and girls, with log transformed age and 6 d.f. for the spline curves. then individuals were split by sex into nine equal size groups based on the value of their timing random effects, i.e. apv, and separate “local” sitar models were fitted to each group. as a second stage each apv group was split into five equal size groups based on individuals’ intensity random effects (pv) from the local apv model, giving 45 groups by sex, where in each group individuals were closely matched by timing and intensity. again, separate local sitar models were fitted to each group.

the group mean curves (either nine groups by apv or 45 groups by apv and pv) were then compared with the corresponding mean curves predicted from the global models, based on the mean timing and intensity random effects for each group. the numbers of nine apv and five pv groups were chosen to provide similar numbers per group of around 100, give more emphasis to timing than intensity, provide a median group by using odd numbers, and compromise between group number and group size. the models grouped by timing were fitted with 5 d.f. and the timing random effect was omitted as it was already adjusted for. the models grouped by timing and intensity also had 5 d.f., with both the timing and intensity random effects omitted as they were adjusted for.

all the analyses were carried out in r version 3.5.3 (r core team 2019), with sitar fitted using the sitar package version 1.1.1 (cole 2019).

results
harpenden growth study
figure 2 illustrates the anthropometry for one of the most intensely followed-up subjects, female 2113, born in 1947, with ten measurements on 36 occasions from age 3 to 20 years. the measurements vary in size from height (median 140 cm) to elbow width (median 5.9 cm), but all of them demonstrate a growth spurt at around 12 years. the regularity of the individual curves is striking, testimony to whitehouse’s skill. note that the curves for arm circumference and thigh circumference are noisier than the length curves, reflecting their soft mass component. note also that leg length increases faster than sitting height prior to puberty but has a smaller pubertal growth spurt.

figure 2. data for one girl (id 2113) from the harpenden growth study between 3 and 20 years.


mean growth curves
separate sitar models were fitted to the ten measurements by sex, a total of twenty models as summarised in table 1. the number of measurement occasions per child ranged from 1 to 32 with median 8. the sitar mean spline curves had between 3 and 7 d.f., with generally fewer for the smaller measurements. figure 3 shows the fitted spline curves for the models grouped by sex, emphasising the broad similarity in shape, though the growth spurts for the smallest measurements are hard to see.

figure 3. mean curves for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex.

the models used a log age transformation for all except the four smallest female measurements, and the variance explained by the models ranged from 91% to 99.5%, again less for the smaller measurements and the circumferences. the residual standard deviations (sd) were largest for the large measurements, e.g. 0.5 cm for height, but divided by the median to give residual percent coefficients of variation (cv) they were the smallest (0.3% for height).

table 2 summarises the random effect structure of the models. the sds reflect the population variability in size, timing and intensity. the size sd is given in both absolute (cm) and proportional (%) units, using size at age 19 as denominator. on the percent sd scale the two sexes are very similar, with that for leg length (5.4%) unexpectedly larger than for sitting height (3.2%), while that for height (3.8%) is intermediate. the timing sd (variability in apv) is close to one year for all measurements. the intensity sd is generally around 0.1 to 0.2 (corresponding to 10% to 20% variation in pv), but somewhat larger for the smaller measurements and appreciably larger for the circumferences. the correlations in table 2 are nearly all positive, with median values of around 0.4 for size-timing and timing-intensity, and 0.5 for intensity-size, indicating that larger individuals tend to have a later and more intense pubertal spurt. however the correlations are misleading as most are based on log age not age, which affects the correlations. for example, if boys height is refitted using age, the timing-intensity correlation of 0.28 changes to −0.28, indicating that timing and intensity are inversely correlated. thus the true correlation between timing (as based on age) and intensity is negative not positive, and this applies quite generally in table 2.

the model mean curves in figure 3 are replotted in figure 4 on a log 2 scale, i.e. constant rate of doubling, which scales the curves to be similar in shape, and in particular allows them to be compared across measurements by sex. for example, the height and shoulder width curves are seen to be very similar.

figure 4. mean curves for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex, with length on a log 2 scale to highlight the similarities in curve shape.

mean velocity curves
however, the best way to compare the growth spurts is via the corresponding velocity curves, as seen in figure 5 by sex. each measurement facet has its own scale, which enlarges the smaller measurement spurts. the corresponding apvs are highlighted as vertical lines, and the girls’ peaks are consistently about two years earlier than the boys’ (mean apvs across measurements 12.0 se 0.18 and 13.9 se 0.12 years for girls and boys). pv is generally slightly greater for boys than girls, with the striking exceptions of thigh circumference and to a lesser extent hip width.

figure 5. mean velocity curves (cm/yr) for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex (girls left, boys right), with the ages at peak velocity indicated by vertical lines.

figure 5 is useful for comparing velocity curves in the two sexes, but less so for comparing across measurements, as the scales differ. the slopes of the curves in figure 4 are directly comparable across measurements, being on a log scale, and as explained in the methods, the slopes of these curves correspond to growth velocity measured in percent units. the corresponding percent velocity curves are shown in figure 6, which make clear that peak percent velocity is not related to size; it is largest for boys arm circumference and girls thigh circumference, with both exceeding 8% per year, while the smallest velocity is for girls knee width (3.7% per year), a factor of just over two difference compared to the thirty-fold difference for linear velocity (boys height 9.3 cm/year versus girls elbow width 0.27 cm/year, table 3). for the other measurements pv is consistently around 5% per year and slightly greater for boys than girls.

figure 6. mean percent velocity curves for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex (girls left, boys right), with the ages at peak velocity indicated by vertical lines.

as well as pv, a second landmark on the velocity curve is takeoff, the point where velocity is at a minimum immediately prior to the peak. table 3 summarises the means for pv and takeoff velocity and their corresponding ages, both on the linear (cm per year) and proportional (% per year) scales as seen in figures 5 and 6. the ages at takeoff/peak are very similar whether calculated on the cm or % scale, so those on the % scale are omitted. bootstrap standard errors for apv range from 0.07 years for height and leg length up to 0.3+ years for the smaller measurements and the circumferences. for pv the standard errors are 0.12 cm per year for height and sitting height, 0.06 for leg length, and in between for the other measurements. mean age at takeoff is two years earlier than mean age at peak, and earlier still for the circumferences. the takeoff velocities are about half the peak velocities on average, varying from a third or less for the circumferences to near equality for foot length in girls. the correlation across measurements between linear velocity at takeoff and at peak is high at 0.94, but for percent velocity the corresponding correlation is small and negative at −0.2. so the two are effectively unrelated when the scale differences are accounted for, showing that each measurement has its own distinct profile from takeoff to peak.

random effects
an obvious question is whether individuals tend to be consistently large/small, early/late or fast/slow across all their measurements, and this can be tested for by looking at the correlations between the random effects. across the ten measurements there are 45 correlations for each of size, timing and intensity in the two sexes, the median correlations being 0.49 (size), 0.46 (timing) and 0.37 (intensity) for boys and 0.45, 0.50 and 0.23 for girls. so within individuals, timing is conserved across measurements just as strongly as size is, while intensity is less so.

the order of measurements in each correlation matrix can be rearranged so the largest correlations migrate towards the diagonal – a process known as seriation – and this ranks the measurements in terms of their strength of association with their neighbours (see supplementary table 1). it effectively ranks them by their median correlation with the other measurements. across the three random effects in the two sexes, height and leg length are consistently the most closely associated, followed by foot length and sitting height, while thigh and arm circumference are consistently the least associated, with the other four measurements in between. for example, the boys’ size random effects for height and leg length correlate at 0.87, whereas those for height and arm circumference correlate only at 0.16. similar contrasts in correlation apply for boys’ timing and intensity random effects, and also for girls. so in terms of individual growth patterns, foot length is surprisingly similar to height and its two components, while the circumferences are very different.

alspac
figure 7 shows the height data for 5183 girls and 5227 boys in alspac, where the nine data sweeps are clearly seen. the final sweep provides data from 17 to 20 years where the coverage is relatively sparse. figure 8 illustrates the sitar mean height curves and height velocity curves fitted to the data. on average girls are taller than boys between 10.8 and 13.5 years, while mean height velocity at age 19 is <0.1 and 0.4 cm per year in girls and boys, respectively. table 4 summarises the two sitar models, showing residual sds twice those in harpenden and correspondingly less variance explained. mean apv is earlier than in harpenden by 0.4 and 0.7 years (girls/boys), while pv is 0.0/1.3 cm per year greater and predicted height at age 19 is 2.1/4.9 cm greater. the bootstrap standard errors for mean apv and pv are around 0.02 years and 0.05 cm per year, respectively.

figure 7. height data for 5227 boys and 5183 girls in alspac, collected over nine data sweeps between 9 and 17 years.

figure 8. sitar mean height and height velocity curves for alspac by sex, with the ages at peak velocity indicated by vertical lines (girls left, boys right).

tables 5 and 6 explore how age at peak height velocity affects the mean growth pattern. for this, individuals were split into nine equal size groups according to their timing random effect, and sitar models were fitted to each group by sex. thus the groups represent the spectrum from early to late puberty. table 5 shows that the groups all have the same number of ∼580 individuals, but the early and late groups have consistently more data points and are also consistently more variable (with less variance explained, larger residual sds, and larger size and intensity random effect sds) than the central groups.

table 6 confirms that the groups are clearly ranked by mean apv, with 2.5 to 3 years between the earliest and latest groups. age at takeoff shows a weaker trend, particularly in boys, but velocity at takeoff is strongly and inversely related to apv in both sexes. pv also falls with increasing apv. those maturing late are consistently taller at age 19, by 4 cm in girls and 5 cm in boys compared to the earliest maturers.

figures 9 (girls) and 10 (boys) visualise the mean height and height velocity curves for the groups in tables 5 and 6. they are derived in two distinct ways – a) as predicted by the global sitar models based on the group mean random effects for size, timing and intensity, and b) as fitted by the local group-specific sitar models.

figure 9. sitar mean height and height velocity curves for alspac girls, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity. the left panels are predictions from the global model, while on the right are the group-specific mean curves.

the global and local height curves in figures 9 and 10 are very similar in shape, indicating that sitar has done a good job of predicting mean height by age across the spectrum of apv. however the height velocity curves are less so; the global curves are very consistent in shape and show a clear trend downwards with increasing apv (this trend arises from the use of a log age transformation, and had age been used instead predicted pv would be essentially the same across groups). the local curves, in contrast, vary considerably in terms of velocity and curve shape near the peak, but also in the shape of the curve prior to takeoff.

figure 10. sitar mean height and height velocity curves for alspac boys, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity. the left panels are predictions from the global model, while on the right are the group-specific mean curves.

the global velocity curves show velocity falling slowly until takeoff, whereas with the local curves velocity prior to takeoff falls dramatically in girls and rises then falls in boys. this subsidiary peak in boys around age 9 years can also be seen in the height curves, where there is an upward “bulge” for the later groups. the reason why these patterns are not reflected in the global curves is because they feature in only some of the groups, and averaged across groups they disappear.

it is possible that the differences in velocity, particularly prior to takeoff, arise from sampling error and are not biologically meaningful. to test this the nine apv groups are each split into five further groups by individual intensity random effects i.e. pv, so splitting them into independent groups of faster and slower growers with the same apv. figures 11 (girls) and 12 (boys) show the local velocity curves for these 9 × 5 = 45 groups by sex, where to aid navigation, each facet shows the global mean velocity curve in grey. the figures confirm two things; that mean pv is greater in those whose intensity random effect is greater, and that velocity prior to takeoff does indeed vary systematically in shape according to apv. this is particularly marked for boys, where the facets for the first two apv groups show no sign of a pre-takeoff peak, whereas the later facets show an increasingly obvious peak at around age 9 years, largely independent of apv. for girls there is just the hint of a pre-takeoff peak in the latest maturing facet. each of the 45 models in these figures is based on ∼115 individuals, providing strong independent evidence for the existence of a “midgrowth” spurt at age 9 in later-maturing boys.

figure 11. sitar mean height velocity curves for alspac girls, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity (apv) and in turn five groups by peak height velocity (pv).

discussion
study findings
the study has confirmed the complexity of linear growth in puberty, driven as it is by individual variation in – tanner’s term - the “tempo of growth”. this shows itself as variability in the intensity and timing of growth, i.e. pv and the age when pv occurs. the results show that the sitar growth curve model works well with growth in puberty, because it explicitly estimates these two parameters in individuals, along with a third parameter representing their mean size. simpkin et al. compared several alternative growth curve models for height in puberty, and they also concluded that sitar was useful in providing unbiased estimates of age at peak height velocity (simpkin et al. 2017).

but that said, the more detailed alspac analysis has brought to light the existence of a midgrowth spurt at around 9 years in the later-maturing boys. by its nature it is hard to see unless the data are sufficiently numerous to disaggregate.

harpenden growth study
the harpenden growth study is an important resource, not only for the biological insights arising from the data, but also for the way they demonstrate reg whitehouse’s auxological skill. the lexis diagram (figure 1) shows how tanner and whitehouse set about obtaining the study children they needed, with many recruited at the outset in 1949 and followed up for 10 or more years, while other older early recruits dropped out soon afterwards. tanner and whitehouse continued to recruit children steadily over the next twenty years, typically at ages between 4 and 13 years, and tanner went on to use the study data in several seminal papers (tanner et al. 1966; marshall and tanner 1969, 1970; tanner et al. 1976).

mean growth curves
the good fit of sitar is demonstrated by the proportion of variance it explains. taking as a baseline the data treated cross-sectionally, i.e. ignoring the repeated measures component, and then adding the three sitar random effects, explains over 90% and up to 99.5% of the variance (table 1), leaving a small component corresponding to the residual sd. in harpenden the residual sd ranges from 0.5 cm for height down to 0.08 cm for knee and elbow width, while proportionally height is the least noisy of the measurements, its residual cv being only 0.3% versus 1.3% for knee and elbow. this reflects the fact that variability consists of two components: biological variation which scales with the measurement (i.e. the sd is proportional to size), and measurement error which is scale-invariant (in cm units) and hence relatively larger for small measurements. for height in alspac the residual sd was 1.0 cm, twice that in harpenden, reflecting the trade-off in measurement quality between a small study with a single (excellent) auxologist and the necessarily larger-scale and hence noisier measuring regime in a cohort the size of alspac.

an obvious strength of the harpenden study is the opportunity it provides to compare the growth patterns of ten distinct linear measurements, ranging in size from height (median 148 cm) to elbow width (6 cm), a thirty-fold range (see tables 1–3 and figure 3). tanner also analysed five of the measurements in 55 boys and 35 girls (tanner et al. 1976), tabulating mean (sd) age at takeoff, apv, pv and final size by sex. despite the smaller sample size his results were very similar to those in table 3; final size agreed to within 0.3 cm except for boys’ height (0.5 cm), and similarly for apv to within 0.3 years. however, his correlations between the apvs of the five variables were implausibly larger – median 0.92 and maximum 0.97 - than the equivalent correlations for the timing random effects in supplementary table 1.

mean velocity as a percentage
it has already been noted how variability scales across the measurements, but comparing the growth curves is complicated as the peak velocities are so different (table 3). plotting the data on a log scale (figure 4), which converts velocity to percentage units, is a simple way to adjust for the differences in scale and allows the growth curves to be compared directly. the spacings between the measurement curves are similar in boys and girls, the one obvious exception being thigh circumference which is relatively larger for girls after puberty.

figure 6 compares velocity in percentage units in the two sexes. expressing velocity this way is novel, the more usual units being cm per year, but it is particularly useful here for comparing measurements on the different scales.

figure 6 and table 3 show that peak percent velocity is strongly conserved, with all except arm and thigh circumference in the narrow range of 4–6% per year, on average about 0.5% greater for boys than girls. however figure 6 and table 3 also show that the shapes of the velocity curves differ in detail between measurements, with sex differences in pv, apv and age at takeoff making each measurement profile unique.

sitting height and leg length provide an interesting contrast in growth pattern. prior to puberty, leg length grows fastest and sitting height slowest in both sexes. so during this period leg length increases progressively as a proportion of height. the two are similar in pv at around 4/5 cm per year in girls/boys, but at takeoff sitting height velocity is 1 cm per year lower than for leg length (figure 5). figures 3 and 5 show that sitting height continues growing well after leg length growth has ceased, and in boys it continues to age 19 and beyond. also the size random effect sd is appreciably larger for leg length than sitting height (5.4% vs 3.2%, table 2), so there is greater variability in leg length. thus the two components of height grow in rather different ways during childhood.

the two circumferences, thigh and arm, behave differently from the eight lengths and widths. they have the largest percent peak velocities (for arm in boys and thigh in girls) and amongst the smallest velocities at takeoff. so the intensity of the circumference growth spurt (i.e. the increase in velocity from takeoff to peak) is particularly high, presumably due to the fact that it measures not just bone but also soft mass, which accumulates faster than bone. this fits with the residual cvs and the intensity random effect sds for the circumferences being more than twice those for the other measurements (tables 1 and 2).

comparing random effects
thus far the discussion has focussed on the shapes of the sitar mean curves and velocity curves. the other component of the sitar model is the set of subject random effects that indicate how the growth curves of individuals differ from the mean curve. table 2 shows that the sd for the size random effect is more uniform when presented as the percent cv rather than the sd in cm units. this represents the variability of each measurement once timing and intensity have been adjusted for, so it reflects the variability when growth has ceased i.e. in adulthood.

this population cv is equivalent to that estimated for growth references using the lms method (cole and green 1992), where the cv is the “s” in “lms”. thus for height in the british 1990 reference (cole et al. 1998) the s value at age 19 is 3.9% for boys and 3.7% for girls, closely similar to the 3.7%/3.8% in table 2. the corresponding alspac values are 3.7% and 3.6% (table 4). dangour’s leg length and sitting height growth references (dangour et al. 2002) give s values at age 19 of 5.4% for leg length and 4.6% for sitting height (averaged by sex), agreeing well with the cv for leg length but not for sitting height in table 2 (5.4% and 3.2%). tanner’s analysis of a subset of the harpenden data gave cvs for adult size broadly similar to the size cvs in table 2 (tanner et al. 1976). in harpenden sitting height is by far the least variable of all the measurements, whereas leg length is amongst the most variable (excepting the circumferences).

the timing random effect sds in table 2 are all (again with the exception of the circumferences) close to one year, the median being 1.0 years. for height they are 0.86/0.87 years in the two sexes, matching closely tanner’s experience – “the sd of age at phv is a little less than 1 year in nearly all published series; we have taken the value 0.9 years” (tanner and davies 1985). in alspac the two sds are slightly more varied at 0.81 and 0.89 years (table 4).

the intensity random effect reflects the individual’s proportional difference in pv relative to the mean. so the intensity sd is effectively the cv for pv, or multiplied by 100 the percent cv for pv. the values for the intensity sd in table 2 show it to be related to size, with the smallest values for height and leg length (0.12–0.13) and the largest (excepting the circumferences) for knee width and elbow width (0.2–0.3).

with multiple measurements available, it is obvious to ask if individuals tend to be similar in their random effects across measurements, i.e. do they tend to be consistently large/small, or early/late, or fast/slow in their growth pattern. this is addressed by looking at the correlations between measurements for each random effect by sex, as seen in supplementary table 1. the variables in the correlation matrices are sorted to put highly correlated measurements next to each other, which has the effect of migrating large coefficients towards the diagonal and small correlations away from it. the most strongly associated measurements are height and leg length (unsurprisingly, as leg length is a component of height) but more surprisingly the next most associated measurement is not sitting height but foot length (it ranks third three times and fourth twice in supplementary table 1). why such a distal measurement should be closely correlated with height is something of a mystery – perhaps it represents a link between leg length and foot length. as expected from what has gone before, the two circumferences are consistently last in the rankings, being similar to each other but different from all the other variables.

alspac
the alspac study design involved nine data sweeps spaced one to two years apart (figure 7). this has been shown to be close to the optimal design for studying pubertal growth, as annual or biennial measurements minimise the data collection while retaining relevant information on the mean curve and subject random effects (cole 2018). on these grounds one could argue that the 3-monthly measurement regime used in harpenden was unnecessarily intensive.

the sitar models for alspac by sex appear in figure 8 and table 4. they can be compared directly to the sitar models described by frysz et al. (2018) which were fitted to a selected subset of alspac data from age 5 to 20 years. thus they had 45,065 measurements on 2688 boys and 3019 girls, as against 64,898 points, 5227 boys and 5183 girls here (table 4). despite the disparities in sample size their mean (sd) apvs were very similar to those here: girls 11.7 (0.8) and boys 13.6 (0.9) years, as against 11.7 (0.9) and 13.5 (0.8) years (table 4). and similarly for pv: 7.7 (0.8)/10.0 (1.1) there and 7.7 (0.8)/10.6 (1.2) here (table 4). the percentage of variance explained was close to 98% in all four models, and the two sets of random effect sds were also very similar. frysz et al. restricted their sample to individuals with at least one measurement in each of the age groups 5-<10, 10-<15 and 15 < 20 years. the fact that the results are effectively the same without applying this filter indicates that the filtering is unnecessary, and that results based on the whole sample are unbiased. in addition, the increased numbers allow for a mean curve with 6 d.f. rather than the 5 used by frysz, which may explain the greater boys pv here of 10.6 cm versus 10.0 cm per year.

comparing mean predicted adult height in alspac and harpenden demonstrates the secular trend in height from 1949 to 1991, a period of 42 years between their median dates of birth. height at age 19 increased by 5 cm in boys and 2 cm in girls over that time, corresponding to trends of 1.1 and 0.5 cm per decade respectively. however the harpenden children were of lower social class than in alspac, and this may have exaggerated the trend. for comparison trends from the flemish 2009 growth reference were 1.2 and 0.8 cm per decade (roelants et al. 2009), and for the finnish 2011 reference 0.6 cm per decade in both sexes (saari et al. 2011).

a strength of sitar is its ability to sort individuals by apv (simpkin et al. 2017). thus it is easy to use the global model to split the ten thousand alspac children into nine groups by sex, based on their timing random effects, and then analyse these local groups separately. the results in tables 5 and 6 and figures 9 and 10 confirm that the local group curves (top right in each figure) are not only correctly ranked by mean apv, but are also very similar in shape to the curves predicted from the global models (top left).

table 5 shows that despite having equal numbers of subjects, the central groups have fewer measurements and are generally less noisy than the more extreme groups. this is due to the group membership being based on individual timing random effects, and individuals with relatively few points have their random effect shrunk towards the mean of zero (in the extreme case of an individual with just one measurement, their timing random effect is zero). thus the central groups have fewer measurements per subject on average, and also less opportunity to generate residual variation.

it is noticeable with the predicted velocity curves (figures 9 and 10, bottom left) that pv falls steadily as apv rises; this is due to the sitar model using log age rather than age, which provides a better fit as apv is negatively correlated with pv as previously discussed (cole et al. 2014). tanner also documented a negative correlation between apv and pv in his harpenden analysis (tanner et al. 1976). this same trend can be seen with the locally estimated velocity curves (bottom right), particularly in boys, though the curves are more ragged. note that in girls the agreement between the global and local velocity curves is generally close.

however for boys two features of the local velocity curves are absent from the global curves – the later apv groups show a peak in velocity at around 8.5 years that the earlier apv groups lack, and several of the curves dip below zero velocity approaching age 20, indicating predicted mean adult height falling over time. the early velocity peak is also seen in the height curves (top right, figure 10) as an upward bulge at age 9, restricted to the older apv groups. the two features occur at the extremes of age and show that sitar is less effective at modelling these extremes.

the negative velocity curves may arise from the timing of the final data sweep at age 17. it is clear from figure 7 that the data are sparse after age 18.5, and it would require only slight downward bias to tip the mean curve slopes negative.

figures 11 (girls) and figures 12 (boys) show each apv group split into five pv groups. the individual girls curves are generally similar in shape, although a few dip below zero velocity at age 19. however the boys curves show a remarkable spectrum of curve shapes, ranging from the earliest and fastest growing (top curve, top left facet) to the latest and slowest growing (bottom curve, bottom right facet).

the peak in velocity at age 9, seen consistently in the later apv groups of figure 12, looks like a midgrowth spurt, but this term has already been applied to a spurt documented as occurring nearer age 7 than 9 (tanner and cameron 1980; gasser et al. 1985; remer and manz 2001). the data analysed here start at age 7 and so are not able to detect a spurt that early. whether this age 9 peak is just a delayed version of the age 7 peak, or whether it is novel, would need further analysis to unpick.

figure 12. sitar mean height velocity curves for alspac boys, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity (apv) and in turn five groups by peak height velocity (pv).

to demonstrate the spectrum of height growth in boys, figure 13 shows the individual growth curves in the two extreme timing-intensity groups of figure 12, each representing 2.2% of the cohort total. their mean curves are also shown superimposed (with solid lines for the local mean and dotted lines for the predicted global mean). because they are filtered by apv and pv the individual curves are essentially parallel to each other. mean apv in the two groups is 11.5 and 15.0 years respectively, i.e. 3.5 years apart, while mean pv is 10.4 and 5.4 cm per year, a factor of two different (figure 12). yet despite these differences sitar does a reasonable job of predicting the two growth patterns from the global model (dotted lines), although it infers a growth spurt in the late curve where none exists.

figure 13. height growth curves for alspac boys with two contrasting patterns of development; left) early and fast - apv group 1 and pv group 5 (n = 116), and right) late and slow – apv group 9 and pv group 1 (n = 117). the corresponding sitar mean curves are shown as solid black lines, and the dotted lines are predicted mean curves (based on mean apv and mean pv) from the global sitar model.

this ability of sitar to identify groups of individuals with early or late apv could be exploited in cohort studies to construct specialist growth references for early and late developers. it could be done for example using all the data for the first and last groups, respectively, of figures 9 and 10 (n > 4000, table 5), and fitting growth reference centiles to them using the lms method (cole and green 1992). this would be most useful for the clinical management of constitutional growth delay, where the chart would document the growth pattern of the 11% most delayed normal children. it might also be reassuring to parents to see just how late the growth spurt can be.

however figure 13 makes clear that the late developing boys are still growing at age 19, so there would be insufficient data to extend the centiles to final height. and it should be acknowledged that tanner staging could be used instead of apv to identify the early and late groups. however apv is likely to be more accurate, being based on a growth curve rather than a single clinical assessment, and measured on a continuous rather than a five-point scale.

strengths and limitations
the study has some obvious strengths. the harpenden growth study is an important resource of very high quality growth data containing information on ten separate measurements in a cohort of children born seventy years ago, while alspac provides high quality height data on a very large number of individuals born thirty years ago. given this richness of material it is hard to identify limitations in the study design, and the analysis was thorough, though it could obviously have been extended in a number of ways.

conclusions
the analysis of growth data during puberty is greatly simplified using sitar, as the subject random effects of timing and intensity accurately characterise the tempo of growth of individuals. the analyses of data from the harpenden growth study and alspac have shed light on the growth patterns of a range of linear measurements and on the spectrum of height growth as seen in early, average and late developers.

<|EndOfText|>

fifty years of child height and weight in japan and south korea:
contrasting secular trend patterns analyzed by sitar

abstract
objectives japanese and south koreans have traditionally been shorter than europeans, but have recently become appreciably taller. the aim was to quantify the
secular trend patterns in height and weight growth in the two countries over 50 years
using the sitar growth curve model.
methods data on mean height and weight by sex in 1-year age groups from 1 to 20
years were obtained by decade in south korea (1965–2005) and japan (1950–2010).
the data were analyzed using sitar (superimposition by translation and rotation), which estimates a mean curve and three adjustments–size, timing and
intensity–reflecting how the individual surveys differ from the mean. a sensitivity
analysis compared results for the japanese data based on cohort as well as period.
results growth patterns in the two countries changed dramatically over the study
period, affecting not only height and weight but also developmental age, in that the
growth period advanced in timing and shrank in duration. sitar fitted the data well.
the trends were larger in south korea than japan, and puberty timing in japan stabilized by 1970. most of the height increment seen in adults had already accrued by
age 1.5 years, whereas the adult weight increment accrued throughout childhood.
conclusions the secular height trend in these countries represents increased growth
in the long bones during infancy, so it can be viewed as the inverse of stunting. there
are striking country differences in growth pattern, but they are not easily explained
by differences in national income, diet or lifestyle.
1 | introduction
the japanese have traditionally been much shorter in height
than their european counterparts, particularly scandinavians,
though they have experienced a dramatic secular increase
in height since world war ii (matsumoto, 1982). tanner,
hayashi, preece, and cameron (1982) showed this to be due
primarily to an increase in leg length, possibly arising from
the shift from rice to a dairy-based diet during the 1970s.
south korea is another east asian country whose inhabitants are materially shorter than in the west—indeed in 1978
south korean children were shorter even than the japanese (y.
s. kim, 1982). however they, like the japanese, have
experienced a steep increase in height in recent decades, and
they are now taller than the japanese (j. y. kim et al., 2008;
mori, 2017). furthermore, south koreans are among the tallest
peoples in the asian continent (schwekendiek & jun, 2010),
and south korean women are 20 cm taller now than they were
a century ago, a larger increase over the period than any other
group (ncd risk factor collaboration, 2016).
it is of interest that these two neighboring countries have,
over a similar period of time, experienced remarkable secular
increases in height, and yet in detail the patterns of change
have been very different, with the south koreans “leapfrogging” over the japanese, by starting out shorter and ending up taller.

the secular trend in height as seen in children combines
two distinct processes: not only does height itself increase,
but the age at peak height velocity in puberty gets earlier,
due to accelerated maturation. thus, over a period of time,
the curve of mean height plotted against age shifts upwards,
and at the same time it shifts to the left.
the recently developed sitar growth curve model provides a way to examine these components of the secular trend
in more detail (cole, donaldson, & ben-shlomo, 2010). it
does this by explicitly modeling the two separate components
of the growth curve: increasing size and accelerating maturation. it can also be applied to “growth curves” based on mean
height by age in representative cross-sectional samples, where
“individuals” correspond to particular surveys.
the way sitar works is to summarize the pattern of
growth in individuals as a mean growth curve plus a set of
adjustments for individuals that transform the mean curve to
match their individual curve. the three transforming adjustments reflect differences between individuals in size (mean
height), timing (or tempo, similar to age at peak height
velocity), and intensity (similar to peak height velocity).
when modeling the secular trend, the adjustment of size
represents the change in adult height, while the adjustments
of timing and intensity reflect the change in rate of maturation. thus, the secular trend can be decomposed into three
separate components. the technique represents an extension
of the approach by ali, lestrel, and ohtsuka (2000) who
analyzed growth curves of japanese height over eight decades using kernel regression, and identified turning points on
the curves reflecting age at take-off and age at peak velocity.
this article aims to decompose the secular trends in height
and weight among japanese and south korean children and
young people over long periods of time (40 years in south
korea, 1965–2005, and 60 years in japan, 1950–2010), and to
show how the trends can be explained in terms of countryspecific changes in sitar size, timing, and intensity.
2 | methods
2.1 | data
mean values of height (cm) and weight (kg) for boys and
girls, tabulated in 1-year age groups from 1 to 20 completed
years, were obtained from national samples of child anthropometry. half a year was added to each year group age to
reflect mean age. the data represent periods, i.e., children
measured in particular years, not cohorts of children born in
the same year. south korean data were available only for the
years 1965, 1975, 1984, 1997, and 2005 (j. y. kim et al.,
2008), while the japanese data came from annual national
nutrition surveys carried out between 1949 and 2011 by the
japanese ministry of health and welfare (latterly ministry of
health, labor and welfare)—see funatogawa, funatogawa,
nakao, karita, and yano (2009) for details. the south
korean surveys were very large, with each age group mean
based on 15,000 to 60,000 children, while the japanese samples were much smaller, ranging in size from 500 to 3500
for all ages 1–20 years. to make the two datasets more similar, the japanese data were merged in 3-year groups at 10–
year intervals as follows: 1949–1951, 1959–1961, 1969–
1971, 1979–1981, 1989–1991, 1999–2001 and 2009–2011.
supporting information tables s1–s4 give the mean values by age group, sex, country and year of measurement,
and figure 1 shows the corresponding period growth curves
for height and weight (discussed in more detail later).
2.2 | sitar growth curve model
sitar (superimposition by translation and rotation) is a
shape-invariant mixed effects growth model (cole et al.,
2010). it fits a mean curve to the data as a natural cubic bspline, on the assumption that the growth curves of individuals (i.e., individual surveys here) differ from this mean curve
shape in just three ways, corresponding to three subjectspecific transformations. the three transformations are size,
i.e., how tall individuals are relative to the mean; timing, i.e.,
their relative timing of the pubertal growth spurt based on
the age at peak velocity, and intensity, the relative rate at
which they pass through childhood and puberty. intensity is
effectively a measure of accelerated developmental age, in
that biological time passes faster when development is
advanced and slower when it is delayed.
the geometric impact of the three sitar transformations on individual growth curves, reflecting how they differ
from the mean curve, is as follows: they are shifted up/down
(size, reflecting the curve being above or below average size)
or left/right (timing, corresponding to early or late timing),
and the age scale is stretched/shrunk (intensity, this transformation having the effect of making the curve respectively
shallower or steeper, a positive value indicating advanced
growth). the transformations are in units of cm or kg (for
size), years (timing) and percentage (intensity). so for example a height curve with size 15 cm, timing 20.5 years and
intensity 14% indicates that the individual is 5 cm taller as
an adult, peaks in velocity 6 months earlier and completes
growth 4% faster than the mean curve. using their fitted
transformations, individual curves can be back-transformed
to match the mean curve; if the model fits well the adjusted
curves will all be superimposed (hence the name sitar).
the sitar model was fitted in the statistical language r
version 3.3.2 (r core team, 2015) using the sitar package
version 1.0.9 (cole, 2016). four separate models were fitted,
for height and weight in boys and girls, with the seven surveys by decade for japan and five for south korea treated as
12 individual growth curves. the sexes were analyzed separately due to their differing mean curve shapes.
the transformations size, timing and intensity were estimated as random effects, with zero mean, included in the
model along with corresponding fixed effects. for presentation intensity was multiplied by 100 to convert it to a percentage. the goodness of fit was measured as the percentage
of variance explained by adding the random effects to a simpler model fitting just the mean curve (cole, pan, & butler,
2014).
2.3 | optimizing the sitar model
the sitar models were optimized by choosing the degrees
of freedom for the cubic b-spline curve to minimize the
bayesian information criterion or bic (schwarz, 1978). the
fitted curves had either 6, 7, or 8 degrees of freedom, with
knots placed at the corresponding age quantiles.
other models were explored, optimized by transforming
the age and/or size scales. the main model summarizes the
differences between surveys on the age and size scales in
absolute terms, e.g., shifting the height growth curve
upwards by say 5 cm, or shifting it left by say 0.5 years;
these adjustments are the same at all ages. if instead age and/
or size are logarithmically transformed, then the predicted
effects at each age are proportional rather than absolute, e.g.,
shifting the curve up or shifting it left by say 4%; in absolute
terms these adjustments are smaller at younger ages. the
square root transformation is intermediate between linear and
log, and hence is midway between absolute and proportional
effects. all three transformations were explored in sensitivity
analyses, with the fitted curves back-transformed for presentation purposes.
2.4 | velocity curves
the first derivative of the (back-transformed if necessary)
growth curve shows the difference in size by year of age, a
measure of growth, which for convenience is here termed the
“velocity” curve (although based on cross-sectional rather
figure 1 growth curves for height (left) and weight (right) by country and year of measurement, boys (above) and girls (below)
than longitudinal data). the area under the velocity curve
corresponds to the total increment in size, and so the curve is
useful to illustrate how the sitar effects of timing and
intensity impact on size at each age. sensitivity analyses
explored which transformations of the measurement and age
scales best captured the secular changes in the velocity
curve.
2.5 | cohort versus period
height and weight in the two countries were tabulated by
age and year of measurement. analysing the data in this
form assumes that the growth pattern depends only on the
period, the time when the measurement was made. however,
the time when the children were born—their birth cohort—
could also be relevant, so that both year of birth and year of
measurement may affect the growth curve’s shape.
the japanese data being available annually allowed
growth curves to be constructed both by cohort (i.e., successive years of age for a given year of birth cohort correspond
to successive years of measurement)—see funatogawa,
funatogawa, nakao, karita, and yano (2009)—as well as by
period. (note though that this was not possible for the
korean data, which were available only by decade of measurement, so the primary country comparison here is necessarily based on period.)
if one assumes that the secular trend in growth is monotonic (i.e., that it does not change direction at any point),
then the cohort and period approaches will lead to broadly
similar results—children of later-born cohorts and later measurement years will be taller and heavier than for earlier
cohorts and measurement years. however, it is not clear how
the trends in the corresponding sitar parameters might differ when viewed the two ways.
as a sensitivity analysis the japanese growth curves
were analyzed both by period and by cohort, to see how the
sitar growth parameters were affected; to do this the
“period” curve for a given measurement date was compared
with the “cohort” curve for the birth cohort born 11 years
earlier (e.g., those born in 1939 were compared with those
measured in 1950; this ensured that in mid-1950 the mean
age of the cohort was 11.0, matching that for the period dataset). the cohort data were inevitably incomplete for the early
and late years.
3 | results
3.1 | height and weight in japan
and south korea
figure 1 shows the growth curves for height (left) and
weight (right) in boys (above) and girls (below). each
quadrant contains 12 curves, i.e., the seven surveys in japan
(solid lines) and five in south korea (dashed lines). there
was a clear secular trend to increasing height and weight
over time, with japan shortest and lightest in 1950, and
south korea tallest and heaviest in 2005.
there was also an obvious secular trend to earlier maturation, with the curves shifting to the left over time. to
express these differences in terms of size, timing and intensity, separate sitar models were fitted to each quadrant of
figure 1.
figure 2a illustrates the model fit for height in boys and
girls, where the 12 boys’ curves are shown in black and the
12 girls’ curves in red, and the two countries are indexed by
line type. the individual curves by sex are all superimposed,
with 97% of the variance in figure 1a,c explained, indicating
that the models fit well. the mean curve shapes for the two
sexes, with the girls (red) spurting earlier but ending up
shorter than the boys (black), are clearly visible.
the other three quadrants in figure 2 illustrate the random effect estimates of sitar size, timing and intensity for
each of the 12 surveys, indicated by the year label and country color (japan black, south korea red), and joined by lines
to indicate the temporal trend. the values for boys and girls
are plotted against each other, and the diagonal line of equality demonstrates that the values for the two sexes are very
similar.
mean height size (figure 2b) increased by about 8 cm in
japan and 5 cm in south korea (for both sexes) over the
period of study. note that this is after adjusting for concurrent trends in timing and intensity, so it reflects the increase
in adult height. however, the bulk of the increase occurred
before 1980 in japan and after 1984 in south korea (in
1980/1984 the two countries were similar in height). in addition japan showed no change from 1990 to 2010, an indication that the secular trend had stopped, whereas in south
korea mean height increased slightly from 1997 to 2005.
figure 2c compares the timing of puberty in the different
surveys, where again the two sexes were in close agreement.
however, there was a dramatic difference between the two
countries in that japan showed virtually no change in timing
after 1970, whereas in south korea puberty occurred 6
months earlier in 2005 than in 1997. ali et al. (2000) also
found that in japan, age at peak height velocity plateaued
after 1970.
finally figure 2d compares growth intensity in the two
countries, where the sexes are again almost identical. intensity increased by 15% over the period, this indicating by how
much the duration of growth had shrunk. however, the
increase was more rapid in south korea, occurring over a 40
year period as against 60 years in japan.
the results for weight are shown in figure 3. again the
sitar models fitted well (figure 3a), with 97% of variance
explained. there was more sexual dimorphism than for
height, with the size, timing and intensity effects in figures
3b-d less close to the line of equality. boys increased in size
over the period by twice as much as girls (6 vs. 1.5 kg in
japan, 7 vs. 4 kg in south korea). for timing (figure 3c) the
results again showed a greater effect in south korea than
japan, an advance of 2.5 years, and within japan the effect
was greater in girls than boys. weight intensity (figure 3d)
showed a similar pattern to size, increasing more in south
korea than in japan, and in boys more than girls.
3.2 | height and weight increment by age
figure 4 explores the increments in height and weight by age
and sex in the two countries over the period of study, i.e., 60
years for japan and 40 years for south korea. the increments are strongly age-dependent, depending as they do on
the underlying changes in size, timing and intensity; thus,
the maximum increments occurred in puberty, at around 14
years in boys and 12 years in girls. figure 4 shows both the
observed increments and those predicted by the sitar models, and the two agree well. the increments at age 20 indicate the adult secular trends, and the adult height increments
were appreciably greater for japan than south korea, reflecting how short the japanese were in 1950. conversely the
weight increments were greater in south korea.
there is a particular interest in the size of the height increment in early life, as it has been suggested that the size increment as seen in adults is accrued as early as age 2 (cole,
2000a). the youngest infants (mean age 1.5 years) were 5 cm
taller at the end of the period than at the start (figure 4a,c).
this is the same as the adult increments in south korea, but
slightly less than in japan (10 cm in boys and 7 cm in girls).
so in south korea the 5 cm increment in adult height
had already been accrued by 1.5 years, whereas in japan an
extra 2–5 cm in height was gained during childhood after
infancy.
figure 2 sitar summary of height growth by sex, country and year of measurement: (a) sitar-adjusted height curves (boys black, girls red);
(b) changes in size (cm) for boys plotted against girls (japan black, korea red); (c) changes in timing (years) similarly; and (d) changes in intensity (%)
similarly. see text for details
with weight, the adult increments were much smaller for
girls than boys in both countries. the early life increments
were all considerably smaller for weight than for height. for
japanese girls the adult weight increment matched that in
early life, while for south korean girls, and boys in both
countries, it was greater.
3.3 | secular trends in height velocity
figures 2–4 confirm the good fit of the model to changes in
size over time. a more subtle aspect of model fit is the shape
of the predicted velocity curve and how it changes over time.
this is explored in figure 5 for height velocity in south
korea, and in figure 6 for weight velocity in japan.
figure 5 contrasts two alternative sitar height models
(left and right) for boys (above) and girls (below). the models on the left are those for height versus age as already discussed, while on the right are better fitting models with age
on the square root scale, where the bic is 30–50 units
smaller (and hence better fitting). the figures contrast the
predicted height velocity curves in 1965 and 2005, showing
how puberty advanced over time.
the simpler models (left) imply that before age 10 velocity
was greater in 2005, whereas the optimal models (right) show
it was unchanged from 1965. this reinforces the impression
from figure 4 that height velocity after infancy did not change
over the period. the corresponding figure for japan (not
shown) indicated that height velocity up to age 10 was slightly
greater in 2010 than in 1950, which accords with the observed
secular increase in height in japan beyond 1.5 years.
figure 6 looks at weight velocity in japan similarly. it is
clear in all four quadrants that weight velocity before age 10
was considerably greater in 2005 than in 1965, thus explaining the observed secular trend in weight. however, the better
fitting models (log weight and square root age, bic 80
units less, on the right) show that this applied much less to
figure 3 sitar summary of weight growth by sex, country and year of measurement: (a) sitar-adjusted weight curves (boys black, girls red);
(b) changes in size (kg) for boys plotted against girls (japan black, korea red); (c) changes in timing (years) similarly; and (d) changes in intensity (%)
similarly. see text for details
peak weight velocity in puberty, which did not change
materially.
3.4 | cohort versus period
as a sensitivity analysis, figure 7 compares the japanese boys
height growth curves as defined by cohort and by period.
figure 7a contrasts the two mean curves, where the
cohort curve (solid red line) is lower than the period curve
(solid black line) at younger ages but higher at older ages.
this is because within each cohort, the younger and older
ages correspond to earlier and later measurement dates,
whereas the corresponding period data are all measured at
the same time. the net effect is to make the mean cohort
curve steeper, so the peak height velocity for cohort in
figure 7a (dashed red line) is greater than for period (dashed
black line). this is equivalent to increased intensity for the
cohort curve, i.e., the age scale is foreshortened.
figures 7b-d compare the corresponding trends over time
in the sitar effects for size, timing and intensity by cohort
and period. although there are differences, the size and timing effects are broadly similar the two ways, lying close to
the dotted line of equality. however, the intensity trend is
much steeper for period, the range of values being twice that
for cohort (15% vs. 7%). a similar though less extreme pattern was seen for girls height and boys and girls weight (data
not shown). this confirms that the main difference between
cohort and period curves lies in the sitar intensity parameter, the secular trend in intensity for the cohort curves being
as little as half that for the period curves.
4 | discussion
the results demonstrate the dramatic secular trends in child
height and weight that have taken place in japan and south
figure 4 increments by age for height (left) and weight (right) in japan (1950 to 2010, black) and south korea (1965 to 2005, red), boys (above)
and girls (below). the increments are shown observed (solid lines) and predicted by sitar (dashed lines)
korea during the past 40–60 years. the trend has been
appreciably greater in south korea, where the children were
shorter and lighter than in japan in 1965, but taller and heavier in 2005.
the results also show how well sitar summarizes the
secular changes in growth pattern, with over 97% of the variance between surveys being explained by differences in
mean size, growth timing and intensity. this emphasizes that
the secular changes over time that occurred in height and
weight, which one might think were simply a reflection of
increasing body size, were also driven by similar changes on
the developmental age scale—earlier puberty and faster
passage.
the results demonstrate in three distinct ways how well
sitar represents the changing growth patterns in the two
countries. in figures 2a and 3a, the individual survey growth
curves are all superimposed after sitar adjustment, with
the curves for the two sexes clearly distinct. in figure 4 the
increments over 40 or 60 years are well characterized by the
sitar models, and in figures 5 and 6 the changes in velocity curve shape over time are convincingly captured.
the sitar analysis adjusts mean height and weight for
differences in the timing and intensity of growth. for this
reason the mean size results in figures 2b and 3b directly
reflect the corresponding secular trends in adult size, i.e.,
after growth has stopped. for height, they show that in japan
the growth pattern did not change after 1997, whereas in
south korea it continued changing up until 2005.
a similar picture emerges for weight, with much larger
secular changes in growth pattern among south koreans
than japanese. however weight, unlike height, is still
increasing in japan. there is also sexual dimorphism in the
weight growth patterns, with girls changing less than boys
in terms both of size and intensity. this confirms the
figure 5 changes in height velocity curve shape for korean boys (above) and girls (below), from 1965 (red dashed lines) to 2005 (black solid
lines). the curves are predictions from sitar models of height on age (left) and height on age (right), where the latter models have lower bic and fit
better
observation by maruyama and nakamura (2015) that the
japanese gender difference in bmi secular trend was due to
a difference in the weight trend not the height trend.
tanner et al. (1982) pointed out that the japanese secular
height trend from 1957 to 1977 was driven almost entirely
by an increase in leg length. ali et al. (2000) studied secular
changes in japanese leg length for birth cohorts from 1943 to
1978, showing a steep rise in leg length as a percentage of
height from 1943 to 1968 but a plateau thereafter. in addition
they showed that this percentage increased with age until
puberty, i.e., 13 years in boys and 11 years in girls, and then
either stabilized (girls) or fell slightly (boys). thus, in terms
of length (cm) the trend in leg length was greater than the
trend in height (and even greater than the trend in sitting
height) up to puberty (though not thereafter). so the height
trend was until puberty primarily a leg length trend.
the secular increment in adult height (i.e., at age 20)
amounted to 8–10 cm in japan and 5 cm in south korea
(figure 2b). figure 4 shows how this increment developed
through childhood, and the pattern is striking; 5 cm of it, i.e.,
the majority, was already apparent at age 1.5 years, the mean
age for the youngest age group. the increment appeared to
be greater at later ages, but this reflected only more advanced
maturation. in south korea the peak increment was at age
12–14 and exceeded 15 cm, but by adulthood it had shrunk
to 5 cm, the same as at age 1.5. so there was no net increase
in height after infancy. by contrast in japan the adult increment of 8–10 cm was greater than the 5 cm increment at age
1.5, showing some growth in childhood after infancy, so the
two countries differed in this respect. the secular increment
in length at birth is known to be very small; in shanghai for
example mean birth length increased from 1985 to 2005 by
just 0.2 cm (zhang & li, 2015). so, it is reasonable to state
that in south korea the secular increase in adult height
occurred during the first 18 months of postnatal life, driven
primarily by extra growth in the long bones of the leg, which
confirms and refines the previously suggested 2 years (cole,
2000a).
figure 6 changes in weight velocity curve shape for japanese boys (above) and girls (below), from 1950 (red dashed lines) to 2010 (black solid
lines). the curves are predictions from sitar models of weight on age (left) and log weight on age (right), where the latter models have lower bic and
fit better
this, it should be noted, is the exact opposite of the malnutrition state of stunting, where infants in the first 1000
days of prenatal and postnatal life fall behind in terms of linear growth (dewey, 2016). it is tantalizing to think that the
beneficial changes over time that have driven the secular
trend to increased stature may well be the inverse of the factors that are driving linear growth retardation in millions of
poor infants.
the secular increase in adult weight was also substantial,
but rather greater in boys than girls and in south korea more
than japan (figures 3b and 4). in addition the increase
accrued throughout childhood and puberty rather than being
restricted to infancy (figure 6b,d). it is for this reason that
the best data transformation for size (as seen in figures 5
and 6) was linear for height and log for weight; the absolute
increment in height was the same in early and adult life
(figure 4), whereas for weight the proportional increment
was closer to constant—this corresponds to the log transformation (cole, 2000b).
the best data transformation for age was the square root
(figures 5 and 6). in principle one would expect differences
in developmental age to be multiplicative, corresponding to
the age scale being stretched or shrunk, and this in turn corresponds to the log age scale, as seen in the original sitar
publication (cole et al., 2010). conversely the linear age
scale would imply the whole growth curve being shifted left
or right, which could fit poorly in infancy with age becoming
negative. the square root scale is a compromise between
figure 7 sitar summary of japanese boys height by year of measurement, with growth curves constructed by period and by cohort: (a) mean
curves (period black, cohort red; height solid, velocity dashed); (b) changes in size (cm) for period plotted against cohort; (c) changes in timing (years)
similarly; and (d) changes in intensity (%) similarly. see text for details
linear and log, implying that differences on the developmental age scale are somewhere between multiplicative and
additive.
the sensitivity analysis showed that secular trends in the
sitar size and timing parameters were broadly the same
whether based on cohort or period curves. however, the
cohort-based intensity parameter changed over time only half
as fast as the period-based intensity. this can be explained
by reference to figure 7a, where the mean cohort curve
(solid red line) is slightly steeper than the mean period curve
(black). this is because within each cohort, the younger and
older ages correspond to earlier and later measurement dates,
whereas the corresponding period data are all measured at
the same time. expressed the other way round, the period
curves include some cohort information as their data are
spread across 20 birth years, with the younger children born
later and the older earlier. the net effect is that the secular
trend in intensity based on the period data is up to twice that
for the cohort data, and hence provides a biased estimate of
the cohort-based trend.
however, it is important to emphasize that the sitar
analysis, in summarizing the secular trend, does not claim to
provide any extra insight as to whether the trend is driven by
cohort or period differences. probably both apply, in that
children’s individual growth patterns are inherited in early
life (i.e., a cohort effect) but are subsequently influenced by
the changing environment (a period effect). the two effects
can be distinguished in figure 4, which shows the agespecific increments in height and weight over the period of
study. thus, it contrasts growth in children born 40–60 years
apart. in south korea, the height increment for boys and girls
was 5 cm both in infancy and in adulthood, which means
that the growth pattern did not change during childhood.
this corresponds to a cohort effect, not a period effect. however, the weight increment for south korean boys was much
greater in adulthood than in infancy (13 vs. 2 kg), indicating
a strong period effect in addition to the cohort effect. note
that these inferences could have been based either on the
observed increments in figure 4 (solid lines) or the sitar
modeled increments (dashed lines), so the sitar analysis is
useful here but not essential.
as noted at the outset, europeans have historically been
much taller than asians. the dutch are recognized as the
tallest nation, and their secular increase in height has recently
stopped (sch€onbeck et al., 2013). figure 3 of sch€onbeck
et al. (2013) shows how height in the netherlands has
increased since 1955, equivalent to figure 4 of the current
article. the adult increment amounted to 7 cm in both sexes,
but the pattern by age was quite different from figure 4. the
increment increased linearly from birth to 15 years in boys
and 11 years in girls, when the increments were respectively
10 and 8 cm, after which they fell back to 7 cm at age 20; so
there was no infant increment at all. however, the dutch in
1955 were already taller (175 and 164 cm by sex) than the
south koreans were in 2005 (sch€onbeck et al., 2013), so
both the nature of the secular trend and the factors driving it
were clearly different in the two countries.
what factors might have caused japanese and south
korean children to grow so differently from each other?
there are several possibilities: genetics (e.g., different height
potential), economic status (e.g., per capita gross domestic
product or gdp) and diet (e.g., per capita national food supply). grasgruber, sebera, hrazdira, cacek, and kalina
(2016) explored many factors that might explain the differences in male height in 105 countries. they found that gdp
was a strong predictor but national health expenditure was
stronger, as was the mortality rate for children under 5 years.
this obviously relates directly to living conditions in
infancy, when long bone growth is important. among the
strongest predictors was the human developmental index
(hdi), which had a correlation of 0.80 with adult height
based on 100 countries.
several dietary factors were predictive, notably animal
protein in the form of dairy, eggs, meat and fish, while a rice
diet was generally associated with shorter stature (grasgruber
et al., 2016). the strongest single positive influence was
dairy protein (r 5 0.79 for 93 countries), while rice had a
strongly negative effect (r 5 20.74).
so how do japan and south korea compare in terms of
these predictive factors? gdp was considerably higher in
japan than south korea, as was the hdi, while child mortality was slightly lower in japan. (however, the reviewer
points out the very different development paths taken by the
two countries—japan achieved a miracle of economic development but then stagnated after 1995, whereas korea was
initially poorer but developed and maintained strong growth,
its gdp now matching that for japan. this may well be
relevant.)
in terms of diet, south koreans ate appreciably less animal protein than japanese (17 versus 23 g/person/day protein
from dairy, eggs, pork and beef). so in all these respects
japan looks healthier than south korea, and the japanese
ought to be the taller, as predicted by grasgruber et al.
(2016) (their figure 12). schwekendiek and jun (2010)
emphasized the impact of primary school feeding programs
set up by the south korean government after the korean
war, which have continued until now. however, mori compares in detail the national income and dietary intake in the
two countries over time, and shows that as recently as 1995,
both per capita gross national income and milk intake were
three times higher in japan than in south korea (mori,
2017). mori (2017) also highlights the recent striking
increase in south korean intake of fruit and vegetables, at a
time when japanese intake has fallen, particularly among the
young, and this may explain the recent increase in south
korean height.
in conclusion, child height and weight have increased
dramatically over the past 40–60 years in japan and south
korea. the changes have affected both size (i.e., cm and kg)
and developmental age, in that the growth period has
advanced in timing and shrunk in duration. most of the
height increment seen in adults has already accrued by age
1.5 years, indicating that the secular height trend in these
countries (though not in the netherlands) represents
increased growth in the long bones during infancy. the
trends have been larger in south korea than japan, but there
are no convincing differences in national income, diet or lifestyle to explain them.

<|EndOfText|>

randomised crossover trial of rate feedback and force during chest compressions for paediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation 

outcome measures primary: compression rate. secondary: compression and residual forces.

results rate of chest compressions (compressions per minute (compressions per minute; cpm)) varied widely (mean (sd) 111 (13), range 89–168), with a fourfold difference in variation during session 1 between those receiving and not receiving feedback (108 (5) vs 120 (20)). the interaction of session by feedback order was highly significant, indicating that this difference in mean rate between sessions was 14 cpm less (95% ci −22 to −5, p=0.002) in those given feedback first compared with those given it second. compression force (n) varied widely (mean (sd) 306 (94); range 142–769). those receiving feedback second (as opposed to first) used significantly lower force (adjusted mean difference −80 (95% ci −128 to −32), p=0.002). mean residual force (18 n, sd 12, range 0–49) was unaffected by the intervention.

conclusions while visual feedback restricted excessive compression rates to within the prescribed range, applied force remained widely variable. the forces required may differ with growth, but such variation treating one manikin is alarming. feedback technologies additionally measuring force (effort) could help to standardise and define effective treatments throughout childhood.

what this study adds?
this form of visual feedback reduced excessive rates and brought performance into the prescribed range.

the study revealed more than a fourfold variation in compression forces used by professionals to treat one manikin, independent of the rate of chest compression.

in the clinical scenario, the highest compression (770 n) and residual (50n) forces may have deleterious effects, suggesting value in measuring the efforts required throughout childhood.

introduction
since 2010 the international resuscitation guidelines have promoted paediatric compression rates of 100–120/min, depressing the chest by at least one-third of its anteroposterior diameter and allowing minimal interruption to compressions.1 ,2 however, evidence suggests that, even among health professionals, chest displacement during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) is variable, compression rates often do not meet the guidelines, and the physiological effects of different patterns of cpr vary.3–9 guideline-compliant chest compressions (≥51 mm) appear to be associated with longer 24 hour survival in children compared with shallower depths.7 others have highlighted the need for further scientific debate regarding effective compression depth in children.10 ,11

feedback devices can improve cpr performance.12–15 however, commercial devices measuring chest compressions are often not suitable for use with babies and young children.14–18 many are rigid in composition, which reduces feedback on the chest movement received through the rescuers' hands. chest compliance reduces with growth, and tactile feedback on full chest recoil may be particularly important in young children, with compliant ribs.16 quantifying the effort (the force) required for effective chest compression and offload in children of different sizes may offer additional growth-related comparative data to aid paediatric cpr training and performance. loads simulating ‘leaning’ during cpr have been shown to prevent full chest recoil in anaesthetised children, decrease coronary perfusion pressure, and elevate intrathoracic and right atrial pressures.16 the authors of that study reported that these clinically important haemodynamic effects warranted further study. we are aware of no subsequent paediatric publications on chest compression force.

we therefore devised a technique to measure dynamic force and provide feedback on the rate of chest compressions for paediatric cpr. we conducted a randomised, crossover trial to examine the impact of visual feedback on the rate of chest compressions and to explore any secondary effects of rate feedback on the load profile (compression and residual forces). we hypothesised that visual feedback would bring performance closer to international guidelines, secondarily reducing any variation in force.

methods
creation of appropriate technology
the researchers defined the specifications of a sensor-mat system to measure and provide visual feedback on the rate of chest compressions for cpr in children. the commissioned device measured dynamic pressure and force using 143 individually calibrated capacitive sensors, each sensor measuring 10 mm×10 mm (pliance x-32 analyzer, novel gmbh, munich, germany) (figure 1). the lightweight mat was ∼1.5 mm thick, conforming fully to the convexity of the chest, sampled at a frequency of 100 hz over a range of 0–400 kpa, with a drift of <5% and minimal hysteresis. the sensor-mat was calibrated daily with incremental step increases of known air pressure to each sensor using the novel calibration device. system performance and accuracy have been reported.19

descriptive variables (figure 1) of the chest compression were identified as:

compression force: peak force applied (n)

residual force: force remaining on decompression (ie, ‘lean load’ n)

rate: number of compressions per minute (cpm)

the feedback system for rate comprised a digital display (here, 107 cpm) and a colour-coded horizontal sliding bar of the real-time compression rate, symbolising performance within and outside the prescribed range (figure 1).

study measuring chest compressions for paediatric cpr
the study was conducted in a tertiary hospital and approved by the national research ethics service committee, bloomsbury, london (registration number 12/lo/1700, protocol v.1). written, informed consent was obtained from all participants. rescuers were informed that all data were anonymised.

recruitment
fifty staff (10 men) were recruited to a randomised, crossover trial between january and july 2015, figure 2. nursing, medical and paramedical staff who had received hospital training in cpr in the last year were eligible. individuals were excluded if they refused to give consent or were not in a fit state to perform chest compressions—for example, because of back pain. recruitment occurred either by direct invitation on the ward (conducted by rkg) or by approaches to staff after their hospital resuscitation training (conducted by dw).

consort diagram summarising the randomised rescuers' protocol progression.

equipment
a paediatric manikin (laerdal medical, new york, usa) with an estimated age of 6 years was secured supine on an akron hi-low plinth (hne akron, ipswich, uk, figure 1). chest compressions were applied directly through the sensor-mat which was taped in a standardised position to the lower half of the manikin's sternum. the measurement system included the sensor-mat, an electronic interface and a laptop computer for data acquisition and feedback display.

protocol
rescuers applied compressions to the paediatric manikin for two sessions. they were informed that this was a compressions-only resuscitation simulation, requiring no airway management and that the researcher would prompt each phase using ‘start’ and ‘stop’ voice cues. using a computer-generated code list, each rescuer was randomised to receive visual feedback during either the first or the second of the two sessions (rkg). henceforth, those receiving feedback in the first session will be called the ‘feedback first’ group and those receiving feedback in the second session the ‘control first’ group. the rescuers were given two sets of information. first, they were to continue chest compressions without interruption during each of the three 2 min phases per session, resting for 2 min between phases and for 5 min between sessions. they were reminded of the recommended rate (100–120 cpm), and advised to offload fully between compressions. rescuers practised five chest compressions on the manikin and were encouraged to adjust the plinth to suit their height. separately, immediately before each rescuer's feedback session, they were instructed in the visual feedback system. a beat-on-beat, colour-coded three-dimensional (3-d) dynamic pressure profile was also demonstrated. it was emphasised that, since no recommendations exist on the most effective forces to be applied to children, they should deliver what they considered appropriate for a 6-year-old child to depress the chest according to the guidelines.1

outcome measures
the primary outcome measure was the rate of compressions, expressed as cpm. secondary outcomes were the compression and residual forces.

statistical analysis
statistical analyses were conducted with spss, v.21. data were collected in the three phases per session (300 recordings); the phases were then averaged by session, resulting in 100 measures, two per rescuer. the effect of providing feedback on rate was estimated using univariable and multivariable linear mixed-effects models, with fixed effects for session number and randomisation order (and their interaction) plus a random effect for rescuer. secondary analysis estimated the effect of rate feedback on force. the trial was reported according to the consort 2010 statement, paying attention to numerical presentation.20 ,21

sample size
comparing the results of a group of 50 rescuers would allow detection of a between-subject difference of 0.6 sd with 80% power and 5% significance. assuming a between-subject sd of 13, 0.6 sd equates to a difference in rate of 8 cpm.

for the within-subject comparisons based on 50 rescuers and focusing on the interaction between feedback condition and order of presentation, the study was designed to have 80% power at 5% significance to detect an effect size of 6 cpm.

results
the age, gender and general characteristics of the two randomisation groups were similar, as shown in table 1.

view inline view popup
table 1
characteristics of the two groups defined according to intervention allocation

all the rescuers completed the protocol phases, from recruitment through randomisation to data analysis (figure 2).

primary outcomes
table 2 summarises the results for chest compressions by session and feedback order.

view inline view popup
table 2
summary of rate and force of chest compressions for cpr according to session and intervention order

the rate varied widely (mean 111 cpm; sd 13; range 89–168), with a fourfold difference in sd during session 1 between those receiving and not receiving feedback. of the results in the two sessions for the two groups, in session 1 the control first group (receiving feedback second) stood out, with both mean and sd raised, while feedback in session 2 normalised the rates (table 2 and figure 3a). the interaction of session by feedback order was highly significant, indicating that this difference in mean rate between sessions was 14 cpm less (−22 to −5, p=0.002) in those given feedback first compared with those given it second.

variability in (a) rate and (b) force of chest compressions applied to the same manikin by 50 rescuers. (a) effect of visual feedback on rate, randomised by order, and (b) compression and residual forces. (a) the horizontal broken lines represent the feedback limits set to indicate the desired rate.

secondary outcomes
figure 3b demonstrates the wide variation in compression force applied to the manikin (mean 306 n (sd 94); range 142–769), a more than fivefold difference. before averaging, the highest recorded force exceeded 800 n.

as summarised in table 2, forces were greater and more variable in session 1 among those receiving feedback compared with those not (337 (90) vs 262 (66), p=0.001). overall, those receiving feedback second (control first) used significantly lower compression force (adjusted mean difference −80 (95% ci −128 to −32), p=0.002). the mean residual force of 18 n (sd 12, range 0–49) was the same in both groups.

discussion
statement of findings
rate
use of visual feedback ensured cpr performance within the prescribed rate range. without feedback, many rescuers exceeded the guidelines, which could result in poorer outcome. this is shown by the wide sd of the control first group in session 1 (table 2). their median rate was above 120 cpm (figure 3a), demonstrating that more than half of these rescuers exceeded the upper prescribed limit. the control first group in session 1 were the only rescuers behaving ‘naturally’, as in the other three sessions, rescuers were, or had just been, exposed to feedback. since all rescuers were reminded of the guidelines before ‘treating’ the manikin, this finding suggests that judging compression rate is difficult and rescuers ‘over-try’ to meet the recommendations. when external chest compressions were first promoted in the 1960s, it was suggested that ‘anyone, anywhere’ with ‘two hands’ could perform effective chest compressions for resuscitation.22 however, our research suggests that, without real-time feedback, it is difficult to deliver appropriate chest compressions for children.

force
strikingly, the forces delivered to a single manikin showed unexpectedly large variation. in the control first group, as their rate slowed with feedback in the second session, so the residual force maintained between compressions decreased. while the most clinically effective range of forces in children has yet to be determined, both extreme loading and incomplete offloading of force may adversely impact outcome.16 ,17 as chest compliance varies greatly with age, lower treatment forces would be expected for babies compared with teenagers. precise force categories required for effective sternal depression are likely to be influenced by both the child's clinical condition and their age and body size.23 young children and the elderly are two groups of patients likely to be vulnerable to chest injury and inefficient external chest compression.10 ,11 ,24 ,25 the ability to measure and compare the effort required throughout childhood is integral to optimising the training of paediatric healthcare professionals, creating appropriate instincts and reflexes through immediate feedback both in hospital and outside.

feedback effect
in the control first group, their compression force appeared to be established in that first ‘natural’ session, unlike the feedback first group whose force increased in session 2. while no feedback system for force was provided, a 3-d pressure profile of real-time data was displayed on the computer screen. the rescuers were told to focus on the rate feedback display, applying whatever force they felt was clinically appropriate for a 6-year-old, as no guidelines exist for force. the mere presence of the pulsing 3-d display may have motivated some in the feedback first group to push harder on the manikin from the outset, as shown in table 2. just as different feedback systems have been shown to produce varying responses, these extraneous data may have been distracting.12

comparison with published literature
this study concurs with others showing performance of chest compressions at variable and excessive rates.4 ,5 ,13 ,26 valuable paediatric data have been published regarding differing compression depths, patterns of cpr and patient survival.4 ,7–9 ,17 ,27 outcome is often related to treatment duration rather than force application.28

paediatric force
few data exist regarding forces required throughout childhood, specifically in younger children.2 ,29 a hospital-based study of eight children aged below 8 (four children in each arm, non-randomised) demonstrated that, even in an experienced paediatric centre using an audiovisual feedback facility, their cumulative assessment measure of ‘excellent cpr’ was achieved in 28% of the treatments with feedback and 0% without.4 feedback resulted in 80% of chest compressions falling within the recommended rate. as was the case here, most benefit was derived from slowing excessive rates. there was no direct measure of compression force but ‘quality cpr’ included the measure of residual lean load <2.5 kg, equating to approximately 25 n. residual forces exceeding 25 n were recorded in this study.

in an earlier study, the group determined paediatric thoracic force-deflection characteristics for cpr.30 chest compression forces of 309 (sd 55) n were recorded in 18 subjects aged between 8 and 22 years. the researchers combined these data with their earlier results, reporting age-related changes in thoracic mechanics, the stiffness of the thorax increasing from youth to middle age and decreasing in the elderly. they highlighted a need to increase the sample size and age range studied. their results concur with equivalent values of 306 (sd 94) n recorded here, this study recording greater extreme forces of almost 800 n. the earlier publication was conducted in older subjects, in whom proportionately higher forces might have been expected, to depress their stiffer chests.19

compression variables and feedback
cpr measurement systems often derive chest compression variables—for example, effective compression ratio and fraction, and duty cycle (the ratio of compression to relaxation).31 ,32 researchers have examined the effects of different duty cycles on cerebral and aortic perfusion, in animals, by modelling and latterly in human subjects.33 ,34 both duty cycle and residual force (or lean load) would appear to be physiologically important variables. audiovisual feedback has been used in isolation and in combination with post-event debriefings.35 ,36 in children and adults, adhering to the 2010 international guidelines-recommended depth of at least 51 mm could improve outcomes from cardiac arrest.4 ,6 however, the use of accelerometers may result in overestimation of chest displacement and may be influenced by variables such as the composition of the underlying surface on which cpr is performed.9 ,18 ,37 ,38

study strengths
each of the 50 rescuers performed a total of 12 min of chest compressions on the manikin, providing robust results from, on average, over 1300 compressions. the thin sensor-mat conformed exactly to the manikin and to children's chests.19 it allowed the rescuer immediate feedback through their hands regarding the child's chest depression and recoil responsiveness, unlike other more rigid feedback systems used for older subjects.14 ,15 ,39

study limitations
this was not a crisis scenario and the research was conducted on a manikin, which cannot be considered an ideal replacement for an unresponsive child. however, it was important to standardise the subject in order to examine variability in rescuers' performance. it is both unethical and impossible to apply chest compressions for cpr to healthy children.

clinical implications
direct measurement of manual forces applied to children's chests could yield valuable insight when used in combination with simultaneous recording of clinical response. such studies should help clarify the profiles required to increase intrathoracic pressure and achieve effective coronary perfusion pressure for children of different ages.33 there is heterogeneity of outcomes used to date in such clinical trials.40 while measures such as arterial blood pressure and end-tidal co2 are useful in high-tech environments, it has been proposed that definition of the specific physiological markers of most use in children may suggest a unique direction for paediatric cpr studies.29

conclusion
this study highlights the variability of chest compression profiles for paediatric cpr. while visual feedback reduced excessive rates to ensure performance within a prescribed rate range, applied force showed alarming variation. incomplete offload between compressions was also recorded. feedback technologies that measure the force required to reverse cardiac arrest could provide the tools to define the inter-related details of paediatric cpr. understanding factors promoting effective chest compressions from birth to adulthood could help to optimise performance and thus improve children's survival.

<|EndOfText|>

after the rct: who comes to a family-based intervention for childhood overweight or obesity when it is implemented at scale in the community? 

methods the mend 7–13 (mind, exercise, nutrition…do it!) programme is a family-based weight management intervention for childhood overweight and obesity implemented at scale in the community. we compare the characteristics of children referred to the mend programme (n=18 289 referred to 1940 programmes) with those of the population eligible for the intervention, and assess what predicts completion of the intervention.

results compared to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more children who started mend were: obese rather than overweight excluding obese; girls; asian; from families with a lone parent; living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances; and living in urban rather than rural or suburban areas. having started the programme, children were relatively less likely to complete it if they: reported ‘abnormal’ compared to ‘normal’ levels of psychological distress; were boys; were from lone parent families; lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances; and had participated in a relatively large mend programme group; or where managers had run more programmes.

conclusions the provision and/or uptake of mend did not appear to compromise and, if anything, promoted participation of those from disadvantaged circumstances and ethnic minority groups. however, this tendency was diminished because programme completion was less likely for those living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances. further research should explore how completion rates of this intervention could be improved for particular groups.

introduction
overweight and obesity has been described as the primary childhood health problem in developed nations.1 in 2011, estimates from uk data showed that a third of children aged between 2 and 15 were overweight or obese, with prevalence among those living in the most deprived circumstances double that of those living in the least deprived.2 while prevalence may be plateauing,2 ,3 the costs for children and families, health services and society remain substantial.4

research on weight management programmes for children who are already overweight or obese has tended to focus on the effectiveness of interventions under research conditions. these studies suggest that family-based interventions may result in moderate reductions in body mass index (bmi).5 however the population impact on health and health inequalities of such interventions, when implemented at scale, depends not only on how effective the intervention itself is, but also on who receives it.6 ,7 for example, families living in more favourable socioeconomic circumstances may be more likely to access and adhere to services which support behaviour change.8 ,9 to understand whether implementation is successful, evidence is needed about who is referred to, who starts and who completes potentially effective interventions delivered at scale in the community in relation to the population in need.10 ,11

recent work mapping weight management interventions for overweight or obese children12 identified approximately 50 schemes operational around 2008 in england. in this paper we examine the largest of these schemes, mend 7–13 (mend—mind, exercise, nutrition do it!) in order to achieve two objectives: first, to explore whether the sociodemographic characteristics of mend participants match those of the population eligible for the intervention; and second, to estimate what characteristics of children, their families and neighbourhoods are associated with completion of a mend programme. further objectives13 on the differential outcomes14 and economic costs of attending mend, and its salience and acceptability to families and commissioners15 are reported elsewhere.

methods
mend intervention
mend is a multicomponent family-based community intervention which aims to support families of overweight or obese children (hereafter referred to as overweight, defined as exceeding the 91st centile of bmi (weight/height2) of the uk 1990 growth charts16) to adopt and sustain healthier lifestyles. the intervention was demonstrated to be effective in reducing bmi of obese children after 6 and 12 months in a randomised controlled trial.17

the intervention addresses diet and physical activity through education, skills training and motivational enhancement. owing to the importance of family involvement for behaviour change, the intervention requires a parent or carer to attend all 20 sessions and the mend intervention was developed to be delivered in community settings such as schools or leisure centres.17 children are eligible if they are aged between 7 and 13 years old and overweight although those aged 6 (n=298) when they were referred were included in the analyses.

mend had two operating arms in the uk: mend central, a limited company, and mend places, a not-for-profit company originally set up to provide a route for donations to subsidise places for families on the mend programme. when the data for our study were collected, mend central described itself as a social enterprise—an ethical business which aims to benefit society in general. all those commissioning mend between 2007 and 2010 placed funding through mend central. families did not pay to attend the programme, places were funded by a variety of organisations including: the uk big lottery fund (n=8972); nhs primary care trusts (n=4373); non-governmental organisations (n=617); and other non-profit making organisations and a private company (n=36).

between 2007 and 2010, the mend intervention was implemented on a large scale, with programmes rolled out across all regions of england (see figure 1 for more details). families referred to the programme contacted mend (‘referrals’)—whereupon mend logged the child's age and sex, and the family postcode, collecting no other data. families who went on to attend one or more sessions (‘starters’) also had sociodemographic and other data collected.

the intervention was delivered in local programmes by ‘delivery partner’ organisations. intervention content and training was provided to delivery partners by mend central. the height, weight and psychological distress of participants were measured at the first and penultimate sessions of each mend programme. delivery partners were trained to measure height and weight (which was used to calculate bmi) and also recorded individual attendance of each participant at each session. psychological distress was reported by parents using the strengths and difficulties questionnaire (sdq).18 parents also reported the participant's ethnicity (white, asian, black and other) and family socioeconomic circumstances including: family structure (lone parent/carer, couple parents/carers); housing tenure (owner occupied, social rented, private rented); and employment status of the ‘primary earner’ (employed, unemployed). delivery partners recorded data in an online database collated by mend central. for this study, a copy of this database for the period january 2007 to december 2010 was transferred to university college london (ucl) institute of child health for analysis.

the full unit postcode of each mend participant's residential address was used to assign each address to its respective lower super output area (lsoa). each lsoa was then linked to a measure of neighbourhood deprivation (deciles of the income deprivation affecting children index (idaci) 2007).19 idaci measures the percentage of income-deprived households (those in receipt of means-tested benefits such as jobseekers allowance or child tax credits) with children aged 0–15 in the lsoa. deciles of the index were calculated relative to the deprivation ranking of all english lsoas; participants in decile 10 live in the 10% most deprived areas in england. we also linked a national urban/rural status (urban, suburban, rural) classification20 to each lsoa. mend data were used to derive how many children attended each mend programme (hereafter referred to as ‘programme group size’) and the number of programmes which a local programme manager had managed.

in the absence of an agreed definition of completion for family-based interventions for childhood overweight,21 children were considered to have completed the programme (‘completers’) if they had attended more than 75% (more than 15 out of 20) of sessions.

data were complete for bmi, postcode (and so all variables related to residence in lsoas) and programme level variables. starters and completers were missing data for the following variables (percentages reported for starters): baseline sdq (7%), ethnicity (33%), family structure (36%), housing tenure (35%), employment status (63%) and percentage of sessions attended (42%). we followed the guidelines of sterne et al22 for the analysis and reporting of missing data. full details are given in the supplement and summarised here. first, those with complete and incomplete data were statistically different, although differences were small. second, missingness varied between mend programmes. third, excluding all those with any missing data from the mend data would have reduced the sample (and therefore the statistical power to estimate proportions) from 13 998 to 2787. to minimise bias, adjust for multilevel missingness, and maximise power, we used a multilevel multiple imputation model. the model assumed that data were missing at random; the rationale for this is described in the supplement along with the variables included in the model and the reasons for their inclusion. ten imputed data sets were produced, analysed separately and results combined using rubin's rules.23 to test whether our findings were influenced by using imputed data we also conducted sensitivity analyses, including analysis using complete case data with and without the variable describing parental employment status, where missingness was particularly high.

statistical analysis
we described the population eligible for mend (‘the mend-eligible population’) using the health survey for england (hse), an annual, nationally representative cross-sectional survey of english children and adults.24 we did this by pooling the data from the 2007 to 2010 surveys for 6–13-year-olds (n=13 468) who were overweight (n=2799, after exclusion of those where valid bmi data was missing (n=1577). all analyses accounted for the hse complex survey design and sample weights.

the sociodemographic characteristics of children participating in mend were compared with those in the mend-eligible population. differences in percentages, and their statistical significance levels were calculated (mend-eligible subtracted from mend). the social gradient of residence by idaci was compared graphically and tested using linear regression with an interaction term included to test the statistical significance of differences between slopes.

we estimated multilevel (participants clustered within programmes) poisson regression models25 to assess whether completion was associated with baseline (ie, at the first session) age, sex, ethnicity, psychological distress, bmi, family structure, housing tenure, parental employment status, idaci and urban/rural status. unadjusted relative risks (urr) of completion were first estimated in a set of single variable models. where urrs were significant at the 5% level, these variables were retained in a multivariable model to allow estimation of adjusted relative risks (arr).

the following software was used: realcom-impute26 (multilevel multiple imputation model), mlwin27 and runmlwin28 (multilevel poisson regression models), and stata 12.1 (all other analyses).

parents gave informed written consent for their child to participate in the mend programme and for their data to be used after anonymisation. approval for the transfer of the anonymised data from mend to researchers at the ucl institute of child health, and for the secondary analysis of these data was granted by the ucl ethics committee in october 2010 (ref 2677/002).

results
between january 2007 and december 2010, 21 132 referrals contacted mend, 18 289 of whom had complete data (see figure 1). a total of 13 998 of these were starters (attended at least one session) and of these 8311 were completers (attended more than 75% of sessions).

compared to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more mend referrals were girls and from urban areas while fewer were from suburban or rural areas (table 1). as would be expected, given the social gradient in childhood overweight, proportionally more of both mend-eligible children and mend referrals lived in more deprived compared to less deprived areas but this social gradient was significantly more pronounced for mend referrals (test for interaction p<0.01: figure 2).

social gradients of those referred to mind, exercise, nutrition do it! (mend; grey dots and line) and mend-eligible population (black dots and dashed line) by idaci 2007 (neighbourhood deprivation) deciles. trends were tested for differences (p<0.001). idaci, income deprivation affecting children index.

compared to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more mend starters were: obese rather than overweight but not obese; girls; asian; from families with a lone parent; living in social or private rented accommodation; living in a family where the primary earner was unemployed; or resident in urban areas (table 1). proportionally fewer were children whose ethnicity was reported to be white or ‘other’. similar sociodemographic patterns were seen in those who completed a mend programme (table 1). comparisons of both mend starters and completers with the mend-eligible population by neighbourhood deprivation deciles showed similar differences in slopes to the differences for mend referrals (data not shown).

for sensitivity, the differences in percentages between the mend-eligible population and mend starters and completers were also calculated: excluding children who were 6 years old; and separately for those mend children who were obese and for those who were overweight but not obese. results were similar to those reported in table 1 for all mend participants (data not shown).

single (unadjusted) variable models showed that, having started a mend programme, completion was significantly associated with psychological distress at baseline, sex, family structure, housing tenure, employment status, idaci 2007, programme group size and the number of programmes per manager (see urr in table 2). these variables were retained in the multivariable model. age, baseline bmi, ethnicity and urban/rural status were not significantly associated and therefore not retained.

table 2
unadjusted (urr) and adjusted relative risks (arr) of completion of a mend programme by sociodemographic characteristics of participants (n=13 998)

in the multivariable model, the arr (see arr in table 2) showed that children who had started a mend programme were significantly less likely to complete it if they: were reported by parents as having ‘abnormal’ rather than ‘normal’ levels of psychological distress; were boys; were from lone parent rather than couple parent families; lived in social or private rented rather than owner occupied accommodation; lived in a family where the primary earner was unemployed rather than employed; were resident in lsoas in more deprived idaci 2007 deciles rather than less deprived; participated in a relatively large mend programme group; or participated in a programme led by a manager who had run a relatively high number of programmes.

in the absence of an agreed definition of completion we re-estimated the multivariable model with completion defined as attending more than 60% of sessions. findings were similar to those observed for completion defined as attendance at more than 75% of sessions (data not shown).

we repeated all analyses with complete case data to test sensitivity of findings to imputation and specifically to the high proportion of missing data on employment status. findings were similar to those using imputed data (see online supplementary section g12).

discussion
our results showed that in comparison to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more children who started or completed mend lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances (indicated by employment of primary earner, family structure and housing tenure). relative to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more of those who started or completed a mend programme were girls, asian and urban dwelling and proportionally fewer were of white or ‘other’ ethnicity. finally, relative to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more mend participants were obese rather than overweight but not obese. these differences may have arisen from differential uptake or differential provision of mend but we did not have data to investigate this further.

in contrast, for those who started a mend programme, those living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances were less likely to complete it, as were boys and those reporting ‘abnormal’ levels of psychological distress at baseline. completion of a mend programme was also less likely if the programme group size was relatively high and if the programme manager was more experienced. completion was not associated with baseline bmi, age or ethnic group. however, these relative differences in completion rates were not sufficient to remove the tendency for starters and completers overall to be less advantaged than the mend-eligible population.

strengths and limitations
we used data from a family-based intervention for childhood overweight which had been implemented at scale in the community. this was an unusual opportunity to assess how an intervention which has been found to be effective in a research setting is provided and accessed in the ‘real world’. in addition, the large scale implementation meant that the data set was sufficiently large to precisely estimate proportions for each sociodemographic group and factors associated with predictors of completion of the programme. the mend data were collected for service rather than research purposes and, as is common in service data, data quality was variable, with considerable missing data. we carried out extensive data cleaning procedures to maximise the quality of the data that we analysed. we also used imputed data obtained from a multilevel multiple imputation model to mitigate systematic bias and increase the precision of estimates. we also ran analyses with both complete case and imputed analyses to show that the overall conclusions we drew were the same.

we used a robust, nationally representative survey (hse) to estimate the population of children in england who would theoretically be eligible for the mend intervention, and compare the characteristics of this population ‘in need’ with those who were referred to, started or completed a mend programme. the lone parent and employment status variables were not coded identically in mend and the hse. however, our results using the lone parent and employment variables were consistent with those using the idaci 2007 measure which was standard in both mend and hse data sets.

we repeated our hse-mend comparison, substituting two other contemporaneous nationally representative data sets in turn in the place of the hse. the millennium cohort study sweep four29 was nationally representative for overweight children in england aged 6–8 years old in 2008 and, when compared to mend participants of the same age, findings were similar to the hse-mend comparison (eg, proportionally more children living in less favourable circumstances among the mend participants than in the millennium cohort). the national child measurement programme30 was nationally representative for overweight children in england in school year 10 (10–11 years old) in the years 2007–2010 and, when compared to mend children of the same age, findings were again similar to the hse-mend comparison. these sensitivity analyses (data not shown) showed that our findings were robust to how we assessed the population who would be eligible for mend.

comparison with other studies
differential provision or uptake of interventions both have the potential to generate, maintain, widen or decrease health inequalities.7 ,8 we found no research which compared the sociodemographic characteristics of participants in a family-based community intervention for childhood overweight with the population in need, although a similar analysis has been outlined in an evaluation framework for an australian weight management scheme for adults.31 our findings that the sociodemographic characteristics of mend participants marginally over-represent families living in more deprived areas are consistent with previous work on smoking cessation6 and coronary heart disease treatment.32 however, we are not aware of similar work in services for children's health.

relatively few published studies have considered who ‘drops out’ or completes children's weight management interventions, and a review of this work suggests that study designs (including intervention type) and findings are heterogeneous and typically based in research or clinical settings.33 this study adds to this evidence base because it was based on a large data set who received a family-based community intervention for childhood overweight following implementation at scale in the community (as opposed to in a research setting).

consistent with smaller scale studies of attrition in paediatric weight management interventions delivered predominantly in clinical settings, we found that completion was less likely among participants living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances.9 ,34 ,35 no families had to pay for the mend programme and so direct financial costs of participation would not explain differential completion by socioeconomic status. however, indirect costs of participation to families and the amount of time available to parents to take children to programmes may have explained some of these differences.33 this reinforces concerns that the acceptability of, or adherence to, services is worse for those from less advantaged circumstances and may indicate that services still need to develop and adapt to meet the needs of these families.

conclusions
the provision and/or uptake of mend did not appear to compromise and, if anything, promoted participation of those from more disadvantaged circumstances and from ethnic minority groups. this suggests that participation in mend, when it was implemented at scale across england, had the potential to make a contribution to tackling health inequalities. however, this potential was diminished to some extent because; having started a programme, completion was relatively less likely for those participants living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances. it was also less likely for boys. further research should explore why this occurs, and investigate how completion rates could be improved for these groups. approaches to this may include using survival analysis to examine critical points where exit from the programme is more likely.

mend programmes have been implemented across a number of income rich countries beyond england, including wales, denmark, australia, new zealand, usa and canada and so the results from this study may be generalisable to these countries. we do not know to what extent our findings are generalisable to other weight management or community interventions. assessment of the reach of interventions (of any kind) when implemented at scale is likely to be based on service or routine data, and such data are likely to have higher levels of missingness than research data. we hope that the publication of these findings will stimulate further exploration of such data to determine what happens when research is put into practice in community settings.

what is already known on this subject
differential referral to, participation in and completion of interventions have the potential to generate, maintain, decrease or widen inequalities in health.

childhood overweight and obesity are already socially patterned so the potential for interventions to widen inequalities is of particular concern.

the sociodemographic characteristics of participants in weight management randomised controlled trials may not reflect those of the population who would be eligible for the intervention if it was implemented at scale.

 what this study adds
compared to those eligible for the intervention, proportionally more girls, children who lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances and asian children started and completed mind, exercise, nutrition do it! (mend).

in contrast, having started a mend programme, children were relatively less likely to complete it if they lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances and were boys. there were no differences in completion by ethnic group.

participation in mend, when it was implemented at scale across england, had the potential to make a contribution to tackling health inequalities. however, this potential was diminished to some extent because, having started a programme, completion was relatively less likely for participants living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances.