Comparison of T-cell-based assay with tuberculin skin test for
diagnosis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in a school
tuberculosis outbreak

Summary
Background The diagnosis of latent tuberculosis infection
relies on the tuberculin skin test (TST), which has many
drawbacks. However, to find out whether new tests are better
than TST is difficult because of the lack of a gold standard test
for latent infection. We developed and assessed a sensitive
enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay to detect T cells
specific for Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens that are
absent from Mycobacterium bovis BCG and most environmental
mycobacteria. We postulated that if the ELISPOT is a more
accurate test of latent infection than TST, it should correlate
better with degree of exposure to M tuberculosis.
Methods A large tuberculosis outbreak in a UK school
resulted from one infectious index case. We tested 535
students for M tuberculosis infection with TST and ELISPOT.
We compared the correlation of these tests with degree of
exposure to the index case and BCG vaccination.
Findings Although agreement between the tests was high
(89% concordance, =0·72, p<0·0001), ELISPOT correlated
significantly more closely with M tuberculosis exposure than
did TST on the basis of measures of proximity (p=0·03) and
duration of exposure (p=0·007) to the index case. TST was
significantly more likely to be positive in BCG-vaccinated than
in non-vaccinated students (p=0·002), whereas ELISPOT
results were not associated with BCG vaccination (p=0·44).
Interpretation ELISPOT offers a more accurate approach
than TST for identification of individuals who have latent
tuberculosis infection and could improve tuberculosis control
by more precise targeting of preventive treatment.

Introduction
Identification and treatment of people who have latent
tuberculosis infection by targeted tuberculin skin testing
and preventive therapy is a cornerstone of tuberculosis
control in developed countries.1 The main drawback of
the tuberculin skin test (TST) is poor specificity, since
previous Mycobacterium bovis BCG vaccination and
environmental mycobacterial exposure can lead to falsepositive results.2–4 More than half the burden of
tuberculosis in developed countries is carried by foreignborn immigrants from high-prevalence countries, among
whom BCG vaccination and environmental mycobacterial
exposure are common.5,6 The TST also has several
operational drawbacks, including the need for a return
visit and operator-dependent variability in placement and
reading of the test. A more accurate rapid test for latent
infection is a major priority for improved tuberculosis
control.7
The identification of genes in the M tuberculosis
genome that are absent from M bovis BCG8 and most
environmental mycobacteria9 offers an opportunity to
develop more specific tests for M tuberculosis infection.10
Early secretory antigen target-6 (ESAT-6) and culture
filtrate protein 10 (CFP10) are two such gene products
that are strong targets of the cellular immune response in
tuberculosis patients and contacts.11,12 The presence of
ESAT-6-specific T cells, detected by the rapid ex-vivo
enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay for
interferon-gamma,13 is a highly sensitive and specific
marker of M tuberculosis infection in patients who have
culture-confirmed tuberculosis; its sensitivity is
substantially higher than that for the TST.14,15 In a UK
pilot study of 50 contacts at risk of latent tuberculosis
infection, we noted a correlation between ESAT-6
ELISPOT results and the extent of exposure to
tuberculosis cases,16 whereas unexposed people were
uniformly ELISPOT-negative.17,18
In February, 2001, a secondary school student who had
had a chronic cough for 9 months was diagnosed with
sputum-smear-positive cavitatory pulmonary tuberculosis.
The health authority screened 1128 of 1208 students at
the school with TST and diagnosed 69 secondary cases of
active tuberculosis and 254 cases of latent infection. This
outbreak presented a unique opportunity to compare the
effectiveness of the ELISPOT assay with the TST.
In the absence of a gold standard reference test, direct
assessment of the sensitivity and specificity of a new test
for latent tuberculosis infection is impossible.4 However,
since airborne transmission of M tuberculosis is promoted
by increasing duration and proximity of contact with an
infectious case,19–21 a key determinant of infection is the
amount of time spent sharing room air with the source
case.22,23 We formed the hypothesis that if the ELISPOT
assay is a more sensitive and specific test than the TST, it
should correlate more closely than the TST with degree
of exposure to M tuberculosis and should be independent
of BCG vaccination status. Two measures of exposure
were prespecified at the time of study design: proximity to
the index case, based on school class and year, and hours
of direct classroom contact. Three features of this
outbreak made it particularly suitable for this
investigation: there was one infectious index case with
several hundred contacts; the outbreak occurred in an
enclosed environment; and school timetables permitted
precise quantification of the amount of time each child
spent sharing room air with the source case.

Patients and methods
Participants
The study was approved by the Leicestershire research
ethics committee. We invited 963 students, aged
11–15 years, from the same school as the index case to
participate. We obtained written informed consent from
594 (62%) children and their parents. In May and June,
2001, the school nurses interviewed 550 (57% of the total
invited) of these children about place of birth and history
of tuberculosis exposure outside school. At the same time
they drew 10 mL blood samples that were stored in
sequentially numbered heparinised containers.
TST and ELISPOT testing
Leicestershire Health Authority screened 1128 children
with the Heaf test, in accordance with UK guidelines for
tuberculosis contacts (table 1),24 535 of whom were in our
sample of 550. Screening was done over 2 weeks, from
March 26 to April 11, 2001, 2 months after the index case
was admitted to hospital for treatment.
Tuberculin skin testing was done by standard multiplepuncture Heaf test with a six-needle disposable-head Heaf
gun (Bignall Surgical Instruments, Littlehampton, UK)25
and concentrated purified protein derivative 100 000
tuberculin units per mL (Evans Medical, Liverpool, UK),
in accordance with national guidelines.24 Heaf tests were
administered and read by the medical and nursing staff of
the outbreak management team. Cutaneous induration
was scored 1 week later, in accordance with standard
guidelines, from grade 0 to 4.25 Generally, although the
read-out of the automated Heaf test is quantified less
precisely than the Mantoux test—ie, grades 0–4 instead of
mm of induration, a continuous variable—the two tests
generally correlate well with each other.24–26
Students who reported symptoms underwent chest
radiography and clinical assessment for possible active
tuberculosis, irrespective of skin test results.
Asymptomatic students with Heaf grades 0 or 1 or Heaf
grade 2 and a BCG scar or documented history of BCG
vaccination were deemed uninfected24,25 and no action was
taken; students with Heaf grades 3 or 4 (irrespective of
BCG vaccination history) or grade 2 with no evidence of
previous BCG vaccination were deemed infected.24,25 All
underwent chest radiography and those with normal
radiographs were deemed to have latent tuberculosis
infection and received 3 months’ chemoprophylaxis with
rifampicin and isoniazid. Students with abnormal
radiographic findings or with symptoms were further
assessed in hospital for active tuberculosis; those with
positive cultures for M tuberculosis from clinical samples or
positive radiological or clinical findings suggestive of
tuberculosis were classified as having active tuberculosis
disease. These students were treated with standard shortcourse chemotherapy for 6 months, including
pyrazinamide and ethambutol for the first 8 weeks.
We did ELISPOT assays in Oxford on blood samples
from 545 of the 550 students, 2–4 h after venepuncture.
Samples were processed and scored by two scientists who
had no access to personal identifiers or TST results.
How ELISPOT assays are done has been previously
described;13,14 for this study we used a simplified, faster
protocol incorporating ELISPOT plates precoated with
monoclonal antibody to interferon-gamma (Mabtech AB,
Stockholm, Sweden), and a detector monoclonal antibody
to interferon-gamma preconjugated to alkaline-phosphatase
(Mabtech). Plates were seeded with 2·5105 peripheral
blood mononuclear cells per well: duplicate wells contained
no antigen (negative control), phytohaemagglutinin
(positive control; ICN Biomedicals, OH, USA),
recombinant dimeric ESAT-6 (dimESAT-6), or one of 12
different peptide pools derived from ESAT-6 and CFP10.
After overnight incubation at 37°C, 5% carbon dioxide2,
plates were developed with preconjugated detector
antibody and chromogenic substrate, BCIP/NBTPLUS (Moss
Inc, Pasadena, MD, USA).
Assays were scored by automated ELISPOT counter
(AID-GmbH, Strassberg, Germany). We scored test wells
as positive if they contained a mean of at least five more
spot-forming cells than the mean of the negative control
wells and this number was at least twice the mean of the
negative control wells. This cut-off14 was predefined
before the results were revealed. Assays were deemed
positive if there was a positive response to one or more
pools of the ESAT-6-derived or CFP10-derived peptides,
or to dimESAT-6.
As previously described,14 we used peptides spanning
the length of ESAT-6 and CFP10 (ResGen, Huntsville,
AL, USA). Each peptide was 15 aminoacids long and
overlapped its adjacent peptide by 10 residues; purity was
more than 70%. Peptides were arranged into 12 pools
comprising two arrays of six pools each, where each array
contained all 35 peptides from both molecules in
contrasting combinations, so that each peptide was tested
in quadruplicate.
We cloned, expressed, and purified DimESAT-6 from
culture supernatant of recombinant Lactococcus lactis;
purity was more than 95%.

Ascertainment of exposure
We classified school students into four groups of
decreasing degrees of exposure to the index case, based on
proximity and shared activities in school: the same class as
the index case; students in classes in the same year (year 9)
who regularly shared classes with the index case; students
in classes in the same year who shared only weekly events
with the index case; and students in different years (7, 8,
and 10) who shared no school events with the index case
(figure 1). For students in the same school year, we used
the school timetable to quantify direct exposure to the
index case, taking into account the attendance record of
the index case during the likely infectious period, which,
on the basis of duration of cough and associated
symptoms, was 9 months. Since the index case mixed with
different students for each academic subject, substantial
numbers of students were exposed. We classified students
from other school years (years 7, 8, and 10) who had
lessons in classrooms immediately after they had been
vacated by the index case as indirectly
exposed. Direct and indirect exposure
are expressed in school-weeks
(equivalent to 26 h 40 min).

Statistical methods
We focused the analysis on estimating
the strength of association between
degree of exposure to the index case
and the ELISPOT and TST test
results. Odds ratios are a function
of test sensitivity and specificity,27
and increase as one or both of these
measures increase. For latent
tuberculosis infection we could not
estimate test sensitivity and test
specificity directly, but were able to
estimate odds ratios relating results of
each test to the likelihood of infection.
We estimated the increase in odds
of a positive test result for unit
increase in exposure by logistic
regression. We used matched-pairs
logistic regression to assess the
significance of the difference in the
associations between the tests, taking
account of the correlation between
TST and ELISPOT test results.
Similar analyses were undertaken to
investigate whether ELISPOT and
TST test results were associated with
BCG vaccination, place of birth, and household
tuberculosis contact. All reported p values are two sided.
We investigated trends with use of the 2 statistic.
Comparisons between proportions were derived with
Fisher’s exact test. We did all analyses with STATA
(version 7.0).
Role of the funding source
The sponsors of the study had no role in the study
design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation,
writing of the report, or in the decision to submit the
paper for publication.

Results
ELISPOT and TST results were available for 535
students—44·3% of the school. Our sample was
representative in terms of the proportion of non-white
children (97% in our sample vs 93% in the whole
school); UK-born children (86 vs 86%); children
diagnosed with active tuberculosis (5 vs 6%); and
participants deemed to have latent tuberculosis infection
on the basis of TST result (24 vs 23%, table 1).
The odds of a test result being positive for each
increase across the four stratified exposure groups
increased by a factor of 2·78 (95% CI 2·22–3·48,
p<0·0001) for the ELISPOT assay and 2·33 (1·88–2·88,
p<0·0001) for the TST. The ELISPOT assay correlated
significantly better with increasing exposure across the
four groups than did the TST (p=0·03; figure 1, table 2).
Direct exposure of the 148 children in year 9 ranged
from 0 to 17 school weeks: 57 students had some direct
classroom exposure, with a median of 2·2 school weeks
(IQR 1·4–13·4). The odds of a positive ELISPOT result
increased by a factor of 2·51 (1·58–3·99, p<0·0001) with
each week of direct exposure, which was significantly
higher (p=0·007) than that for the TST (odds ratio 1·30
[95% CI 1·10–1·54], p=0·002; table 2).
Of the 387 children in years 7, 8, and 10, 196 pupils
had indirect exposure, up to a maximum of 1·16 weeks.
Although ELISPOT and TST were more likely to be
positive with increasing exposure, neither showed a
significant correlation (table 2).
ELISPOT assay and TST were positively correlated
with a history of household tuberculosis contact (n=36,
table 2). 76 children were born in countries with a high
prevalence of tuberculosis and climates associated with
increased exposure to environmental mycobacteria (table
1). The mean duration of residence in these countries
was 7·8 years. TST results, but not ELISPOT results,
were significantly associated with birth in one of these
regions (table 2).
For 362 students, the date of BCG vaccination was
documented in the Leicestershire Health Authority
records, of whom 323 were vaccinated at birth. An
additional 105 students had BCG scars but the date of
vaccination was not available because they were born
outside Leicester; 101 were born in countries where BCG
vaccination is given at birth. Therefore 424 (91%) of 467
BCG-vaccinated students were vaccinated at birth. The
ELISPOT assay showed no significant relation with BCG
vaccination status (p=0·44, table 3). By contrast, BCGvaccinated children were significantly more likely to have
higher Heaf grades than unvaccinated children
(p=0·002), with substantially more Heaf grade 3 (81 of
467 vs 2 of 68, p=0·001), and grade 2 results in BCGvaccinated individuals (table 3).
Of the 128 participants presumed to have latent
tuberculosis infection on the basis of a positive TST
with no evidence of active tuberculosis, 97 (76%)
tested positive with ELISPOT. This ELISPOT-positive
subgroup had significantly higher Heaf grades and
significantly more exposure to M tuberculosis than did the
ELISPOT-negative students. Heaf grades were
significantly higher among ELISPOT-positive students
than among ELISPOT-negative students (p<0·0001,
figure 2). In the ELISPOT-positive group there were
significantly more students with direct exposure to the
index case than in the ELISPOT-negative group (35 of
97 vs one of 31, p<0·0001; figure 2).
Agreement between TST and ELISPOT was high
(=0·72 [95% CI 0·64–0·80], p<0·0001), with
concordant results in 475 (89%) students (table 4). For
students in whom test results were discordant, it is
impossible to know for certain which test was correct
because there is no reference test. However, table 4
shows that an isolated positive ELISPOT result (ie, one
associated with a negative TST) was a strong predictor of
M tuberculosis exposure, whereas an isolated positive TST
result was not. This finding suggests that isolated positive
ELISPOT results are more likely to be true positives than
are isolated positive TST results. For students with
positive TST and ELISPOT results, the relative risk of
direct exposure to the index case, compared with that for
students with negative TST and ELISPOT, was 17·6
(95% CI 8·1–38·0, p<0·001); for those with negative
TST and positive ELISPOT results it was 11·7
(4·2–33·2, p<0·001); and for those with postive TST and
negative ELISPOT results, it was 2·97 (0·6–13·7,
p=0·18).
Molecular strain typing by variable-number tandem
repeat, mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit, and
spoligotyping showed that all nine secondary isolates of
M tuberculosis from students at the school were identical
to that of the index case. IS6110-based restriction
fragment length polymorphism (figure 3) showed that
seven of the nine secondary isolates were identical to that
of the index case, whereas two were very similiar,
differing by one and three bands each.

Discussion
In the absence of a gold standard test for latent
tuberculosis infection, the sensitivity and specificity of the
ELISPOT assay or the TST cannot be directly
quantified.4 However, given that the likelihood of latent
tuberculosis infection is determined by exposure to
M tuberculosis,
19–23 we were able to rank the tests according
to their diagnostic accuracy. Agreement between TST and
ELISPOT results was high, but discordance in 11% of
students shows that the tests are not equivalent. Our
results indicate that ELISPOT probably has higher
sensitivity and specificity than TST. First, the significantly
closer correlation of ELISPOT than TST with degree of
exposure to M tuberculsosis suggests a higher sensitivity for
detection of latent infection. Second, TST, but not
ELISPOT, was confounded by BCG vaccination, despite
11–15 years having elapsed since vaccination, which
suggests a higher specificity for the ELISPOT assay.
TST and ELISPOT were more likely to be positive in
students who had a history of household tuberculosis
contact, a marker of M tuberculosis exposure outside
school, than in students without such a history. By
contrast, for the students born in high-prevalence
countries, mainly Africa and Asia (a risk factor for
environmental myobacterial exposure3,4 and M tuberculosis
exposure) only the TST was significantly more likely to be
positive. Given that the ELISPOT assay correlates
strongly with all other measures of M tuberculosis
exposure, its independence from foreign birth suggests
that, unlike TST, it is not confounded by environmental
myobacterial exposure.
The high specificity of ELISPOT might explain the
strong relation between positive ELISPOT results and
TST induration size in individuals who have positive TST
results. The size of the TST response is positively
associated with higher tuberculosis case rates during
follow-up; thus, the ELISPOT assay may have identified
the subgroup of TST-positive individuals who actually
have latent tuberculosis infection. These individuals are
distinct from those whose weakly positive TST responses
represent false-positive results due to antigenic cross
reactivity of purified protein derivative. Moreover, the
ELISPOT-positive group had substantially more exposure
to M tuberculosis than did the ELISPOT-negative group.
This improved specificity of the ELISPOT could help to
avoid unnecessary chemoprophylaxis in uninfected
individuals; this ability to screen out false-positive TST
results will become increasingly important as the
prevalence of latent infection falls in low-prevalence
countries.1 The cross-reactivity of purified protein
derivative may explain why a new whole-blood interferongamma ELISA based on purified protein derivative
seemed to be confounded by BCG.28,29
There is compelling evidence that the outbreak we
studied was due to one index case, who was the first
symptomatic case of pulmonary tuberculosis in the
school.30 The molecular epidemiology also suggests that
this was a point-source outbreak. Only two other children
were potentially infectious.30 Both children were
symptomatic for less than 2 weeks before admission to
hospital and both were in year 11, which did not
participate in the study. Moreover, their M tuberculosis
isolates were identical to that of the index case by all four
typing methods.
The high rates of tuberculosis infection and disease at
the school are unlikely to merely reflect the epidemiology
of tuberculosis in the local community. First, this outbreak
accounted for a third of all tuberculosis cases in Leicester
in 2001. Second, all 1226 household contacts of the
69 tuberculosis cases and 254 cases of latent tuberculosis
infection were screened by the health authority and no
cases of infectious pulmonary tuberculosis were identified.
Third, four other Leicester schools were screened by TST,
and the rates of positive skin tests were 1–4%. Fourth,
when year 8 students at this school underwent Heaf testing
in 1997–98 only 2·7% were positive.
The minimum exposure to an infectious person that is
required for M tuberculosis transmission is unknown, but
must be low, since many well-documented cases of
infection result from brief exposure31 and many students
who did not share lessons with the source case must have
acquired infection in this way. The amount of exposure
required before transmission of M tuberculosis becomes
inevitable is also unknown. Since all students with 5 or
more school-weeks of exposure had positive results on the
ELISPOT assay, however, our findings suggest that 130 h
sharing room air with a person with sputum smearpositive cavitatory tuberculosis is certain to result in
infection.
Longitudinal assessment of the positive predictive
value of this assay for subsequent development of active
tuberculosis will be necessary. In one report workers
suggest that T-cell responses to ESAT-6 in healthy
contacts are associated with subsequent active disease.32
Students in our study who had positive ELISPOT but
negative TST results, who have not had chemoprophylaxis,
are receiving close clinical and radiographic follow-up.
We used the Heaf test, because it is used for tuberculin
testing in contact investigations in the UK, and is
stipulated in national guidelines.24 Since the Mantoux
method is more widely used internationally, ELISPOT
should be compared in the future with this method; we
have recently started such studies in several countries.
ELISPOT gives quantitative results the morning after
taking a blood sample and is more convenient, objective,
and rapid than the TST. Although TST is cheap, related
indirect costs are associated with return visits and the
trained staff required to administer and read the test.
Introduction of ELISPOT might initially increase the cost
of tuberculosis control, but the savings that would follow
from improved diagnosis of latent tuberculosis infection
could make it very cost effective in the long term. Better
detection of latent infection would lessen the number of
cases of active tuberculosis and, therefore, the attendant
cost of diagnosis, hospital admission and contact tracing.
Fewer false-positive results in uninfected contacts
would avoid the costs associated with unnecessary
chemoprophylaxis and its associated toxic effects.