Prospective Evaluation of Criteria for Microbiological Diagnosis
of Prosthetic-Joint Infection at Revision Arthroplasty

A prospective study was performed to establish criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of prosthetic joint
infection at elective revision arthroplasty. Patients were treated in a multidisciplinary unit dedicated to the
management and study of musculoskeletal infection. Standard multiple samples of periprosthetic tissue were
obtained at surgery, Gram stained, and cultured by direct and enrichment methods. With reference to histology
as the criterion standard, sensitivities, specificities, and likelihood ratios (LRs) were calculated by using different cutoffs for the diagnosis of infection. We performed revisions on 334 patients over a 17-month period, of whom
297 were evaluable. The remaining 37 were excluded because histology results were unavailable or could not
be interpreted due to underlying inflammatory joint disease. There were 41 infections, with only 65% of all samples sent from infected patients being culture positive, suggesting low numbers of bacteria in the samples taken. The isolation of an indistinguishable microorganism from three or more independent specimens was highly
predictive of infection (sensitivity, 65%; specificity, 99.6%; LR, 168.6), while Gram staining was less useful (sensitivity, 12%; specificity, 98%; LR, 10). A simple mathematical model was developed to predict the performance
of the diagnostic test. We recommend that five or six specimens be sent, that the cutoff for a definite diagnosis
of infection be three or more operative specimens that yield an indistinguishable organism, and that because of its
low level of sensitivity, Gram staining should be abandoned as a diagnostic tool at elective revision arthroplasty.

The bacteriological diagnosis of infection generally depends
upon the isolation of a recognized pathogen from a clinical
specimen, the nature and quality of which affect the validity
and utility of the culture results. Specimens taken from sites
with colonizing flora, such as the throat or surgical wounds, are
of less diagnostic value than those obtained from normally
sterile sites such as joint spaces, the pleural cavity, the cerebrospinal fluid, the blood, or deep tissue. However these “sterile-site” specimens can be obtained only by puncturing the
skin, a tissue which is heavily colonized with microorganisms.
Samples must then be transported to the diagnostic laboratory
for processing and culture.
The pathogens responsible for primary deep-space infections are usually distinct from normal commensal organisms on
the skin, but it is precisely these commensal organisms on the
skin that most commonly infect implantable biomedical devices (34). In this situation it is usually impossible to decide,
simply from the identity of the organism, whether it is clinically
significant or a contaminant derived from the skin of the patient, the medical staff obtaining the sample, or the laboratory
staff processing it.
These issues are of paramount importance in prosthetic joint
infection (PJI). The development of prosthetic joints has been
one of the biomedical success stories of the century, with major
health-economic and quality-of-life benefits. As a consequence,
the number of joint replacements performed has increased
each year, with approximately 200,000 primary hip and knee
replacements performed in the United States and 75,000 performed in the United Kingdom in 1995. Despite improvements
in operative techniques, a proportion of prostheses fail, and
infection is one of the most serious causes of this.
PJIs have been classified as “early” and “late,” although to
these categories have been added the classifications of “acute
hematogenous” and “positive intraoperative cultures,” the latter indicating a group with positive cultures without prior suspicion of infections (36). Early infections present acutely with
overt wound infection; late infections present with worsening
pain in the joint accompanied by loosening of the prosthesis at
the bone-cement interface and sometimes by sinus tract formation with chronic discharge. It is usually necessary to remove the prosthesis and administer antibiotics, either locally
or systemically, to eradicate the infection; this is commonly
followed by reimplantation of another prosthesis to restore
function. There is controversy over the best surgical strategy,
with some advocating a one-stage exchange and others recommending a two-stage procedure (for reviews, see references 12
and 34). Other important questions concern the necessary duration and route of administration of antibiotics in the management of acute and chronic infections. Answers to such
questions will require multicenter studies, an essential prerequisite for which is an accurate and robust means of diagnosing
infection.
This is of particular importance because infection is not the
only cause of prosthetic loosening, and it may be difficult to
distinguish septic from aseptic loosening either pre- or peroperatively. The preoperative diagnosis of PJI relies on a combination of clinical history, examination, and investigations
including erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein
analysis, plain radiography, isotope scans, and the microscopy
and culture of joint aspirates. Despite numerous studies, none
of these diagnostic methods has achieved satisfactory specificity or sensitivity in common practice (11, 12, 14, 24). This may
in part be because of a lack of standardization in the criterion
standard(s) used to diagnose infection when tests are evaluated in studies or in day-to-day practice. The presence of a
sinus tract or of intra-articular pus at operation with organisms
visible on Gram staining are specific criteria for defining PJI
but are very insensitive (2). Microbiological criteria and culture
methods are nonstandardized; histological appearances may
be helpful, with a number of studies reporting that the presence of acute inflammation (more than five neutrophils per
high-power field) in periprosthetic soft-tissue specimens is specific for infection, provided that the patient does not have
inflammatory joint disease (2, 10, 22, 24).
In 1995 we established a multidisciplinary team and a dedicated unit for the management and study of musculoskeletal
infection. With the long-term aim of improving the preoperative diagnosis of PJI and of participating in multicenter clinical
trials, we have attempted to define reliable criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of infection at revision arthroplasty. We
have performed a prospective study to assess the significance
of positive cultures and the effect of sample number on our
ability to diagnose PJI.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Patient recruitment. The study was performed at the Nuffield Orthopaedic
Centre, Oxford, United Kingdom, which is a secondary referral hospital for
elective orthopedics in southern Oxfordshire and a tertiary referral center for
complex procedures including hip and knee revision surgery. All revisions performed between October 1994 and February 1996 (17 months) were studied
prospectively. Any patient who had removal of one or both components of the
prosthesis was included. To evaluate microbiological results, we used the presence of acute inflammatory cells in histological specimens as the criterion standard (2, 10, 22, 24). Patients were excluded if their histology results could not be
interpreted due to underlying rheumatoid arthritis or other inflammatory joint
disease.
Tissue sampling. Antibiotics were stopped (if they were previously taken) at
least 2 weeks preoperatively, and samples were taken before prophylactic antibiotics were given. The participating surgical teams were requested to send a
standard set of samples for culture and histology at the time of prosthesis
removal. For prosthetic hips these were (i) a swab of joint fluid obtained upon
entering the capsule, (ii) capsular tissue, (iii) acetabular membrane, (iv) femoral
membrane, or (v) other tissue (e.g., granulation tissue) if the tissue was abnormal. For prosthetic knees these were (i) a swab of joint fluid obtained upon
entering the capsule, (ii) capsular tissue, (iii) femoral membrane, (iv) tibial
membrane, or (v) other abnormal material. If only one component was revised,
multiple samples of relevant periprosthetic tissue were requested. Each sample
was taken with a different set of instruments, including a fresh scalpel blade
where necessary, to reduce the risk of cross contamination, and each specimen
was placed into a separate sterile universal bottle prior to transport to the
diagnostic laboratory.
Microbiological specimens. Specimens were processed at the Oxford Public
Health Laboratory in a class 2 laminar-flow safety cabinet by aseptic technique.
Samples were disrupted by vigorous manual agitation with sterile glass beads in
sterile diluent. Aliquots of the resulting tissue suspension were inoculated onto
chocolate agar plates (incubated in CO2) and blood agar plates (incubated in
CO2 and anaerobically). Gram staining was performed with a portion of the
sample, and the remainder of the sample was inoculated into Robertson’s cooked
meat broth. The plates were examined daily for 7 days; broths were subcultured
terminally at 5 days or sooner if they were turbid. Organisms were identified by
standard methods and antibiotic sensitivities were determined by the method of
Stokes et al. (35), which is a comparative disc diffusion method (5, 35). The zone
of inhibition of the test organism around an antibiotic disc is compared to the
zone of inhibition of a standard, antibiotic-sensitive control strain. If the zone
size of the test strain is no less than 3 mm smaller than that of the control strain,
it is recorded as susceptible. This method differs from the standard disc diffusion
methods of the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards, which
depend on zone size measurements that are interpreted against species- and
antibiotic-specific zone sizes. However, there is no major difference in the performance of the method of the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory
Standards and the methods of Stokes et al. (4, 35). Organisms of the same species
were deemed indistinguishable if they had the same colonial morphology, the
same basic biochemical features as determined by the biochemical profiles generated from appropriate API kits (bioMerieux Vitek Inc., Hazelwood, Mo.), and
an identical extended antibiogram (13 antibiotics were tested). For subsequent
analysis of each patient, the number of samples yielding an indistinguishable
organism was recorded, together with the total number of samples sent for that
patient.
Specimens for histological examination. Multiple specimens were also taken
at surgery for histological examination and were fixed in a 10% solution of 40%
formaldehyde. They were routinely processed at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre Pathology Laboratory, and tissue was embedded in paraffin. Five-micrometer
sections were cut and stained with hematoxylin-eosin. Tissue sections were examined by a single, experienced, osteoarticular histopathologist (N.A.), who was
unaware of the microbiological findings. On the basis of the histological changes
in these samples, an opinion was given on whether the histological appearances
were considered to be those associated with infection. This decision was made on
the basis of the degree of infiltration by neutrophil polymorphonuclear leukocytes as outlined in previous studies (10, 24, 25), which have shown that the
presence of at least five neutrophils per high-power field is very strongly correlated with significant bacteriological growth.
Statistical methods. Sensitivities, specificities, and likelihood ratios (LRs)
were used to summarize the performance of the alternative diagnostic criteria.
The clinical implications of the test results were investigated by a process of
Bayesian probability revision (32), with the LRs being used to estimate posttest
probabilities of disease over a range of pretest probabilities (19). An LR expresses the ratio of the chance that a given diagnostic test result would be
observed for a patient with the target disorder to the chance that it would be
observed for a patient without the target disorder (19). It can be calculated from
sensitivities and specificities by the relationship LR 5 sensitivity/(1 2 specificity),
and it can be used to calculate the posttest odds of a positive result by the
relationship posttest odds 5 LR 3 (pretest odds). The posttest odds can then be
converted back into a posttest probability by the relationship probability 5 odds
/(1 1 odds).
Mathematical modeling. For the purposes of the model, culture-positive samples obtained from patients for whom the histology suggested the presence of
infection were considered to be true positives. Culture-positive samples obtained
from patients for whom the histology suggested aseptic loosening infection were
considered to be false positives.
A subject-specific true-positive rate was calculated by averaging the proportion
of culture positive samples from patients with positive histology. Similarly, a
subject-specific false-positive rate was calculated by averaging the proportion of
culture-positive samples from patients with negative histology. This approach
was taken to ensure that the estimates were not biased toward the results for
patients from whom high numbers of specimens were available, who may represent a more severely diseased group.
A standard binomial expansion was used to compute the probabilities of all
possible test results for between one and seven samples, based on the estimates
of rates of true-positive and false-positive results. LRs were calculated for each
combination of test results and sample size, and Bayesian probability revision
was used to investigate their implications for clinical decision making. In addition, receiver operator characteristic curves were plotted for each of the three
possible cutoffs of one, two, or three culture-positive specimens by using sensitivities and specificities predicted on the basis of varying sample numbers.
RESULTS
Patient details. There were 334 hip and knee revisions performed in the 17-month period. Histology results were not
received for 25 patients, and for a further 12 patients histology
results could not be interpreted for the purposes of this study
due to active rheumatoid arthritis or other inflammatory joint
disease, leaving 297 patients available for analysis. The patients
ages ranged from 29 to 95 years (mean age, 70 years). There
were 178 females and 119 males. There were 253 hip and 44
knee revisions. Forty-one patients (13.8%) had an infected
prosthesis on the basis of histological findings.
Three or more culture-positive samples are strongly predictive of infection. A range of organisms was isolated (Table 1).
We used the numbers of culture-positive and culture-negative
specimens obtained from patients with positive and negative
histology results to calculate the corresponding sensitivities,
specificities, and LRs. The proportion of infected patients over
all (14%) was used as the pretest probability from which a
posttest probability of infection could be calculated.
A single culture-positive specimen was found to be of no
diagnostic value (LR 5 0.7; posttest probability of infection,
10.6%). If the cutoff for a diagnosis of infection is set at one or
more culture-positive specimens, the LR is 4.3 (sensitivity,
83%; specificity, 81%; posttest probability of infection, 40.7%).
Increasing the cutoff to two or more specimens growing the
same organism raises the LR to 25.9, which is highly predictive
of infection (sensitivity, 71%; specificity, 97%; posttest probability of infection, 80.6%). However, these favorable results are
due largely to the impact of patients with three or more culture-positive specimens. When the limited number of patients
with exactly two positive specimens was analyzed (n 5 8), the
LR was found to be low (2.1; posttest probability of infection,
25.2%). By contrast, with a cutoff of three or more specimens
growing the same organism, the test becomes extremely powerful; LR 5 169; sensitivity, 66%; specificity, 99.6%; posttest
probability of infection, 96.4%).
The number of samples sent by surgeons is weakly predictive of infection. Operations were performed by 12 orthopedic
surgical teams, one of which performed 133 operations (45%
of the total). The remaining teams performed a mean of 15
operations each. Surgeons were requested to provide four or
five independent specimens, as described in the Materials and
Methods section. In total, 1,206 specimens were obtained from
the 297 patients, with a mean number of 4.06 specimens per
patient. There was variation within and between surgical teams
in the consistency of sampling technique. We were concerned
that these inconsistencies might reflect bias on the part of the
surgeon, with fewer samples being sent from joints believed
not to be infected. This could affect the validity of the study,
because low sample numbers might reduce the chance of diagnosing infection by either histology or culture, while high
sample numbers might increase this chance.
To assess this, we stratified the patients into three bands;
those from whom only one or two samples were received, those
from whom between three and six samples were received, and
those from whom seven or eight samples were received. We
calculated LRs for the presence of a positive histology result
on the basis of the number of samples obtained. The results,
shown in Table 2, indicate a small but definite systematic trend
favoring a final diagnosis of infection if multiple samples had
been sent.
Sampling bias has only minor effects on the overall performance of the test. Because we were concerned about the potential importance of the findings presented above, we analyzed
the diagnostic value of different numbers of positive samples in
two subgroups (Table 3). Group B is the subgroup (n 5 213)
comprising only those patients from whom three, four, five, or
six specimens were taken. Group C is an alternative subgroup
(n 5 239) which excludes all patients operated on by surgeons
with erratic sampling behavior on the basis of an interquartile
range for the number of specimens sent of greater than 2.
Group C thus contains only patients operated on by surgeons
who sent between three and five specimens at least 50% of
the time. Group A is the whole group (n 5 297), as discussed
above, and is included as a comparator. The three groups have
very similar LRs (and hence posttest probabilities of infection),
suggesting that the samples are drawn from a relatively homogeneous group, irrespective of sampling behavior.
Lack of utility of Gram staining in diagnosing infection. For
many samples, positive cultures were obtained only from the
enrichment broths, suggesting that the number of organisms
present in the sample was low. This impression was confirmed
by the very poor sensitivity of Gram staining, the diagnostic
impact of which we evaluated. Its sensitivity, measured against
a positive culture result for the same sample, was 6%, with a
specificity of 99.7% (LR 5 20). Measured against a positive
histology result for a patient, Gram staining of a single sample
has a sensitivity of 12% and a specificity of 98.8% (LR 5 10).
Thus, although a positive Gram staining result does predict
infection, the sensitivity is so poor that multiple samples from
a large number of infected patients must be examined for each
positive result. Furthermore, management was not altered by
the Gram staining result, since patients were treated empirically, once samples were obtained, if the clinical history or
examination of frozen sections of specimens obtained during
surgery were suggestive of infection.
Age distributions of prostheses with positive culture or histology results. Infection is known to be associated with early
failure of a prosthesis, and hence, the majority of patients with
positive microbiology results should have had revisions within
a few years of implantation. By contrast, the probability of
contamination should be constant, so that patients with falsepositive microbiology results should constitute a roughly constant proportion of the total number of revisions performed,
irrespective of the age of the prosthesis. The date that the
prosthesis was inserted was available for 281 patients (95% of
patients), and we plotted the number of patients against the
age of the prosthesis for histology-positive and -negative patients and separately for patients with none, one or two, and
three or more specimens that were culture positive (Fig. 1).
The similarities between the curve for patients with histologypositive specimens and that for patients with three or more
culture-positive specimens is to be expected, but it is also
apparent that the curve for patients with one or two culturepositive specimens is as predicted if the majority of these are
positive because of contamination.
Mathematical modeling of the number of samples that
should be taken. Even though our study was based on data for
nearly 300 patients, the estimates of test performance for different diagnostic strategies could not be investigated reliably
due to insufficient data. The simple mathematical model offered an alternative approach to scrutinizing the predictive
behavior of alternative diagnostic rules.
The results, shown in Table 4 and Fig. 2, demonstrate that
the model predicts an excellent combination of sensitivity and
specificity if five or six samples are taken and a cutoff of two or
more culture-positive samples is used to diagnose infection.
Use of a cutoff of three or more positive samples gave extremely high specificity, but in order to achieve a satisfactory
sensitivity, the number of specimens that the laboratory would
need to process would be impractical. Conversely, by using a
cutoff of one culture-positive sample, for a given number of
samples the test was always more sensitive but lacked specificity.
DISCUSSION
We have prospectively evaluated the criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of infection at elective revision arthroplasty. We have demonstrated that the isolation of indistinguishable microorganisms from three or more independent
operative specimens is highly predictive of the presence of
acute inflammatory cells in specimens examined histologically,
our definition of infection. We have further used simple mathematical modeling to demonstrate that the culture of five or six
specimens obtained during surgery is necessary to produce a
diagnostic test that is both sensitive and specific. This appears
to be because this condition is associated with an extremely low
burden of microorganisms, as indicated by the lack of utility of
Gram staining, the need for the use of enrichment broths to
obtain positive cultures for many samples, and the frequent
occurrence of culture-negative samples from infected patients.
The key assumption underlying our approach is that histology is a reliable means of diagnosing infection. We believe this
is correct, based on a combination of previously published data
from studies with animals and clinical studies. In a canine
model of prosthetic hip joint infection, there was a strong
correlation between infection and an acute inflammatory response (26, 27). This correlation was less strong if only limited
portions of randomly selected specimens of tissue were sent,
suggesting that infection and the inflammatory response were
multifocal. A similar relationship between the presence of
acute inflammatory cells and infection has also been found in
a number of studies with human tissue obtained during surgery
(6, 9, 22–25, 28, 29). Our decision to use histology is also based
on the known unreliability of clinical features in predicting
infection (3). Although some cases of prosthetic joint infection
are clinically obvious, many patients who come for elective
revision arthroplasty do not have a history of acute infection,
and for many patients the clinical presentation is indistinguishable from early aseptic loosening (16, 36). For these reasons we
believe that the presence of acute inflammatory cells in histologically examined specimens is a good criterion standard for
the diagnosis of infection at elective revision arthroplasty, provided that individuals with known inflammatory joint disease
are excluded and sufficient numbers of samples are examined
by an experienced pathologist. Previous studies have used various criteria for the microbiological diagnosis of infection,
ranging from the isolation of organisms from one direct culture
or two or more broth enrichment cultures (2, 8, 12, 21, 34) to
requiring four of five, five of six, or even five of five specimens
(20) to yield the same organism. Although several investigators
have mentioned the need to culture multiple samples in order
to increase sensitivity and to overcome the problem of contamination (1, 3, 8, 16, 20, 21, 25, 30, 31, 34, 36), a standardized
method has been neither defined nor validated. Our prospective study indicates that the isolation of an organism from at
least three of several independent specimens is diagnostic of
infection.
For practical purposes we called two organisms indistinguishable on the basis of simple laboratory tests and the extended antibiotic sensitivity pattern. Care is needed with this
approach, because the antibiotic sensitivity pattern is not an
infallible way of distinguishing strains, particularly among the
coagulase-negative staphylococci, the dominant group of both
pathogens and contaminants in this series. Molecular methods
have shown that the same antibiogram may be shared by two
different strains, and conversely, organisms expressing different
antibiograms may appear to be indistinguishable by genotyping. Furthermore, multiple strains can be present in the same
infected joint prosthesis (7, 17, 21, 25). Nonetheless, our results do show that in a routine laboratory, simple methods of
identification appear to be adequate in most cases.
We found that a substantial proportion of samples (35%)
obtained from patients who were infected on the basis of
histological criteria failed to yield organisms, despite an extended culture regimen that included an enrichment broth
suitable for the recovery of many fastidious organisms. Even
for those patients for whom three or more specimens were
culture positive, it was usual to have at least one other specimen with no growth. These data reinforce the multifocal and
low-grade nature of this infection, which means that sampling
error becomes an important reason for false-negative results.
Furthermore, the possibility of sampling bias needs to be considered.
On examining our data, we found definite evidence of sampling bias, with an increasing proportion of infected patients as
more samples were sent. To examine the impact of this on our
results, we compared the whole data set with two subsets of
cases; one in which the “ideal” number of specimens (n 5 3 to
6) was sent and one that included only samples from surgeons
with consistent sampling behavior. Results for all groups were
very similar, suggesting that the samples were all drawn from
essentially homogeneous groups of infected and uninfected
patients. The removal of data for patients for whom there were
too few or too many samples still leaves data for more than
70% of the patients, and the performance of the test is unchanged.
Our impression that this is a condition associated with very
low numbers of bacteria is strengthened by the poor performance of Gram staining. Although the rapidity of Gram staining makes it potentially useful as a peroperative test, in our
center considerable additional resources would have to be expended to make this possible. It is labor-intensive and has an
inherently low level of sensitivity, and on the basis of the results
of this study, we recommend that it be abandoned for specimens from elective revision arthroplasties.
The apparently low numbers of organisms and the problem
of sampling error mean that a number of culture-negative
specimens is probably inevitable. Our modeling suggests that
even for an infected patient, when four samples are taken there
is still a 3.0% chance that all specimens will be culture negative
and a 16% chance that only a single specimen will be culture
positive (Table 3). If five specimens are taken, these values fall
to 1.0 and 8.0%, respectively. Use of the binomial expansion
assumes that all samples are truly independent. When the
calculated (expected) probabilities were converted into expected absolute numbers, there was very close agreement with
the observed values for the samples from the histology-negative patients (chi-squared 5 1.56; degrees of freedom 5 3; P 5
0.66). An exception was that the observed number of patients
whose specimens were all culture negative, despite positive
histology, was greater than expected (chi-squared
5 17.9; degrees of freedom 5 4; P 5 0.001). This may be due to unrecognized inflammatory joint conditions, accidental preoperative
antibiotic use, or infection with organisms that cannot be cultured by the methods used. Our technique would fail to isolate
Mycoplasma spp., L-form bacteria, and Campylobacter spp., to
name a few, all of which have been described as pathogens in
prosthetic joint infection (15, 33, 37). Design of a culture
protocol able to accommodate a very wide range of fastidious
organisms would be impractical for routine diagnostic laboratories.
These considerations may well explain the discrepancy between the conclusions from our modeling (five or six specimens
sent; an infection is diagnosed if two or more specimens are
culture positive) and the actual data themselves (infection was
unequivocally diagnosed if three or more specimens were culture positive). If specimens from a proportion of patients have
nonculturable organisms, the overall performance of the diagnostic rules is reduced by the effect of specimens that can never
yield diagnostic information, however many specimens are
sent. We are testing this hypothesis in a further prospective
study.
Definitions of infection have been offered by using scoring
systems that take into account clinical, histological, and microbiological features (13, 18). Such systems have not been validated. We have instead used an approach based on the calculation of LRs, which allows us to take into account clinical
epidemiological considerations in interpreting the culture results. We diagnosed infection in 30% of prostheses revised
within the first 4 years after implantation but in only 5% of
prostheses revised between 4 and 8 years postimplantation.
The likelihood ratio can be applied to these different pretest
probabilities of infection (Table 5). This is particularly useful
because it demonstrates that when the prior probability of
infection is high (as in early failure), the isolation of bacteria
from only two specimens, while inconclusive, nonetheless
makes the diagnosis of infection more likely. Clinical information is also amenable to this approach, so the pre- and peroperative probabilities of infection could be modified further on
the basis of symptoms, macroscopic appearances, and blood
tests. We are undertaking further studies to test this hypothesis.
It is possible that our diagnostic rules could be modified to
take account of organisms that are not part of the normal skin
flora and that have a known pathogenic potential. Such cases
of infection might prove to be easier to diagnose on the basis
of the need to use a smaller number of samples. Unfortunately,
the numbers of individual species of organism isolated were
too small to calculate organism-specific LRs. In any event,
because the identity of the organism is rarely known in advance, it is unlikely that the number of samples taken during
surgery can be modified on a patient-by-patient basis without
affecting the performance of the diagnostic test.
We conclude that the isolation of indistinguishable microorganisms from three or more independent specimens, to be
taken as part of a standard set of five or six specimens, is an
accurate and practical microbiological definition of infection
at revision arthroplasty. We stress that the use of meticulous
sampling technique for the prevention of the cross contamination of samples is central to this approach and that these observations do not apply to acute infections of prostheses, in
which the bacterial load is higher and for which the diagnostic
issues are more straightforward. Culture techniques must make
use of enrichment media because of a very low burden of
microorganisms in most samples, and Gram staining should be
abandoned for specimens from elective revisions. In centers
where histology is unavailable (and perhaps when histology
cannot be used), our microbiological criteria can be used alongside clinical data to make the diagnosis of infection more
reliable. We have used these findings to modify our practice.
Patients with definite infections by these criteria are treated by
a two-stage revision protocol that includes appropriate antibiotics for 6 weeks before a new prosthesis is reinserted. Patients
with fewer than two microbiologically positive samples and
negative histology have early reinsertion of a prosthesis and
receive only prophylactic antibiotics.
Although our findings are specific to infected prosthetic hips
and knees, we speculate that they may also hold true for other
low-grade chronic infections wherever pathogens and commensal organisms overlap. This includes infections of other
prosthetic joints and implantable devices, fracture fixations
and nonunions, and other forms of chronic osteomyelitis including vertebral and contiguous osteomyelitis. Finally, our
observations highlight the importance of considering sampling
error and bias whenever the result of a diagnostic test is a
qualitative one that depends on the analysis of multiple samples. This is the case for some other microbiological tests (such
as blood cultures) and for the histological diagnosis of multifocal inflammation or neoplasia, particularly lymph node metastasis in patients with cancer and gastric, colonic, or cervical
metaplasia.