The authors propose CLEAR, a simple approach to continual reinforcement learning: storing old trajectories. They use a state-of-the-art algorithm for control, IMPALA (which comes with its own off-policy-ness correction method: V-trace), to combine learning from current experiences with off-policy learning from old trajectories stored in memory. The authors add two extra costs for behavioral cloning: a KL divergence between stored and online policies, and the squared distance between stored and current state values that also help alleviate catastrophic forgetting. The article evaluates the proposed method on two setups demonstrating both stability (no forgetting) and plasticity (no resistance to learning new tasks). CLEAR achieves state-of-the-art performance on a sequence of Atari games.  Since the empirical evaluation would represent the significant contribution of this article, I consider that the experiments presented still leave some unanswered questions regarding how much data is needed, if the choice of algorithm is important (besides having a way of learning off-policy), or if the number of interactions with each task is important. Therefore I suggest a weak reject decision.  The strong aspects of this paper are: the eloquent exposure of the proposed method, and the extensive set of experiments meant to clear aspects regarding task interference vs. forgetting, the ratio of old / new experiences, the memory size, and comparison with other algorithms.  Since the proposed idea is not new, and the conclusions are not surprising in any way, the empirical validation of the different claims is the most important in the article. I think that in some aspects the set of experiments is not entirely satisfactory and the article could benefit from answering some additional questions:  - Most of the experiments are conducted only on a sequence of three cyclically repeating tasks. It might be interesting to see how it works for a larger number of tasks, or for tasks that are not being revisited several times. Also, the agent is trained on the same number of experiences on all tasks. This strategy fills the memory with a convenient distribution of trajectories and makes it easier to claim that CLEAR needs no information on task boundaries. What happens if the agent spends disproportionate amounts of time in the tasks?  - There are several algorithms capable of learning from off-policy data. The current study would be stronger if it evaluates additional algorithms beside IMPALA in this continual learning setup, such as Retrace or Soft Actor-Critic.  - Also, it’s nice that the authors disentangled task interference and forgetting, but the proposed sequence of tasks did not exhibit destructive interference. It would be useful to know what happens when this phenomenon occurs and learning must lean either towards stability or plasticity.  - There are a couple of experiments with memories of different sizes. Not surprisingly, reducing the memory size too much makes the algorithm inefficient in avoiding forgetting old tasks. It would be informative to explore the dependence between the performance on old tasks and the memory size (is it linear, exponential, …?).  - why do authors choose the 75-25 ratio for comparison with EWC and P&C since this was not the best configuration in the experiments in DMlab  Originality The idea of keeping data from previous tasks is not that original, but neither the authors claim that. The effort was put into evaluating the method.  Quality The article proposes a method, details a few aspects that are worth to be explored, designs appropriate experiments and presents the results in an eloquent manner.  Clarity The article is very well written with an easy to follow structure.  Significance Although the idea is simple, such a study would be of great importance for the continual learning community. If it would fully answer the question “when and in what limits of memory is keeping data a sufficient solution for continual learning?” then the article would set an important baseline for more sophisticated methods. But my opinion is that it lacks some quantitative experiments to fully answer the aforementioned question. 