This paper conducts a sensitivity analysis for learning optimal treatment regimes. Unlike traditional analysis in optimal treatment regimes, it allows for unmeasured confounding to a certain degree characterized by a sensitivity parameter \Gamma, in the same way as defined by Rosenbaum 2002. To learn the optimal robust policy, they turn the optimization problem into a linear program, which can be solved efficiently. Overall I feel this is an interesting direction. I have the following comments. 1. Why do you choose to optimize the regret function, instead of the loss function \hat{V}^*(\pi) directly? The latter seems to be more relevant from a patient’s perspective. 2. To follow up on that, although this is counterintuitive, mathematically I think there is no guarantee that the two solutions mentioned in my first point coincide with each other. I think this is a key point of this paper, so it may be worth having a toy example illustrating the difference, and explain why the proposed estimand is better. 3. Suppose that the standard care is all control. Consider the following approach: for each parameter value X_i, given \Gamma, compute the bound for ITE(X_i). If the lower bound is greater than 0, set \pi(X_i) = 1; if the upper bound is smaller than 0, set \pi(X_i) = 0; otherwise let \pi(X_i) = ½. Does this approach always give you the optimal one over an unrestricted policy class?  4. I liked the idea of budgeted uncertainty sets, and it looks like it is more general than the unbudgeted one (i.e. assume constant \Gamma for all). However, it looks like that it is not doing well in the experiments. Can you provide some intuition into why this is the case? 5. Is it always desirable to include the control/baseline policy in the policy class? If so, I would expect the regret function to be always non-positive, which is contrary to what I see in the experiments. 6. In the clinical data application, you have a composite outcome consisting of death and other secondary outcomes, such as stroke. However, it is commonly believed that stroke is undefined for dead people, and comparison for stroke among survived people is subject to selection bias. This problem is sometimes known as truncation-by-death in the literature. I am wondering how did you get around this problem in the application. 7. Do you have any comments on the uncertainty region around the optimal policy? 8. Does the approach work if U is multi-dimensional?  Minor Comments: 1. Figure 1 is numbered as Figure 2 2. Figure 2: Can you make the scale and range of x-axis consistent across three plots? 3. In the application, it was said that findings from the study suggest clear reduction in adverse events from aspirin. I am wondering how this is possible, given that both treatment arms are given aspirin. 4. Page 7 line 291: what is \delta_age 1/3 ?