This paper addresses the interesting problem of creating multi-output kernels which produce GPs that have samples that satisfy some linear operator, like a partial differential equation. Kernel methods (both single and mullti-output) are hampered in particular by the simple inductive biases that kernels can encode. By embedding very strong constraints that fit reality, like physical laws described as a PDE, kernels can make much better predictions. This contribution will be gladly appreciated by the community. This paper's main contribution is a characterisation when a GP that satisfy a set of linear equations exists, and a constructive method for finding kernels that do.  The main drawback of the paper is that it is not written in a particularly accessible way. Theorems are stated with little context. E.g. eq (1) can be informally derived by considering expectations of operators on f at particular input locations. Additionally, the core methodology used in the paper, Gröbner bases, is only cited. There is no discussion of computational complexity, or a basic overview of the steps of the algorithm. The examples in §4 seem correct, but the paper itself does not help much for a reader wanting to apply the method to their own problem. It could also be helpful for a reader to see an explicitly worked out covariance function for a simple problem. E.g. the kernel for example 4.2 could be easily reproduced. Also, the example could be a lot more illustrative if the paper was more explicit about what variables are being conditioned on, and what are being predicted in the GP. The reader is left to do a lot of work.  Overall, the contribution is interesting and significant enough for a NIPS paper.    Addendum in response to the rebuttal We thank the authors for their rebuttal. It is hard to address improvements to the clarity of the paper in the rebuttal, although it is encouraging that the authors acknowledge room for improvement as well. I believe my assessment of the paper after the rebuttal to be in line with my assessment after the rebuttal, and will therefore leave my scores unchanged.  Regarding the choice of presenting Groebner bases as a black box, I have an additional (and personal) suggestion on how to improve clarity. Often the full mathematical machinery is not needed to convey the core modelling assumption which is relevant to the inductive bias of the method. For an 8 page conference paper, I believe that it is often clearer to introduce the constraints of the algorithm for a more specific case (or even a running example), than to try to introduce a general framework that relies on mathematical details. Sacrificing some generality for specificity can convey the goal of the method to more readers in an easier way. A more detailed mathematical treatment can be left to the appendix or a journal paper.