In this paper, authors propose a new framework for tree ensemble representation while transforming each tree into a well-known polynomial form. The proposed repreentation is applied to three tasks namely theoretical analysis, model reduction, and interpretation. Experimentations are conducted ans some comparisons are made.  The proposed idea is quite original by ensuring three tasks namely theorectical analysis, the model reduction and the interpretation.  The contributions are somewhat interesting where authors propose an algorithm for tree ensemble conversion to polynomial form;  a proof of uniqueness of the polynomial form for all shapes of trees, that have the same values is provided. Besides, author develop an algorithm for conversion of polynomial ensemble representation to sum of symmetric oblivious trees. They also deal with ensemble pruning, and also propose a method for global feature attribution. The results are in general sound, a proof of Theorem 1 is provided. Experiments are somewhat convincing but needed to be more detailed and more comparisons should be done. In general, the paper is well-organized with few typos to correct. However Figures 2 and 3 are not very clear and their titles are very long. Examples should be added make the article clearer.  Even the paper presents somewhat interesting ideas, there are some comments that should be addressed : - The introduction needs more depth to better understand the motivation of the paper.  - The paper lacks of examples which will better illustrate the proposed ideas. . - Why the level of dependency grows with the number of conditions in M.  - For section 3 relative to theoretical analysis, experiments remain poor, testing on only one set (Higg dataset) is insufficient to make reliable conclusions. More data sets should be tested.    - In Tabe 1, How to explain that there is no significant improvement In AUC criterion between trained ensembles and pruned ensembles. In fact, you get almost the same AUC for both methods  - In Table 1, evaluating based only on AUC and model reduction is unsufficient other criteria should be added like the computational time, etc. - Authors do not mentionned if the cross validation is applied or not. This latter should be applied. - Why what is tested in Table 1 is only sets of binary classes. What about sets sets with multiple classes. 