The authors' response was in many respects quite comprehensive so I am inclined to slightly revise my score. As I said, I think the results presented in the paper seem interesting and novel, however I still feel that the motivation for signed DPP's is not sufficiently studied. The example of coffee, tea and mugs is nice, but there is just not enough concrete evidence in the current discussion suggesting that the signed DPP would even do the right thing in this simple case (I'm not saying that it wouldn't, just that it was not scientifically established in any way). ------------------  The paper considers a determinantal point process (DPP) where the kernel matrix may be non-symmetric, in which case the probability distribution can model both the repulsion and attraction between elements in the sampled set. The authors first define the generalized DPP and then discuss the challenges that the non-symmetric DPP poses for the task of learning of a kernel matrix from i.i.d samples when using the method of moments from prior work [23]. Then, under various assumptions on the nonsymmetric kernel matrix, a learning algorithm is proposed which runs in polynomial time (the analysis follows the ideas of [23], but addresses the challenges posed by the non-symmetric nature of the kernel).  The authors spend very little time (one sentence, as far as I can tell) motivating why the study of non-symmetric DPP’s is relevant to the NIPS community. I tend to agree that they may be mathematically interesting, but in my opinion that is not sufficient to justify the learning algorithm.  I would have appreciated a more detailed discussion (if not experiments) of when a signed DPP may better model a recommender system, compared to a standard DPP.   Minor comments: - line 51: „In a learning prospective” -> „In the learning perspective” - line 57: „borrowed in [23]” -> „proposed in [23]” ? - line 66: „minor assignemt problem” -> „minor assignment problem” - line 264: „is modeled a random” -> „is modeled as a random” - line 272: „if is satisfies” -> „if it satisfies” - lines 264,266,etc: „Condition (4)” - I think that reference should be „Condition (3)”