Rebuttal response: I appreciate the authors' thoughtful response. I think this is a timely paper that could be fairly impactful, particularly the SGD/LMC result. The strong log-concavity assumption does not bother me very much. Adding a Bayesian matrix factorization experiment to highlight greater ML relevance would be a welcome addition and substantially improve the paper. I've increased my score from 4 to 5. This issues with Section 3.2 prevent me from increasing it to 6.   ---- Summary: The paper focuses on the theoretical properties of stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics (SGLD) and related algorithms in the constant step size regime. The author(s) show that in the large-data limit, constant step size SGLD behaves like stochastic gradient descent while SGLD with control variates (SGLDFD) behaves like the unadjusted Langevin algorithm. The large-data behavior of the means and covariances of the stationary distributions of SGLD, SGLDFD, SGD, and the unadjusted Langevin algorithm are also provided. Some simple numerical experiments with Bayesian logistic regression support the theory.   I think the main contributions in Section 3.1 (described more below) are very illuminating on a number of levels.  - First, it is nice to have non-asymptotic 2-Wasserstein bounds for SGLD and related methods available. To the best of my knowledge, previous work only gave 1-Wasserstein bounds. The fact the fact that SGLD with constant step size behaves like SGD nicely demonstrates its shortcomings.  - Showing that SGLDFD and the unadjusted Langevin algorithm have similar stationary distributions illustrates that SGLDFD is a non-trivial improvement over SGLD.   - Finally, the lower bound on the 2-Wasserstein distance between SGLD and SGLDFP shows that the upper bounds are reasonably tight.   While all of these contributions are worthwhile, the paper is in need of revision to improve clarity. In particular, I was unsure what I was supposed to take away from Section 3.2. Thus, while I think the technical and scientific contributions are of NIPS quality, the presentation needs to be improved.   Major comments:  1. In Section 3.1, it would be useful to add some discussion of what these bounds in Theorem 2 imply about the Wasserstein distance between SGLDFP and the exact posterior. This bound could then be contrasted with what is known about ULA. What choices of parameters would lead to a posterior approximation as good as ULA but at lower computational cost?   2. The Section 3.2 needs substantial revision. It introduces a lot of non-standard notation and reads like a math dump, with little explanation or intuition. What are the roles of L, eta_0, H, and G? How should we interpret Theorems 6 and 7?   Minor comments - Line 27: “Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics” => “stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics” - When a reference is used as a subject or object, use \citet{} instead of \citep{} (e.g. ref 33 on line 92) - It would be useful to clarify before Lemma 1 or after the assumptions are introduced that under H1 and H2, it always holds that m \le L - Line 187+: “On the opposite” => “On the other hand” - Line 195: C used in the previous display but then C* define in the following display - Line 202: italic L already defined as a constant in line 114. Choose a different letter or a more distinct font for the line 202 L - Line 202: the dot notation used to denote the application of the L operator is confusing. Just used standard function notation instead (e.g. “L \cdot A” => “L(A)”)  Line 204: trailing period should be part of the previous display - Line 211: in the displays that follow, “C” => “C*” - Make sure capitalization is correct in bibliography. E.g., “mcmc” should be capitalized in ref. 23 - No need to include URLs in bib entries - arXiv preprints should include the arXiv ID 