The authors set out to explore the idea how much data needs to be observed from the world and how much can be imagined or simulated through ones own forward model in model-based reinforcement learning tasks. Therefore, observational-dropout is introduced, a method that at each time step probabilistically substitutes real world observations with predictions of a learned world model which is optimized to support the learning of key skills on search and avoidance or navigation task during dropout.  Through that mechanism a forward prediction model implicitly arises. Results suggest that observational-dropout improves the generalization of a trained world-model. Interestingly, the dropout rate seems to be crucial for successful training. Keeping too much ground truth observations seems to prevent the world model from learning anything as then the world model is not needed for performing the task. Keeping too little ground truth observations also diminishes performance as then the agent is too strongly disconnected from the world and solely relies on its own predictions to perform the task which over time can strongly deviate from the ground truth. There seems to be a sweet spot for the right amount of dropout at which both the performance of the implicit forward predictor and the task performance peak. These results were shown in a race car environment and a grid world like environment in which an agent is tasked to search for or avoid certain items, which will be made publicly available.  Originality: The idea of dropping observations to implicitly train a world model in a model-based reinforcement learning setup is novel and original.  Quality: Well written, instructive, paper with actionable implications for future research.  Clarity: Overall the paper is clear and well written.   Significance: The results are significant but have been only tested on toy problems. It would be great to see how the presented findings hold up in more complex scenarios.   All in all, I would like to argue for accepting this paper. The paper is very instructive, clearly written and the idea of training a world model implicitly through dropout is novel and original. The results are interesting and applicable to model-based reinforcement learning setups. The major insight and contribution lies in the analysis of how much of the observations are exactly needed or actually should be dropped to train a generalizable forward predicting world model. The submission included code and the test environment will be published. The only caveat of this paper is that the experiments are performed on very simple navigation tasks and more complex control experiments closer to real-world scenarios would have made the results more convincing. Conceptually this is interesting work, however it is hard to tell whether this would apply to scenarios outside of simulation.  EDIT - The authors addressed concerns regarding comparison to prior work and generalizability in the rebuttal, and discuss how in their experiments generalization is task-dependent. Assuming authors execute the changes proposed in the rebuttal and put them in the final draft, I would still argue to accept the paper, but would not be upset if it gets rejected.