This paper studies the NAS problem in the IoT platform scenarios with specific hardware considerations. The idea is to break down the original whole search space into a set of subspaces through sampling, and the final, actual search is conducted in the typically much narrower space as the union of these sampled subspaces. In the IoT platform scenarios, specific hardware considerations are applied in sampling the space. The whole work of the paper is reported through a case study on image classification using CIFAR-10 dataset, and the better ever results are reported.  The only methodological contribution as I see is the idea of breaking down the original space into subspaces and conducting the search in the narrow space as the union of the subspaces. While this could be claimed as a contribution as was done in the paper, I don’t feel comfortable with buying this idea, as I see that this methodology has a lot of open issues. For example, how many sampled subspaces are reasonably sufficient to deliver a good solution? What sort of theoretic assurance of reaching to a good or better solution using this approach, even if we force each sampled subspace to cover a reference model as was done in the paper?  In terms of empirical analysis, the paper only gave one case study on image classification with CIFAR-10 dataset. In real-world IoT applications, the problems we face may way more challenging than image classification in CIFAR-10. Consequently, I am not sure how much societal impact this work could generate.  Finally, I would like to comment on the presentation of the paper. The paper has a lot of grammatical errors and awkward sentences. I encourage the authors to have a serious proof-reading before sending the paper out for review.  The above was my initial review. After I read the authors’ response, I am willing to buy the arguments regarding the significance and novelty of the work. Specifically, regarding the claimed improvements over SOTA, my ranking of the significance goes in the order of 1 (most, though I still have a technical reservation stated above and I am not completely convinced by the authors’ response as I was expecting that the authors would offer an insightful discussion on determining the number of subspaces as well as its relationship with the give prior such as the reference models), 3 (moderate), and 2 (least). As a result, I am raising the overall score to 6.