This paper applies game theory (of Nash equilibria, though 2-player zero-sum games suffice for most of the arguments) to the problem of evaluating a number of agents on a slate of tasks (and/or against other agents). The evaluation methods presented have the important property of being robust to non-systematic addition of more agents and tasks. The paper casts the problem in a correct mathematical framework leveraging the Hodge decomposition of skew-symmetric matrices, and its generalization in combinatorial Hodge theory. This allows for a very illuminating and general view of the structure of evaluation, leading to a generalization of the Elo rating that eschews the transitivity assumption by embedding ratings in more dimensions, as is required in general, and a "Nash averaging" method which I think will be the more lasting contribution. The position taken by the paper on evaluation is also increasingly important at the current time, in my opinion.  There are strong connections to the contextual bandits setting in the dueling case, in which feedback is limited to preferences among pairs of actions, which the learner chooses on the fly ([1] and related work). The pairwise preference/dominance matrix between the actions is skew-symmetric for the same reasons, and there is a general notion of a best action, which reduces to the naive one(s) when the matrix represents a transitive set of relations. This is very relevant work that the authors should be aware of, though it is unmentioned. The argument made in the conclusion uses the fact that there really is no intrinsic cost to including agents/tasks in this setting, contrasting with e.g. the bandit setting (where generalization is unavoidably hampered by state space size). It makes the authors' conclusions here much stronger than in that line of work; the bandit work also needs to contend with limited feedback, which is not a problem here.   It should be fairly straightforward to make this much more openly usable, given that the input is only the dominance matrix and the algorithms are quite simple. It is disappointing to see this unmentioned apart from the Matlab code given for multidimensional Elo, and I would like to see this and the Nash averaging made available as painlessly as possible (e.g. a web tool) because of the unmistakably wide applicability. (In this vein there is a small concern about the solution's lack of sparsity e.g. when there are many tasks; there are clearly ways to tackle this in the authors' framework, for instance by regularizing with something other than entropy; there has been progress in optimal transport along similar lines in recent years.)  One natural question that I did not find raised in this manuscript, but which could be answered using these tools, is: which tasks should be added to an existing evaluation suite to measure as-yet-unmeasured "finer-scale" differences between agents?  The conclusion could be edited a bit; I appreciated the physics references, but found it incongruous to mention the speed of light when, closer to the main NIPS audience, there are plenty of applications of symmetries in ML via group theory (e.g. Kondor's monograph on the subject, or more broadly the success of convolutions for encoding spatial locality & translational invariances).  line 34: "Our goal is to treat tasks and agents symmetrically." - this is not earlier motivated, and was a bit unclear to me at this point in the paper, should be clarified because it is quite central to motivating the main antisymmetry framework. Could be addressed by first motivating with Elo by moving that discussion from the preliminaries.   line 132: "Sneak peek"   [1] "Contextual Dueling Bandits", COLT 2015.