Here are my comments for the paper: - B2N, RAI, and GGT abbreviations are never defined in the paper; the have been just cited from previous works (minor). A short background section on these methods can also include their full name.  - The distinctions and contributions of this work compared to [25] and [28] can be written in a more clear way. As far as I understand, the proposed method is B2N with B-RAI instead of RAI which was originally proposed in [25]. This allows the model to sample multiple generative and discriminative structures, and as a result create an ensemble of networks with possibly different structures and parameters. Maybe a better way for structuring the paper is to have a background section on B-RAI and B2N, and a separate section on BRAINet in which the distinction with other works and contribution is clearly written.  - For OOD experiments, the prior networks loss function [18] is used but the method is not used as a baseline in the experiments. It would be nice to have the results of OOD experiments with [18] and possible some other more recent work on OOD detection. See for instance, “Reliable uncertainty estimates in deep neural networks using noise contrastive priors” or "A Simple Unified Framework for Detecting Out-of-Distribution Samples and Adversarial Attacks”. Specifically, the latter has results on the same dataset.  - In terms of empirical evaluation and compared to much simpler baselines which do not require structure learning (e.g. [16]), the method doesn’t show a major improvement.   Overall, I found the idea of modeling uncertainty with an ensemble of networks with possibly different structures and parameters interesting. However, given the complexity of the model which requires structure learning using a recursive algorithm, the performance gain is not that impressive. This weakness could have been outweighed by technical novelty, but the method is very similar to the B2N approach (with B-RAI instead of RAI) which in my opinion makes the novelty incremental.  --------------------------------- I've read authors' feedback and I'd like to change my score; however, I'm still not convinced that the contribution is significant enough to pass the conference acceptance standard.