This paper introduces a novel prototypical network-inspired architecture for few-shot learning that incorporates several useful modifications that lead to wins in classification accuracy. It analyzes the effect of temperature scaling the output softmax and discusses the nature of gradients in both the low temperature and high temperature regimes. It also proposes a method to condition the embedding network on the few-shot task. Finally, it proposes to train jointly on an auxiliary prediction task. The combination of these modifications leads to significant performance wins on an established few-shot classification benchmark. Overall a strong paper.  The contributions of this work are significant. The analysis of scaling presented in section 2.1 is helpful to further understand pathologies that may arise when training prototypical networks and justifies the use of the scaling parameter. Conditioning the embedding network on the task is an intuitive yet unexplored avenue to improved few-shot classification performance. The ablation study in Table 3 shows the contributions of these components as well as the effect of auxiliary training on classification. Moreover, the introduction of the few-shot CIFAR-100 variant will likely prove useful for the community.  The paper is very well-written. Experimental procedures are described in sufficient detail and the related work section sufficiently covered relevant material in my opinion.  I verified equations 1-4 and they are correct to my knowledge.  Were task representations other than the mean prototype experimented with? It seems that higher order statistics of the class representations might be helpful.  ===== After Author Feedback =====  I have read the other reviews and the author feedback. Although elements of the modifications explored in this work have previously been proposed in the non few-shot classification setting, I feel there is significance in adapting these ideas to the few-shot scenario and converting them into a win. I therefore maintain my recommendation.