Originality: The proposed approach is motivated by the traditional tree filter [reference 18 in the paper]. While the idea of combining a combinatorial optimization algorithm with (deep) learning has become quite common, the particular approach poses challenges implementationwise and provides many benefits, as it allows to model long-range spatial dependencies in an efficient way, a very desirable property.  Quality: The paper contains sufficient ablation studies and experiments that demonstrate the strengths of the method in terms of its differences to other recent methods. One critique is a claim about the computational complexity of the proposed algorithm made in lines 124-125: "...the computational complexity of all the processes in algorithm 1, including the construction process of minimum spanning tree and the computation of pairwise distance, is O(N)...". It is mentioned in line 143 that the Boruvka algorithm is used (reference 25 in the paper). Nevertheless, the Boruvka algorithm is O(N log N). The authors should either clarify or correct this claim. While there is a randomized algorithm that achieves linear complexity in expectation, this is not mentioned in the paper.  Clarity: The paper is clearly written and well organized. There are a few cases of language misuse and typos, but these can be easily fixed. Some examples: Line 1: "plays a vital role in semantic segmentation. Most of the existing methods..." Line 116: "Also, we propose..." Line 120: "The computation of these variables can be accelerated..."  Significance: The idea of exploiting structure in images within a learning framework (as a neural network) has been desired for a long time. It is known that convolutional neural networks can increase the receptive field with depth but the effective receptive field remains concentrated. In recent years, various graph neural networks have been proposed and studied extensively, but an efficient / linear time algorithm was missing. Non-local networks have also been proposed but due to their O(N^2) complexity, they are only applicable for small graphs. I believe the proposed approach is very likely to be used and build upon by other researchers.