A complex DGM is proposed that jointly models observations with crowdsourced annotations of whether or not two observations belong to the same cluster. This allows crowdsourcing non-expert annotations to help with clustering complex data.  Importantly, the model is developed for the semi-supervised case, i.e., annotations are only observed for a small proportion of observation pairs.   The authors propose a hierarchical VAE structure to model the observations, with a discrete latent-variable z \sim p(z | \pi), a continuous latent variable x \sim p(x|z), and observed data o \sim p(o|x). This is paired with a two-coin David-Skene model which is conditioned on the mixture variable z for annotations: L \sim p(L | z_i, z_j, \alpha, \beta), where \alpha and \beta are annotator-specific latent variables that model the "expertise" of the m_th annotator (precision and recall parameters, respectively). To the best of my understanding,  through the dependence of the two-coin model on the latent mixture association, though it is not explicitly stated in the paper, z represents cluster association in the model.   An amortized variational inference procedure is derived to train the model, with appropriate inference networks q(z, x | o) = q(z | o)q(x | z, o). Exact enumeration is used to integrate out z, and reparametrization sampling to integrate out x. The relational model is trained by maximizing the likelihood of the observed annotations conditioned on inferred z's.  More interestingly, the authors leverage the work presented in Johnson et al. to derive a stochastic natural gradient variational inference procedure for the fully Bayesian version of the model. Remarkably, this results in a speed-up in training, as exact enumeration over the discrete latent variable is no longer required.  Experimentation is carried examining the resulting clustering with a number of data-sets. The authors propose NMI as a quality metric for the learned clustering, and demonstrate that the proposed model consistently outperforms its competitors.  Pros: - Solid modelling approach to the problem. The probabilistic model accounts for the important aspects of the application. - A fully Bayesian version of the model is proposed, and priors are chosen such as to improve model performance (e.g., sparsity inducing Dirichlet priors on the mixtures) - The authors go beyond standard amortized inference and derive the appropriate natural gradient AVI training procedure, leveraging the probabilistic structure of the model. - The model outperforms competitors in a range of experiments  Cons: - The paper does not have a significant novel contribution, but rather composes and combines existing methods in a novel way for an interesting application. - The paper motivates the use of DGMs as they scale well to complex data. However, the usefulness of this is not demonstrated in the experimental section. The only "complex" dataset introduced is MNIST. The paper would be made significantly stronger if a real-world application with complex data was introduced, demonstrating the need for DGMs in this application. - The authors claim that BayesianSCDC is significantly faster to train than SCDC. This can intuitively be understood as exact enumeration is no longer necessary. However, BayesianSCDC may incur costs in dealing with other parameters (e.g., neural network parameters). It would be interesting to see a comparison of training times between the two versions of the model (this may be in the appendix if the authors cannot manage under the space constraints).  Overall, I think this is a solid paper well suited to NIPS. The paper is clearly written and easy to follow. It builds on solid past work in the area of structered DGMs, and contributes a novel (to the best of my knowledge) probabilistic model to the crowdsourced clustering area. Specifically, enabling the use of partially-available annotations can make the use of crowdsourced annotations more feasible in a realistic setting. The quality of the work is high -- particularly the derivation of the natural gradient AVI procedure. However, the paper does not contribute novel modeling or inference tools, but rather combines existing work in a novel way. Further, I feel the usefulness of the model would be more clearly demonstrated if a real-world application with sufficiently complex data to require DGMs was experimented with.