The submission presents a hierarchical particle-based object representation that acts as a physics prediction engine for 3-dimensional deformable bodies. The paper is strongly based off Battaglia et al. work on 2D physics prediction. To handle the 3D physical structure of the observed objects, the objects are approximated by a set of particles. The main contribution of this submission is to propose a hierarchical particle structure that can propagate external forces on throughout the entire body. The neural network architecture is described, which consists of separate hierarchical graph convolution modules (one each to capture the effect of external forces, collisions and past states) that are summed up and fed into another graph neural network and a fully connected layer. A custom loss function is presented that consists of local positional difference, global positional difference and difference in intra-object particle structure.  Strengths of this submission: The author tries to find a solution to an interesting problem: Can a machine learn to predict physical behavior of objects such as collisions or material behavior, without knowledge of any physics laws or formula? The submission is well structured and explains a complex model well and in detail. Some of the results show a realistic prediction of the physical behavior. The authors present three different metrics that can be used to quantitatively compare different models with each other.  Weaknesses of this submission: The qualitative evaluation of physical phenomena seems too optimistic. Although some results are very impressive, the prediction lacks in more complex problems such as multi body collisions. Weaknesses are shown in additional results, but not discussed in the main paper. The quantitative evaluation is somewhat lacking, in that it is not explained which experiment the results are based on. Furthermore, Figure 6 seems to show that there is a trade off in using local loss function vs. global + local loss function, in that only local loss function seems to perform better on preserve distance error. This trade off is not discussed in the paper (“Without […] the global delta position prediction our model performs much worse”). In general, I would have preferred to see a more detailed discussion of simpler cases (single body with external forces and collision with ground), i.e. showing qualitatively that physical properties like rigidity, friction, gravitation etc. can be learned without knowledge of the governing laws of physics.  I thank the reviewers for their detailed response. 