This paper studies label ranking learning. It proposes embeddings for representing rankings and uses the surrogate least square approach for label ranking. It then solves the pre-image problem to recover the predicted ranking in the original permutation space. In general, the pre-image problem is the bottleneck as recovering the ranking in the original space is factorial. The complexity is dramatically reduced, however, if the ranking embedding exhibits certain structure. In this paper, three embeddings are considered: Kemeny (based on the Kendall distance), Hamming, and Lehmer. It provides statistical guarantees for the learning procedures based on all these three embeddings.   I think this is a well-written paper and is a good extension of the existing work on label ranking. The surrogate least square approach used in this paper is, as far as I know, significantly different from the existing work, such as Gaertner and Vembu.   Section 2.1. The terminology was misused here. It is more common to refer the ranking without ties as strict order rather than total order. I believe the term full ranking used here corresponds to a total order.  Minor thing: an Euclidean space.  Line 95. Please format your citation right.   Line 167. Maybe it is better to move the footnote number somewhere else, as it is mixed with the superscript.   Section 4.4. The section title is “extension to partial and incomplete rankings”, so the readers might expect to see discussions on both for all there embeddings. For Lehmer codes, the discussion on incomplete rankings is missing. As a reference, the interpretation of the missing items in rankings is the same as the one used in the decision tree approach (such as Cheng et al).  Theorem 1. It is unclear if the results hold for incomplete and partial rankings. Or does it applies with a minor change to the constants? In any case, please indicates the possible limitation of the results.   Section 6. The empirical results met the theoretical expectation. Two minor questions: (a) How are concordant and discordant pairs defined? The same as in Eq. (9)? (b) For Kemeny, as Step 2 is NP-hard, how did you solve it? Brute force or with some approximation?  -- I have read the author's rebuttal. One comment regarding the feedback to Reviewer 1 & 2: While I think the synthetic data serve the purpose of the paper, I feel I should point out that real-world label ranking data do exist. Sushi data, e.g., is widely used  http://www.kamishima.net/sushi/.