UPDATE:  I thank the authors for their comments. I decided to update the score upwards as I expect that all issues pointed out by the reviewers can be addressed in revision.  This papers deals with the counterfactual prediction problem in settings with multi agent systems. The problem is that if we change the rules of the game, then the system may try to adapt to the new rules. Estimating the effects of this adaptation requires taking into account the incentive structure of the game.  Overall, I find the paper interesting and the applications useful. The paper is well written and the main ideas are clearly presented. At the same time, I have some concerns:  1) There is no adequate comparison with existing ideas and methods in the literature. For example, it is not explained how this method differs practically from [1] and [2]. In [1] the authors discuss the inference problem and propose methods to quantify the uncertainty of the policy change, similar to the confidence bands derived by the authors in this paper. In [2] the setting is also very similar to the setting in the current paper: how to estimate the long-term effects of the policy change on outcomes (e.g., auction revenue). The general approach in [2] also looks very similar to what is proposed in Section 4 (and summarized in Fig 4).  Both papers also give consistency results under some assumptions. I understand that the goal in this paper is different, namely, to address robustness to rationality assumptions. However, the end result in all papers is similar, that is, confidence bands on the effects of the policy change. It would help then to understand what are the comparative benefits and limitations of each method.  2) Perhaps with the exception of Theorem 3, there appears not to be much technical contribution in the paper. Not necessarily a crucial problem, but it would be nice to know what new techniques/methods may be more broadly interesting.   Minor comment:  The sentence is broken in Page 4.    [1]  "Counterfactual reasoning and prediction in learning systems: The example of computational advertising", Bottou et al. [2] "Long-term causal effects via behavioral game theory", Toulis, Parkes  