The paper proposes to use a generative model to infer dynamic networks from partial observations (cascades of information, such as twitter memes). The algorithm is derived and tested on both simulation and real data. Overall it is an interesting approach and merits publication, though it ultimately performs quite similarly to TopoLSTM in Table 1 and InfoPath on Figure 1f. I think it'd also be nice to find a more contemporary killer application, rather than working with an almost decade old data, but it's a minor concern.  Quality: The work builds on (Williamson, 2016) and seems solid. The authors don't cite some of the dynamic and exchangeable models mentioned in a survey (A Goldenberg, A Zheng, S Fienberg and E Airoldi (2010) A Survey of Statistical Network Models, Foundations and Trends in Machine Learning, Vol 2 (2): pp 129-233) that seem relevant to their work. Again this is a minor concern. I have one concern about the reliance on the DP models to generate edges from the observations. It was previously shown that if node degree follows power law lead to edges following piecewise power law distribution (Wang X, Chen Z, Liu P, Gu Y. Edge balance ratio: Power law from vertices to edges in directed complex network. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing. 2013 Apr;7(2):184-94.). As such I'm not sure how generalizable this model is for real networks. The simulation models used also have similar properties, hence the proposed method performs fairly well. On the real world data, the performance is similar to some of the other approaches as I mentioned above. It is still a work of solid quality, just somewhat concerned about generalizability of the underlying assumptions.   Clarity: The paper is very clear. It is almost unnecessary to include the provided algorithms, especially Algorithm 3, but for completeness, these descriptions fit quite well.   Originality: though the work follows on some of the existing literature, I believe that it is substantially original and novel to score highly on this metric.  Significance: I'm not entirely convinced about the significance. The focus is of course on the method, which is substantially novel, but the experiments were ran on some of the older data, failing to excite the reader with a killer application. 