Strength: + The contributions are clearly stated. + Most of the paper is well written -- see weaknesses for exceptions. + Experiments are convincing. + To the best of my knowledge, the idea of using unsupervised keypoints for reinforcement learning is novel and promising. One can expect a variety of follow-up work. + Using keypoints as input state of a Q function is reasonable and reduces the dimensionality of the problem. + Reducing the search space to the most controllable keypoints instead of raw actions is a promising idea.  Weaknesses: 1. Overstated claim on generalization  In the introduction (L17-L22), the authors motivate their work by explaining that reinforcement learning approaches are limited because it is difficult to re-purpose task-specific representations, but that this is precisely what humans do. From this, one could have expected this paper to address this issue by training and applying the detector network across multiple games, re-purposing their keypoint detector. This would have be useful to verify that the learnt representations generalize to new contexts. But unfortunately, it hasn't been done, so it is a bit of an over-statement. Could this be a limitation of the method because the number of keypoints is fixed?  2. Deep RL that matters  Experiments should be run multiple times. A longstanding issue with deep RL is their reproducibility and the significance of their improvements. It has been recently suggested that we need a community effort towards reproducibility [a], which should also be taken into account in this paper. Among the considerations, one critical thing is running multiple experiments and reporting the statistics.  [a] Henderson, Peter, et al. "Deep reinforcement learning that matters." Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. 2018.  3. The choice of testing environment is not well motivated.  Levels are selected without a clear rationale, with only a vague motivation in L167. This makes me suspect that they might be cherry picks. Authors should provide a more clear justification. This could be related to the next weakness that I will discuss, which is understandable. Even if this is the case, this should then be explicit with experimental evidence.  4. Keypoints are limited to moving objects  A practical limitation comes from the fact that the keypoints are learnt from the moving parts of the image. As identified by the authors, the first resulting limitation is that the method assumes a fixed background, so that only meaningful objects move and can be detected as keypoints. Learning to detect keypoints based on what objects are moving has some limitations when these keypoints are supposed to be used as the input state of a Q function. One can imagine a game where some obstacles are immobile. The locations of these obstacles are important in order to make decisions but in this work, they would be ignored. It is therefore important that these limitations are also explicitly demonstrated.  5. Dealing with multiple instances.  Because "PNet" generates one heatmap per keypoint, each keypoint detector "specializes" into a certain type of keypoint. This is fine for some applications (e.g. face keypoints) where only one instance of each kind of keypoint exists in each image. But there are games (e.g. Frostbite) where a lot of keypoints look exactly the same. And still, the detector is able to track them with consistency (as shown in the supplementary video). This is intriguing, as one could expect the detector to detect several keypoints at the same location, instead of distributing them almost perfectly. Is it because the receptive field is large?  6. Other issues  - In section 3, the authors could improve the explanation of why the loss promotes the detection of meaningful keypoints. It is not obvious at first why the detector needs to detect keypoints to help with the reconstruction. - Figure 1: Referring to [15] as "PointNet" is confusing when this name doesn't appear anywhere in this paper ([15]) and there exists another paper with this name. See "PointNet: Deep Learning on Point Sets for 3D Classification and Segmentation", Charles R. Qi, Hao Su, Kaichun Mo, Leonidas J. Guibas. - Figure 1: The figure describes two "stop grad", but there is no mention or explanation of it in the text or caption. This is not theoretically motivated either, because most of the transported feature map comes from the source image (all the pixels that are not close from source or target keypoints). Blocking these gradients would block most of the gradients that can be used to train the "Feature CNN" and "PNet". - L93: "by marginalising the keypoint-detetor feature-maps along the image dimensions (as proposed in [15])". This would be better explained and self-contained by saying that a soft-argmax is used. - L189: "Distances above a threshold (ε) are excluded as potential matches". What threshold value is used? - What specific augmentation techniques are used during the training of the detector? - Figure 4: it is not clear what the meaning of "1-200 frames" is and how the values are computed. Why are the precision and recall changing with the trajectory length? Also, what is an "action repeat"? - Figure 6: the scores should be normalized (and maybe displayed as a plot) for easier comparison.  ==== POST REBUTTAL ==== The rebuttal is quite convincing, and have addressed my concerns. I would like to raise the rating of the paper to 8 :-)  I'm happy that my worries were just worries. 