# [Updated after author feedback] I thank the authors for their feedback. My suggestions for improvements were only sparingly addressed, but I will keep my score as it is.  My request for updating table 1 was perhaps unclear. I appreciate that you focus on just three features as they are important in socioeconomics, but I would like to see the same results for all datasets for both cities (thus ten columns for New York, three columns for Chicago). Only choosing a subset, even though it can be motivated from an application point-of-view, seems arbitrary and makes one suspect cherrypicking. This is, hopefully, an unfair suspicion, so why not include a large table with results from all features? Even if a feature is not interesting from an application point-of-view, it is still important for judging the performance of the model.  # Summary The paper is concerned with modelling a multivariate function from multiple areal datasets at different granularities. The authors propose a model, based on Gaussian processes (GPs), that handles data defined as regions of the input space. The model initially follows the standard multivariate GP strategy by defining independent latent GPs, which are then linearly combined to form a multivariate dependent GP. To handle data at different granularities, observations are assumed to be area integrals of the multivariate GP. This allows the model to infer function values on a fine-scale from coarsely sampled data. The model also naturally handles data from different domains by sharing the latent GPs across the domains.  The proposed model is evaluated using a total of 13 datasets from two cities, each with varying granularity. A refinement task, estimating small-scale structure from large-scale, is considered in two different set-ups: refining data within a single city and refining data across cities by utilising the transfer learning capabilities of the model. The model shows performance improvements over both baselines and competing models.  # Quality The paper appears technically sound. The sections deriving the model and inference are detailed, yet concise, and further information is provided in the supplementary.  Related work is adequately cited, and the shortcomings of these methods are nicely outlined. The main difference between the proposed model and the semi-parametric latent factor model (SLFM) it builds upon is clearly described. I think a reference to Alvarez, Rosasco, & Lawrence, "Kernels for vector-valued functions: A review", Foundations and Trends in Machine Learning (2012) would, however, be appropriate to include.  The experiments are interesting and convincing. Is there a reason why only some domains have been included in table 1 and 2? I would like to see similar results for all domains in the two cities and for both tasks. Right now, one can get the feeling that the results are cherry-picked.  I think it would also be interesting to see if the performance gain saturates as more cities or domains are added, though this is probably better left for future work.  # Clarity The paper reads quite well. The structure is clear and good and I found it surprisingly easy to follow the definition of the model despite the dense notation. Good job! Figure 2 very nicely explains the model. I found it very helpful.  # Originality To my knowledge, the introduction of spatial aggregation of the input space is indeed novel, though perhaps not overly so. The idea might seem simple, but it is good and the resulting model elegant.   # Significance The proposed model seamlessly shares information between regions of different granularities as well as between cities, which makes it both interesting and important, particularly for the geostatistical community.  While focusing on a somewhat specific problem, it is a solid paper that I think would be welcomed by the NeurIPS community. 