Summary: Archetypal Analysis (AA) provides a framework in which a dataset is described as a convex combination of prototypes which represent vertices approximating the convex hull of the data. These archetypes allow for simplified interpretation but are difficult to infer for large datasets. In this regard, coresets can be used to compactly represent the dataset. In this paper, lightweight coresets for k-means are extended to AA and performance guarantees of the coreset C compared to the full dataset X and an upper bound on the sample size of C are derived and rigorously proved. A sampling procedure for the construction of the coreset in AA in linear time is provided. Experimental results on different dataset support the effectiveness of the novel approach compared to uniform sampling of the data to form a coreset and the underlying lightweight-coresets for k-means approach. The results on the relative error of the new approach compared to AA on the full dataset suggest room for improvement.   Overview of the metrics: - Originality: The main contribution is the extension of lightweight coresets for k-means to AA, where theorems and algorithms are adjusted to the archetype setting. The problem is well motivated and the extension enriches methods on coresets.  - Quality: Claims are well supported and proofs are provided. The experimental results illustrate the benefits of the method and possible weaknesses (large relative error compared to AA on full dataset) are reported.  - Clarity: The submission is well written and easy to follow, the concept of coresets is well motivated and explained. While some more implementation details could be provided (source code is intended to be provided with camera-ready version), a re-implementation of the method appears feasible.  - Significance: The submission provides a method to perform (approximate) AA on large datasets by making use of coresets and therefore might be potentially useful for a variety of applications.   Detailed remarks/questions:  1. Algorithm 2 provides the coreset C and the query Q consists of the archetypes z_1, …, z_k which are initialised with the FurthestSum procedure. However, it is not quite clear to me how the archetype positions are updated after initialisation. Could the authors please comment on that?  2. The presented theorems provide guarantees for the objective functions phi on data X and coreset C for a query Q. Table 1 reporting the relative errors suggests that there might be a substantial deviation between coreset and full dataset archetypes. However, the interpretation of archetypes in a particular application is when AA proves particularly useful (as for example in [1] or [2]).  Is the archetypal interpretation of identifying (more or less) stable prototypes whose convex combinations describe the data still applicable?  3. Practically, the number of archetypes k is of interest. In the presented framework, is there a way to perform model selection in order to identify an appropriate k?  4. The work in [3] might be worth to mention as a related approach. There, the edacious nature of AA is approached by learning latent representation of the dataset as a convex combination of (learnt) archetypes and can be viewed as a non-linear AA approach.  [1] Shoval et al., Evolutionary Trade-Offs, Pareto Optimality, and the Geometry of Phenotype Space, Science 2012. [2] Hart et al., Inferring biological tasks using Pareto analysis of high-dimensional data, Nature Methods 2015.  [3] Keller et al., Deep Archetypal Analysis, arxiv preprint 2019.  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  I appreciate the authors’ response and the additional experimental results. I consider the plot of the coreset archetypes on a toy experiment insightful and it might be a relevant addition to the appendix. In my opinion, the submission constitutes a relevant contribution to archetypal analysis which makes it more feasible in real-world applications and provides some theoretical guarantees. Therefore, I raise my assessment to accept. 