UPDATE after reading author rebuttal: Look forward to the changes in the final version of the paper.  Detailed comments:  1. Understanding of RNNs for sentiment classification task - theoretical analysis backed by empirical observations: This work takes up the sentiment classification task. This work figured out some fixed points and centered their analysis of RNNs around them. The RNN states can be cast into a 1-dimensional manifold of these fixed points. The PCA of RNN states across examples reveal that training helps RNNs figure out a lower-dimensional representation. Interestingly the movement along this low dimensional manifold is minimal in absence of inputs or presence of neutral/un-informative words, whereas they show more movements if polarity bearing words are present, thus, showing linear separability effects along this 1-D manifold. Further analysis using eigenvalue decomposition also support the low-dimensional manifold argument. However, the authors also state that approximation of full non-linear LSTM by linear dynamics is not the best idea in the long run even though for some steps the approximation may be close enough.  2. Theoretically and empirically, the paper shows that even the complex dynamics of RNNs can be approximated by linear and low-dimensional dynamics which are more human interpretable: The presence of low-dimensional manifold around fixed points has been backed by multiple theoretical analysis and empirical observations : (1) PCA of RNN states, (2) Eigen value decomposition and through figures 2 and 3. Moreover, the linear separability depending on polarity bearing words has been demonstrated through Figure 4. Figure 6 show consistency across different variants of RNNs on different datasets.  A very positive thing about this paper is the authors limit themselves in overstating the significance about their contributions and pave the way for future research work by (a) pointing out negated polarity bearing 'not bad' may not be perfectly understood by this framework (b) sentiment classification is a particular representative task and it remains to be seen how this mechanism work for other settings.  3. Some critical comments: a) The paper is not very well-written and a little hard to read. It would be better to structure the paper with a 'preliminary' section before Section 3. There it would be better to set the notations and definitions like fixed points, linear attractor dynamics, etc. for more novice readers. b) Many of the mathematical results (for example eq 3) could be structured as theorem/lemma/result. c) Many mathematical observations are simply stated inside paragraphs and get lost, some degree of highlighting will be essential to get the main message out. d) The figures could be better explained in relation to the mathematical results including more details.   Overall my scores are as below(out of 10): Originality: 8 Quality: 7 Clarity: 5 Significance: 8