The authors consider finding optimal set of intervention experiments to uniquely identify a causal graph from a DAG eq. class, where a cost can be given to intervention to each variable. They show that this problem is NP-hard. Since the basic formulation may produce large intervention sets, the authors also consider the case where each experiment has only a limited number of experiments. The authors develop approximations that have guarantees and perform well in simulations.   The paper is well and clearly written. The referenced material covers the important literature to my knowledge. The NP-hardness result is interesting extension to existing similar results. The approximations are interesting as well, but not sure how practically relevant such results are (see  point below). The setting in which we know the DAG eq. class is a bit restricting but still well motivated.  The design problem refers to G that is a chordal graph, that is the result of a PC-algorithm run. The writers could point out how this relates to the general problem of having no information to start with, or having arbitrary information (not a DAG eq class, because we can go beyond that with ANM/LiNGAM or perhaps we have background knowledge or some experiments at hand already).  The authors could/should still point out [20]:s thm 6 that shows that finding minimum size set of intervention experiments is NP-hard.  This a very related result and discussion is in order (there seems to be also some discussion in p. 3063 of [11]).  Simulations are sufficient, but not very extensive.  In simulations, the authors compare to an IP solution, showing that their procedure is nearly optimal. But, how was this IP formulated? What was the running time? Does it make any sense to use the approximation in practical situations or is it merely a theoretic result?  Fig 7 -> Fig 1.  AFTER REBUTTAL: The IP solution time falls into the almost trivial -- with the current size networks the approximation does not seem to be practically relevant but only theoretical -- one can just use IP and wait. For different simulation setting the situation may be different. No update to scores.  