Summary The paper studies the problem of learning the optimal reserve price to use in a repeated auction environment in order to maximize revenue. Prior work has focused on optimizing revenue in cases where the distribution of buyer values is unknown but the seller has access to samples. However, performing these in settings where bidders are non-myopic introduces incentive issues as bidders may want to misreport and lower the bids to avoid future increases in prices.  This work explores settings where bidders are non-myopic and the seller can commit in advance in a process through which the prices will be updated. It proposes a generic method based on techniques from differential privacy that achieves low regret against the optimal price in hindsight for non-myopic bidders. The method works under the assumption that either the market is large (no bidder appears many times) or that bidders discount future utilities.  The main results are that: - For a single bidder per round, aT regret is achievable for any a>0 when T > a^(-4). - For n bidder per round with m copies of items, amT regret is achievable for any a>0 when T > n/(m a^4.5) and m > sqrt(n)/a^3.  To establish the results, the regret is broken down to learning regret and game theoretic regret. Learning regret is the best revenue achievable by a fixed price given the observed bids minus the revenue of the algorithm, while the game theoretic regret is the revenue difference when pricing with respect to the values vs the bids.   The algorithm used to achieve those results, performs at every round a follow-the-perturbed-leader strategy but also uses a uniformly random price with small probability. The follow-the-perturbed-leader strategy guarantees that the learning regret is small, but also that future rounds are not significantly affected by current bids. At the same time, the uniform random price forces bidders to bid close to their true value (similarly to the "gap" concept of [Nissim'12]). This allows bounding the game-theoretic loss.   Comments  - One issue with the presentation of the results is that the bidder strategies are not formally defined. At many points it is argued that bidders will bid close to their true value in equilibrium. However, the equilibrium notion that is used is not defined anywhere and I find this whole discussion quite vague.  - Another weakness of the work is that no lower bounds are provided. It is hard to judge how much revenue is left on the table without knowing how much a seller should expect to make in such a setting.  - For the case with many bidders per round, it seems kind of strange that the number of copies m needs to grow when aiming for lower regret. Is there some inherent limitation or intuition for why it is hard to obtain results for a single item (m=1)?  - A branch of work that deals specifically with repeated interactions with bidders is the field of dynamic mechanism design e.g. the work of Mirrokni et al. "Non-clairvoyant Dynamic Mechanism Design". It would be nice to compare the setting and results to this literature.   Evaluation Overall, I like the proposed algorithm as it is quite simple and is able to capture complicated settings with many bidders participating in many rounds.   The paper manages to show sublinear regret bounds but there is still room for improvement to match the sqrt(T) regret lower bound. The connection to joint-differential privacy is quite interesting but seems to have limitations for many bidders. It is unclear whether an alternative approach can yield non-trivial regret bounds for m=1. 