Originality: I had a difficult time evaluating the innovation of their method. In terms of image classification, it is not very novel. Austerweil and Griffiths (NeurIPS 2010) proposed a similar idea, albeit in a Bayesian nonparametric framework (See for faster inference method Hu et al., 2012 ICML: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1206.6482.pdf). This is just within the Bayesian nonparametrics community, and so it is likely that more sophisticated methods for learning templates and transformations simultaneously exist in the computer vision literature. Their description of relevant previous work on neural image registration methods was too sparse (Lines 62-84) to provide enough information for me to evaluate.   Quality: The framework and methods are sensible and well-executed (although I was disappointed with the authors' answers to the Reproducibility Checklist that the authors were not committed to posting their code and data with a final paper). Their evaluation method was a bit weak because there were no comparisons to other methods that they mentioned in the previous work section. Even if it were only feasible for a small subset because it was slow and/or the other work performed better, that would still improve the submission by providing more context for evaluating the method and contribution.  Clarity: The paper is very well-written with clear descriptions of their data, analyses, and architecture.  Significance: I'm not sure if this would be of interest to researchers beyond the neuroimaging community. It is hard for me to evaluate its significance due to the reasons mentioned above.  Response to Author Feedback: Thank you for your thoughtful response to my and the other reviewer criticism.   My main concern is that if this is a manuscript focusing on neuroimaging analysis and not meant to be compared or given a proper motivation from the perception/image registration literatures, then why spend so much of the manuscript focusing on it rather than neuroimaging analyses? If it is strong enough for NeurIPS on the neuroimaging work alone, then that would be sufficient for me. If the authors wanted to illustrate its potential, then I believe they should address other solutions to the template deformation problem and why they shouldn't be applied to neuroimaging (instead of their own approach). I do not believe the contributions outside of neuroimaging are strong enough for members of those related communities to be a low-medium or greater significance.   Additionally, illustrating model comparisons in the main submission would greatly strengthen it. I had put that as an improvement that would potentially increase my score, but it was left unaddressed in their response. 