Quality: - Overall the paper is high-quality. - Some lingering questions I have:     -- In the experiments, it appears that the algorithms have oracle knowledge of the exact sparsity k. Do these methods work without oracle knowledge of k? It appears that this oracle knowledge of k is used directly in setting measurement parameters, such as the entries of M1, which is unrealistic since the true value of k is rarely known a priori.     -- How does this approach perform in the presence of noise? Can the authors run more experiments with noise on the 1-bit measurements?     -- Why do the authors only compare against “all Gaussian” measurements? Surely there must be other methods that take measurements in two-stages. In particular the authors reference the approaches in (Acharya et al. 2017) and (Gopi et al. 2013) several times but do not run experimental comparisons against these methods.  Originality: - The idea of taking measurements in two stages in compressed sensing (to recover the support, then approximate the signal values on this support) is not new. However, the idea of recovering a superset of the support rather than the exact support appears to be novel. - The connections to Group Testing are interesting and appear to be novel as far as I know.  Significance:  - Tighter upper bounds than existing results, along with explicit measurement construction methods, are provided for the important settings of non-negative signals (such as images) and binary signals. Even if the idea of taking compressed sensing measurements in two stages is not new, these improvements are important for pushing forward 1bCS research.  Clarity: - The paper is mostly clear. - The authors did a good job of juxtaposing their results with previous open questions in the literature - Table 1 clearly highlights the novel contributions  -------------------------- Update after rebuttal. The authors comments were satisfactory, as my comments were mostly suggestions for improvement. They didn't mention the points of unclarity in their writing, but I do hope that they will make appropriate corrections on revision.