I was surprised to see that this notion of causal effect has not been defined before. Personally, I always assumed that this notion must be known, but I am unable to find a reference. Therefore, although quite trivial, it seems that this notion of causal effect has not been discussed before in the literature. I may be wrong and advise the authors to do a thorough literature search to verify this.   Apart from this, I see this notion as a specific case of counterfactual effect, restricted to a set of paths. The definition should easily follow from Ilya Shpitser's paper which the authors give as well. The linear programming approach for bounding is also known as authors acknowledge.  In practice, I am unsure of the impact of this work or this notion. This notion carries all the difficulties of path-based counterfactuals and more, in terms of actually evaluating it, even with interventional data.  Line 17: irrespective of    etc..->etc. Line 24: total effects of interventions  Line 71: we don't make assumption -> we do not make assumptions  Please add the relevant references to Section 2.  Also, definition 3 is not clear as "performing an intervention along a path" is not formally defined.  I recommend the authors to change the abbreviation PC effect as it might mislead the reader into thinking the concept is related to the infamous PC algorithm.   Authors should cite "A Potential Outcomes Calculus for Identifying Conditional Path-Specific Effects" by Malinsky et al.  The response function representation argued in the lines 164-170 require the assumption that the observed variables have finite support.  AFTER REBUTTAL: Thank you for your responses and explaining a real-world use case, please add this to the camera ready. I still strongly recommend changing the title as this title will create a lot of confusion in the causality community. I also want to reiterate that Def. 3 is not mathematically sound, and will be unclear for the readers who are not already familiar with path-specific counterfactual literature, since intervention on a path is not formally defined. Please elaborate on how to actually evaluate this expression mathematically.