1. Summary  This paper proposes to identify adversarial face images for a NN by identifying which neurons change when facial features change and vice-versa. They make a new model by upweighting these neurons and downweighting the others.  2. High level paper  I think the writing is a bit too informal. Despite this, the paper is mostly clear. I think the paper is a new take on how to deal with adversarial examples. There are sufficient experiments and I think this paper would be interesting to people, as long as it can be made scalable. As I am not an expert on adversarial methods I have lowered my confidence score.  3. High level technical  One criticism I have is that the paper uses a lot of imprecise language. For this reason it's sometimes hard to figure out exactly what is going on, and it makes the paper less rigorous. Here are some specific examples: - Causality: Don't mention causality. Causality is a rigorous discipline with clearly defined assumptions and primitives. As soon as you mention causality the assumption should be that you are referring to the technical notion, which you aren't in this paper. I actually don't think you need to refer to causality, when you say you want 'forward causality' and 'backward causality', you really want some A to hold if and only if B holds, which is a logical biconditional, or if you want a mapping that maps exactly one element in A to one in B, this is a bijective mapping. - One-to-one: At Line 186, you mention a one-to-one mapping, but this is still a bit confusing because sometimes one-to-one functions describe injective functions (the forward half). So I would replace, wherever you mention causality with a logical biconditional if you're talking about two concepts A and B, and if you're talking about a mapping from things in A to things in B, I would use the word bijection.  - Gut-feeling: I realize you are trying to make an analogy here but then either make it or don't make it. Specifically, if you are trying to make a claim that this is similar to 'gut-feeling' in humans then you should make this more precise. My preference would be to just use a different phrase such as 'human-uninterpretable'. By the same token, you could replace 'reasoning aspect' (line 67) with 'human-interpretable portion'.  4. Low level technical  - Line 43: what does this mean: 'That is, the DNN is guessing for adversarial samples'? - Line 162: 'This is analogous to the retrospecting...' there should definitely be a citation for this - Line 191: 'equivalent' -> 'logically equivalent'  5. 1/2 sentence summary  Overall, despite some loose wording I think this paper makes a nice contribution.   Post-Rebuttal ----------------------- As my main issue with the paper is its loose wording and the authors agree to make the changes I suggest, I am happy to keep my score the same. 