- This paper is poorly written and is hard to follow. Its structure and organization could be substantially improved. The notation is unclear, and the terminology is not defined. For example, see lines 45-48. The formal problem statement (section 2.2) is vague, as well.   - Unclear novelty. Many technical terms are used without any context; they are not explained and, further, it is not clear how those concepts help the claims made in the paper. For example, in lines 125-156, authors say: "We end this section with a brief survey of known results for estimating distributions under specific Besov IPM losses, noting that our results (Equations (3) and (4) below) generalize all these rates." Authors then spend the rest of that section listing known results about L_p distances, Wasserstein distances, KS and Sobolov distance; however, authors never explain how exactly their results generalize all these known results. The reviewer has an impression as if several parts of the paper were taken directly from a textbook without a proper introduction of terminology.  - Unclear relevance to the machine learning community. I understand that this paper describes theoretical work, and because of that, it does not include empirical results and benchmarks. Nevertheless, it is unclear what is a direct relevance of the new results for GANs and nonparametric density estimation. Authors provide a discussion of results in section 5. However, it is unclear and confusing. Again, the notation is not defined; for example, see lines 271-283.   -----Update----- The rebuttal addressed many of my concerns, in particular, those related to the terminology used in the paper, and relevance of new results for GANs and nonparametric density estimation. I highly encourage authors to include those additional explanations in the paper and to remove alternative notations (or define in appendix), which are not needed to understand the paper. The author response has convinced me to increase my initial score for this submission. 