The authors study the rates of estimating approximate differential privacy (aDP). They do so by reformulating it as a property estimation problem. I find this reduction fairly novel and ties DP to a large body of work on polynomial estimation.  In property estimation, it is known that carefully trading off the bias and variance via polynomial approximation, particularly in regions of low probability, allows for obtaining the optimal min max rates. The authors follow the same recipe and show that the min max error scales as Se^\epsilon / n \log n. This result is cute, and the \log n factor is particularly interesting. This is in contrast to previous work where the only guarantees provided are empirical in nature.  The paper is also overall well-written. I liked the fact that authors first prove the result where P is known, and then proceed to estimating both P and Q. I am also satisfied with their simulation and code submission. I recommend that the paper be accepted, I have some minor concerns that I will point out below.  First, some typos - 89: ... improved ... 182: The method ... corresponding ... detail in ... 211: ... is non smooth ..,  In the proof of Theorem 1, it is not clear to me why Poisssonisation is required. Please elaborate on this. While I realize that a naive analysis of the empirical estimate will lead to a factor of e^{2\epsilon}S/n, an elaboration on how Poissonisation allows one to overcome this exponent of 2 might be helpful. On the other hand if it is simply a case of an easier analysis, it might be instructive to mention the same.  Some intuition on why the degree of the polynomial K, must scale as \log n might be helpful. This may be presented near Theorem 2 or Theorem 4.  Under case 1 and 2 under 2.2.1, it might help to write a line or two why the particular  ranges of (x,e^epislon y) are considered. In its present state these seem to appear out of the blue.  Post Rebuttal: The authors have addressed my concerns. If the paper is still on the borderline I would definitely recommend an accept.