What I like about the paper is that is provides a unifying theory for various stability notions that have been discussed in the literature. One common thread that existing algorithms were known to have is post-hoc generalization, but it was later proved that this notion does not compose adaptively, meaning that, if individual algorithms prevent overfitting in the sense of post-hoc generalization, combining them may permit overfitting. The current notion, LSS, composes adaptively, similarly to differential privacy (DP). However, LSS is proved to be weaker than DP, but still sufficient to guarantee generalization. This proof is given via the monitor argument of Bassily et al.  Under no further modeling of the general problem of adaptive data analysis, from previous results in the area we know that sqrt(k)/epsilon^2 samples are sufficient and necessary for generalization, where k is the number of queries and epsilon is the target accuracy, and we know differential privacy can guarantee this complexity, so I am not sure about direct practical implications of this work.  For now I see the advantages as being primarily of theoretical nature, however the possible directions given in Section 5 sound promising.  In Definition 2.1., is there a specific reason why total variation distance is used? Could similar results have been proved with a different distance between distributions?  I’m not sure how to reason about the alpha_i sequence in Theorem 2.7 (this has to interplay somehow with the sample accuracy requirement, and without an explicit mechanism it’s hard to analyze this trade-off). That aside, I don’t completely agree with the comment made just below, that the theorem is non-trivial for alpha_i <= epsilon_i. In particular, if alpha_i = epsilon_i, then the result is strictly worse than that of Theorem 2.7?  The main weakness of this paper is that it is not clear what the space of LSS mechanisms is. It possibly allows mechanisms that give us all the benefits of DP, but circumvent other issues (or under some modeling assumptions they might even outperform DP). But currently the definition is too general to see explicit mechanisms. (Since the mechanisms don’t know the prior data distribution, it’s hard to see how to guarantee LSS.)  I wonder if this setup can be used to say something when the prior of the adversary is off. Currently it’s assumed that the prior is the actual data distribution, but does this framework allow saying something about overfitting if we know how much the adversary’s prior deviates from the true one?  Minor comment: Is there a reason why sequences in X^n (possibly non-iid samples) are considered? I didn’t see any motivation for non-iid data sets, however considering a distribution over sequences seemed to make notation and discussion unnecessarily more complicated at times.  Overall I think the paper gives some interesting theoretical insights. It’s hard to see at this point what its practical implications might be.  Post-feedback: I thank the authors for clarifying some confusions that I had, and I'm happy to see the authors are also thinking of novel mechanisms, as suggested in the reviews. I think this paper makes a good theoretical contribution and I still recommend acceptance.