The paper proposes an algorithm that can learn good decision-making policies over a continuous set of decisions using only access to observational data. The problem is well-motivated, but the paper can be substantially strengthened.  Quality: Ok  The paper clearly motivates a weakness of direct regression (e.g. from context and decision, to predict expected cost). The regression models may have different uncertainty for different decisions, and so it is useful to include an empirical estimate of variance and bias of the regression when selecting decisions. The paper will be more informative by highlighting several choices of regression models, each with different V (variance) and B (bias), and observing how lambda_1 lambda_2 are tuned to pick low-cost decisions with high probability.  Clarity: Ok  The high level message is clear, but several improvements can be made. E.g. Till Line 123, I assumed that the cost c(z,y) is unknown and is being modeled. Equation for hat{mu} however seems to imply that the costs are known and only the outcome distribution is unknown (so that hat{mu} can be written as a combination of training responses c(z, Y_i) for each decision z). Knowing the cost function can be a substantially simpler problem than the bandit feedback setting.  Originality: Ok  The paper extends prior work for learning from logged interventions in two important ways -- what if the decision set is continuous multi-dimensional, and what if the intervention policy is unknown. I expected semi-synthetic experiment comparisons with [16] (which assumed the intervention policy is known), and the straightforward modification of [16] with imputed generalized propensity scores to address the paper's problem setting.  Significance: Good  Several real-world problems (e.g. the semi-synthetic setup for Warfarin dosing) can benefit from better algorithms for the problem studied in the paper.  Reproducibility: Not clear what hyper-parameters ended up getting selected in each of the two experiments. I would be more confident if there was code accompanying the paper (the datasets are public anyway).  I have read the other reviews and the author feedback. I maintain my borderline accept rating for the paper. The paper can be much stronger with a more careful analysis of the V(x,z) and B(x,z) terms in the objective. If there was a toy problem where we knew bias in closed form, do we indeed see that penalizing bias helps (or, is the Lipschitz upper-bound on bias very loose and actually achieving a different regularization)? If we have a problem with heterogenous outcomes, is the homoscedastic V estimate helping or hurting? There are heuristics to get variance estimates from regression models (or even conformal regression methods that provide an estimate and confidence interval). Do they work ok or is the method reliant on estimate of V using MSE on the training set? With such an analysis, the paper will be substantially stronger.