The authors solve the problem of blind demodulation, prevalent in several inverse imaging applications. The main contribution of this paper is to identify the conditions under which the directional derivative of the loss function is strictly negative, with the minimum occurring at the ground truth values of the forward mapping. Therefore a simple gradient descent based approach is sufficient to ensure global convergence.    The authors combine two conditions Weight Distribution Condition, WDC, a variant of which first appears in [Hand, Voroninski 2017] and a new joint-WDC developed in the context of the demodulation problem. As long as these two conditions are satisfied, this paper shows that the global convergence criterion can be met.  Additionally they show that Gaussian and truncated Gaussian weight matrices meet these conditions.   Bulk of the paper rests on the theoretical exposition. The paper provides a good description of prior work. I did no go through the theoretical proofs from the supplementary material in detail, however the proof outline from the main paper provides sufficient intuition.   Experimental results are limited and look promising, however it is unclear if the settings of the main theorem are validated or not (eg. WDC for the weights of the trained generator).   Moreover, in lines [64-70] authors claim that using generative priors can correspond to lower measurement/dimensionality requirements as compared to sparsity priors. However I do not see any experimental validation, in terms of comparisons, for this claim. I think this is a drawback, because the whole motivation behind using generative priors rests on the fact that it may correspond to lower sample requirements, and without useful comparisons, it is unclear what the benefit of using generative priors is in comparison to conventional methods.   Post author feedback:  I have read the author's comments and factored in other reviewers' comments as well. The theoretical analysis in this paper is mostly convincing and assumptions for analysis have either been properly stated or clarified in the author feedback. I still believe that empirical validation is missing; however that does not negate other technical contributions of this paper, which is reflected in my original score. My assessment of the quality of this paper stays the same; I believe this is a good submission and should be accepted for publication.  