- The authors proposed a heuristic black-box attack algorithm which improves the query efficiency of black-box attacks by utilizing prior gradients from reference models. The assumption is that gradients from the reference models should also transfer to the target model and thus could help better estimating the true gradient.  - The paper did not comes with any theoretical justifications. It is fine for a heuristic method, yet I would expect some more direct evidence to support the key arguments here. In this case, I think the authors made an important assumption implicitly, i.e., the gradient of the reference models should also transfer to the target model just like those adversarial examples (which are shown to have some transferability between models). However, I did not find any direct evidence or supportive experiments to convince the reader that it is indeed true. For example, the authors can consider comparing the cosine similarity between reference model’s gradients and the true gradients, with the cosine similarity through random gaussians and show that the reference model indeed provides more accurate gradient search directions.  - SUBSPACE ATTACK? The proposed method is called subspace attack. I guess it is because as the authors showed in Figure 1, using m (less than n) basis vectors, one could still achieve similar attack performances. It is nice to know that but i do not think it is related to the proposed method as in this case the basis vectors are fixed during the experiments while the proposed method uses reference model’s gradient which changes at different points. I think the key idea here is about using reference model’s gradients as basis vectors, not about using less than n basis vectors. From this point of view, I think Figure 1 and “subspace attack” name is a bit misleading.  - Suppose the above mentioned transfer assumption is indeed true. The proposed method is working only if we had the reference models at the first place (In other words, only if we know the data distribution first).  I would be nice for the authors to consider the case where we do not know the data distribution or at least comment on it.  Minor comments:  - Line 124, what is adaptive mean, i did not get it clearly - Section 4.1, why it is coordinate descent? I think ZOO method [3] is in the coordinate descent fashion as it only changes one dimension at each step. The proposed method seems not to be this case? Or you just want to say it uses one search direction at each step?  ======================= I have read the authors' response and it clears most of my concerns and hence I increase the score