This paper demonstrates a theoretically guaranteed approximation for computing the Frechet distance between two polygonal curves.The paper also provides a CUDA-parallelized implementation of the Alt-Gadau algorithm for computing the distance (parallelizing the distance computation over each pair of line segments, one from each curve). In the experiments, the paper 1) Verifies the accuracy of the approximate JL distance computation 2) Demonstrates the speedup in runtime - 3 hours vs 40 seconds on data consisting of 6 curves in 6K dimensional with 2K points in each. From eyeballing the results (Fig 2), the JL projection and parallelization each contribute roughly an order of magnitude (10X) to the speedup. 3) Applies the algorithm to cluster real word data (based on k-center approximation algorithm by [Buchin 2019a]).  Finally, it also proposes a k-centers approximation (following [Indyk 2000], ongoing work).  The theoretical contribution of the paper is a rather straightforward application of the JL algorithm, by projecting each vertex of the curve and applying the JL distortion guarantees. The main technical contribution here is a distance computation lemma (Lemma 8). While source code is provided for the CUDA implementation, there is no mention of any algorithmic advances to parallelize the algorithm. In the experimental section, in 1) it would help to have a discussion of the theoretical gain in performance from the JL projection (presumably ~log d*eps^2/d factor) and the tradeoff of quality vs speed. In 2) the speed-up of 3 hours to 40 sec is substantial. However this speed up is a combination of the JL projection and the parallization. It would be useful to decouple the contributions of these two factors, and to also evaluate the runtime on a larger collection of datasets (beyond the single hydraulic test rig dataset). Finally, the validation of cluster quality in 3) is not very compelling. due to the absence of stated ground truth / lack of a clustering metric and a standard baseline algorithm for comparison. Using datasets (synthetic or otherwise) with well defined ground truth clusters, a choice of cluster quality metrics, and a baseline algorithm for comparison of cluster quality would improve this experiment.  The paper is well organized. One section that could improve clarity is the description of the datasets which is rather long-winded. A table would be helpful in describing the dataset charateristics. The notion of filtering and heuristic filters in lines 244-255 was not clear. The plots in all figures can be improved (e.g. increasing font size in Fig 3, showing more clearly the speedups obtained in Fig 2). The number of clusters expected (line 265/266) for the DELTA dataset can be explicitly stated (I assume k=5).  Addendum:  I think that the authors do address the experimental concerns I originally had, specifically the point regarding comparison to baseline /clustering metrics. Regarding the theoretical results, in light of the other reviews, I agree that these contributions are of some significance. I am adjusting my score accordingly. 