This paper presents a method for image super-resolution with a clique network structure. The network has two part, the feature embedded net with clique block (i.e., dense block with skip connection), as well as the clique upsampling net (which borrows the idea from wavelet-based sub-band image processing, by decomposing images into four parts of different frequency (LL, LH, HL, HH)). The final upsampled parts are reconstructed with inverse DWT (haar wavelet) to obtain the high-res image. It is evaluated on some benchmark datasets, and obtained some performance improvement compared to prior work.   Overall, the idea of decomposing feature maps into four different frequency part with wavelet is reasonable. The clique block seems the dense block with skip connection, which may be better for preserving high-frequency image details.  However, I have a few concerns.  1. The main benefit of deep learning is to learn optimal features/filters from data, rather than relying on hand-crafted features/filters. From this perspective, what is the point to include the inverse DWT (haar wavelet) in the network to reconstruct the image? Isn't it contradicting with itself, since DWT (haar wavelt) is hand-crafted filters/features? As shown in Fig.3 and Fig.4, there should be no surprise that the histograms of the four parts are similar to the those of the wavelet sub-band, because in Fig.3 the IDWT is used to reconstruct the image.   2. The results shown in Table 3 is incremental to me. Compared to the 2nd best result, the improvement of PSNR is less than 0.1db. Even though PSNR may not be a good perceptual-related metric, 0.1db in PSNR is still a very small performance improvement, which may not justify the proposed method.   3. Since [11] and [21] also used wavelet and CNN for image super-resolution, they are closely related to this paper, and should be compared.  After reading the rebuttal, I raised my score to 6. If the paper is accepted, please add the comparison results with the two prior work and the clarification of technical details in the final version of the paper.