In this paper, the authors studied a safe RL problem in which the constraints are defined over the expected cost over finite length trjectories. Based on the cross-entropy method, the method tracks the reward performance and constratint cost satisfaction and update accordingly the objective function. They further show that the asymptotic behavior of the algorithm can be described by an ordinary differential equation, and give sufficient conditions on the properties of this differential equation to guarantee the convergence of the proposed algorithm.  Simulation shows that this method produces compelling results when compared with CPO, a constrained version of the TRPO algorithm. Furthermore, this algorithm can also effectively solves problem without assumptions on the feasibility of initial policies, even with non-Markovian objective functions and constraint functions.  In general, I think this paper studies a very interesting and practical problem of constrained RL, which also has applications to multi-objective RL. Rather than using gradient-based policy optimization approaches, the authors turn to the evolutionary CE method, where a bunch of policy parameters are sampled from some prior distribution at each iteration, and the best portions of the samples are used to update the distribution of the policy parameter. Specifically, the policy parameter is assumed to have a NEF distribution. Since the RL problem is constrained, the loss function is of a hybrid form.    If the (1−\rho)-quantile of constraint for the current policy distribution is less than the constraint threshold, we select policies by their constraint values in order to increase the probability of drawing feasible policies. On the other hand, if the proportion of feasible policies is higher than \rho, we only select feasible policies with large objective function values. In general, I found the CE procedure intuitive, and the description clearly written.   Furthermore, the authors analyzed the CE algorithm using standard asymptotic analysis of stochastic approximation and ODE, and show that the constrained CE algorithm converges to a local maximum (and feasible) solution almost surely. Although I haven't had a chance to go through the proof details in the appendix, the analysis looks rigorous to me. Then they show that the constrained CE algorithm out-performs CPO in a simple robot navigation problem especially when the cost and constraint functions are non-Markovian, which is very interesting.   However, I have the following technical questions/concerns: 1) Unlike Lagrangian approaches, CPO is a policy gradient method that is derived to guarantee feasibility at every update iteration. Although it's true that in function approximations, without engineering tricks such a guarantee in general might fail to hold, this algorithm is still developed based on principled arguments on constraint satisfaction versus policy improvement. But to the best of my knowledge, for evolutionary methods such as CE, while it can work surprisingly well on some examples, they have the disadvantage of updating parameter values stochastically, without following any explicit gradient that carries information about what changes to parameter values are likely to improve performance. In this case, I suspect the constrained CE can guarantee constraint satisfaction at every update.  2) Since convergence of the proposed algorithm is in the asymptotic sense, why don't we use a Lagrangian approach to solve the constraint problem (i.e., for fixed \lambda, we solve for the unconstrained problem using CE, and update \lambda in a slower time-scale with rewards/constraint cost sampled from the black box)? In this case, we can directly re-use existing algorithms and analysis of unconstrained CE. How does this approach numerically compare with the proposed constrained algorithm?   3) While I appreciate the positive results reported in this paper, (especially the non-Markovian ones) since CE is an evolutionary algorithm, testing only on one domain might not be convincing enough to conclude that constrained CE will always out-perform CPO. Have you compared the proposed method with CPO on the Mujoco benchmarks reported in the CPO paper?   4) Can we extend the constrained CE method to handle infinite horizon problems?