 Those interested in learning deep latent variable models often rely on heuristics to escape local minima found in parameter space. Two such heuristics are: * alpha annealing -- annealing the log joint of the generative model from 0->1 in the variational bound * beta annealing  -- annealing the KL divergence from 0->1  This work aims to incorporate annealing into the variational objective. To achieve this, the work extends an idea from Hierarchical VI. Hierarchical VI uses priors over variational parameters to increase the richness of the variational posterior distribution. Here, the operation to define a prior is used recursively T times to define a transition (and reverse transition so that the entropy can be bounded) from some base distribution. This results in a final variational distribution defined as the marginalization over the entire chain.  The idea, while interesting, is similar to that used in the Salimans et. al work (which uses auxillary momentum variables and Hamiltonian dynamics) to iteratively drive changes to the latent state. Here the intuition for the approach is derived from annealed importance sampling. At each step, the goal is to approximate a geometric interpolation between the prior and posterior density. By learning t different parametric forward and backward transition operators (independently, since the marginals of the previous time step are assumed to be fixed), the paper hopes to "learn to anneal" from the prior density to the marginal of the posterior via T intermediate distributions.  Training is done using a convex combination of (1) the variational bound and (2) a (sum of?) bound for the marginal likelihood of the intermediate density at each point along the transformation.  Experimentally, on synthetic data, learning with AVO is found to learn better generative models than maximizing the ELBO. Compared to IWAE, the method is less computationally intensive. When modeling binarized MNIST HVI [trained with AVO] is found to have better test log-likelihood and lower variational gap (suggesting a learned model for which the inference network provides a closer fit to the generative model's true posterior distribution) compared to learning using the ELBO only. The method however, is outperformed by the Salimans et. al baseline. No explanation is provided for why this might be, though my suspicion is that the gradients from the generative model allow HMC to find good estimates of the posterior density faster.  The main strength of this paper is the introduction of an interesting new idea that interprets annealing as part of the variational objective. I was able to follow the paper though for a reader less familiar with all the different ways to write the ELBO, it would prove a challenging read. The readability and clarity of the work have scope for improvement. From a technical standpoint, the work does not see too much improvement in learning compared to the work by Salimans et. al.  I have the following clarifying questions about the paper: * What is used for \tilde{f} in the final loss (Section 4.3)? * Is it necessary to hold fixed q_t(z_{t-1})? What is the rationale for not backpropagating the loss through it? * Line 153: phi_t is not previously introduced. Does it represent the parameters of both q and r? * Section 4.2, Where does beta_{t-1} come from? * In both the synthetic examples (examples shown in Figure 1, 3), how do VAEs trained with alpha/beta annealing perform respectively? * How should "a" (in Section 4.3 -- training loss) be selected? * Is there a typo in Proposition 1, should it be r_t*(z_{t-1}|z_t)? * Appendix A, line 346 -- which "objective above"?