Overview and Recommendation: This paper presents an algorithm and theoretical analysis for Pconf learning of a binary classifier, when only the positive instances and their conditional class probabilities are available. In contrast to PU learning, which has received attention recently in the ML community, Pconf learning does not require a large amount of unlabeled data or any knowledge of class priors, however it does require confidence weights p(y=+1 | x) for each example x sampled from p(x | y= +1).  The paper is well written and this solution can be useful for many real world applications, therefore, it is a clear accept. Although, the analysis is very similar to the recent analysis for PU learning published by Du Plessis et al. recently at NIPS but the problem setting is novel and interesting.  However, I think that the authors should fix some technical issues with their simulation experiment.  Summary: The main contribution of the paper is the observation that empirical risk minimization for Pconf learning can be done by importance weighting the confidence weighted risk (equation 3) using positive samples. The paper also provides an estimatior error bound for the proposed risk-estimator. The analysis only requires a bounded hypothesis class and a bounded lipschitz loss function on that hypothesis set and shows that estimation error decreases as 1/sqrt(n), which is expected and intuitive. The experimental results also support the theory.  Technical Issues: Loss of accuracy when the separation between clusters increases should simply not happen. The authors justify this by a loss-of-senstivity in the confidence values but in the end this is just a numerical issue. The gradient of the log-linear model used in the experiment can be coded directly, and then an arbitrary-precision floating-point library for python such as mpmath can be used. Since the dimensionality is just 2 and the number of examples is 1000 this experiment should not take up much resources.  ==== After Author Response ===  I am happy to see that the authors made the effort to run the experiment using the arb prec math library which made the experimental results more intuitive. I have increased my rating of the paper, because now the paper does not seem to have any technical issues.