This paper mainly studied online portfolio selection with a cardinality constraint. In full information and partial information cases, authors proposed corresponding algorithms based on existing MWU, FTAL and EXP3 algorithms, which were then proved to be nearly optimal through their regret performances and respective lower bounds. In spite of the exponential running time of proposed algorithms, authors also proved a computational lower bound, which showed there was no polynomial time algorithm could achieve sublinear regret. Further experiments exhibited the efficacy of proposed algorithms.   In general, this paper is well-written, and the problem itself looks interesting. Proposed algorithms are natural to be thought of in the first place, which are combinations of existing best algorithms in respective sub-problems. The main highlight of paper is almost completely solving this problem, i.e. proving corresponding lower bounds as well as a computational lower bound, which shows the near optimality of proposed algorithms, though it doesn’t look so surprising in some sense.      Given above clear results, I still feel kind of confused about some places:   1. In line 134, FTAL used in this paper is a little different from the original FTAL, which doesn’t have an additional square regularizer, so what is the use of this regularizer and is it necessary? 2. In corollary 5, it seems there should be some constraints about the range of k, otherwise for k = d, ONS step can achieve sublinear regret in polynomial time. Please make it clear.   Other minor comments: 1. In the upper bound of combination constraint in table 1, it may be better to use equation (5), as we can see O(d \log T) regret from equation (5) when k = d (i.e. |S| = 1); 2. In line 71, d=\Omega(k) is kind of misleading, as for d =k, we can obtain O(d \log T) regret, which disagrees with the lower bound \sqrt{T}; 3. In line 88 and 95, the regret should be O(d \log T); 4. In line 428, positions of Y_1 and Y_2 are reversed in the last two lines.   Update: Thanks for authors' response, and it solved my confusion. 