Though the proposed framework is novel and general, I have some doubt about its formulation: the user's feedback/realization is revealed after each element is selected seems to make the sequence selection problem easier and less useful in practice. Since we get immediate feedback, the problem becomes that given the history of a user's reaction to a sequence of elements, select the next best element. Or in other words, under the current setting, the algorithm cannot generate a sequence of recommendations on its own, while in practice, for example, we often need to recommend a sequence of movies/ads for users to select/click rather than one at a time.  Moreover, it is not intuitively clear to me why the function is modeled as weekly submodular except that a bound can be obtained based on the gamma parameter. In addition, even though there is a theoretical guarantee, the gamma value can be infeasible to compute depending on the function and thus we may not be able to know the guarantee in practice.  For the experiment part, it is quite reasonable that the proposed method can outperform the baselines that don't utilize the immediate user feedback. Because of the immediate feedback, the feedforward network seems to suit the task very well, which can give good performance if there is enough data. The current method only outperforms DNN based methods when there are few training data, which again limits the usefulness of the approach. Additionally, I also question if the current method can scale to large dataset computationally.  The paper is well organized and the writing is clear.  After rebuttal: Thanks for the detailed feedback from the authors. I have read all other reviewers' comments. My concern about the batch setting and why the function is modeled weakly-submodular remains. Particularly, for the weakly-submodular part, I was expecting some explanations or examples of why the problem is close to submodular. Otherwise, the weakly-submodular setting is merely a tool for getting a bound for optimizing an arbitrary function. I keep my evaluations unchanged.