 This paper studies clustering/community detection in the stochastic blockmodel with degree inhomogeneous vertex degrees. Major advances have been made in recent years on optimal algorithms for clustering in sparse stochastic block models, including a series of works analyzing belief propogation methods and developing spectral algorithms based on nonbacktracking random walks.  This paper studies a family of spectral methods, collectively called the Bethe Hessian, for community detection in sparse graphs sampled from the *degree-corrected stochastic block model*, a variant of the stochastic block model which allows for a variety of degree distributions. High degree vertices typically affect the spectrum of the adjacency matrix by introducing spurious eigenvalues, and so other spectral methods are needed to correct for the degree inhomogeneaty.  The main result of the paper is a detailed heuristic derivation (somewhat statistical physics inspired (as is common in this area)) of the optimal choice of hyperparameter for the Bethe Hessian spectral method. This derivation is validated with some experiments on real-world networks.  I have mixed feelings about this paper. I do not think that it can be accepted on the basis of the theory it presents -- while theoretical motivations for hyperparameter settings are important, I think on its own this is too narrow for NeurIPS acceptance (and it is a demerit that the arguments are not quite rigorous). On the other hand, it does propose an algorithm which seems to beat the state of the art for community detection in some real data -- clearly this is an important benchmark. I think the paper would be substantially improved if the experimental aspect were more deeply explored -- it would be good to compare on real data to e.g. the nonbacktracking operator, and also to demonstrate empirically that the proposed paramter setting for the Bethe Hessian is optimal, rather than only exhibit experiments on one other possible parameter setting.  UPDATE: I have read the author response. I am glad to hear that experiments with other values of $r$ will be added to the paper. Thanks for pointing out that there exists a value of $r$ such that clustering with the Bethe Hessian should act like clustering with B; even looking at ref [8] briefly it is not clear to me how formal this relationship is.