The authors address the problem of designing minimum-cost interventions to fully learn a structural causal model.  Specifically, the authors establish an equivalence between graph separating systems and graph coloring such that they can define an equivalent coloring version of the minimum cost intervention design problem.  This allows them to specify an a (2 + epsilon)-approximation algorithm.  In addition, they show that the minimum-cost intervention design problem is NP-hard,  The results are useful and clearly presented.  A somewhat unrealistic assumption of the paper is that intervention (randomization) is possible on any variable (and any set of variables simultaneously).  In most real systems, the set of variables for which arbitrary interventions are possible is often very small.  Medical researchers, for example, cannot realistically intervene on the gender, age, height, genetics, or occupation of a patient, to name just a few such variables.  The paper would be improved by discussing scenarios in which the conditions assumed in the paper are realistic.  A significant weakness of the paper is that the author assumes causal sufficiency (no latent confounders) despite the fact that experiments provide a powerful tool to avoid this assumption.  Causal sufficiency is one of the least appealing aspects of the PC algorithm, and this is why substantial work has been done on algorithms that elimiante the causal sufficiency assumption (such as FCI and its variants).  Another significant weakness is the assumption that the graph learned through observational data is correct, up to edge orientation.  A large amount of empirical results show that this is unlikely in practice, and the proposed approach does not attempt to check whether the essential graph could be incorrect.  The paper poorly defines interventions, experiments, or both.  Section 1 states that “An intervention is a randomized experiment where we force a variable to take a particular value.”  Experiments randomize some variables (omit all causes and generate the variable from a marginal distribution) and control others (hold their value constant).  Interventions are usually characterized as the latter.  The paper misstates the relationship between direct connection in the DAG and causation.  For example, the authors state that “Given a causal graph, a variable is said to be caused by the set of parents in the graph.”  In actuality, a variable is said to be caused by each of the set of ancestors. 