This paper solves the task of knowledge base completion i.e. filling the missing relations between two entities by combining Statistical Relational Model like Markov Logic, and knowledge graph embedding method like TransE. Authors define a set of rules to be used in MLNs and then define a joint probability distribution over the observed and hidden triplets. Similarly, they define a joint probability distribution using KGE approaches (specifically they chose transE model). Then they employ the variational EM algorithm to learn the MLN weights and finally predicting the probabilities of hidden triplets.   Originality: I really liked the paper, and enjoyed thoroughly reading it. Although people have looked into this idea of combining rule-based and KGE approaches in several papers, the idea of combining a pure SRL model like Markov Logic is new AFAIK. Quality: The paper has an adequate amount of theory, complemented well with the experiments on well-known 4 datasets. The ablation study, both in terms of KGE models and rules of the MLN shows the effectiveness of their approach. However, I have the following issues: (1) they haven't provided details about the rules of MLNs they have created. In the code also, I couldn't find the details about the exact MLN rules they created. For example, for what relations did they create formulas of MLNs?, (2) They have learned MLN weights using a vanilla gradient descent, however almost all the current approaches using MLN use a much better method like prescaled conjugate gradient descent or LBFGS in case of pseudologlikelihood. Do you have a specific reason to not choose those methods? (3) Moreover, they have yet to compare their method against the SOTA method like RotatE. Clarity: The paper is written very clearly, and necessary theorems and proofs have been provided. Significance: This is a significant work, but the lack of comparison against the SOTA method makes it a weak accept.  Some typos: Line 143: Varational -> Variational Eq 6: should be p_w instead of p  UPDATE: I have read the author's feedback and am convinced with their response. I vote for accepting this work for the poster presentation.