Summary: The authors demonstrate that SURE and Noise2Noise, two methods that allow training a denoiser without clean ground truth can be viewed in the same theoretical framework. They show theoretically that Noise2Noise is not generally applicable in cases were the noise in the two images correlated, as it is e.g. the case when training is done with ground truth created by averaging noisy images. They present a novel method (eSURE) as a solution and show that Noise2Noise is a special case of eSURE. While eSURE in general is superior to Noise2Noise in the sense that it can be applied with correlated noise, it also yields slightly better results than vanilla SURE. The method is evaluated on the standard denoising datasets and is compared to sensible baselines (Noise2Noise, vanilla SURE, and standard supervised training). Its performance is in agreement with the theory.  Originality: + The paper presents a highly original theory and derives a novel training method from it.  Quality: + The paper seems theoretically and technically sound.  Clarity: + The paper is well structured. - The clarity of the theory might be improved by being more explicit in some explanations. e.g.: Theorem 3 would be easier to understand if it would be explicitly stated (at least this is how I read it) that y_1 could e.g. correspond to a ground truth with remaining noise and that y_2 could correspond  to an input image with correlated noise. Similarly for the Eq. 7, if the vectors (y-x) and (z-x) were to be introduced mentioning explicitly what they correspond to, the theory might be easier to grasp.  Significance: I believe the paper is highly significant and can further our understanding of machine learning from noisy data. The findings are fundamental and important.  Final Recommendation: Considering the principled original approach and the high significance, I firmly recommend to accept the paper.   ------------------------------------------ Post Rebuttal:  I feel that my concerns and suggestions have been adequately addressed and  I will stick with my initial rating.