The paper proposes a lifted version of the weighted mini-bucket inference algorithm. Weighted mini-bucket is a variant of Variable Elimination that can trade off computational cost (e.g., achieving runtime sub-exponential in the treewidth) for accuracy. It essentially uses Holder inequality and variational approximations to represent "messages" that do not fit in the available memory budget. The main idea is to extend the approach to relational models (e.g., Markov Logic Networks) to take advantage of the additional structure, specifically, the fact that ground factors are produced from first-order templates and therefore share significant structure.   The work appears to be solid, but it is difficult to parse. The notation used is fairly heavy (although that's probably unavoidable), and the paper doesn't provide enough examples to clarify some of the concepts, e.g., what the LWMB tree would look like in some simple cases. Concepts like "monotonicity" are not really explained/defined. The paper might be understandable to the lifted inference sub-community, but for a non-expert, it's quite difficult to follow Sections 3 and 4 (the other parts are actually well written). The fact that other implementation details are omitted ("In practice, we try to keep as much of the structure in tact as possible (details omitted), applying this reparameterization technique parsimoniously."), doesn't help.  The experimental results appear to be weak. The key question that is not answered is, does this advance the state of the art in some way? It is difficult to assess without a comparison with other existing (lifted) inference methods. Comparing with standard variational inference algorithms would also provide some perspective on the performance of the proposed method (including lower bounds in figure 1 to get a sense of how big the improvements are).  Finally, the experimental evaluation is conducted on synthetic models only. It's therefore unclear how well the method would perform in practice, and how much the structure exploited by the proposed technique is useful on real world problems.