Overall the presented result is timely and novel by providing a significant improvement over existing works. I have major concerns with the presentation and discussion on main results and missing references.  1. First of all, it is really important to interpret the meaning of the main result in the context of the problem. The sample complexity is given in terms of the number of channels p, which scales as a polynomial in the length of signal n. In practical applications, we do not expect a very large number for p. Is it really necessary to have p increasing in n? If one recalls classical results on multichannel blind deconvolution with FIR models, two channels suffice. How is the sparsity case fundamentally different from the FIR case? Although this question also applies to previous work, I think this fundamental question is still legitimate and worth a good discussion. Even in Figures 2 and 3, p is very small number compared to n. This is a bit inconsistent with theory.  2. The presentation of the algorithm needs some clarification. The matrix Q is a function of unknown a and hence is not available. In (15), does one need to know Q to perform the last step? I guess it is just for the sake of the analysis. This requires a clarification.  3. In the simulation, the author(s) could have considered illustrating how the reconstruction improves as one applies random initialization, RGD, and LP rounding in a progressive way. This can justify particularly the value of the last step.   4. There are several places where the statements are not clear enough.  - eq (2) is hard to parse.  - The decomposition of a circulant matrix requires a scale factor when F is unitary. Since the authors used the adjoint in the decomposition, it looks like they considered the unitary F.  - I did not follow the sentence 92. How does the nonsmoothness make the analysis difficult?  - The comparison in Figure 1 can be explained with more details. How can one see that the landscape is better with Huber loss?  - line 132: why is it trivial when theta is less than 1/n? - line 157: The union does not cover the entire space. It does if xi converges to 0. Can it still be a valid partition? - The introduction of (10) might be just for the sake of the proofs. Results are directly stated on (9). The authors might want to reorganize the contents to improve the readability.   5. The following paper considered a similar problem and it will be useful to compare the result to it. Augustin Cosse, A note on the blind deconvolution of multiple sparse signals from unknown subspaces