The paper presents a semi-supervised approach for object detection that extends the consistency regularization used for image classification [14] for object detection. Concretely, it proposes using consistency losses for both classification and localization, as well as a background elimination technique that alleviates the class imbalance inherent to object detection. They evaluate their approach with two types of detectors (single and two-stage) on PASCAL VOT 2007 with unlabeled data from VOT2012 and COCO.  Pros:  + The approach is novel, as far as I know no previous work addresses semi-supervised learning with consistency regularization for object detection. + The use of JS divergence over L2 distance is justified and shown experimentally. However, it is not clear to me that conventional semi-supervised learning always uses L2. For example, [14] mentions KL divergence as a possible distance for consistency regularization. + Background estimation is a nice contribution to provide a better adaptation for object detection. It is well motivated and it seems to work well in practice. As a suggestion, another option would be not applying CR on very uncertain samples (e.g. high entropy). This might help when the unlabeled dataset follows a different data distribution. + Convincing results with respect to fully supervised baseline. Adequate ablation showing the effect of each contribution and some analysis of the results, although they could provide more insights on why the combination of con-c and con-l is not always beneficial.  + Good discussion section and nice experiment with two COCO versions. + Overall, the paper is clearly written and fig. 2 is informative.  Cons: - Technically, it is a bit incremental as this type of loss already existed for image classification and the extension to localization is rather trivial.  - The related work section is not very complete in terms of number of cited related works. Some papers that come to mind: Tang et al. CVPR16 "Large Scale Semi supervised Object Detection using Visual and Semantic Knowledge Transfer", and Doersch and Zisserman ICCV17 "Multi-task self-supervised visual learning". - The method is a bit limited when it comes to two-stage detectors, as the RPN is not trained in a semi-supervised manner. The authors could consider (maybe in future work) to apply an analogous treatment for the anchor windows inside the RPN. - I find it curious that CR doesn't work on a fully supervised setting but that it is applied for labeled samples for semi-supervised. I would like to see what happens when the CR is only applied to unlabeled samples in this case.  - A few grammar errors and typos.   Post rebuttal:  The authors addressed many of my concerns and those of other reviewers in the rebuttal. I am still a bit intrigued by the effect of CR on labeled samples but I appreciate the extra experiment. I keep my acceptance score.