Summary: In model-based reinforcement learning, the traditional approaches often alternatively update between dynamic function from real samples and policy network from fictitious samples generated by this learned dynamic. The simplest way to generate these fictitious samples is to propagate the entire trajectories from scratch, starting from the same initial state. This paper argues that this propagation scheme is not so effective as the model errors are accumulated overtime; this explains why not much model-based RL algorithms are reported under long horizon tasks. To address this problem, they present another propagation approach; this time, the policy updating no longer relies on the entire long-horizon fictitious trajectories. Instead, a large number of short-horizon trajectories that are initiated under various visited state in real environment are collected to update the policy.   In overall, the paper proposes an interesting idea to mitigate some issues in existing model-based RL. Its writing is very clear and easy to follow. The idea comes with good theoretical results and provides good insights. They are also linked well with the design of the proposed practical algorithm. Experimental results show an impressive results, where a proposed method considerably outperform almost all of the baseline.   The paper’s idea is basically based on model ensemble learning, short rollout data and soft actor-critic. It initially looks incremental with little twist in the use of such short rollouts in policy learning, but turns out to be very efficient. In some sense, this algorithm can be viewed as ME-SAC. Therefore, I am concerned about the surprisingly poor performance of ME-TRPO (especially on Half Cheetah). I wonder if SAC uses Model-ensemble learning could also perform comparably with MBPO? However, the paper’s idea is backed by good theoretical results, so I think this is a strong work.  Minor comments: - An elaborate about the working of k-branched rollout would be greater.  - section titles should not have all initial capitals.