The paper presents a novel approach to alter the artistic style of images. This is achieved by combining an unsupervised style transfer method [11] with archetypal analysis [3] to learn style representations of collections of paintings (style images). Archetypes are computed for GanGogh and Vincent van Gogh paintings to learn style characteristics, which allows different stylization effects by changing the latent space of the archetypical representation. Due to the archetypical style representation, style changes remain interpretable. The style transfer is done in a hierarchical fashion similar to [11] by matching the first and second order statistics of the content and style feature maps (introduced as whitening and coloring transformations in [11]).   The paper is clearly written and mostly well structured.  - No conclusion is drawn in the end of the paper. Some conclusion / discussion should be added.  - An image similar to Fig 1. in [11] could improve describing the workflow (including the differences of Eq. 3 and Eq. 4).  Implementation details are omitted in the paper but since the implementation will be made publicly available, it should be easy to reproduce the results.  The presented paper combines familiar techniques (i.e. [11] and [3]) in a novel way and presents adequate advances over existing methods. While [11] only use the content image as input to the lowest level (i.e. the stylized content images are propagated to higher levels), the proposed method uses the content image for each level, which better preserves content information (i.e. content information altered by stylization of lower levels are lost otherwise). In contrast to [7], the representation of the styles using archetypes is better interpretable, this allows for better artistic control. While the quality stylization papers is difficult to judge due to the artistic component, the idea of combining archetypes and style transfer is clearly motivated, leading to a representation that allows to alter image style an interpretable fashion.  Given the recent advances in style transfer in academic and industrial research, the tackled problem can be seen as important. While the individual parts are not novel (i.e. [11] and [3]), their combination leads to stylization approach with interpretable degrees of freedom that is worth being published. Given that the proposed method allows to alter artistic style in an interpretable way, and the implementation will be made publicly available, other researchers will likely build on this.   Some general comments and questions: - Lines 88-90 state that the dimensionality is reduces with SVD, keeping more than 99% of the variance. Reporting the percentage of kept variance assumes a Gaussian distribution. However, the style representations are most likely not Gaussian distributed.  - Why are there style artifacts visible in Fig 5. lower left image for [11] for gamma = 0 (i.e. artifacts in the faces are clearly visible)? For gamma = 0, (see Equation 4), the method should in each level encode and decode the content image and pass it to the next level. The style should not effect the output image - Line 179 how is one texture per archetype synthesized with the approach of [11]?