This paper addresses Bayesian optimization for an objective function belonging to the RKHS induced by some kernel with heavy-tailed non-subGaussian noise. The first algorithm simply applies GP-UCB with truncated reward, and achieves sublinear regret for general kernels though it is not optimal. The second algorithm uses approximation of a kernel by features with appropriately chosen dimension and makes truncation depending on each feature, which matches the regret lower bound for some kernels.  The formulation of the problem is well-motivated and the regret lower and upper bounds are highly non-trivial. In addition, the kernel approximation in the framework of the (theoretical analysis of) BO is quite interesting and seems to be of independent interest for general BO framework (not only with heavy-tailed noise).  The following are few minor concerns for the paper. - The truncation strategy in this paper maps reward (or its counterpart for the ATA-GP-UCB) larger than b_t to 0, not b_t. As far as I scan the appendix it seems to make no problem, but it is somewhat not intuitive since the truncated reward changes non-continuously. So it would be beneficial if there is some explanation (from theoretical and/or experimental viewpoints). - It is unclear on the dimension of the QFF embedding. As discussed around Lemma 1, m_t should not be too large. Nevertheless, Theorem 3 only specifies a lower bound of m for the regret bound. It seems from the appendix that the order of m must be equal to (and no larger than) the specified value in Theorem 3. - Regarding the dimension of the kernel approximation, it would be interesting to compare the empirical results for different choice of m (or q) to evaluate how the requirement (m should not be too large) is essential rather than for the theoretical analysis. - In Line 338, I don't understand what "we simulate rewards as y(x) = f(x) + eta, where eta takes values in {-10,10}, uniformly, for any single random point in X, and is zero everywhere else" means. Isn't a single point in a real space is picked with probability zero? - Remark 7: "Theorem 3 and 4" should be "Theorems 3 and 4".  ------------ The feedback is convincing to me and please explicitly write them in the final  version since they are unclear from the current manuscript.