Although the idea of a functional correspondence between ANN components and brain regions is a key motivating idea in this paper, it has to be noted that brain “areas” can be functionally and anatomically heterogeneous. Therefore, the one-to-one mapping between the number of model components and the number of brain regions may be a bit arbitrary and simplistic. Can we really say for sure it should be four areas, and not five or six? Moreover, the assumption that the circuitry does not differ across regions seems simplistic.   Lines 89-101: How are these architecture details decided on? For example, “V2_COR and IT_COR are repeated twice, V4_COR is repeated four times”. As far as I can see, there is no a priori justification or explanation for many of these choices. If there has been extensive preliminary architecture search then this should be stated clearly. (The circuitry analysis (Fig 5) does mitigate this point somewhat).  Although the paper is generally well-written, there are a number of places where the text doesn’t really flow (perhaps as a result of extensive editing and re-organisation). For example, “Feedforward Simplicity” is mentioned on line 59 but without any definition or explanation. (Personally, I find the phrase a bit strange, since the whole point of the models is that they are not feedforward - - perhaps “information flow simplicity” or just “model simplicity” is better?)  Line 164: counting recurrent paths only once seems a little strange: shouldn’t a model with recurrence be measured as more complex than one without recurrence, all else being equal?   Line 206: I am not sure it is clear what “category” means here.  Line 253: I realise space is a limiting factor, but I think it would be good to have more detailed information about the object recognition task the monkey is performing.   The evolution of representations in recurrent neural network models of object vision over time and their relation to neural data over time (e.g. line 76) is tested in Clarke et al 2018 (JoCN), in relation to human MEG data.  One general comment I have about this paper is that it is not always clear what this paper’s novel contribution is, in relation to other pre-prints published by what I suspect is the same lab. There are a number of interrelated arXiv preprints on this work, and it is not always clear what is novel in each. For example, is this current paper to be taken as the first published presentation of the “Brain-Score” benchmark? If so, it should be described much more extensively than it is. If not, it should not be regarded as a novel contribution of this paper (just reference the earlier preprint).   