This paper first performs an error decomposition of the ERM paradigm into classical statistical learning measures. These errors are bounded for the START algorithm introduced in this paper. The key concept used from statistical learning is uniform stability. While, I think this exercises is important and interesting, it was not quite clear to me which conclusion I should draw from the analysis. We know that simple algorithms, like SGD (even in non-convex cases), generalize well, so what is the main take-away message for me after reading this paper? That SGD has slow convergence is folk wisdom, so can't be the important take-away.   • The terminology „testing error“ for the population risk is not very fortunate in my opinion.  • Eq. 2: It should be written with respect to which variable derivatives are taken here.  • If A is a randomized algorithm, what is then the meaning of f(A(S),Z)? Is A(S) a random variable, or a random probability measure (the latter point is for instance standard in game theory and also used in Shalev-Schwartz, Shamir, Srebro and Sridharan JMLR2010 „Learning, Stability and Uniform Convergence)? If you go for the second option, then there is no need to carry the heavy notation in the expectation operator.  • Why is there a <= in the error decomposition after line 96? To me this looks as equality should hold.  • line 119: Z_{i} can be replaced by a generic random variable, and the subscript in the expectation operator is not needed.  • PL is defined here given a data sample. It is required to hold uniformly over all samples of the same length. In particular, the constant mu is deterministic. The same remark applies to the uniform bound \epsilon_{0} in line 121.  • line 128: „whole“ • line 143: Expectation can be taken with respect to a generic random variable Z. There is no need for the subscript i.  • I don’t understand Algorithm 2. It seems that F^{gamma}_{w} is never used in this routine? What does the function O represent at stage 5 of Algorithm 2? This becomes only clear after reading Theorem Section 4. • Line 256: “behaved”.  • Line 257: I am confused by the way you want to choose theta. I assume you want theta to be very large? • Check the sentences in line 330 and 348. 