This paper proposes looking at disparities in classifier outcomes across sensitive attributes as a problem to be remedied by data collection as opposed to classifier modification. The authors advocate decomposing the loss of a classifier into bias, variance, and noise, which allows for a more fine-grained analysis of the sources of disparate outcomes. Based on the this decomposition, the authors show that reducing disparity in outcome may require increasing the bias or variance of predictions.  The authors go on to suggest that instead of constraining classifiers to produce parity in outcomes, collecting more data could be sufficient to reduce discrimination. In particular, they make the assumption that the learning curve (error as a function of training set size) follows an inverse power law, an assumption with both empirical and theoretical support.  Using subsampling, the authors demonstrate that this curve is a good approximation for the types of errors considered and use the predictions it makes to estimate the reduction in disparity that could be achieved by collecting additional data. They perform several experiments on publicly available datasets to demonstrate these improvements.  Finally, the authors suggest a framework for identifying clusters of individuals for whom additional features should be collected. Given a clustering, they propose a metric which indicates that the available features are more predictive on one subgroup than another, meaning that more features are required to improve predictive performance on the disadvantaged subgroup. They perform experiments with simple heuristics to choose clusters, finding some intuitively compelling explanations for disparities in predictive performance.  Overall, I think this is a solid paper. It provides a fresh take on a problem that has received a lot of attention lately. Moreover, it provides an approach that, unlike many in the fairness space, could actually be used in practice. Targeted collection of data is far less controversial and more legally feasible than most of the solutions that have been proposed.  Technically, the paper makes some nice, clean points; however, to me, the main contribution is conceptual as opposed to technical.  The experiments on finding clusters with high disparity seem to be more of a proof of concept than a proposed solution, and I would have liked to see a more structured way of identifying such clusters.