As far as I know, the model is novel. As was recognized earlier by Rao & Ruderman, Lie groups are an elegant way to think about visual invariance, and this model appears to be the first attempt to specify how the brain might learn to approximate such a representation. One thing that I felt was lacking was a discussion of why Lie groups are useful at a conceptual level. The authors offer a very brief technical introduction and then jump right into the learning model.  It's significance as a biological model is a bit hard for me to ascertain, because the authors don't really evaluate it with respect to benchmark physiological data, apart from a few stylized facts. What one would want to see is that known receptive field properties of these neurons emerge from this learning rule. For example, in their discussion of mammalian pyramidal cells, the authors argue that known properties of these neurons would allow them to carry out these computations, but I didn't see any discussion of how the representations posited by their model offer a better account of cortical tuning properties than any alternative model.  In the discussion of the Hassenstein-Riechardt detector, it was interesting to see that the model could capture the dependence on three pixels (although this confused me because neurons don't get information about pixels in the real world). But I would have liked to see that the tuning functions for this model actually better account for fly motion detector tuning functions compared to the Hassenstein-Reichardt detector, or any other model (surely there are more recent ones?).  Minor comments:  p. 5: "Now we have identified" -> "Now that we have identified"  ------------  Post-rebuttal comments:  The responses to my comments were thoughtful. In terms of model comparison, I was looking for comparisons in terms of how well the models fit data (what are the data that this model explains and other models don't). It didn't seem like the response provided that. Instead, they showed that it was more robust compared to another model, which doesn't say anything about fit to empirical data. Overall, I've decided to increase my rating by one point.