I have read the other reviews and the author rebuttal. I am still very much in favor of accepting this paper, but I have revised my score down from a 9 to an 8; some of the issues pointed out by the other reviewers, while well-addressed in the rebuttal, made me realize that my initial view of the paper was a bit too rosy. ------------------------ This paper presents a deep generative model for unsupervised modeling of moving objects in image sequences. The model starts with the basic Attend, Infer, Repeat (AIR) framework and extends it to handle images sequences (SQAIR). This extension requires taking into account the fact that objects may enter into or leave the frame over the course of a motion sequence. To support this behavior, SQAIR's generative and inference networks for each frame have two phases. First, a *propagation* network extrapolates the positions of existing objects forward in time, then decides whether any of those objects are no longer in the frame and should be 'forgotten.' Second, a *discovery* network proposes new objects that have entered the frame, conditioned on the output of the propagation network. SQAIR is quantitatively evaluated on a moving MNIST dataset by its test-set NLL, image reconstruction accuracy, divergence between learned prior and approximate posterior, accuracy at counting the number of objects, and accuracy on a supervised task involving predicting the sums of digits present in the image using the learned latent representation. It is also qualitatively evaluated for its ability to reconstruct, complete, and generate image sequences both on the moving MNIST dataset and on the DukeMTMC pedestrain CCTV dataset. SQAIR outperforms AIR and VRNN, and is qualitatively better able to handle occlusions and objects entering/leaving the frame.  This is very good work. Even a few years ago, a model that can perform unsupervised object detection and tracking in video sequences would have been unthinkable--this work points toward a future where that is very possible. Now, given the existence of AIR, perhaps a sequential extension of AIR might seem like an obvious idea. However, getting the implementation of that idea right is far from trivial, and the architecture proposed here (propagation + discovery) is well-motivated and seems to work well. The paper is written clearly and provides sufficient detail and evaluation. I am very much in favor of accepting this paper.