This paper provides an interesting robust option learning formulation that's based on cost minimization and CVaR constraint, and propose an option-critic algorithm for the CVaR MDP problem. The authors also provided some derivations of robust option learning algorithms (that's based on soft robust loss function in equation 1) in the appendix.   While I think these robust option-critic algorithms and derivations can potentially be solid contributions to the hierarchical RL (HRL) community, I do have the following questions/concerns: 1) While I understand the paper is proposing the CVaR option learning algorithm, how're the derivations of option-critic w.r.t. soft robust loss related to the CVaR option critic algorithm? Without looking further into the literature, it seems that the soft robust option-critic algorithm is also something that the authors are trying to propose/analyze in this paper? Are there any relationships between these analysis and the CVaR augmented MDP?  2) Without further understanding of the analysis (from the above question), it seems the contribution of this work is quite incremental. Because when the CVaR MDP is expressed as an augmented MDP, why can't one just apply Bacon's option-critic algorithm for risk-neutral MDPs to solve this problem?   The CVaR MDP augmentation technique has also been proposed by Chow 2014 (which referred to some other earlier papers, such as https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00186-011-0367-0 for similar techniques used in the special case of finite horizon problems). So it seems the novelty here is only to extend this CVaR MDP framework to include options.  3) While the experimental results are positive in showing that CVaR option-critic outperforms most other baselines, most benchmarks are simple mujoco control task. Can the authors provide some motivations on why option-learning are needed here? I understand that for the hopper ice-block problem, using option framework probably makes sense, and I appreciate the in-depth study that is included in the Appendix. But for other tasks such as halfcheetah and walker, why can't we just solve the problem with standard CVaR PG, such as ones from Tamar 15 and Chow 14? If so, how does the performance of the vanilla CVaR PG algorithm compare with the option-critic counterpart?   That being said, in general this work potentially has some good contributions to robust option learning. The following score is merely reflecting my above concerns/questions. I would consider adjusting that based on the authors' responses.