The paper is concerned with the topic of increasing data efficiency in reinforcement learning by using an uncertainty aware model. This is a very important topic, in my opinion. The paper presents a method, based on neural network rollouts with stochastic sampling. This method is tested on four different benchmarks and compared to ten alternative approaches. This study is an important contribution, in my opinion. I think the paper would benefit, if it would not claim a too general novelty of the method---there have been very similar methods before, see "Decomposition of Uncertainty in Bayesian Deep Learning for Efficient and Risk-sensitive Learning" Stefan Depeweg et al. arXiv:1710.07283  and "Uncertainty Decomposition in Bayesian Neural Networks with Latent Variables" Stefan Depeweg et al. arXiv:1706.08495   I think the paper should not claim presenting the first neural network based model based RL with uncertainty incorporation, but just report the specific methods and the results,  which are a very worthy reference for the ongoing research on the topic of uncertainty aware RL. The paper is well organized and written.  These are my concerns:  As the paper is on neural network based model based RL, I think in line 22 there should also be mentioned the work on recurrent neural network based RL by Bram Bakker and Anton Schaefer e.g. B. Bakker, The state of mind: Reinforcement learning with recurrent neural networks, Ph.D. thesis, Leiden University, 2004. and Anton Schaefer e.g. A. M. Schaefer, Reinforcement Learning with Recurrent Neural Networks, PhD thesis, University Osnabruck, 2008   In line 27 "MBRL methods ... generally trail behind model-free methods". It should be made clear, that this is a subjective belief, like "our experiments have shown", or "from  our experience", "we have observed". Or you should give a reference that supports this rather general claim.  Same for the sentence, starting in line 28 "That is, ..."  Same for line 37 "they tend to overfit and make poor predictions" and line 38 "For this reason..."   Line 80 "In contrast to these prior methods" should be "In contrast to these prior publications" --- the differences are not due to the method, but  due to the larger number of benchmarks and methods for comparison in the present paper.  In the same sentence "In contrast to these prior methods, our experiments focus on more challenging tasks". It is not obvious, that the benchmarks, used in this paper are "more complex" as the "industrial benchmark" of  Depeweg et al. see "Decomposition of Uncertainty in Bayesian Deep Learning for Efficient and Risk-sensitive Learning" Stefan Depeweg et al. arXiv:1710.07283   Please consider, that the separation of aleatoric uncertainty and epistemic uncertainty in Bayesian neural network based model based RL has been analyzed in  "Decomposition of Uncertainty in Bayesian Deep Learning for Efficient and Risk-sensitive Learning" Stefan Depeweg et al. arXiv:1710.07283  Post Rebuttal ============ The Author Feedback suggests, that the authors have addressed or will address the concerns which I have expressed w.r.t. too strong claims concerning novelty.   