Originality :  The proposed method is a novel combination of existing methods. This combination comes with theoretical guarantees and practical tools to deal with the obvious tuning complexity.  Quality :  All claims and proposition are justified and detailed (if not in the paper, in the supplementary material). I did not find flaws in it.  The interest of incorporating universum examples is shown (already done in binary case) and the motivation to adapt the framework to multiclass case, is established : forcing a universum example to be neutral for all classes makes sense. The paper proposes a complete piece of work concerning the proposed algorithm. However I'm less convinced by the experimental evaluation :  the bibliography points previous works on universum prescription (at least) that are not taken into account in the experimental part. Experiments only compare the proposed method to the ones it is build on (SVM and binary U-SVM), which is not enough : it's a good start but not a complete study. I could even suspect that the comparison could be in favor of universum prespription, surely in terms of complexity, and maybe in terms of accuracy too... an argument in favour of MU-SVM could be the fact that it can easily be applied to small dataset, but avoiding the comparison is not a good option.  Clarity :  The paper is clearly written and quite easy to follow. There are a few missing notations and some figures don't have a sufficient definition and are ugly once printed.   Significance : this is the weak point of the paper. MU-SVM does not apply to large dataset (ok could be a positive argument in some contexts) but even for small datasets it has many hyper-parameters and a high training complexity. Obviously the authors have worked hard on alleviating this problem but I'm not sure it will be enough in practice.   Details in the order of appearance in the manuscript: eq(2) : \Lambda not defined eq(3) : \delta_{ij} deifned only for eq(7) l110 : "thet the" eq(11) : d? l143 : I did not catch z_i definition, what are zeros ? sec 3.4 : are we sure that good parameters for M-SVM are good for MU-SVM?  l 194 : assumptions are very restrictive... (but experiments semmes to validate the approximation) l 201 the Kronecker definition should have appear earlier in the paper (l 145)    