Thanks to the authors for their response! I maintain that a lot of good work was put in, and primarily recommend including some mention/intuition of scenarios where the proposed method would be preferred over an existing approach (like the examples given in the response). If possible, I think deriving an algorithm based on this foundation and empirically evaluating it (even in a toy domain), would greatly strengthen the paper!  -----  The paper had minor grammatical errors. It's clear that a lot of work was put in, and many key theoretical results were worked out for their proposed setting. However, I think the paper strongly lacks in motivation. They suggest that instead of representing a probability distribution over returns, one can instead represent the Fourier transform of it. Can the authors provide any intuition as to why this might be a preferred approach? Are there any known drawbacks of existing distributional RL approaches that this approach can better handle?  They show that the characteristic value function in the frequency domain satisfies a Bellman-like equation, which might not be surprising given the linearity of the Fourier transform. Interestingly, it results in a multiplicative form instead of an additive form. Are there any insights as to whether or not this operator might be better behaved compared to the additive form of standard distributional RL?  They then characterized the error one might expect from approximately applying value iteration in the frequency domain, and how its implications on errors in the underlying probability distribution. I think this was a good direction as it attempts to tie things back to the standard approach of estimating a probability distribution, but are there any insights on how this might compare to errors in trying to approximate the probability distribution directly?  An interesting parallel is that prior work has been done exploring the Fourier transform of returns in the expected, non-distributional setting (De Asis, 2018). While not about the return distribution, perhaps it could give context or motivate why viewing reinforcement learning from the frequency domain might be interesting.