The paper is about popular adaptive importance sampling (AIS) schemes. The authors formulate a fairly general central limit theorem (CLT) for the AIS, and also introduce an original 'weighted' AIS scheme, which is similar to the one suggested in [1]. The authors report some promising empirical findings for their weighted AIS.  The central limit theorem relies on a (fairly obvious) martingale representation, stemming from the unbiasedness of importance sampling. The result is different from existing CLTs in that it does not assume the number of samples per sampling stage to increase. This might be appealing in certain applications. The required condition (V(q_n,\phi) -> V_* a.s.) is rather implicit, and it is unclear how this condition can be checked in practice.  The weighted AIS is presented briefly, and tested empirically. It is noted in the abstract and the introduction, that samples may be 'forgot' by the weighted AIS, but I failed to recover from ยง4.1 how this happens in practice. There is not much theory to support the method. Estimation of variance can be misleading, and the authors do regularisation in their experiments. This could be discussed in the weighted AIS ยง4.1.  It may be also misleading to write about 'efficiency,' without taking into account computational aspects (complexity of the algorithm). When using a direct implementation of the AIS, the cost may tend to infinity, if all samples are retained. In such a case, the algorithm is definitely not 'efficient,' as stated in the abstract.  Minor remarks: * typo: "Liebler", should be "Leibler" (several times) * p.5 below (9) typo: "compare compare" * Normalised AIS ยง2.3 needs some attention: It does not make (at least immediate) sense to have a product of normal *distribution* and a constant u^T, and the definition of u is broken. * It is a misleading to call the 2001 paper [13] "state-of-the-art" (adaptive MCMC).   [1] Douc, R., Guillin, A., Marin, J. M., & Robert, C. P. (2007). Minimum variance importance sampling via population monte carlo. ESAIM: Probability and Statistics, 11, 427-447.