Very strong paper which is reporting on a large scale AV project.  As such it describes many parts of a very complex system, relying on a lot of other work and systems, but contributing by showing how it all fits together to do a new thing.  The new thing is the use of importance sampling over parameters for models of human drivers in a driving simulator, in order to better estimate collision probabilities for AV controllers.     This relies on a huge stack of prior work comprising: (1)  a complex physical driving simulator (which brilliantly, is open sourced, and presentation of such a facility to the community would make a great publication just by itself);   and (2) a parametric model of human driver behaviour based on a GAN-style imitation learner, which maps an input vector describing the scene to a prediction of other drivers actions.  Paper is clearly written and structured, however for slightly dumber readers like this one I would suggest trying to add a bit more detail on exactly what are the inputs and outputs of this human driver predictor.   From my reading: I /think/ they are a mixture of geometric numbers describing distances to other vehicles and similar, plus a load of raw lidar (and other?) sensor data for the deep learner to do its thing with.  But predicting humans is really, really, hard, and so I'd like to be more certain about exactly what these are in order to see what real-world inputs of interest might be missing.   I'd also like a clearer presentation of how accuracte the predictions are for the human drivers seen in a test set of the input data;  there are arguments that human prediction of other drivers is based on all manner of psychology relevant input features so I want to know exactly what is the prediction accuracy here (maybe compared to how well human video watchers can do too if possible?).   Given the high quality of the paper its possible this is already mentioned but if so please point me to it and/or make clearer in the text; otherwise please add.  Impressively again, these models are also promised as fully open source (though not yet for anonymity reasons) which sounds EXCELLENT.  Given all of the above stack, we then come to the actual research contribution of the paper, which is the use of importance sampling to estimate the craqsh probability for controllers.    Importance sampling is of course quite standard but doing it on this scale and on such complex models is interesting to see, and appears to be a useful and important application to a real problem.  So is a great paper for three main reasons (1) as an update on a big ongoing project for this community;  (2) as a provider of some big and useful open source tools for the community; and (3) for the interesting and useful use of importance sampling over a novel simulation and model.  Good to see my suggestion for evaluation addresses in the author response, and to see the confirmation that everything will be open-sourced.