The authors propose a DDC as a framework for representing an inference network that describes a stochastic latent dynamical system. The authors claim that the DC framework is what makes this method “neurally plausible.” The authors describe their method in detail, describe a learning procedure, and demonstrate the utility of their method by showing that the method reproduces some psychophysical observations from human studies.  The paper appears to be well researched and technically well developed but lacks somewhat in clarity. In particular, the development of the DDC framework and learning rules is very detailed, but the authors are a bit loose with language and its not clear from paragraph to paragraph where they are going. Since the DDC is not a standard approach to modeling and inference, it is the onus of the authors to hold the hand of the reader a bit.  I outline many of these points below along with some grammatical and spelling errors.  Equation (2): The authors do not distinguish what they mean by “neurons”.  For example, in equation (2), are the authors meaning to describe the mean firing rate of biological neurons or activations of neurons in an artificial neural network? If it’s the latter, how does this relate to real neurons, where there is point-process noise?  Line 92: the authors state “ encode a random variable” but equation (2) does not seem to be encoding a random variable but the distribution of that variable.    Maybe this is a distinction without a difference but I find it helpful to be clear here. If I understand correctly r_Z is not a function of z, but is just a list of numbers that is a (possibly lossy) encoding of the distribution over Z. This list of numbers is then used to compute approximate expectations wrt that distribution.  Is that correct?  Line 118: “as long as the brain is able to draw samples according to the correct internal model” Isn’t the point to learn the correct model? This seems like circular reasoning. How is the brain to learn the model of a distribution by sampling from that distribution? The same goes for the sampling described in Section 3.2.  Line 141: “for at least K_\psi/K_\gamma”  at least K_\psi/K_\gamma what? This sentence seems to have been cut off abruptly.  Eq (3) and (12): How do the authors propose that the brain learn the alphas? Should this be obvious? Should it be trivial that the brain knows what function it should approximate?  Line 41-42: “however, the plausibility or otherwise of these hypotheses remains debated” Its not clear that the authors have improved on this state of affairs in this paper. The authors could comment further on this point.  Lines 190-195: This section seems superfluous.  Can the authors describe what relevance this section has to the literature?  What is the point they are making here?  Maybe this space could have been better used by fleshing out their method more carefully.  Figure 1: Why are there multiple buses displayed at some time points?  Line 46: “The causal process of realistic..”-> “The causal process of a realistic...” Line 49: “ analytical solution are…”->” analytical solution is...” Line 57: “for the brain learns…” ->“for the brain to learn...” Line 83: “ easy to samples” -> “easy to sample” 