The paper considers an efficient coding setup in which the input receptors are non-uniformly distributed. The optimal neuronal allocation is derived based on varying sensory bottleneck and  input density.  To my knowledge, this particular setup has not been carefully studied in the previous work.  Overall the study is well executed and the logic is clear. The method used is also technically sound.  The paper is generally well written, and relatively easy to follow.    I have two main concerns:  First, the current model setup ignores many critical ingredients, such as noise in the output, noise in the input, output nonlinearity, and the metabolic cost. It is known that these factors can fundamentally change the optimal coding configuration.  The model presented currently is a linear model without output (spiking) noise and metabolic cost. It is difficult to judge how these additional ingredient might change the solution derived in the present work. This is an important issue because it affects the interpretation and the potential contribution of this work, in terms of how well the theory could explain the neurophysiology, as well as whether the regime considered in the paper is a relevant regime for understanding the physiology.  Second, while the theoretical derivations are neat and the analytical results are interesting, the connections to experiments are rather weak, at least as it stands now. The application to the natural images statistics with the 1D model is helpful, but the relevance to the physiology is largely unclear. This makes the significance of the work uncertain.  More specific comments: Concerning modeling the non-uniform input- Does input X contain any input noise? If so, how does the non-uniform input density affect the characteristics of the input noise? If not, how would adding input noise change the results?  It is not obvious how receptor density is modeled in Eq (6). It would useful to clarify.  Line 26- it would useful to cite previous work to support the claim here.  Line 188,189- it would be useful to cite the relevant experimental literature here.  The title doesn’t seem to fully capture the gist of the paper; I’d suggest something like ”Optimal resource allocation in sensory bottlenecks with non-uniform input sampling”. Of course, this is entirely up to the authors..  ** edit after the rebuttal  I found the authors' response and the discussion with other reviewers to be helpful.  Although I still like to see more ingredients such as input/output noise, metabolic constraints, nonlinearity, to be added to the theory to make it more relevant for neurophysiology, at the same time,  I think the current version is already interesting enough. Although I am not increasing my score here, I'd like to vote for acceptance of this paper.