Summary: Recall standard Principal Component Analysis (PCA) with respect to squared norm can be generalized into PCA for exponential family where minimizing Bregman divergence with respect to Legendre conjugate of cumulant functions [5, 9, 17]. This paper first presents this type of generalization of PCA for compositional data, non-negative data with constant sum (data bounded onto a specific simplex). In traditional statistics, handling with compositional data by standard methods is known to be problematic and result in misleading conclusions. Due to developments of Aitchison's Compositional Data Analysis (CoDA), pre-transformation by alr, clr, or ilr would be a standard way to handle compositional data. This paper focus on clr which can be regarded as the form of log(x/g(x)) by gauge g (actually, geometric mean) as seen in eq (1), and thus we can reformulated with a gauged version of Bregman divergence called scaled Bregman divergence. According to this observation, the paper presents a PCA formulation (CoDA-PCA) for clr-transformed data of exponential family in terms of the scaled Bregman divergence. After further relating this CoDA PCA to KL divergence, it turned out that the loss of CoDA PCA is upperbounded in a specific form (weighted generalized phi-PCA in the paper). Minimizing this upper bound leads a rather simple formulation of so-call Surrogate CoDA PCA (s-CoDA-PCA) on the 'original' data before clr transformation. This understanding enables us to further use autoencoder to replace linear coordinate transformation by a nonlinear transformation, and thus provides a method for 'representation learning of compositional data' as the paper's title indicates. The experiments using microbiome data confirms that the proposed method works for these real-world datasets with respect to many possible measures.  Strengths: - This paper provides interesting connections of some theoretical ideas such as PCA for exponential families by Bregman divergence and reparametrization by Legendre conjugate of cumulant functions, clr transformation and the gauged version of Bregman divergence (scaled Bregman divergence), derivation of the upperbound of CoDA PCA as well as Surrogate CoDa PCA, and its extension with autoencoders.   - In addition to the intuitive visualization as in Figure 1, the experiments of PCA results using microbiome datasets are evaluated by many measures, and on most of the measures proposed CoDA-PCA and CoDA-AE are favored against the others.  - Experimental results are based on all of mentioned methods, CLR-PCA and CLR-AE vs CoDA-PCA, SCoDA-PCA, CoDA-AE. Some observations such as the unstable behaviors of CLR-AE against CoDA-AE, and the fact SCoDA-PCA is mostly good against CoDA-PCA are quite interesting.   Weakness: - All of this paper's results highly depends on the use of clr for handling compositional data, because it is of the form of a 'gauged' function. But for traditional treatment of Aitchison geometry, ilr rather than clr would be another popular choice. But this paper's formulation seems to be difficult to apply to ilr, and the implications by this generalization might be limited. Actually, I'm not so sure whether applying PCA to clr-transformed data would be a typical option.  - Some parts of theoretical notations and concepts are simply undefined or a bit hard to follow. For example, at the line 109, cite [2] (and [17]) for the formulation of eq (5), but is this true? ([2] is the book by Aichison, and might be wrong, [5] or [9] or so?). Another unclear symbol is R_* of the domain of function g. Is this any limitation or a standard notation in some math subfield?  - The paper's title is a bit misleading, and it seems to emphasize the CoDA-AE part, but most of the paper are actually devoted to present CoDA-PCA and s-CoDA-PCA, and the 'representation learning' discussion is quite limited.   Comment: - Is the formulation of eq (5) well known result? I've heard of the formulation of [9] for PCA for exponential family. But I'm not familiar with introducing the gradient of conjugate in this formulation. Does this come from reparametrization of coordinates in information geometry such as [5] or something? It would be helpful to add some references, or some exact pointers to understand this seemingly more modern formulation than the one [9].  - At line 132, 'conformal divergence are defined and analyzed in [23]', but how about the 'perspective divergence'...? I couldn't understand this abstract statement above the line 132.  Comment after author response:  Thank you for the response. It's nice to hear that the authors make links clearer between: exponential family PCA, scaled Bregman theorem, and compositional data as well as the careful recheck and polish of the formulations and notations. I also understood, as the authors claim, that PCA can be regarded as linear representation learning, which would be relevant for the paper's title.  