Summary: The paper considers the decomposable submodular function minimization (DSFM) problem. They define incidence relation between the submodular functions and the elements of the ground set to propose an alternating projection algorithm and random co-ordinate descent algorithm that can be used to solve the DSFM problem. They show their results on images to demonstrate that they need lesser number of projections than the state of art.  Pros: - The bounds on the number of iterations required to solve the problem for an epsilon optimal solution are promising. - They define incidence relation between submodular functions and the elements of the ground set that they use to propose these fast algorithms. However, this uses the basic idea that alternating projection onto orthogonal low dimensional polytopes leads to quicker convergence as shown by Nishihara et al, Incidence relationship encodes the orthogonality of the base polytopes instrinsically. This is my understanding. -  They show the experiments on oct and smallplant images and compare them with the state of art algorithms.  Cons/Clarifications: - The authors did comment about the standard MNP that is used to project onto the base polytope and the projection algorithm they use. I would like them to elaborate further if it is possible to get exact projections. I believe exact projections may only be achieved using divide and conquer that assumes and Submodular Functions Minimization oracle for each F_r. - I remember to have used the code by Prof. Stefanie Jegelka to solve the discrete and continuous problems using Alternating Projection and Douglas Rachford. They seems to have converged much quicker on the same datasets as compared to the results shown. It would be helpful for me to understand if the code was modified to have a different alternating projection. If so would it be possible to compare the original code with the proposed ones on the same dataset.  Update after Author Response: I apologize I agree that MNP is exact but expensive. However, the results section does not seem to do a fair comparison of different algorithms. Therefore, I would like to stick to my earlier rating as I believe, the theoretical contribution is not completely novel and the results section is not strong enough.   