UPDATE: Thanks to the authors for their responses. I appreciate the time they took to provide clarifications and run an additional experiment.  ORIGINAL REVIEW: The authors use the theory of optimal transport, particularly Eulerian mass transport with entropic approximation and inclusion of a “sink” bin to perform large scale computation of means and clusterings of persistence diagrams. Along the way, they also provide other contributions such as sinkhorn divergence for PDs as well as computation of PD barycenters. The key contribution seems to be the way that the authors have handled the diagonal points during the computations.  The paper is well-written and fairly easy to follow with sufficient background in topology and OT, and I enjoyed reading the paper. Here are my comments: 1. The point that is not clear to me is claiming equal number of points in the two PDs after including bins for the diagonals, but the mathematical expressions showing a different thing. For example, in (8), C is of size (n_1+1) x (n_2+1), but line 120 speaks about equal number of points.  2. In lines 204-205, the histograms are R^(dxd+1) --- the number of diagonal bins is just 1 with a mass equal to that in the other PD. In this case, how can there the transport problem be the same as matching? Since the bin for the diagonal has a much larger mass than other bins, the transport to and from diagonals will not be just one to one matching, right? Please clarify this.  3. Why is the gradient step in Alg. 2 in the exp space? Why is it not simply z = z-\lambda \Delta? Is it because of the property given in lines 239-241? 4. The experiments have covered 2 cases: (a) computing distances between large PDs, (b) computing barycenters and k means for lots of small PDs (more realistic case). It will be good to see a few more datasets. Also, can you demonstrate the quality of your barycenters with respect to B-Munkres, empirically? May be you can compute the distance between the centroid PDs computed by B-Munkres and your centroid approximation? 5. Are the experiments only done for p=2 in d_p(D_1, D_2)? What about p=1? In experiments, p=1 are sometimes preferred because of their enhanced robustness to outlier points. How would figures 5 and 6 look in this case? 6. Typos: a. Line 101: explicitely -> explicitly  b. line 246: enveloppe -> envelope 