This submission deals with image denoising using deep learning when no noiseless ground-truth information is available. To this end, an unbiased estimate of the MSE cost based on SURE estimator is adopted, where the divergence terms are estimated using the Monte-Carlo approximation. Experiments are performed using synthetic data with Gaussian noise added to the real natural images. The observations indicate close performance to the MSE training with noiseless ground-truth data.  This is an important problem. The proposed solution for the Gaussian noise is also reasonable given the literature on SURE estimator.  The Gaussian noise assumption however limits the scope and applicability of this method to deal with more complicated real-world noise structures.      More comments:   1) It is not clear why the gradient is approximated in eqn. (5) since the end-to-end gradient can be easily calculated using optimizers such as TensorFlow?  2) This model is limited to Gaussian noise, which is not practical. How generalizable could it be to other noise structures that are more common in practice? The authors argue in the conclusions section about it, but more extensive experiments are needed to verify that for a real-world noisy dataset.  3) What is the breaking point for the performance of MC-SURE in terms of the noise variance? It would be useful to plot the test PSNR versus the noise level to see that.  4) Would the network be trained seperately for each noise level? How can one generalize that to a model that can deal with all noise levels since in practice the noise level may not be identical for all train and test images.       Reviewer's opinion about the authors rebuttal   The rebuttal does not address my main concerns. I however appreciate the authors clarifying how the model can deal with multiple noise levels. The authors argument about the gradient approximation. Why can’t one calculate the entire Jacobian easily with chain rule? In addition, I don’t agree with the argument about the Gaussian noise. The authors indicate that extension to other simple noise structures such as Poisson is non-trivial, which I agree with the authors. It seems extension to colored noise distributions that is more practical is even harder. Overall, I am not satisfied with the authors response, but I believe this submission is interesting and has merits, but needs to be improved and addresses the practical concerns.