This paper attempts to learn planable representations of dynamical systems.  The authors propose a clever modification of the InfoGAN to capture causal connections; this results in an "abstract state space" where causally relevant information is captured by the abstract states, and which is then used to break down complex planning problems into smaller, manageable chunks.  I really liked this paper, although a major weakness is the experimental evaluations.  On the positive side:  I *love* the idea of learning a low-dimensional manifold of abstract states that capture causally relevant information.  I felt that the causal extensions to the InfoGAN, while not an earth-shattering advance, were a solid idea that seems elegant and likely to work.  More generally, I feel that learning planable abstract representation is the Right Thing To Do, so I'm glad to see a well-executed version of the idea.  The paper is well-written, easy to read, has all the right amounts of detail, etc.  On the negative side:  The experiments were a big disappointment.  I was so excited as I read the paper, anxiously awaiting the rope manipulation experiment.  But to be honest, the result wasn't that impressive -- while I suppose it's true that Fig. 3(a) is better than Fig. 3(b), I don't consider this to be really close a "solution".  The fact that there was no real comparison on the rope task was also a concern.  The multi-room experiment seemed a bit contrived, but it made the point.   Overall, I'm was bit torn about this paper, but I ultimately decided that the strength of the framework and the ideas is worth considering as a NIPS publication.  I base that assessment largely on the fact that as I was reading the paper, I had several ideas come to me where I felt like I could build on the results -- hierarchical versions, object-oriented versions, temporally extended versions.  This is typically the mark of a solid idea.  So, we'll see where it lands in the pile of NIPS submissions.  But at any rate, I strongly encourage the authors to pursue this most interesting line of work!    