Originality  * This paper's main contribution of recall-precision balanced topic model is quite original, as no other topic model (AFAIK) tries to balance recall and precision, even though those are widely used and sensible metrics.   * The model itself, deriving from KL divergence between the predicted and empirical distributions, and its relationship with precision and recall is simple and elegant.  * This paper made me think about sparse topic models, and I am glad this is mentioned in the paper. However, I don't think the authors do enough; just saying that the sparse topic models are evaluated only from the perspective of maximizing recall does not automatically mean that they would do poorly on the precision dimension. I would have liked to see an empirical comparison with a sparse topic model, especially given that there are more advanced sparse models, such as Zhang, et al WWW2013.  Quality  * The experiments are done well, comparing the three models using a variety of metrics including recall/precision (KL based and conventional), topic coherence, adjusted rand index on classification, and topic entropy. Some of the non-conventional metrics are explained well.   * I do have one question about classification results on the datasets that have class labels. Why do you not report precision/recall/F1 scores for classification?   Clarity  * This paper is quite clear for the most part, though I do not fully understand the short section about the crime rate. Since this part is, application-wise, quite different from text modeling, more friendly description, rather than pointing to a reference paper, would be helpful (e.g., what PEI and PAI mean).  Significance  * I do have one concern about this paper. As much as topic modeling is an important subfield within ML, I keep wondering how significant this paper will be. Will it be cited and used for further research in latent semantics of text? Given many of the text modeling tasks are done with neural network based models (often in combination with latent variables), it would be helpful for the authors to explain and emphasize the significance of this research.  ** Post-author response ** I appreciate the authors addressing the questions and concerns in my review. 