Summary:  The paper begins by introducing auxiliary variable variational inference (AVVI) by starting from the usual ELBO and introducing an additional variable lambda and distribution r(lambda | x,z), which is meant to model q(lambda|z,x).  Based on previous work, they show that using a self-normalized importance sampling process in AVVI, they recover IWAE. They note that the original IWAE bound used is suboptimal and propose a possible improvement. The paper continues by embedding the importance sampler and one based on Hamiltonian MC into a generative model (VAE specifically). The resulting algorithms are called Self-Normalized Importance Sampling (SNIS) and Hamiltonian Importance Sampling (HIS).  The algorithms are evaluated on MNIST (binarized in two different ways) and Fashion MNIST (also binarized), and continuous versions of MNIST, FashionMNIST and CelebA. In all their experiments they outperform their baseline (a standard VAE) and Learned Accept/Reject Sampling (LARS).  Discussion:  The paper is reasonably clearly written, with a lot of attention given to the derivation of AVVI, SNIS and HIS. Section 3.2 seems to not directly relate to other parts of the paper, while 3.3 is very dense. The introduction can use more focus, e.g. by defining auxiliary latent variables, giving more context on bound tightness (surely it's also dependent on the model fit), more context on why the relationship between different tighter variational lower bounds is "unclear". The authors do a tremendous job of citing previous work, calling out specific papers for specific incremental improvements.  The experimental setup can use more context. The authors seem to have followed the phrasing and set up of LARS, but without consulting that paper it's unclear what "SNIS w/ VAE proposal" means (line 240 is only explanation it seems).  The main problems with the paper are experimental evaluation and novelty. On experimental evaluation, the first unclarity is why HIS performs so much worse in the synthetic setup. The authors mention they expect HIS to be comparably better when the proposal density is mismatched, but that does not explain why HIS is not great on synthetic data.  Table 1 show that the proposed methods improve upon both the baseline and LARS on MNIST, and perform slightly worse on FashionMNIST (although the baseline of LARS is 228.68 vs 229.02 in this paper, so the methods perform roughly the same).  Table 2 shows results, but with few comparisons. It would be interesting to see a comparison with at least LARS. Also given that the proposed methods can be bolted on previous methods that tighten variational bounds, it would be interesting to see a more thorough comparison.  Example questions for the thorough comparison: - When is HIS vs HVAE vs HIS+HVAE a good choice? How should a user trade off computation? - If we improve our proposal (e.g. by using a stronger model like convHVAE), will HIS/SNIS still provide benefits?  -- Rebuttal -- The authors gave convincing answers to the above questions and I update my score to a 6. The main drawback is still the limited improvements for a considerable increase in method complexity.