POST AUTHOR RESPONSE:  The authors haven't really addressed the main criticism that the experiments 4.1 and 4.2 appear very trivial with no conditioning on data. It is definitely helpful to pick examples where the exact answer is known, but simplifying them to the point that they appear insignificant undercuts the impact of the results. Just my 2 cents!  Showing additional plots along the lines of the Stan ADVI paper would be very convincing to the audience, but without actually seeing these I can't increase my rating.  Based on the technical descriptions alone this paper is above the threshold of acceptance. However, for this to be a top paper it must prove the point without doubt with experiments.  ORIGINAL REVIEW BELOW:  Originality: The specific form of tempered distribution that is proposed in the paper is quite original. The paper proposes to draw samples from a mixture of distributions each of which is a product of the target distribution and tempered versions of the target with priors on the temperatures as well (Section 3). This unique ensemble distribution preserves the differentiability property of the original distribution thus allowing standard methods such as HMC to draw samples from the distribution, and at the same tine allows exploration of the posterior space through low density regions. The aspect where the temperatures themselves are treated as random variables make this a very practical idea.  Quality: The paper is technically sound, but it is not very well supported by the experiments. The experiments in 4.1 and 4.2 use the RMSE error of the target variables which is quite unusual. The more appropriate accuracy measure is the predictive likelihood of held out data vs inference time. Further, there is no conditioning on data in 4.1 and 4.2 so these are very trivial experiments in that all we are trying to do is generate a sample from the prior. In 4.3, it is not clear that the posterior modes are significantly separated and the log likelihoods in Figure 3 doesn't show any significant improvement either.  Also, no timing information is provided.  Clarity: The ideas in the paper are clearly described.  Significance: The tempering solution is quite unique, but it is limited to producing weighted samples. The idea of using a product of distributions and temperatures would certainly be picked up by other researchers given the simplicity that it promises. To be clear, the results in Table 1 are very promising despite my criticism about using RMSE and of not conditioning on data. It is quite plausible that further work based on this paper would demonstrate better mixing across disconnected modes as claimed here.   