This paper presents a new unconditional Dual Variational Generation (DVG) framework that generates large-scale paired heterogeneous images with the same identity from noise. DVG promotes the inter-class diversity and makes the generated images can be used as augmented data to optimize recognition models by a pairwise distance constraint, aiming at reducing the domain discrepancy. Extensive experiments on four HFR databases show that the proposed method can significantly improve SOTA results. - Pros:  The organization, writing and presentation are clear and easy to follow. The formulas are sufficient and correct. The idea is novel, the contributions are solid and the experimental results are impressive. - Cons: 1) PIM [Zhao et al., CVPR 2018] also achieves one-to-many face generation via noise term injection, please add corresponding discussion. Some related works should be mentioned, e.g., [2], [3]. [1] Jian Zhao, Yu Cheng, Yan Xu, Lin Xiong, Jianshu Li, Fang Zhao, Karlekar Jayashree, Sugiri Pranata, Shengmei Shen, Junliang Xing, Shuicheng Yan, Jiashi Feng. Towards Pose Invariant Face Recognition in the Wild. CVPR, 2018. [2] Luan Tran, Xi Yin, Xiaoming Liu. Disentangled Representation Learning GAN for Pose-Invariant Face Recognition. CVPR, 2017. [3] Jian Zhao, Lin Xiong, Yu Cheng, Yi Cheng, Jianshu Li, Li Zhou, Yan Xu, Karlekar Jayashree, Sugiri Pranata, Shengmei Shen, Junliang Xing, Shuicheng Yan, Jiashi Feng. 3D-Aided Deep Pose-Invariant Face Recognition. IJCAI, 2018. 2) Eqn. (10) has 3 hyperparameters (\lambda_1 to \lambda_3), and Eqn. (13) has 1 hyperparameter (\alpha_1). It is unclear how to assign appropriate values to these hyperparameters. A sensitivity analysis is recommended to make this work more complete.  3) Evaluation on complexity (training & inference) is recommended, which is important for real applications. - Additional minor comments: 1) The generated paired heterogeneous face databases are highly recommended to be released to push the research frontiers heterogeneous face recognition. 2) The word "multivariate" in Line 129 Page 4 could be revised to "multi-variate" to be consistent with the same word in Line 122 Page 4. The title of Sec. 4.3 & Sec. 4.4 could be re-considered since both sections are reporting experimental results.