UPDATE: Thanks to the authors for their rebuttal. After reading that and the comments from my colleagues, I am still convinced about the novelty and importance of this work, and choose to keep my score as it is.  The authors propose an empirical risk minimization scheme that incorporates fairness constraints. A particular form of fairness constraint, equal opportunity is used, whose relaxation becomes a conditional risk with respect to the sensitive variable. By mandating these conditional risks for various sensitive attributes to be close, fairness is achieved.  The authors also show the following: 1. When the relaxation of difference in equal opportunity (relaxed DEO) is set to 0, the fairness requirement becomes an orthogonality constraint. 2. In addition, when f(x) is linear, fairness can be achieved using a simple pre-processing step on the data. 3. Consistency bounds on estimating f from sample data. 4. Extensions to RKHS.  The paper is well-written and easy to understand. It has a good mix of theory and practical applications to datasets. I believe such an ERM formulation is a valuable contribution. Here are my questions/comments:  1. In line 101, the authors claim that the relaxation from conditional probability to conditional risk proposed for the EO fairness measure can be easily extended to others. They give equal odds as an example, and surely this extension is conceivable. However, such extensions are possible only for fairness measures that are based on conditional probabilities, which can be noted. 2. In line 190, is the choice of |u_i| arbitrary? Any other |u_i|would work, right? 3. In lines 191 and (15), should the term multiplying x_i be u_j/u_i? 4. Instead of saying “s is inside/not inside x”, you could say “s is included/not included in x”. 5. When applying this in LASSO, how was the accuracy computed, since LASSO will provide a continuous valued output? In LASSO, was s included in x? 6. Typo: “Misclassification error” in the figures.  Supplementary: 1. In table 2, [7] has code available. 2. It may be better if the authors provide more details on lines 400 and 401 in supplementary, for the benefit of readers in the fairness community. 