The paper proposes a new metric, namely, the teaching risk, in context of an inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) problem. It argues that under a feature mismatch of the world views between the learner and the expert (in an IRL setting), the teaching risk (i.e. the maximum performance gap between the teacher and the learner) will be higher. By lowering and bounding the teaching risk guarantee that the learner is able to learn a near-optimal policy under incomplete world view. The efficacy of the approach is tested in a grid-world setting where features for the IRL algorithm are selected based on the teacher risk metric (where the learner is provided with features which reduce its teaching risk by the teacher, learner's world view is updated, and a policy is learnt using the features by imitating learner's view of teacher's policy) and compared with randomly selected features and features based on greedily maximizing performance.  The paper is well motivated but but the experimental evaluations are not convincing. The results provided are averaged over 30 experiments. It would be interesting to see the variance of the relative performance rather than just the mean. As discussed in the paper, one of the advantages of the TRGreedy feature selection is that it can find if additional sensors are needed for optimal performance. It would be interesting to see this tested in an actual scenario. Additionally, the paper should also discuss if the method can be implemented in a real world scenario or a grid world simulator[1-3].  Minor corrections: Confusion in Line 68:70 and 105:107 Figure 3 should be explained in more detail Typo in line 9: "guarantee"  [1] Kolve, E., Mottaghi, R., Gordon, D., Zhu, Y., Gupta, A., & Farhadi, A. (2017). AI2-THOR: An interactive 3d environment for visual AI. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05474. [2] Mo, K., Li, H., Lin, Z., & Lee, J. Y. (2018). The AdobeIndoorNav Dataset: Towards Deep Reinforcement Learning based Real-world Indoor Robot Visual Navigation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.08824. [3] Savva, M., Chang, A. X., Dosovitskiy, A., Funkhouser, T., & Koltun, V. (2017). MINOS: Multimodal indoor simulator for navigation in complex environments. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.03931.   Update: I agree with the other reviewers that the problem formulation is novel but the discussion of experimental results are limited. I have increased my score to borderline accept assuming the authors make the changes discussed for the revised version in the author feedback. 