The authors develop a kernel which resembles the spectral-mixture kernel, however, provides compact spectral support. It was demonstrated that specifying a GP prior with compact spectral support is valuable in the signal processing applications of demodulation and band-pass filtering. An extension of the developed kernel was also made which allows for non-constant power spectral density throughout its support. Lastly, an interesting theoretical contribution which can quantify the number of observations needed to have zero reconstruction error for their proposed kernel.  I thought this was a thorough and very well written paper with clear connections made to applications. I would argue that some of the content may be more relevant to a signal processing community, however, I expect that much of the results will also be of interest to the NeurIPS community as well. I was pleased that the paper was written in an approachable manner for readers outside the signal processing community.  In the experiments it wasn't clear whether your frequency varying spectrum approach was used in the studies or not. I had hoped it would be present in some of the studies even if only to demonstrate a sensible parameterization (or a priori selection) of Gamma on a real-world problem.  In the empirical studies section there was no comparison made with traditional signal processing techniques. This made it difficult to assess how your proposed GP approach fits into the state-of-the-art in the field.  --------------- (after rebuttal)  After carefully reading the author rebuttal and the reviews I will maintain my original rating, and my recommendation for acceptance of this work.   I thank the authors for providing the additional experiments in the rebuttal, however, I agree with R2 that some improvements can be made to these studies to help justify the results of the paper. I may also suggest that the authors consider a little demonstration of proposition 3 (i.e. a GP with the centred sinc kernel concentrated with zero variance using observations that are noiseless and uniformly-spaced at the Nyquist frequency). This simple demonstration could be a nice visual to augment your result and assist the reader in comprehension.