Summary:  The paper looks at the problem of constructing a bits-back compression algorithm using a generative model. The introduced algorithm, local bits-back coding, takes advantage of the structure of flow-based generative models.  The paper starts out by extensively introducing flow models, quantization and bits-back coding. It then introduces local bits-back coding and a concrete algorithm. Naively applying the algorithm is relatively slow, but by exploiting the structure of the Jacobian in affine coupling layers, a faster (parallelised) version of the algorithm becomes possible. The authors further show that they can recursively apply local bits-back on different components (layers) of the flow model.  The paper ends with results that are indeed close to the theoretical maximum and incur minimum overhead to code (on top of the forward pass of the Flow model). Further the model is reasonably robust to hyperparameters, but requires a significant amount of auxiliary bits.   Discussion:  The paper is very well written, with a thorough theoretical introduction and a precise explanation of the method. The introduced algorithm, local bits-back, is novel and produces excellent results. Especially the combination with "RealNVP style" models is elegant, since so much effort went into creating components with easy to compute jacobians and local bits-back introduces a new way to capitalise on this effort.  The paper contains several colloquialisms that are worth editing out, listed below (not comprehensive).   The main concern with the paper is the lack of comparison with other methods. The authors argue that VAEs suffer from posterior collapse and do not provide an exact likelihood (only a lower bound), however that is not an argument to disregard comparing to coding algorithms for them (e.g. Bit-swap, BB-ANS). Especially in terms of computational complexity, ease of use, number of auxiliary bits needed, space complexity.  Notes:  - line 34: "con" - too informal - line 34: "in odd contrast with" -> "in contrast to", or "at odds with" - line 65: missing "to" before "train" - line 168: ', say,' - too informal  -- Rebuttal -- The rebuttal did not provide reason to increase the score.