The authors introduced a very nice approaximation approach with Quadrature Fourier features and a novel algorithm for high-dimensional BO with additive GPs. What's even nicer is that the algorithm comes with a regret bound that considered both the kernel approaximation and two different BO acquisition schemes: GP-UCB and Thompson sampling. The authors also made a step further by addressing the difficulty of optimizing the acquisition functions, which is one of the hardest problem in BO.  I am very impressed overall.   For improvements, I think the authors can  - add more real-world functions for experiments;  - add more intuitive explanations to Theorem 2 and 3, especially on the assumptions;  - state the regret bound of GP-UCB in the main paper bt squeezing the big O notation: log T can be combined in Eq. (9), no?  Minor problems:  - It is good to label the dimensionality of variables, e.g. on line 186, maybe write \Phi \in R^{m\times n} or something like that  - What is going on with the axes of Fig. 2?   More minor, but important problems: The authors did not check the references' formats and whether they are correct. For example:  - [8] was published at ICML 2012. Please check other references that were marked arxiv; they might have been published in proceedings of some conferences. It is important to cite correctly and not use the raw Google scholar info.  - 'gaussian' in all the references should be 'Gaussian', and you probably need to write something '{G}aussian' in the bib file; Google scholar usually won't give you the right bib entry. The same for 'bayesian', which should be 'Bayesian'. Conference names also need to be capitalized..  - [9] does not have a conference/jounal/tech report. Please check again.  - Please unify the conference names: if you use COLT, then use ICML, NIPS too. Otherwise, use the full conference names for everyone of them.   I think these problems are easily fixable, so it might be a good idea to make sure those easily fixable details are good too before submitting to any conferences or arxiv.  Typos:  - Line 198, sets of points  - Line 308, real data -> a real-world function