Main comments  1) When the model is introduced in section 2.3 I would have liked to have read some discussion about why this structure would be beneficial and sufficiently flexible to do the job that you're asking of it. I figured it out slowly, but it took probably longer than it would have with a bit of author assistance.  2) Relatedly, after the model (and prior) have been introduced fully, it would have been nice to see some kind of demonstration of the range and kinds of excitation/inhibition behaviour that is now possible to both simulate and model. What is this model capable of doing? Where are its (simulatory) limitations etc? Show how it goes beyond the most relevant competing models.  3) There were no real comparisons to other methods. So I don't know if I am getting anything extra in the model, compared to other approaches out there, and if the only benefit here is the exact simulation component. If there is nothing extra in the model compared to other approaches, this is fine, but it should be made clear, and that it is the computational contribution that is primary here. On the other hand, if there is greater flexibility in the new model than existing approaches, then the authors should not hold back from actually demonstrating this!  4) Figure 4(b) is clearly bimodal, with both positive and negative modes. There is also evidence that many of the other parameters are multi modal. What does this mean in terms of understanding the excitation/inhibition process? Alternatively, as this is inference based on data simulated under the model, is this just evidence that the Markov chain sampler has not adequately explored the posterior yet, in which case why don't you run the chain for longer and provide a better description of the (marginal) posteriors? More generally, given that exact computation for this continuous time model is important, I would have liked to have seem more discussion on the sampler performance in terms of mixing (e.g. integrated autocorrelation time, autocorrelations, or whatever is suitable). Currently given the bumps in Figures 1 and 2 I'm slightly suspicious of sampler performance. Exact simulation is good, but if performance is terrible compared to approximate methods, then ...  5) L.207 The simulated activity in Fig 4(c) is stated to "remain psychological and similar to the one used for training fin Fig 4a." This is making a statement about the application-specific based structure of the data that is not properly quantified or qualified. What makes this particular simulated data "better" or more relevant in an application-based sense than those that could have come from other methods? This needs explaining/quantifying more clearly.  Minor Comments  The paper would benefit from a close reading of sentences for grammar and structure. Please use comma's where it would be beneficial to understand the phrasing of a sentence, for example.  L.142, what does the asterisk denote in the numerator of the LHS fraction?  It was mildly annoying that much of the information that could have been in the main paper (with a little consideration of space restrictions) was instead relegated to supporting information, requiring forward-backward flipping constantly. Maybe the authors could consider if any important details could be returne to the main paper to minimise this to the less important parts?