This paper introduces a new model for the multi-armed bandit problem, where the cost of pulling any given arm equals the expected utility of that arm (called the pay-per-reward model). The goal is to find an arm whose expected utility is within epsilon of the best arm. An algorithm is given, and it is proved that its regret is bounded by a polylogarithmic factor times the total utilities of all arms.  My main objection to this paper is the motivation of this model, which seems somewhat contrived to me. A possible application to ad placement on web is presented, but it's not convincing: it is said that the best arm corresponds to the best expression for an ad, and pulling arms is equivalent to observing the number of clicks when the ad is linked to that expression. But then, the player cannot actively "pull an arm" in any rounds she wants. Also, why is the cost of pulling an arm (which means observing something) equals the reward of the arm?  I think of this model as a model that's nice from a mathematical point of view, the result of this paper is non-trivial and the techniques used in the paper to prove the regret bounds are deep, however, I am not sure if it is of broad interest to the NeurIPS community.  Also, the regret of this paper is O(W log(1/delta)/eps^2), while in Line 117 they say the regret from previous work [14] is O(W log(K/delta)/eps^2), so I don't call this a "significant" improvement. K is the number of arms.  Other comments for authors: - In Line 2 and afterwards, "expected future reward" is ambiguous. Just use "expected reward."  - Line 44: the sentence "it is necessary to allow a simultaneous pull of an entire set of arms from the joint distribution of rewards of all arms" is very confusing at this point in the paper.  - Line 85: why do you call these "single" arm-pulls, while these are batched arm pulls?  - Line 130: step -> line  == After reading the response: Thanks for the responses. I now think there may be potential applications for this model, but it needs to be described more clearly in the paper. For the ad placement example, in your model the company is penalized for choosing a good text for the ad, while intuitively it should not be penalized, because choosing a good text means also means more buyers. So, from a game-theoretic point of view, it is still not clear why the company should be penazlied for choosing a good ad.  I agree with authors that removing the dependence on the number of arms is significant, and thus I have improved my score.