Summary  This paper proposes a state space model for sequence generation, where the generative model is non-autoregressive but the (variational) inference network can condition state predictions on the observed sequence. The model is evaluated on character-based lexicon generation (generating words independent of any context).   Quality  The paper proposes a novel, principled method for learning a non-autoregressive sequence model. I am not familiar enough with flow-based VAE to verify the model derivation, but it seems reasonable.   My main concerns are with the experimental setup: Generating words in isolation is a relatively restricted task, and I don't see why the model should not be applied to (word-level) sentence generation, even if at first that mainly points out limitations of the model.    The train/test split in which the test set words are completely disjoint from the training words makes more sense than the one where the same words can appear in the train and test data, so I would like to see more of a comparison between the different models there.   Clarity  Section 2 focuses on how the model is trained, but I would like to see a more algorithmic explanations of how the method is applied to sequence generation, for either pure sampling or inference given an observed sequence.  In Algorithm 1 there are two hidden state values, h^k_g and h^k - it is not clear why, or how q_k() is defined.   Significance  This is an interesting model, and the proposed model obtains lower cross-entropy than a comparable baseline. I am inclined to recommend acceptance.   However it is not entirely clear to me what the proposed model's advantages are, or what the results tell us about the problem being studied, so I would like to see clearer motivations and analysis. It seems that for unconstrained sampling from the model it is purely autoregressive, but during inference given an observed sequence the inferred noise variable is supposed to capture part of the variance which could otherwise have been captured by an auto-regressive model. Does this mean the we need, or don't need, the autoregressive property for the problem studied?  --- Thanks for clarifying the motivation.  