INDIVIDUAL COMMENTS / QUESTIONS  1) I really appreciate how the paper ties up loose ends by unifying the analysis of several momentum-based methods in the stochastic setting.   2) I am sorely missing a literature review. I am not very closely familiar with the literature analyzing momentum methods, but there's a lot of work out there (e.g., the line of research studying momentum methods in the continuous time limit). A brief review would be very helpful to position the paper within the existing work.  3) On Section 4:   a) You should prominently cite Mandt et al. [16], who show similar results for SGD.   b) In the beginning, it says "we use quadratic functions for ease of analysis". To me this implies that the analysis would go through for more general functions. I don't find it obvious that it would. I think this should be justified or the actual more general analysis should be presented.  4) I would recommend the general version of Theorem 3 (i.e., Theorem 6 in the appendix) in the main paper. Specializing to quadratic functions imho does not add any extra insight here, so I would state the more general result.   TYPOS / STYLE  - Line 70: Section title should be lower case  - Line 138: Should be "driven by i.i.d. noise" - Line 193: should be "[...] then the QHM algorithm [...]" - Line 216: should be "visualization" for consistent American English - Line 264: "evidence" does not have a plural form - Consistently capitalize "Section" when referencing specific sections, e.g., line 210 - The references could use some cleaning: Capitalization [e.g. 1, 13, 15, 16]. The URL in [13]   RATING  Quality: To the best of my knowledge, the paper is mathematically sound, but I followed the proofs in the appendix only superficially due to time restrictions.  - Clarity: The paper is well written and all ideas are explained very clearly. I am missing a brief literature review to set the scene and position the paper in the existing work.  - Significance: Momentum methods are widely used but not very well-understood in the stochastic setting.  - Originality: This is not a paper with grand new ideas, but it is tying up some loose ends by unifying the analysis of several momentum-based methods.  - Reproducibility: No code has been provided and the description of the experimental setup is, in my opinion, insufficient for an outsider to reproduce the results.  Overall, this is a very solid paper and I recommend acceptance.