The paper addresses an LQR control problem with unknown dynamics matrices. It is proposed to optimize the expected reward over the posterior distribution of unknown system parameters. The suggested approach first samples system matrices and then discards unstabilizable systems. Using the stabilizable dynamics, an controller is designed that stabilizes all sampled systems and admits a common Lyapunov function. As the controller synthesis problem involves a non-convex matrix inequality constraint, an linearization is proposed to convexify the constraint. This relaxed problem is solved iteratively until convergence.  Quality The paper and the theoretical analysis seem to be correct. Mathematical details are provided in sufficient depth. The experimental simulations and the implementation on the inverted pendulum support the author's claims of the applicability and robustness of the method nicely.  Clarity The paper is well organized and clearly states the used data and the optimization objective. The authors did a good job in moving mathematical content to the appendix, without breaking the readability of the main paper. Indeed, I enjoyed reading the paper.   Originality The proposed approach nicely combines statistical sampling with robust control theory. The main conceptual contribution seems to use the linearization of the matrix inequality to make the robust control approach suitable for the samples system setting. As a whole, the approach is interesting and useful.   However, I am missing a comparison to methods studied in the control literature. In particular there seems to be a relation to the field of randomized algorithms for robust control, see e.g.,  - Roberto Tempo et al. "Randomized Algorithms for Analysis and Control of Uncertain Systems." Springer 2005.  This should be carefully evaluated.   Significance The approach is clear, theoretically grounded and also appealing for practitioners, as (i) it is fairly simple to implement and (ii) the controllers are guaranteed to be robust (at least in the set of sampled dynamics). The method might find further usage.   Minor Comments: - \Pi = GG' is explained only in line 154, but already used in line 119 - Algorithm 1, line 4: Bracket is missing  After authors' response: My comments are carefully and convincingly addressed. I recommend the paper for acceptance.