I enjoyed reading this submission and would support its publication in NeurIPS. The work studies an adversarial testing situation in which a defender accepts or rejects a null hypothesis based on n independent samples, the null distribution is fixed, and an adversary chooses the alternative distribution. This is a classical setting of minimax testing, except that the adversary has an additional cost associated to picking each alternative (and this cost function is known to the defender).  I find the problem and perspective original, and both the paper and the proofs are well-written with attention paid to details. The specific adversarial setting considered in this paper is a bit simple, as the cost c(q) does not vary with n so that the adversary's strategy degenerates (in some sense) in the limit of large n. But I think this paper may lead to interesting follow-up work that considers more nuanced asymptotic settings.  A couple comments/questions:  1. Would some weaker version of Assumption (A4) be sufficient in the Neyman-Pearson (not Bayesian) framework? For example, in the 1-dimensional example of Section 5, the optimal test by the defender against the fixed alternative q* in the Bayesian setting might not achieve asymptotically perfect power against a different alternative q. But for the Neyman-Pearson setting, at least intuitively it seems like the acceptance region of an optimal test should be a "vanishingly small neighborhood" of the null distribution p, so I might intuitively expect that the result of Lemma A.6 should always hold. Perhaps there is a different counterexample for the Neyman-Pearson setting in higher dimensions? In any case, I'd appreciate some discussion of this, perhaps deferred to the supplement.  2. Is it necessary to think about a defender's mixed strategy over Phi_n, which is already a space of randomized tests? (This feels like too many levels of mixing...) Is it true that for any mixed strategy sigma_n over Phi_n, the defender can always achieve the same objective with the marginalized pure strategy phi_n(x) = integral phi(x) dsigma_n(phi)?  ------------------------ Post-rebuttal: Thanks to the authors for the responses, clarification, and further discussion.