I like the direction this research is going, and as far as I can see the approach is novel and sound and the results are good.  It should be noted that the "games" designed here are very simple, game-theoretic games more than games that people actually play. Interestingly, there has been considerable work on using optimization methods to design games or game content, and also on characterizing player styles, but more more complex games.  What you call "player preferences" are otherwise referred to as "procedural personas" (also motivated by prospect theory), e.g. in the work of Christoffer Holmgård:  Holmgard, Christoffer, et al. "Automated playtesting with procedural personas with evolved heuristics." IEEE Transactions on Games (2018).  These procedural personas have also been used for design optimization, so automatically generating levels that fit particular personas:  Liapis, Antonios, et al. "Procedural personas as critics for dungeon generation." European Conference on the Applications of Evolutionary Computation. Springer, Cham, 2015.  Games have also been optimized to be maximally discriminative between different players, for example:  Nielsen, Thorbjørn S., et al. "Towards generating arcade game rules with VGDL." 2015 IEEE Conference on Computational Intelligence and Games (CIG). IEEE, 2015.  It's important to note that in-game preferences and personas are not the same as preferences and personas outside of the game (the introduction to your paper seems to make that assumption). However, it is possible to model aspects of out-of-game stable traits from in-game behavior - the relation is complex. Some examples:   Tekofsky, Shoshannah, et al. "Psyops: Personality assessment through gaming behavior." In Proceedings of the International Conference on the Foundations of Digital Games. 2013.  Yee, Nick, et al. "Introverted elves & conscientious gnomes: the expression of personality in world of warcraft." Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2011.  Canossa, Alessandro, Josep B. Martinez, and Julian Togelius. "Give me a reason to dig Minecraft and psychology of motivation." 2013 IEEE Conference on Computational Inteligence in Games (CIG). IEEE, 2013.  Hopefully this body of work could help you give some context for your own work.