Summary/Contribution This paper proposes methods for matching human decision makers to decision subjects, in order to optimize the decisions made (optionally, under fairness constraints). Assuming judges apply threshold rules (where the thresholds differ by judge and—potentially—race), the authors develop efficient matching algorithms even when the thresholds are initially unknown.   This paper introduces an interesting research direction to the fairness community. Using algorithms to improve human decision making is an important and under-studied problem, since human decision makers won’t be replaced by algorithms any time soon. However, unsatisfying experiments and a lack of ethical grounding stop this paper from being a clear accept.  Weaknesses: In a number of experiments, the “known theta” condition has a higher utility than the “optimal” condition. As I understand it, the “optimal” rule assumes judges all apply the optimal threshold rule, while under “known theta” the judges apply a variety of suboptimal thresholds. How can the latter ever outperform the former?  I would like to see the authors examine the ethical implications of their algorithms. I presume that satisfying fairness constraints means assigning all the harsh judges to defendants from one race, while assigning all the lenient judges to defendants from the other race. This is pretty clearly discriminatory, and nicely demonstrates the problem with trying to satisfy common notions of fairness. The authors claim that “higher diversity across the pool experts helps,” but what this means is “it’s good to have some really strict judges to assign to race A, and some really lenient judges to assign to race B,” which doesn’t actually seem desirable.  Finally, I didn’t find the results in Figure 3 compelling. With 3x more judges than decisions in a round (and only 50% of judges biased), we can ensure than every decision is made by an unbiased judge (although if theta is unknown it may take us some time to determine who is unbiased). In practice, these decisions are constrained by the number of judges, so N = m and all judges will have to be used.  Clarity: The paper is generally well written and clear, with only a typo or two. I found their results to be clearly explained, even though I'm not an expert in graph theory or reinforcement learning (so I couldn't check their math).  Originality: This paper is very original. To my knowledge no other paper has proposed matching decision makers to individuals to improve decision making.  Significance: Since many decisions will continue to be made by humans, the unconstrained algorithm proposed in this paper has the potential to see real-world implementation. However, no real-world decision maker would assign harsh/lenient judges by race, so a large part of the paper has minimal significance.  Response to author rebuttal: I'm glad to see the authors will investigate the ethics of their approach in more detail in the revised paper. I am concerned, though, that the proposed modification (constraining different groups to be assigned to harsh and lenient judges at similar rates) will simply result one group being assigned to the harshest judges within the "harsh" and "lenient" subsets. Once you commit to removing disparate impact as defined in this paper, you commit to holding some groups to lower standards. This is the fundamental ethical problem with trying to remove DI, and I don't see how the method is this paper could provide a way out. As a way to improve the efficiency of human decisions and mitigate the effects of biased human decision makers, I believe this paper has a lot of merit. I would focus the paper on these goals, and leave out the discussion of disparate impact. 