Overall Comments First I should state upfront that my expertise is not in first order logic, so it is somewhat difficult to assess this paper. I am familiar with the literature on adversarial examples and explanations though. My main high level point in this work is that I am missing a so what, i.e., what is the significance of demonstrating the duality between explanations and adversarial examples. In addition, there has been intense empirical work showing that explanations can be used to craft adversarial examples and adversarial examples might be good instances for producing explanations.   Originality The main point of this paper has been demonstrated empirically in prior work. The authors present a set of theorems based on formal logic demonstrating a duality between adversarial examples and explanations. In terms of the theorems, I am not familiar with the formal logic literature , though in looking at citations [21-23], it does seem that these theorems are new.   Clarity The work is reasonably well written and free of typos. Several of the key formal logic terms are also defined and clarified. Theorem 1 was clearly stated and the proof clarified in the text. A proof sketch was also provided for theorem 2.  Significance In looking at the prior work, citations [21-23], it seems the theorems here are new. In general, there have been previous connections made between explanations and adversarial examples: https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P18-1176, and https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~marcotcr/acl18.pdf, however these were not formal. In fairness, it is hard for me to assess the significance of this work since it seems like the key insight is bringing the FOL point of view to clarify the relationship between adversarial examples and explanations.  Some Issues - The MNIST Example. I sense this is probably the wrong example to use to show the power of your analysis. It seems like MNIST is high-dimensional for the logic based models or decision set type framework. It would've been more powerful for me, if the paper had shown their results on lower dimensional dataset with enough categorical variables to show the power of this work. The current MNIST example feels toyish.   - Can the authors further clarify the implications of the duality that they motivate in this work?   UPDATE I have read the author rebuttal and feel the authors provided justification for their approach and why this work is important. I support that this work be accepted.