I am familiar with spectral clustering and its relation to graph conductance, but do not know much about the references on regularized SC, such as [17, 9, 11]. So my assessment on regularized SC is based on what I learnt from this work.  Here are my comments: + The paper provides a good understanding of regularized-SC for sparse-graph partitioning based on solid theoretical reasoning. The extensive experimental results also well justify the statements. As a large fraction of social networks are sparse, so the assumptions are acceptable.  + The paper is written well and easy to follow. All theoretical results are presented well and show insight on why regularized-SC is important (Thm 4.3) and when spectral SC can work well(Corollary 4.7) - The main concern is about the usage of regularized-SC in practice. I agree that the when using spectral clustering without regularization, the first-round partition may yield a huge component and several small parts like the dangling sets mentioned in this work. However, in practice, we can easily do another round of graph partition by focusing on the obtained huge component to refine the clustering results. Regularized-SC may not require such additional effort but it introduces a parameter \tau whose tuning is not easy.   Two suggestions: -The format of 2-way-partition regularized-SC seems equivalent to global Pagerank where \tau is to control the probability of random jump. Pagerank algorithm is widely used everywhere. It would better to give some discussion on this point and review related references. Some work on Pagerank also shows connection with graph conductance such as Andersen et al.  Local graph partitioning using pagerank vectors  [FOCS2006]    - Since sparsity comes from the real social networks, it may be better to provide some real evidence on the number of dangling sets in social networks. Moreover, as shown in the appendix, Thm 3.4 requires another assumption which should be added within the statement in the main text.     Some minor typo: Line 29: sigular  -> singular Line 31: tau -> \tau Line 75:covolutional -> convolutional