EDIT: I have read the author feedback, and the authors have explicitly discussed the (minor) issues I raised. They have agreed to clarify the wording of heuristic v. exact inner maximization, and be more forthright about the success of adversarial training having to do with the expressivity of the neural tangent kernel. They have even gone beyond what I expected and discussed removing the projection step for two-layer networks. As such, I have increased my score from a 7 to an 8. I believe this is a strong paper. --------------  The paper is to the best of my knowledge, wholly original. The work ties together many important theoretical tools that have been developed over the last year (overparameterized neural networks, neural tangent kernels, adversarial robustness, etc.) and ties them together in an important and interesting way. Moreover, this is the first theoretical result (to my knowledge) that supports the idea of using adversarial training to find robust neural networks, amplifying its originality.  The paper is very well-written. The authors do a good job of detailing their contributions, connecting it to related work, and giving proof sketches. The theorems seem to be technically sound. The authors are generally honest about the drawbacks of their theory. One issue I have here is that the authors purport to show multiple times that neural networks can find robust classifiers. However, this holds only under assumption 5.1. Due to the complexity of the neural tangent kernel, it is not clear whether this assumption is likely to hold. I would argue that the authors should be forward facing about this in the introduction, in the interest of transparency.  The clarity of the work is generally very high. The paper is well-organized, as are the proofs. I believe the paper should also be commended for taking relatively modern theory on the convergence of gradient descent for neural networks, and managing to simplify and expand upon this work, in a way that is eminently comprehensible. My one issue with clarity is that some of the contributions of the paper could be expressed in clearer ways. For example, the second contribution (end of page 1, beginning of page 2) refers to a "data dependent RF norm", which is not explained till much later. Another somewhat confusing part is in the abstract, which differentiates "exact" and "heuristic" solving of the inner maximization of adversarial training. However, this distinction can be omitted for clarity, as is done in the first bullet point contribution, which I personally think would benefit the paper. I do not think this is necessary by any means, it is simply a suggestion I wanted to make.  The paper's significance could be subject to some debate. It is not directly useful at a practical level, except in the sense that it gives some evidence towards the efficacy of adversarial training. Moreover, even the formal theorems of the paper require assumptions that are not met in practice, such as having exponentially wide networks.  However, I would argue that this paper is still significant. First, quantifying even the training error, much less the robust training error, of a neural network is difficult, and this paper is able to make progress on this. Similarly, the paper implicitly develops techniques that can aid other theoretical analyses of neural networks. The work could help other adversarial training papers, as it expands the traditional scope of adversarial training (to so-called perturbation sets and functions) and shows that these more general adversarial training methods can still be analyzed. The paper also helps expand upon recent and exciting work on neural tangent kernels. Finally, it makes simple but important connections between VC dimension and adversarial robustness, which again can help inspire more theory. The above reads like a laundry list of various theoretical tools developed for understanding machine learning theoretically, and I believe the paper is significant for tying these all together.