EDIT: I have read the rebuttal and the other reviews, and I've increased my score to 6 as I'm reasonably confident that the authors will satisfyingly reorganise the paper.  # Summary of the paper The paper is a theoretical investigation of the problem of online sampling of log-concave distributions. The authors propose an online variant of stochastic gradient Langevin descent with variance reduction. In the case of Bayesian inference with T data items, the resulting algorithm can reach a small total variation ball around the target distribution in time T log(T).  # Summary of the review Overall, the content is very interesting and the results seem new and potentially impactful. Looking at sampling with a fresh optimization eye brings new ideas. However, this paper is clearly more fit for a journal than for a conference like NIPS: all results are shortened versions of results in the 30-page supplementary, and all vertical spaces have been suppressed in the main 8-pager to fit in as much text as possible. The resulting main paper is extremely dense, with important basic examples reduced to a minimum, while not providing enough detail for a stand-alone read.  Beyond the ill-formatted paper, the major contributions are subtle and technical, like the exit time argument for martingales. The current reviewing time allocated for conference papers is so short that I cannot carefully read the long appendix, which contains the important proofs and definitions. To sum up, I am in a difficult spot to make a decision, because the contribution seems both interesting and substantial, but I do not think NIPS is the right outlet -in its current form- for such papers, both in terms of format and reviewing mode.  More contentwise, can the authors comment on my points 1 and 2 below?  # General comments 1. The main motivation seems to be Bayesian inference. But in this case, the user's objective is to integrate functions. Showing that one can reach a small TV ball is only an intermediate step, and the useful result is usually a CLT that guarantees that we can use the history of the Markov chain to estimate integrals. Do you have a CLT for your chain? Does it have \sqrt{T} rate? What makes me prompt the question is that SGLD, for instance, has been shown to lead to a CLT with a slower rate than vanilla Metropolis-adjusted Langevin [Thiery, Teh, Vollmer, Arxiv:1409.0578]. 2. To play the devil's advocate, it seems that your algorithm will perform well only when the posterior is sufficiently concentrated around the MAP (e.g. L210). In that case, wouldn't a simple Laplace approximation be as good in practice? You say L323 that not all posteriors can be approximated by a Gaussian. I agree, but it is not obvious to me that there are interesting practical problems with a non-Gaussian posterior, and still enough concentration that your Assumptions would hold. Maybe a simple experimental comparison would be enough to clear my doubts. Since Bayesian logistic regression is a main motivation, a simple experiment which compares your algorithm with Laplace and, say, SGLD would be a good addition, even with toy data. For such a theoretical paper, a rigorous experiment is also a useful sanity check. 3. The text is very dense, both in content and in shape. You have artificially reduced all vertical spaces to the minimum, which gives a bad visual impression (look at p7 with all the maths in-line and many references to the appendix that force the reader to go back and forth). I am genuinely interested in the results, but my eyes and brain are reluctant to delve into the massive block of text. 