Summary: The goal of the paper is to show that, given a private PAC learner for a hypothesis class, one can do computationally efficient online no-regret learning with that class. The steps taken are:  1. Get a weak learner against oblivious adversaries as follows: sample the private PAC learner on a dummy dataset many times; use these hypotheses as experts with multiplicative weights.  2. Transform this to a weak learner against adaptive adversaries (cute, general reduction/observation)  3. Use online boosting to get a 'strong' learner from the weak one.  Opinion: I think the paper's result is reasonably interesting and significant (though I am not an expert in this literature). The proofs are all clean and efficiently organized. On the other hand, the technical contribution is somewhat limited -- most of it is in step 1, the others are more like (nice!) observations.   Originality: original results as far as I know (while studying a relatively standard setting and known open problem). Quality: Seems to be a high quality of writing and technical analysis. Clarity: High in my opinion. Significance: Medium in my opinion, perhaps not too high because of the relatively narrow focus and results.  Comments:  Line 2: suggest cutting "in games", doesn't seem accurate to the paper.  Line 7-8: a bit confusing. I think you reduce the problems in the opposite direction stated. Or, you online learn by efficiently calling d.p. learning as a black box. Consider clarifying.  Line 60: period should be a semicolon?  Line 95-96: notation <= with squiggly should be defined, or use big-O  How Def 6 interacts with the oblivious/non adversary definition is not clear. What is the expectation over in Def 6? The sequence must be fixed in advance, so presumably there is no "adversary" at all, but clarifying may be smart.  Algorithm 1, first line: for some reason this references as "Def 3.1" but points to Def 8.  Line 231: implies -> imply   Please respond to any part of my review you think helpful.  ----  Post-discussion: Thank you for the informative response. I agree that a bit of discussion on difficulty of extensions would be valuable.