This paper studies non-convex optimization using general diffusion processes, with forward Euler discretization. As in Raginsky et al., the global convergence to global minimum is based on ergodic properties of the Markov process, and convergence to stationary. The tools for analysis are quite different, however, which makes it possible for this paper to study diffusion process with general diffusion matrices. The ergodic properties are characterized by Stein factor, i.e., regularity of solution to Poisson equation, up to order 4. Under certain growth conditions for the first fourth order derivatives of the objective function and the Poisson equation regularity, explicit bounds for the optimization error are established. Following previous works such as Gotham et al., the Poisson equation regularity is implied by Wasserstein decay.  The techniques are not completely new: Poisson equation results are based on Mattingly et al., the reflection coupling for Wasserstein decay is from Eberle et al., and the construction of general diffusions are from Ma et al. However, it is still very interesting to see the Poisson equation techniques being applied to this field. And the author also provide concrete examples to show the effectiveness of varying diffusion matrices. The paper shows Wasserstein decay for different classes of functions, including functions with non-convex tails, which have not been covered in the literature. The varying diffusion matrix allows the ergodicity to still hold true.  Detailed comments: 1. In Theorem 3.1, fourth order smoothness for the Poisson equation is used, but is it actually necessary? What will happen if we do the Taylor expansion with fewer orders? 2. The estimates for V_t^{x,v}, U_t^{x,vu}, etc. blow up exponentially with time in Appendix B. And they're used in the semigroup derivative estimates in Appendix C (e.g. Equation C.8-C.11) Why is it possible for the final estimates to avoid diverging with $T$?  After author feedback: my questions are addressed in the author feedback. I like this paper and this has not changed.