 The paper presents several "shadowing" results for gradient descent and the heavy ball method, under several conditions on the objective. In short, the authors provide conditions under which a discrete approximation of an ODE defines a trajectory that "stays close" to the actual trajectory of the ODE.  This research is motivated by a by a recent paper by Su, Jordan, and Candes that models Nesterov's method via an ODE: this leads the authors to ask the question of when an ODE solution indeed well approximates a discrete algorithm, which is what would be implemented in practice. Although the interest and motivation is mostly on HB, the bulk of the results presented in the paper are for GD. The paper is well-written overall, and the results are interesting, if somewhat shallow. There is also a question of practicality, as it is not clear how to use these results other than in the negative (e.g., no convergence rates seem inferable from these bounds).  On a more fundamental level, my main concern has to do with novelty. The authors hint this, but discrete approximations of ODEs are a very old subject. The authors refer to papers in the fifties, but in fact discrete approximations of ODE's go back centuries (in fact, the authors analyze the so-called Euler method), and ideas presented here seem to be revisiting central notions of real analysis, numerical analysis, and control. Even on the stochastic side, bounds on corresponding approximations are also classic (see, e.g., the chapter called "The ODE Method" in Benveniste and Priouet, or the corresponding sections of Kushner and Yin cited by the authors).   The classic nature of the topic gives me pause in accepting the paper in its current form. I  feel that it does not treat this context appropriately: erring towards clarity and readability perhaps, the paper presents related work somewhat informally, and does not sufficiently place current results to the broader real analysis/numerical analysis/control literature.   ————— Review edited after rebuttal ————— The authors are very right that they give a comprehensive, formal review of shadowing in Section 2; my comment was unfair and poorly worded, to say the least.  Section 2 does indeed present “context”, and recent results, on what is known on shadowing properties at least from a control perspective. I do still believe that it would be worth giving a point of view from real analysis (convergence results of finite operators to trajectories) as well as from numerical analysis, where correct computation seems to be a central theme. I am not an expert in either disciplines, so I cannot provide more concrete feedback; my apologies for this.  