The theoretical sections of the paper appear sound, with the Riemannian approaches and their respective invariance properties being properly established. The authors also discuss multiple possible functions that could be applied on the signal powers to obtain the target variable, and prove how using a linear regression model with the Riemannian feature vectors would be optimal for the identity, log and square roots of the signal power. However, they fail to discuss how often these types of scenarios occur in actual MEG/EEG dataset, and also how the performance would deteriorate in case where a different function of the source signals powers is used.  The construction of the toy dataset is well thought out to exploit the invariances provided by the Riemannian metrics and demonstrate their performance in the ideal scenario. But as mentioned previously, some additional toy examples that examine the performance of the different models in sub-optimal conditions would also be useful. In addition, it would be interesting to see how the performance of the log-diag model on the toy dataset is affected by the use of supervised spacial filters, or how the geometric distance changes when supervised or unsupervised spacial filters are used. This comparison of the effects of supervised and unsupervised spacial filters with the geometric distance should also be performed on the Cam-CAN dataset evaluations, or the authors should at least address why this scenario was left out of the evaluation. Finally, the inclusion of the model inspection results seems  unnecessary, since it does not relate to any of the methods proposed in this paper.  Even though the Riemannian measures used in this paper are already existed, here they are applied in a new scenario, and good performance methods further demonstrates the usefulness of Riemannian techniques for MEG/EEG data analysis. The application of the geometric distance in conjunction with spatial filtering to deal with rank-reduced covariance matrices is an interesting approach, but it would be more interesting to see a bigger focus and a more detailed analysis on the interplay of the Riemannian metrics with the different spacial filters discussed in this paper.  The claim that this paper presents the “first study to apply a covariance-based approach to regression problem in which the target is defined across persons and not within persons” is too broad and not entirely correct, as some other works can also be placed into this category (e.g. Dmochowski et al. 2012, Parra et al. 2019).   However, the fact that this paper introduces the first benchmark on MEG-based age prediction for the Cam-CAN dataset could prove to be a significant contribution if this problem is seen as interesting by the community and is taken up as a standard benchmark for novel methods.  The paper is generally clear and not too difficult to read, with the exception of sections 2.1 and 2.2 which are somewhat dense and more difficult to get through. Additionally, there are several small errors or typos throughout the text. No code was provided for the methods or evaluations, and while most of the details on the software used and preprocessing steps taken were discussed, but some specifics, such as if/how subjects were rejected and how the time-samples were drawn from the Cam-CAN dataset. A link to the toy dataset or corresponding code was also not provided. 