Although the obtained PAC-Bayesian bound is not novel, the new proof technique can enrich the comprehension both PAC-Bayes and Rademacher generalization theories and foster the emergence of new ideas. The authors made a substantial effort to expose their results in a pedagogical manner. I appreciate the choice to write proofs outlines in the main paper, and the full proofs in the appendix. I did not check the proofs in detail, but it appears to be a rigorous piece of work.  That being said, the paper would be richer if the results were discussed more. The comparison to other work could be expended. In particular, here are some points that I would like to be discussed: - How  the current work relates to Grunwald and Mehta "unified PAC-Bayesian–Rademacher–Shtarkov–MDL" approach, cited as [16] within the paper (but not discussed)? - How the notion of flatness relates to existing ones in the deep learning and/or optimization literature? It is said that the result is "inspired" by Dzugaite and Roy (2017), but it is unclear if the connection is solely thematic. - Why the proposed approach is more appropriate than "classical" ones to obtain the "flatness" result?  Minor comments: - Lines 80-85: When discussing the convergence rate of Catoni's bound, it should be mentioned that the constant C must be small in order for the bound to converge (e.g. as mentioned in [26]). - Equation 4: For the reader benefit, I suggest clarifying that the z_i are the elements of S from the expectation according to the data distribution. - Lines 127-128: It would be more accurate to say that c / (1-e^-c) <= 1+c instead of saying that writing both are equivalent. - There are some inaccuracies the references: Ref [7]: Published. See https://projecteuclid.org/euclid.lnms/1199996410 Ref [16]: Published. See http://proceedings.mlr.press/v98/grunwald19a.html Ref [19]: The publication year is 2008.  --------------  I am satisfied with the author’s rebuttal. As they did commit to enrich the paper, by answering my comments and those of my two fellow reviewers, I raised score to from 6 to 7.  About the point (7) of the rebuttal: It is disappointing that the authors sell their flatness result by suggesting a connection with Dziugaite and Roy (2017), but it turns out that the connection still needs to be made rigorously. That being said, I appreciate the authors honesty concerning their preliminary unsuccessful experiments. I agree that this is beyond the scope of the paper and can be regarded as future work. However, the author should revise slightly the way they present their result, and be clear that it is solely remotely connected to Dziugaite and Roy (2017).  About the point (8) of the rebuttal: I agree with the authors that my question relating to the "classical approaches" was lacking clarity. More than raising an "open problem", I suggest to comment on which technical aspect of their Rademacher approach allows to derive the flatness result is not (yet) possible by a direct PAC-Bayes approach. It would help the readers to appreciate the result.