In this paper the authors tackle the graph alignment problem (and other related problems) with tools from the optimal transport area.  Both the problem and the tools are of great significance.  The paper is very well written, it's very pedagogical and the description and examples (Figs 1,2,3) are very illustrative. It's definitively a very nice paper to read.  In the introduction, the first paragraph reviewing graph alignment methods may be complemented with very important works on this direction. For instance:  - On convex relaxation of graph isomorphism, PNAS, Aflalo Y., Bronstein A., Kimmel R.   - A Path Following Algorithm for the Graph Matching Problem, PAMI, Zaslavskiy, M., Bach, F. & Vert, J.   - On spectral properties for graph matching and graph isomorphism problems, IMAIAI, Fiori M., Sapiro G.   - DS++: A flexible, scalable and provably tight relaxation for matching problems,  Dym N., Maron H., Lipman Y.  This is a minor point: I understand that the use of the Sinkhorn operator it's convenient in the formulation of the optimization problem due to its differentiability. However, after getting the matrix \bar{P}, which in general is not a permutation matrix, other methods may be used to obtain a permutation matrix. From the projection to the permutation set, which is a LAP, to more complex methods like some in the cited papers above. I'm not sure if this could improve the results. In particular, in the example of Fig. 2, I'm sure it would give the same (correct) answer.  For directed graphs, the problem is the use of the Laplacian (and its pseudoinvesere)?  I guess that the optimization requires the pseudo-inverse of the Laplacians. How does this scale with the size of the graph? And how is the convergence of the algorithm? (both in speed and when does it fail)  I would have liked to see an experiment analyzing the performance of graph alignment but for inexact graph matching.  There's also a small error in Figure 1 (b) and (c). According to the numbers presented, the norm there is the Frobenius norm, and not the 2 norm. 