Gradient boosting (GB) has been extensively studied in the past, both theoretically and experimentally. Recently, with the advent of big data, several accelerated versions of vanilla GB have been proposed (in particular the well known XGBoost), and while the experimental evaluations of these methods have been abundant, the same cannot be said for the theoretical analysis. In this paper, the authors tackle this important problem.  The main contribution of this paper consists in casting the various accelerated GB methods in a regularized gradient boosting setting. Indeed, by introducing a regularization term in the usual minimization objective of GB, it is possible to recover most, if not all, of the various accelerated gradient boosting approaches (XGboost included), while at the same time opening up several interesting and exciting possibilities for deriving new/novel acceleration strategies.  The second contribution is a full theoretical analysis of the generalization error of regularized gradient boosting using the Rademacher complexity of the hypothesis space. To the best of my knowledge, this is the first bound on the generalization error custom tailored for accelerated gradient boosting approaches.  The third contribution comes in the form of a theoretically justified learning algorithm, coined RGB. The authors make perfect use of the theoretical guarantees of randomized coordinate descent in order to justify and derive the novel method RGB.  The paper is also very well written and easy to follow. The main contributions are clearly presented. As far as I could tell, the theoretical justifications are correct.  My main remarks concern the experimental section. While I agree that the experimental results are clearly encouraging, as they show a certain advantage of RGB over XGBoost, I'm not quite sure I clearly understand the authors' claim in lines 307-311. In particular, I don't think that such bold conclusions can be inferred from the results presented in the paper, unless I'm missing something. Also, in line 303 the authors claim that only RGB fails only on diabetes, yet the results of Table 1 show that RGB fails on mnist49 as well, which implies that the hypothesis given in lines 304-306 is not realistic.  All in all, a very interesting contribution, proposing a theoretical view of accelerated (regularized) gradient boosting.