UPDATE: I strongly urge the authors to 'revise the introduction to be more concise and rely on reference to [34].' as promised in the rebuttal. And also to include a bit more prominently 'While [34] first showed that variance reduction techniques (SAGA/SVRG) can be used to handle biased gradient estimators in composite stochastic optimization problems, this paper improves the dependence on n from .. to ...'. ----  Clarity & Quality: The paper is written very well and easy to follow. The derived results are clear, and overall presentation excellent (Some concerns remain on the experiments and originality). Originality: It has been shown in previous work [34] that VR methods can be applied to optimization problems of the same structure as studied in this paper. It has been shown that SARAH/SPIDER type VR methods reduce the dependence on n (number components in g) from O(n^(2/3)) to O(n^(1/2)). Thus, the findings of this papers are not surprising and do not contribute novel insights. Further, it appears most of the intro/motivation is taken from [34]. Perhaps a simple reference would be better suited here. Significance: The derived results are certainly worth to be published, though in view of the similarities to [34] I would like to refer to the concerns stated above.   The experiments do not reveal much in my opinion, as the results (could) heavily depend on the chosen stepsizes and (sub-)optimal constants in the (parameter-heavy) algorithms. - For instance, the theory seems to indicate that CIVR converges at faster rate than C-SAGA, though this is not the case in the top-right plot. - Batch sizes of the method are set ‘according to theory’. It would be interesting to see if the results change if the batch sizes are tuned as well (i.e. is the suboptimality of VRSC only due to sub-optimal analysis, or inherit to the algorithm)? - The experiments in the Appendix look a bit suspicious as well, as e.g. the batch size has only been tuned for the novel scheme (CIVR-b1), but not for e.g. C-SAGA that often performed better. 