The LLP setting is very relevant in practice, having many applications and although there exist good algorithms available the idea of using GANs to address the problem is new to me and makes good sense.  The formulation seems to be technically sound and the adaptation of GAN loss functions for the LLP setting seems technically correct.   The paper isn't very clearly written, and I suspect the rusty English may be partly responsible for that. But only partly since there are important practical considerations missing from the presentation. For instance, how are the bags created for the purpose of the experiment? I could not find an explanation. Having worked on this problem before, I'm familiar with the results showing how sensitive the LLP setting is to how similar the bag conditional distributions of the features are across different bags (e.g. ref [20] in the paper). For instance, if bags are generated randomly the results will be pretty bad because the information added by the label proportions of a bag won't add anything to those of other bags. It is crucial to know how the bags were generated in situations where the bags are artificially created, as in the experimental settings in this paper. This is however not discussed.   That aside, the results comparing the proposed approach with a DLLP baseline, also using deep learning but without adversarial learning, suggest in general a significant improvement. Still, there is little insight as to why that may be the case. How much of this gap is an artefact of how the bags were chosen? Hard to say.  Also, the experiments only cover datasets in which LLP isn't actually needed - all labels are known. This is useful to be able to evaluate the performance of the algorithms since labels are available, but apparently no effort is made to actually motivate the setting with any realistic scenario in which LLP is required. I think this is a problem. If the setting is worthy of being pursued, then why is it so hard to find a dataset in which there is a genuine reason to use the LLP setting?  Overall I feel this is an ok paper but the quality of the presentation and the gaps in the experimental section make it not quite ready for neurips.  Finally, I do not believe the answers to the reproducibility checklist are consistent with what is offered. For instance, how can I reconstruct the bags?  