This paper describes an improved approach for sinusoid frequency estimation combined with a new approach for sinusoid counting.  It then puts them together and compares with several state of the art approaches to each problem.  Experiments show that it outperforms them in both tasks on mixtures of 1-10 sinusoids of length 50 samples mixed with white Gaussian noise at SNRs between 0 and 50dB.  Originality: While the frequency estimation encoder builds upon previous work, the first experiment shows that when given the proper number of sinusoids, it is able to select frequencies close to the true frequencies 4-8% absolute better than the PSNet method it is based on across SNR.  Thus, it is original enough to provide better results.  The originality is further enhanced by the proposed source counting module, which works better than the baselines it is compared to.  Quality: The paper does a good job of making measured claims and supporting them with experimental verification.  This is exemplified by its statement of contribution: "Our results showcase an area of great potential impact for machine-learning methodology: problems with accurate physical models where model-based methodology breaks down due to stochastic perturbations that can be simulated accurately."  Clarity: The paper is very well written and easy to follow.  The contributions are stated explicitly.  The theory of sinusoid frequency estimation is described clearly and concisely.  The highlights of a large related literature are summarized clearly.    There is one issue that should be clarified, however.  For the sinusoid counting task, the error metric is not described.  This is an issue in the reader's ability to understand the training of the algorithm, but more importantly its evaluation in Figure 6.  What is "Error" as listed on the y-axis?  It seems that this is using a categorical loss where each number of sinusoids represents a different category.  But this seems too strict and a regression approach might provide a cleaner training signal for the model.  What is being done should at least be described clearly.  Significance: sinusoid frequency estimation is an important problem in several fields. As described in the paper, these include, "radar imaging, underwater acoustics, seismic imaging, and spectroscopy."  The ability to do this better than existing methods, including sinusoid counting as well, is significant.  The experimental validation is not completely realistic, but it is in a challenging regime of a small number of samples and a high noise level where existing methods fail.  Overall, this paper presents a significant advancement of the deep learning-ification of a classic problem in signal processing.   Author feedback ---------------------- I have read the author feedback and found it to be quite convincing.  The additional results provided using the proposed counting module with the existing PSNet architecture show that the improvements to the frequency estimator provide a significant boost in performance.  The additional details and explanation about the counting module are helpful as well.