The authors study variance reduction in black-box variational inference via control variates. Control variates are random variables of the same dimension as the stochastic gradient that have expectation zero; when added to the latter, the gradient’s expectation doesn’t change, but significant variance reduction can be achieved, accelerating convergence. The authors in particular analyze ensembles of different control variates and their weightings relative to the gradient. A Bayesian decision rule for optimally updating the control variates’ weights is presented. In contrast to prior work, their decision rule is regularized. Finally, experiments on a Bayesian logistic regression model are presented which confirm that using multiple control variance with the proposed weighting scheme lead to significant variance reduction and faster convergence, relative to using these control variates in isolation.  The paper is very well written and very insightful. Besides its core contribution—-the control variate weighting scheme and decision rule—it also serves as a nice introduction to the topic of control variates for black box variational inference, which is an active area of research.  One might worry that the main result of regularizing the weighting scheme by adding a small diagonal matrix to the empirical covariance of the control variates before inversion is minor, as Eq. 4 is well known. However, the derivation of this result is very interesting and sound, involving a Bayesian probabilistic model for the joint distribution of stochastic gradient and the control variates. I found this derivation very illuminating and relevant.  A weakness are the experiments, which only cover logistic regression on small-scale data sets. However, here one may also argue that the experiments serve their purpose as to explain the phenomenon in the arguably simplest setup. Also, the authors investigated control variates which were not suggested and studied before, which is another contribution.  Just one question: why did the authors use stochastic gradient with momentum in their experiments? Doesn’t this complicate the control variate story since the stochastic gradient is biased?   All in all, the paper will certainly find its audience at NIPS. I enjoyed the paper and would recommend publishing it in its current form. 