Summary: This paper studies risk-sensitive sequential decision-making, starting from the mean-variance function. The problem with standard stochastic gradient descent on this objective is that it needs multi-time-scale stochastic approximations, for which the learning rates are hard to tune, and which lack finite-sample guarantees. The authors propose a new policy search algorithm based on a (Fenchel) dual formulation of the mean-variance objective. In particular, they provide finite-sample analysis of block coordinate descent on a non-convex objective (which the authors claim has never been reported before), and apply this to the policy gradient setting. Empirical results on three (small) domains show similar mean return with smaller variance compared to competing (risk-sensitive) methods.   Strength: see conclusion.  Comments: - Results (5.2 and 5.3). I think you are a bit optimistic in your results interpretation. For example, in line 280 (about Fig 1b), your approach does achieve smaller variance, but I don’t think you really achieve higher mean return. Then, in line 288 (about Fig 1c) you indicate that your method is ‘not affecting the return’. I think the difference in means in Fig 1c (where your method performs worse) is actually larger than in Fig 1b (where your method performs better), so I don’t think you can say for 1b that you outperform, while saying in 1c you don’t do worse. I think you do almost equal in both, and for other claims you would need a statistical hypothesis test.   - Figure 1: Why are the means not in the center of the Gaussians you draw? Moreover, I think the captioning lacks some information (such as the abbreviations). These are aggregate distributions from the entire learning process right, i.e., all returns sampled?  - The graphs look nice, but the sigma’s are a bit hard to compare, especially when the means differ. I would prefer some numerical values of means and standard deviations in a table, if you have space.  - line 255: Out of curiosity: Could your algorithm be extended to the actor-critic class as well? Would your algorithm benefit from variance reduction techniques (for the policy gradient), such as learning a value function baseline?   Conclusion:  My background is in planning and reinforcement learning/sequential decision making under uncertainty, but not in theoretical analysis of non-convex optimization. I therefore cannot fully judge the importance and technical correctness of the contribution in Section 4 (although it appears to be sound).  I will mostly judge the RL contribution. Risk-sensitive is a longer research line in RL, which I think will get more attention after the success of the distributional RL paper [1] in high-dimensional problems as well. II do see a contribution in this paper to the risk-sensitive RL literature, in the reformulation (Fenchel dual) of the mean-variance objective. The results look better than competing risk-sensitive approaches, and the paper is well-written and motivated as well. The RL part of this paper is therefore moderately novel, but conceptually sound and with promising results.  After rebuttal: The authors adequately addressed my concerns. I believe it is important to move Table 1 to the main paper, and plot the means in Figure 1 (or else explain what the current markers mean, they clearly confuse me).  [1] Bellemare, Marc G., Will Dabney, and Rémi Munos. "A Distributional Perspective on Reinforcement Learning." International Conference on Machine Learning. 2017.