 --- Summary ---  Contributions: This paper studies the adversarial example problem for ensembles of decision trees and decision stumps (trees with a single internal node). As a main contribution, the authors derive an exact attack algorithm on ensembles of decision stumps for \ell_\infty perturbations. In contrast, this problem is known to be NP-Hard for trees with at least 3 internal nodes, via previous work by Kantchelian et. al., reference [22] in the present paper. The current work uses this attack to derive an optimal robust training method for stump ensembles. They also provide an approximate upper bound on the robust test error for tree ensembles, which improves upon the naive upper bounds while being efficiently computable.  Quality: My main concern about the present work is a lack of detailed comparison with two very relevant prior works, which are references [7] and [22] in the present paper. For one, there is no stand-alone related work section, and comparisons to previous work are only made in passing. The bigger issue is that the experimental claims in this paper are not compared to strong enough baselines, even though previous work is relevant enough to warrant a direct comparison. Specifically, the robust decision trees in [7] should be evaluated side-by-side with the current algorithms, as they may have much better robust accuracy empirically. Similarly, the attack algorithm in [22] is quickly ruled out as not scaling to large datasets due to using a MILP formulation. However, in the case of decision stumps, the MILP may very well be solvable quickly, especially on small datasets. In fact, the previous work [7] solves the MILP exactly to attack tree ensembles over three datasets that are also used in the present paper: diabetes, cod-rna, and breast-cancer. Therefore, it would be much more meaningful to establish the exact robust test accuracy, and to compare the present robust models to the approximate robust decision trees of the previous work.   Clarity: The paper is generally well-written and structured clearly. The main theoretical results are clearly and soundly justified. The experimental set-up and results are also very clear and concise.  Significance: As mentioned above, it is difficult to judge the significance of the present work without a better comparison to previous work. On a different note, the focus on decision stumps is also only moderately motivated by their interpretability. The core reason that the new attack and the new robust training is tractable is that decision stumps are separable due to each stump only depending on a single coordinate (and because the perturbations are in the \ell_\infty norm). Therefore, the theoretical results in the paper are not especially deep, even though they are certainly novel and interesting.   --- Review ---  Pros:  - The paper presents interesting ideas on how to construct provably robust decision stumps, which was previously unknown in the literature.  - This follows from a new exact attack algorithm for stump ensembles, which uses a simple but elegant observation about the separability for \ell_\infty perturbations.  - The authors also present an approximate certificate on the robust accuracy of tree ensembles, which was also previously unknown, and it utilizes the new result for stumps (applying a greedy, coordinate-based approach).  - The results are clearly described. The writing is well done.   Cons:  - Some more motivation for focusing on decision stumps would be nice. They are quite a restricted class of tree ensembles. Why is it important to understand adversarial robustness for stump ensembles? Alternatively, can the ideas in the present paper be extended to a richer class of boosted models?  - Many of the results should be explained in the context of the previous work [7], which achieves quite strong results empirically in the same setting as the current work. The work [7] is also on robust decision trees, and it appeared in ICML 2019. Therefore, an experimental comparison with [7] is warranted but missing from this submission.   - In particular the present authors say "While the approach of [7] leads to tree ensembles with improved empirical and certified robustness, they have no approximation guarantee on the robust loss or robust error during training time. In contrast we show how to derive an upper bound on the robust loss for tree ensembles based on our results for an ensemble of decision stumps and we show how that upper bound can be minimized during training." So the natural question is how do the robust decision trees in the previous work [7] compare with the results in the present work? Is one or the other more robust/accurate on some datasets, so is there a trade-off for certifiability?  - It should be possible to run the MILP in [22] for at least three datasets in the present work, which would lead to a better comparison of the exact versus approximate robust accuracy of tree ensembles (as is done in the previous work [7] for the same datasets).  - A standard approach to construct robust classifiers is adversarial training. In particular, [22] shows that performing many rounds of adversarial training in the same norm as the attack may be an effective way to create robust tree ensembles (although [22] only evaluates \ell_0 distance). The present work does not compare against any adversarial training approaches, which I believe is a serious shortcoming and should be addressed as it may be a competitive baseline.  After author feedback: I will increase my score to a 6, given the thoroughness of the feedback. The new experiments and comparison to [7] and [22] are enlightening and better showcase the improvements of the present work. Please include much more details about the importance of decision stumps (e.g. interpretability) in the final version, as well as the experiments and discussion from the feedback.  