Post rebuttal: thank you for your answers. It would be interesting to see comparison to Clenshaw-Curtis cubature method in the camera ready version and I hope the future work will explore the quality of the BSC uncertainty estimates. I'd also be excited to see applications to problems such as posterior mean estimation.  This paper proposes a new Bayesian numerical integration approach. Taking the Bayesian viewpoint allows not only to estimate the integral of interest, but also quantify the estimation uncertainty. On the downside, previously known Bayesian Cubature approach may be inaccurate in the integral estimation in high dimensions. Proposed Bayes-Sard Cubature (BSC) extends Bayesian Cubature (BC) by endowing the mean function of a GP with a (flat) prior over linear subspace of a user-specified family of functions (e.g., polynomials). As a result, under some conditions, BSC can exactly recover elements of this subspace, allowing it to mimic behavior of non-Bayesian cubature approaches, while maintaining non-degenerate uncertainty quantification.  I think the paper is written well and it is easy to follow the logic of the results (even though I am not an expert in the topic and unfamiliar with many of the cited works). Ability to equip any cubature method with uncertainty quantification seems useful and novel contribution. Proposed method is studied thoroughly from the theoretical viewpoint and provided intuition for the technical results along with explicit references to related literature make it an enjoyable read. GP with the prior on the mean function could be an interesting modeling approach for other problems.  I have several questions: - When you state that any cubature rule can be recovered in the BSC framework, does it imply that there is always a tractable way of setting the corresponding functions space or it only implies existence of such? - You showed that BSC is less sensitive than BC to length-scale misspecification, however it would be interesting to see how sensitive is BSC to this parameter when compared against non-Bayesian approaches. Will it require fine-tuning of the parameter to achieve same performance (in terms of estimation error)? - You mentioned that quality of the uncertainty quantification is a matter of future studies, however I think some empirical comparison to deterministic cubatures could make the submission stronger. Hopefully BSC can match the integral estimation error and show higher uncertainty in some meaningful examples when the estimates of baseline methods are inaccurate. Do you have any insight in this regard? - I found it interesting that, in Fig. 3, BC always performs quite well for l=sqrt(d), however for BSC  the relative performance for different length-scale choices tends to switch around. Can you explain the reason for it?