The author(s) investigate how to improve fitting a mixture distribution to an unknown and possibly unnormalized probability density of interest (e.g. a posterior distribution). Typical approximation families (e.g. Gaussians) generally lead to a non-zero approximation error. In contrast, mixture-approximations become asymptotically correct in the limit of infinitely many mixtures. Their approach improves upon standard Boosting Variational Inference by replacing the standard KL divergence that is usually used to measure approximation quality with the Hellinger distance. They claim that, due to the simple geometry that the Hellinger distance induces on the space of probability distributions, this results in an algorithm with much simpler guarantees. The authors furthermore provide a long list of theoretical results (section 4) which detail how the Hellinger distance might be an interesting alternative to the usual KL divergence for variationa inference. Finally, the authors test how their new method compares to alternatives on canonical challenging distributions: the Cauchy distribution and the “banana” distribution of Haario et al 2001.  In a nutshell, their algorithm consists in two alternating steps that are iterated to improve a mixture-approximation of the target distribution: 1. Finding the next best component to add to the mixture. 2. Recomputing the best weights for the current mixture. They provide a clear theoretical derivation of the algorithm and give a theoretical result (Th.2; line 130) asserting its asymptotic correctness as the number of components of the mixture goes to infinity.  To me, the article seems to be a fairly strong accept, though I am not super familiar with methods for fitting mixture approximations of a target distribution. The overall content of the article is very solid. I have one major issue with Section 4 which I worry might contain results which are mathematically false but I might be making a mistake.  While the system flagged this submission as potentially similar to submission 6102, I am confident that there is zero overlap between the two submissions.   Major remarks: In section 4, I do not understand how Prop 5,6,7 can hold in full generality. Indeed, consider the case of two distributions with disjoint support (which I do not believe that you have eliminated with your assumptions). Then, the expected values of R^2 are infinite, importance sampling  has infinite error and is non-sensical, etc. However, the Hellinger distance is bounded by 1 and all Propositions thus bound infinite quantities by finites quantities. Can you please tell me if I’m wrong?  Minor remarks: - I struggle to understand Th2. Indeed, Q is a family of mixtures. How can hat(p) be unique? Shouldn’t we have instead a sequence of approximations with error tending to 0? - Still in Th2. I do not understand what it means to solve eq. 4 with a (1-delta) error. Are both energy functions in eq.4 equal? If not, which half of eq.4 are we talking about? How can we actually assert that we have solved eq.4 with such level of precision? - On line 37, a reference to the Bernstein von Mises theorem seems necessary to me. I like Kleijn, Van de Vaart 2012 or Van de Vaart’s book for this purpose - Dehaene and Barthelme JRSS 2018 assert asymptotic consistency of expectation propagation and might be a relevant ref on line 37 