The paper details a first-order method (FOM) for solving extensive-form games, based on Nesterov's Excessive Gap Technique, and evaluates it against methods based on counterfactual regret minimization (CFR) on the problem of solving endgames in no-limit Texas hold'em.  My high overall score is justified by my belief in the importance of the problem domain (i.e., solving large extensive-form games) and the apparent novelty and significance of the "take-away message" that first-order methods can be nearly as effective as counterfactual regret minimization for these problems.  My low confidence score is based on the fact that I have no experience working in this research area and have not previously read papers on solving large extensive-form games, so I have no basis for judging this paper in relation to existing research in the area.  QUALITY: My remarks below about clarity, originality, and significance completely summarize my view of the paper's quality.  CLARITY: In general, I appreciated the clarity of the exposition of background information in Sections 1, 2, and 3, and the clarity of the sections describing the evaluation (Sections 6 and 7). Specific comments and requests for clarification are included below.  ORIGINALITY: The paper relies heavily on prior work of Hoda et al. and Kroer et al. The originality of the present work appears to lie in the specific combination of techniques adopted from those prior works, and (more importantly) in the implementation and evaluation reported in Sections 6 and 7.   SIGNIFICANCE: First-order methods represent quite a different approach to solving bilinear saddle point problems, so it is noteworthy that these methods are nearly competitive with the best CFR-based solvers on a large-scale real-world application. Needless to say, I would deem the result to be even more significant if the paper had succeeded in developing a first-order method that was outright superior to CFR, but I feel the paper succeeds in showing that EGT holds enough promise that it merits closer investigation in future research.  Minor comments: * page 3, line 109: what is Q? Does it refer to an arbitrary convex set? * page 4, final paragraph of section 3: I found the paragraph confusing. It refers to the set of simplexes contained in Q, but according to the recursive definition of treeplexes, their constituent pieces are treeplexes but not necessarily simplexes. * page 5, lines 168-174: please explain what "propagate the value" means. * page 7, line 254: what does "sequences" mean in this context?  UPDATE: The author feedback addressed all of my minor comments. Thank you for explaining these points!