UPDATE Thank you for your rebuttal. I maintain my score. -------------- OLD REVIEW  Uncertainty estimation is important in bayesian deep learning. The traditional approach is to use diagonal Gaussian posterior approximations. This paper proposes Gaussian posterior approximations where the covariance matrix is approximated using the sum of a diagonal matrix and a low-rank matrix. The paper then outlines an efficient algorithm (with complexity linear in the number of dimensions of the data) that solely depends on gradients of the log likelihood. This is made possible by an approximation of the Hessian that depends on the gradient instead of the second derivatives of the log likelihood. Experiments are conducted on UCI datasets. Comparisons are made against three baselines: Mean Field approximation, Bayes By Backprop [1], and Bayesian Dropout [2].   Clarity: the paper is very well written and easy to follow.   Originality and Significance: The approach is novel and the gain in complexity is significant. However I have some reservations on the applicability of the method given the scale of the experiments.  Quality: The experiments are rather toy. The datasets are small and low-dimensional. Given the method proposed in this paper has complexity linear in D instead of the usual O(D^3) (where D is the dimensionality of the data), I was expecting experiments on datasets with higher values of D than the ones used in the paper. For example a simple Bayesian Neural Network classification on MNIST would be good (See for example [1]). Furthermore, the quantitative results leave me wondering how useful the method is compared to simply using Bayesian Dropout of [2]. I also would have liked to see some qualitative results on the learned weight uncertainties. See for example Figure 5 of [1].  Minor Comments: (1) Equation 3 is a consequence of two equivalent definitions of Fisher Information matrix. (2) I enjoyed the analyses around the effect of the rank on performance.  [1] Weight Uncertainty in Neural Networks. Blundell et al. 2015. [2] Dropout as a bayesian approximation: Representing model uncertainty in deep learning. Gal and Ghahramani, 2016.