This contribution proposes a method to reconstruct the connection in a neural network based on the spike recording. The method infers coupling, only considering relevant connections. The proposed method is evaluated on simulated data, generated by Hodgkin-Huxley neurons and on real data obtained with cultured neuronal networks.  The experiments on real data is appreciated and the obtained results are impressive, as the reconstructed networks seems very accurate.  Some of the limitations of this work concern the careful selection of the bin size $\delta \tau$, as a costly parameter validation should be conducted to select the bin size correctly. It could be interesting to show the robustness of the proposed method with respect to bin size.  Another limitation is the lack of comparison with state of the art methods, the authors mentioned previous work based on Ising models but omit works relying on transfer entropy [1], on spike metrics [2] or on inverse covariance [3]. Also the bibliography could be shortened up: for example, eleven references are provided for applicative work in one time and are not really detailed.  The experimental results indicate that evoked activity led by external stimuli degrades the quality of the estimated connection graph. This could be a consequence of the lack of the system to take into account synaptic delays. How non-null delays are process by this model?  [1] Ito, S., Hansen, M. E., Heiland, R., Lumsdaine, A., Litke, A. M., & Beggs, J. M. (2011). Extending transfer entropy improves identification of effective connectivity in a spiking cortical network model. PloS one, 6(11), e27431. [2] Kuroda, K., Fujiwara, K., & Ikeguchi, T. (2012, November). Identification of neural network structure from multiple spike sequences. In International Conference on Neural Information Processing (pp. 184-191). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. [3] Mohler, G. (2014). Learning convolution filters for inverse covariance estimation of neural network connectivity. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (pp. 891-899).  ----  Edit: After rebuttal period and based on the authors reply, my main questions have been addressed and I changed my overall score appreciation accordingly.