Summary:  The paper presents several properties of the convergence process of replicator dynamics (RD) and multiplicative weights (MW) updates in the class ot graphical constant-sum games, which generalizes two-person zero-sum games. It shows that even though one is a discrete analogue of the other, the convergence properties differ substantially. While the action probabilities in RD stay in constant distance form zero, in MW, they infinitely often are arbitrarily close to zero.   Quality:   The claims in the paper seem to be sound. The paper builds on the previous work and provides sound theoretical arguments.  The paper would be stronger if it discussed possible impact of the presented theoretical findings. They certainly help us get deeper understanding of how th convergence looks like, but it is not obvious that this understanding will have some practical impact.  Originality:  I have only limited knowledge of the field, so it is hard for me to assess originality of the results. However, I was not familiar with the presented results before and the presented proofs are not trivial.  Significance:  The paper could have made a better job in explaining the significance of the results.  I consider the oscillating behavior of MW on the boundary after a finite number of iteration to be the most interesting result. However, this relays on the constant step size, which is not the most common setup in practical applications.  The other results may and may not be useful for future research and better understanding of the algorithms. However, this is often the case with purely theoretical research.  Clarity:  The paper is well written and quite easy to follow. I provide some minor suggestions to improve readability below.  Detailed comments:  13-15: In the last sentence of the abstract, it was initially not clear to be what exactly is meant by probability densities getting "above h infinitely often". Consider rephrasing the sentence. 22: I am not sure what "distributive implementability" means. A sentence of explanation would be helpful. 40: "in priori" -> "a priori" 44: requires -> require 107: In the differential equation for RD, "u" should be "u_i" 134: The modified H should have a different name for clarity, such as "H'" 161: remove "Consider the domain" 