Originality The connection between pPCA and linear VAEs is well-known and already discussed in the literature. However, the paper proposes to analyze the problem of the posterior collapse by inspecting pPCA and linear VAEs. I find this analysis interesting and important. Quite surprisingly, it seems that the posterior collapse follows from the marginal likelihood maximization, and neither the non-linear character of the model nor the ELBO cause this issue.  Quality The theoretical results are properly derived and are important for understanding the considered phenomenon. Moreover, the empirical results supports the theoretical analysis. The authors carried out experiments on real-valued MNIST and CelebA datasets.  Clarity The paper is clearly written and well organized. The theoretical part is well explained and all concepts are outlined. The only problem with this paper is that after identifying a problem, I would expect a proposition of fixing it. The authors propose to play with this the variance, however, it is quite chaotically described. I would expect a better explanation of their proposition.  Significance The problem of the posterior collapse is very important for learning VAEs. The findings of this paper are, thus, of high significance.   Remarks: - The "jump" from the theoretical part to experiments is too large. What I mean by that is that a more natural would be to first identify the problem, then propose a solution, and then verify empirically whether the proposed solution is correct. I miss the "solution part" in this paper. - Can we extend the result of this paper to other distributions than Gaussians? As presented in the Appendix, it is not trivial. - The paper considers the continuous latent variables. The conclusion of the paper is that the problem lies in the marginal likelihood optimization. However, taking a discrete-valued latents, is the posterior collapse still the case?   ==========AFTER REBUTTAL========== I would like to thank the authors for their rebuttal. I want to inform that I read it as well as I read the other reviews. I am satisfied by the rebuttal and stand by my score. In my opinion the authors can easily address the questions raised by the reviewers in the final version of the paper. I understand some concerns of other reviewers about invalidity of the presented analysis in the case of the non-linear VAEs, however, I still believe that the main result of the paper is interesting. Showing that the problem lies in the marginal log-likelihood rather than the VAE itself is interesting.