 The authors introduce a probabilistic model for inferring task specification as a linear temporal logic (LTL) formula. This is encoded as three different behaviors, represented by LTL templates. The authors present linear chains, sets of LC and Forest of sub-tasks as prior distributions, as well as Complexity based and complexity independent domain-agnostic likelihood function. Given a set of demonstrations, the authors perform inference to obtain a posterior distribution over candidate formulas, which represent task specifications. The authors show that their method is able to recover accurate task specifications from demonstrations in both simulated domains and on a real-world dinner table domain.  The authors provide a good background on LTL. The paper is well-written, and the explanations are clear.  The main critique of this paper is very weak experiments.  The setup of the experiments far too simple to accurately capture the value of this method. While the reader appreciates the use of a pedagogical toy example, it would be useful to do this on a more substantive dataset.   Secondly, while the idea is neat, it is not necessarily novel. Similar approaches have been tried for both task structure learning and policy learning using the structure in hierarchical RL literature. See 3 example refs below of the many there can be.   Also, there is little evidence that the current formulation enables scaling to complexities in the task that form the motivation of this work such as quest based games or multi-stage sequential tasks in robotics.  Furthermore, the approach has problems in scaling due to the modeling choice. The framework needs to check all candidates of a given complexity (length n) before moving to higher orders.   Additional comments:   1. "Ideas from universal probabilistic programming languages formalized by Freer et al [7] and Goodman et al [8], [9] are key to our modeling approach" Would be useful to say how.  Additional refs to consider:  - Sener, F., & Yao, A. (2018). Unsupervised Learning and Segmentation of Complex Activities from Video. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.09490. -- can handle complex task graph structures.  - Sohn, Sungryull, Junhyuk Oh, and Honglak Lee. "Neural Task Graph Execution." (2018). -- graph inference with constraints.  - Krishnan, Sanjay, et al. "Transition state clustering: Unsupervised surgical trajectory segmentation for robot learning." Robotics Research. Springer, Cham, 2018. 91-110. -- linear chain inference as a clustering problem. Similar work has been performed for videos and such as well. 