## Summary: This paper builds upon the information-theoretic analysis of Thompson sampling in Russo and Van Roy (JMLR'16). The authors develop a per-stage bound on the expected regret in terms of the mutual information between a parameter describing an unknown environment model and the current action and observation outcome. The per-stage regret bound can, in turn, be used to obtain a bound on the total regret. The authors, also, show that the per-stage regret bound is related to a bound on the deviation of the reward function from its mean. The proposed bounds are computed explicitly in the cases of linear bandits, tabular MDPs, and factored MDPs.   ## Comments: The paper offers novel regret bounds for Thompson sampling and UCB algorithms but the key idea is mostly a straightforward extension of Russo and Van Roy (JMLR'16). The detailed derivations for all three cases (linear bandits, tabular MDPs and factored MDPs) and the explicit computation of the Gamma term for common probability distributions are particular strengths of the paper. A weakness of the paper is that the theoretical results use standard properties of mutual information and Gaussian/Dirichlet/Bernoulli distributions and hence lead to very general and very loose bounds. It is interesting to see the order of the regret bounds for the MDP setting but the bounds seem quite loose and not very useful for developing new algorithms.   There are some problems with the notation in the paper. The use of distribution, density, and measure is incorrect. In the first definition of KL divergence, P is used as a probability measure. In the second, definition of mutual information P is used with a strange notation which comes from ref. [10] but is not introduced in this paper. Without a proper definition, the expression P(X,Y) is meaningless since the input for a measure function is a set. New notation \mathbb{P} is introduced in Sec. 3.2; \ldots is missing in the history definition. There is a switch from \ell to t to denote the time steps in the middle of the paper, yet H_\ell is still used as to denote the observation history.  ## Update after rebuttal The authors acknowledge that the notation should be improved and offer to add simulated examples of the information gain and regret bounds. This would certainly strengthen the paper and address my main concerns. 