- Originality: Although related ideas have been proposed in [1], here they are extended to more general results involving confidence bounds over rewards/observations, and are applied to more general multi-step RL settings.   - Quality: The analysis is quite thorough and seems correct, although I have not checked the proofs in detail.   - Clarity: The paper is well-written for a theory audience, but fairly dense and requires careful reading, which I think will limit its reach to the wider community. It would be great to make it more accessible to a more general audience, as the ideas it contains are fairly intuitive at their core. One suggestion would be to include illustrative figures to convey the general intuition, for example for the case of the linear-Gaussian bandit, since the confidence sets have a natural geometric interpretation in terms of the variance of the posterior.  - Significance: I think these results have the potential to be significant, because they give general tools for computing regret bounds for the RL algorithms applied in different scenarios. The analyses of the examples given (linear bandits, MDPs, factored MDPs) essentially all follow a recipe made possible by the results relating the confidence bounds to the regret. Specifically, they are: 1) Construct a confidence interval based on the mutual information using the characteristics of the problem at hand (linearity/Gaussian noise assumptions for the bandit, specific forms of the prior for MDPs) 2) Bound the sum of the information gain. Combining these two then gives a regret bound. It is possible that this same approach could be applied to a broad class of problems other than the ones considered here.   ### Minor Comments:  - Line 26: please add references for "Most analyses..." - Line 69: should "a" be "A_\ell" here? This notation is used beyond the first step later in the paper, but here is says "Y_{1, a}".  - Section 4 and elsewhere: It seems the \theta variable is overloaded at different places. For example, Line 111 \theta refers to the true model but elsewhere it refers to the random variable. Please use \theta^\star or something similar when referring to the true model.  