The paper works on testing the interventional closeness of two causal models defined on the same causal graph. This is a non-trivial problem and authors make several key observations that may be useful for further research in the field, not only for testing, but also for learning causal graphs and causal models.   This is by far the best paper in my batch and I would like to thank the authors for the well-written manuscript. Section 1.3, titled "Overview of our techniques" is especially well written and nicely summarizes the approach. There are some typos, which I believe the authors will fix in the camera ready if the paper is accepted. I pointed these out below.  The authors make critical use of c-components. They leverage the fact that interventional distribution can be written in terms of the probabilities of c-components, when the remaining nodes are intervened on. Unfortunately due to space constraints, the intuition behind this factorization is not explained in depth. I believe a description on an example graph in the appendix would help make paper reach a broader audience who are unfamiliar with c-components.   The fundamental contribution of the paper is to observe that the distance between any two interventional distributions can be bounded by the distances between a small number of key interventional distributions. The proof of this subadditivity result is very technical. But the key non-trivial step in the proof seems to be the lower bound given in Appendix G. This section is currently very non-intuitive. To make the results more accessible and to help with the presentation, I recommend the authors to consider a simple causal graph with latents on few variables, and write a copy of the proof of Theorem 3 using the variable names and the topological ordering of the graph. This would greatly help convey the ideas in the proof. This is partly because the notation is somewhat cumbersome in the most general form. Also, I recommend explaining the correspondence between the interventional formulation and the general formulation given in Appendix G in greater depth. For example, why are Y functions introduced in the generalized form?  In the causally sufficient case, the proof is greatly simplified as given in the proof of Theorem 6 and easy to parse and verify.  A set of covering interventions can be obtained by a simple randomized algorithm as given by the authors in Section E1 of the Appendix. The authors mention that it is possible to de-randomize this algorithm in Remark 1 in the Appendix, but the details are not given. It maybe useful to lay out the steps for the audience unfamiliar with de-randomization.  Tian and Pearl is cited for Lemma 9, but is not cited in Eqn. (1) in the main text where the observational c-component factorization is given. Moreover, as you introduce c-component factorization here, please mention that c-components form a partitioning of the vertex set, i.e., isolated single vertices on the graph induced on bidirected edges also count as c-components.  Some typos/grammar issues: Line 89: Does CGFT stand for causal goodness of fit? I could not find this abbreviation being defined. Line 100: You may want to add subscript indexes to Us and Vs Line 117: even though he doesn't know -> even though he/she does not know Line 162: causalgraphs -> causal graphs Line 163: Kacaoglu et al. -> Kocaoglu et al. (also in Line 586) Line 179: the the -> the Line 246: This seems to be hard problem. -> This seems to be a hard problem. Line 260: Let .. denotes -> Let .. denote Line 261: Size at most -> Size of at most Line 338: I does not intervene any node -> I does not intervene on any node Eqn's jump to (7) in pg 22 from (3) in pg 21 First line of (7) in Appendix: Remove the comma inside the sqrt It may be useful to mention in the text that the column-wise notation within the square-roots simply means multiplication of the terms in the square root, and is only used to be able to represent lengthy multiplications within a single line.  AFTER AUTHOR FEEDBACK I would like to thank the authors for acknowledging my remarks and promising to make the changes I suggested. I believe the paper will greatly benefit from these in terms of clarity and presentation.