In this paper, the authors have proposed the sinc kernel. By transferring the time series analysis setup to the spectral domain they parameterise the power spectral density (PSD) of the signal by a (non-centred) rectangular function, which results in a kernel defined by the sinc function multiplied by a cosine. They continue their analysis by making a connection between the Shannon-Nyquist frequency and posterior reconstruction under the sinc kernel. Finally, they propose extensions to mixtures of sinc kernels for dealing with frequency varying cases. They authors evaluate GP models with the sinc kernel under real data and have demonstrated the properties of the proposed in the cases of stereo-amplitude modulation, signal reconstruction and band-pass filtering.  I am really torn about this paper. In general, the paper is well written and nicely presented. In the first pass through it I really enjoyed reading it, while I also found the results quite interesting. However, the more I started paying attention to the details the less satisfied I was. Let me explain:  First of all the whole paper is about the proposition of a new kernel, the sinc kernel. However, even that is not entirely novel since such kernels did exist in the past. For instance the proposed sinc kernel is very similar to the SM kernel from [28]. The only difference is that here the authors replace the RBF kernel with the sinc function. I understand that the sinc function has more desirable properties than the RBF in the spectral domain, i.e., band-limited support. These properties further justify the results on band-pass filtering and stereo modulation. However, I do not believe that this is enough to warrant a NeurIPS publication.  Leaving the novelty issue aside, I am more unsatisfied/disappointed from the fact that the authors have only mentioned a couple of interesting ideas but they have left the actual demonstration and evaluation of them for future work. More specifically:  1) Perhaps the most interesting part of the paper is Proposition 3, were the authors directly make the connection between the Shannon-Nyquist frequency and posterior reconstruction of a GP with the sinc kernel. This is a great result but it had only been evaluated under the demodulation experiment where the authors saw that higher sample frequency does not improve the performance. There is a direct hint in the paper in the end of Section 3 on how such a property could be proven very useful in the sparse GP setting to pick the number of inducing inputs, having a proper metric in mind. However, they left it for future work. 2) The whole section about inference with frequency-varying spectrum (Section 2.3) is a very nice idea with useful properties, however, there is no experimental evaluation of it, and it is left for future work too. I believe that in a technical paper where people propose a method to handle a particular problem they should also demonstrate the efficacy of it. Otherwise I do not see the reason of why it should be mentioned in the first place.  My final comment has to do with the band-pass filtering using the GP-sinc. In the end of Section 5, the authors make the assumption regarding an uncorrelated process and noiseless observations in order to derive their final filter form. Are these assumptions necessary? I can see how assuming an uncorrelated process where $K(t)=\detla_0(t)$ is convenient for the convolution in the time domain, but what happens in more interesting cases? Why do you also need to assume a zero noise?  Overall, I have to say that I am not negative about the paper but I am sad to say that I really do not see how it can get in at the current state.  ------- Post rebuttal  I have carefully read both the authors' response and the reviewers' comments. I appreciate the authors' effort and I believe that the additional experiments are a step to the right direction. I still have my concerns though.  The extra experiment with the demonstration of the sparse GPs and the mixture of GP sinc looks a promising start but it is not studied thoroughly. Let me explain: - The number of inducing points is selected automatically based on the optimal frequency. This is great but we should have seen the effect of removing or adding extra points. The authors should have definitely provided log predictive densities scores in order to support the claim that we will not see any further improvement by adding more inducing points. Also, regarding the "perfect, i.e. zero-variance posterior reconstruction" when the inducing points are chosen based on the Nyquist frequency, from what I understand from the figure it seems like far fewer inducing point are used. Looks like we only use the inducing points at the locations where the uncertainty band narrows down. I am not very convinced from this plot.  - The results for the mixture of sincs are good. However, I would also like to see first the kernel on a toy problem where we would already know the ground truth  band in order assess the ability to recover the correct filter.  Overall, what I want to say is that I really like the paper but I find it incomplete. I am increasing my score though to 5 to acknowledge the authors' effort during the rebuttal period.