The paper addresses the problem of answering complex queries in relational networks.  It presents the query as a DAG. The proposed method learns to co-embed the data network and the query DAG in a common low dimensional vector space.  The embedding of the query is recursively computed starting from constant nodes with a novel method. Finally, the solution to the query is found by the nearest neighbor in the embedding space. It then applies the method for queries on a drug interaction and social network.  The paper addresses an important problem, namely combining logical reasoning and learning. While many papers consider query answering in a knowledge graph, the complicated form of query considered in this paper is novel and interesting and seems to be a step forward. Considering that knowledge graphs have been around for a long time, it is a curious case  why expanding query complexity has not explored widely yet.  I think, the motivations presented is a little weaker than reality and can be improved. The proposed solution is interesting too.  Regarding the time complexity, looks like only the complexity of embedding is considered. However, after embedding the query responding it needs a nearest neighbor which is generally expensive. The naive solution proposed in lines 39-42 seems too weak. Looks like one easily can improve it based on efficient graph traversal. Also the link prediction phase is typically performed once, while prediction is repeated a lot. So making the first stage a little heavy might not be bad for most of real scenarios.  The paper is well written and clear. The proposed projection method resembles [1, 2] below which are not cited.  I do not see why the experimental results of the method is better than the edge training variant. I was expecting that the latter always give better results but be slower. My understanding is that the query is exactly answered in the edge training as opposed to being embedded and approximately answered as in the proposed method. Minor: The references page 10 is unfinished. It does not look like the network has to be heterogenous for the method to work.  Overall, considering the strengths and shortcomings of the paper, I vote for an accept.   -------------- [1] Paccanaro, Alberto, and Geoffrey E. Hinton. "Learning hierarchical structures with linear relational embedding.", in NIPS 2002. [2] Sutskever, Ilya, and Geoffrey E. Hinton. "Using matrices to model symbolic relationship", in NIPS 2009. --------------------- I read the rebuttal and found all the clarifications helpful to the reader.  In particular, the burden of the nearest neighbor computation is confirmed and the paper has provided a solution for this challenge, which is good.   I am happier with the submission after reading the rebuttal and having some discussions about it.