This paper considers the phase retrieval problem for a structured signal. In particular,  the paper focuses on recovering a structured signal from the magnitudes of its linear measurements, where the measurement vectors are distributed according to the Gaussian distribution. This problem under various structural assumptions on the signal such as sparsity has been extensively considered in the literature.  However, the existing efficient recovery methods don't recover the sparse signal with information theoretically optimal sample complexity.   Motivated by this observations, this paper explores other structural assumptions which still cover/approximate a large number of signals encountered in practice. In particular, the authors assume that the signal of interest is obtained by mapping a low dimensional latent vector to the ambient dimension with the help of a multi-layer neural network, i.e., the signal has a (deep) generative prior. Such a prior has been recently gaining prominence as an effective prior for a wide class of signals appearing in practice. Working with the deep prior, the authors establish that efficient gradient descent algorithm indeed recovers the signal (the associated latent variable to be precise) with optimal sample complexity. The authors show that the classical gradient descent method converges to the original latent vector or a fixed negative multiple of the latent vector. Relying on the special landscape of the optimization problem at hand, the authors also present a simple modification to the gradient descent method to encourage the convergence to the true latent vector.  The paper addresses a problem of practical importance and has a significant amount of novelty both in terms of results and analysis. The paper is well written and conveys all the key ideas in a clear manner. The authors also provide adequate simulations to corroborate their theoretical findings.  Overall, the reviewer thinks that the paper nicely covers the prior work in the area of phase retrieval. A few minor comments:  1) Doesn't the PhaseMax have O(n) sample complexity for unstructured signals?   2) The authors may also want to point out the work of Candes and Li which shows O(n) sample complexity for PhaseLift when the signal does not have any structure.