Authors present a modification of Capsule networks which guarantees equivarience to SO(2) group of transformations. Since restricting the pose matrices of a capsule network to operate inside the group degrades the performance of the network, they also suggest a method for combining group convolutional layers with capsule layers. Although the theoretical aspect of this work is strong, but experimental evaluations are quite limited without a proper comparison to baselines andc other works.    Pros: The paper is well written and conveys the idea clearly. Capsule networks were proposed initially with the promise of better generalization in terms of affine transformations and viewpoint invarience. This work is a step toward guaranteed viewpoint invarience which explains the theoretical language and the concepts that the network should abide by.  Cons: Significance of the paper is vague and under question due to limited experimental setup. The architecture that is used in this paper has many more parameters in compare to Sabour et al (5 capsule layers vs 1, plus additional group convolutional layers). I would suggest for the Affnist generalizability test to compare at least with a baseline of their own or have an ablation study. Specially because in Hinton 2018 (Matrix Capsules with EM routing) authors report a generalizability to affnist of 6.9% test error (in the rebuttal section) which is significantly better than 11% test error reported here. The gain from group convolution layers is not clear. The paper can benefit from a comparison with a comparable CapsNet and a comparison with group convolution network or steerable cnns as a baseline.   The significant gap between testing on multiples of pi/2 vs random rotations is also concerning. The goal of rotation invarience is with respect to all random rotations and this limitation has to be addressed. More elaboration in this matter is necesssary. For the claim on 1 & 7, 6 & 9, the authors can compare the confusion matrices to verify that the poor results is actually due to significant increase of confusion between 6s & 9s.   The performance drop on MNIST (from 99.75 to 99.02) even with the group convolution layers and significantly larger network is not justified. Furthermore, reporting the results on at least one more toy dataset is absolutely necessary, for example small norb. Also the added computation cost should be mentioned in the paper. The significance of this work would be much smaller due to the limitations from accuracy and computation costs.   --------------------------------------------Update Thanks for the comparison with the baselines and providing the number of trainable parameters. The effectiveness of the method is more clear now and I'm increasing my score to 7 considering the addition of extra ablation study.  Suggestions to further improve the exposition:  - Extra ablation study on the choices made in the paper like using sigmoid rather than softmax for routing would improve the experimental setup and number of routing iterations. ShapeNet could also be a good candidate for extra experiments (limited to planar rotations, etc).  - Clarifying the pose normalization write up by distinguishing the Capsule pose parameters from the spatial kernel positions. For example use different words to refer to this two concepts to reduce the confusion (e.g. Receptive Field Coordinate (RFC) vs pose rather than constant spatial position). - Expanding on how Capsule poses are used to index into GCN that would clarify the differences with the original GCN paper.