OVERVIEW. The paper presents locality-sensitive hashing schemes for well-studied distance function between probability distributions. The new schemes are based on the ideas. The  first  one is  to approximate the distance function of interest by  another distance function for which LSH schemes are known. In particular, the paper shows how to approximate MIL divergence and triangular discrimination by  the Hellinger distance, for which LSH schemes are known. The second is specific to  the MIL  divergence, and involves representing the latter distance function as a so-called Krein kernel, and designing an asymmetric LSH scheme. The authors implement the last scheme and evaluate its performance in the context of approximate nearest neighbor search, showing significant speedup over linear scan, with a reasonable precision.  EVALUATION.  The  problem addressed by the paper  (similarity  search for probability  distributions)  is interesting, relevant and well-studied. The proposed solutions are interesting, even if not terribly deep: the proofs involve lots of tedious but conceptually straightforward calculations. They also seem to work well in practice.   One issue is that  the data sets (e.g., MNIST) used for the evaluation seem somewhat artificial in the context of probability distributions. Specifically, an image is not really a probability distribution, although it can be viewed as such. Nevertheless, the overall paper adds important insights to the similarity search literature.    MINOR COMMENTS:  - There are multiple papers on this topic not listed in the paper, see below. The  authors might want to discuss them in the related work section.  Abdullah, Amirali, John Moeller, and Suresh Venkatasubramanian. "Approximate Bregman near neighbors in sublinear time: Beyond the triangle inequality." Proceedings of the twenty-eighth annual symposium on Computational geometry. ACM, 2012.  Abdullah, Amirali, and Suresh Venkatasubramanian. "A directed isoperimetric inequality with application to bregman near neighbor lower bounds." Proceedings of the forty-seventh annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing. ACM, 2015.  Abdelkader, A., Arya, S., da Fonseca, G. D., & Mount, D. M. (2019). Approximate nearest neighbor searching with non-Euclidean and weighted distances. In Proceedings of the Thirtieth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (pp. 355-372). Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.  - The author measure the improvement of their scheme over  the linear scan by the ratio of wall clock runtimes. Although useful, such measurements can be affected by the implementation details, specific computer architecture etc. It would be helpful if the author included more "combinatorial" measures such as the number of points examined by the LSH algorithm during the query processing stage