The paper is well-written and clearly draws the connection between physical interactions, tensors and the proposed neural network Cormorant. The proposed network is related to earlier work on tensor field networks [Thomas et al] and covariant compositional networks, but presents architectural changes that lead to improved results on the QM9 and MD-17 benchmarks.  Confusingly, while the introduction motivates the work by prediction of atomic force fields, only scalar values are predicted in the experiments. This is also part of the definition of Cormorant: "C3. The type of each output neuron is [...] a scalar". This seems not to be compatible with force field predictions, and also some other important chemical properties are vectors (e.g. molecular dipole moment) or tensors (e.g. polarizability tensor). Would a prediction of these properties also be possible with the current architecture?  Section 2 describes between physical interactions in molecules as a motivation for the network architecture. However, electrostatic interactions given here are less important for bonded interaction, but related to long-range and intermolecular interactions. On the other hand, the experiments cover only predictions of small, single molecules. Beyond that, the dipole/dipole interactions given here can also be written as interactions purely defined on charges and atom positions. It would be nice if the authors would give an intuition, why it still makes sense to include these interactions explicitly in the network.  Finally, the authors write in the conclusion, that "Cormorant is the first neural network architecture in which operations implemented by the neurons is directly motivated by the form of known physical interactions" . Besides the point that these are not the correct interactions for bonded atoms, there is indeed previous work on this, e.g. Morawietz et al J. Chem. Phys 136, 2012, Gastegger et al, Chem. Sci. 8 (10), 2017, Yao et al. Chem. Sci. 9(8), 2018.  Minor issues: - What is the training prediction time required by the network? It seems to collect quite a large number of high-dimensional features. - Table 1: the right table misses units - l. 233 typo: "of of"