The authors proposed a new statistical model for heavy tailed random vectors. They model the heavy tailed random vector as a known random vector transformed by a new quantile function. The model not only have parameters controlling the marginal tail heaviness, but also capture the tail dependence by separate parameters from the correlation parameters. To fit the model, the authors proposed an algorithm that recursively fits moment estimators and quantile regressions. The authors also combined the proposed model with a GARCH filter to describe the conditional distribution of financial asset returns, and demonstrated its superior performance by coverage tests in modeling historical stock return data.  Quality: The technical content of the paper looks sound to me. The proposed model and fitting algorithm make intuitive sense, and the characterization of tail dependence is well demonstrated by simulation (Figure 1).  Clarity: I find the methodology of the paper well presented with intuitive explanations. The experimental results are easy to understand as well in general, though a few implementation details could be revealed to improve clarity (see #3 and #4 below).  Originality: The main contribution of the paper seems to be the generative model based on transformation by quantile functions, which captures correlations, tail heaviness, and tail dependence by separate parameters. The new quantile function seems novel, but supporting evidence justifying its advantage over existing ones seems to be missing (see #1 below). Coupling the GARCH-type models with heavy tailed models for the innovation terms is not new, though the experiment in Section 5.1 seems to show superior performance of the proposed model over common heavy tailed models.  Significance: The paper makes relevant contribution on the methodology for modeling tail dependence. Based on the good simulation results, it looks promising for the methodology to be applied to modeling financial asset returns. On the other hand, one weakness of the paper is a lack of theoretical results on the proposed methodology. Most of the benefits of the new model have been demonstrated by simulations. It would be very helpful if the authors could provide some theoretical insights on the relation between the model parameters and the tail dependence measures, and on the performance (consistency, efficiency etc) of the parameter estimators.  Itemized comments: 1. The advantage of the new quantile function (3) compared to the existing function (2) seems unjustified. Compared with (2), (3) changes the multiplicative factors containing the up and down tail parameters into an additive term. While this makes the function less sensitive to the tail parameters when they are large, the paper does not present supporting data on why the reduced sensitivity is desired.  2. On Line 132, the authors concluded that v_{ij} determines mainly the down-tail dependence of y_i and y_j. For any 1 <= k < j, does v_{ik} also have similar interpretation as v_{ij}? For example, in Equation (4), by symmetry, v_{31} and v_{32} seems to have similar effect on the tail dependence between y_3 and y_2.  3. In Algorithm 1 on Page 5, \Psi (the set of \tau's in Equation (7)) should also be an input parameter of the algorithm. Moreover, since it determines which quantiles are estimated in the loss function, I'd expect it to have notable effect on the results. I think it would be helpful to discuss how \Psi was chosen in the experiments, and provide some guidance on its choice in general.  4. Equation (13) doesn't seem to have closed form solution in general. Some details about how it's solved in the experiments and on the computational complexity would be helpful.  5. In addition to the up and down tail dependences, how could we also model negative tail dependence, e.g., P(X < Q_X(t), Y > Q_Y(1 - t)) / t? This is the counterpart of negative correlations, and is also notably common in financial asset returns (e.g., when money flow from one asset class (e.g., stocks) another (e.g., bonds)).  Minor comments: 1. In Figures 2 and 3, it may be clearer to see the fitting errors if we overlay the oracle and the fitted lines in the same plot.  Update: Thanks to the authors for the feedback. I believe Items 2 and 5 above are well addressed. On the other hand, as pointed out by another reviewer as well, a lack of theoretical results still seems to be the main weakness of the paper, though I agree that due to the complexity of the learning procedure, an extensive theoretical analysis would be a luxury at this stage.