I maintain my original review and think the paper should be accepted. --------- The paper proposes to learn to predict both shape and pose of an object given a set of views of the object using multiview consistency. To get around the ambiguity of shape and pose, the authors propose to have an ensemble of pose predictors, which they distill post-training into a single model.   I am inclined to accept the paper. The method is a solid solution to an interesting problem and the paper is well-written. In more detail:  a) This is clearly a novel solution to an interesting but, so far, poorly explored problem. The entire unsupervised learning of shape from image collections makes a lot of sense, but most past work has relied on ground-truth pose, which is ecologically implausible. This work proposes a solution that indeed seems to work, and the only similar work that I am aware of is [20], which requires having some prior on the camera/object pose. This paper's proposed approach is cleaner, and so the paper tackles a timely and unsolved problem with a sensible solution that seems to work. I think this is an obvious accept.  b) As a side benefit, the differential point cloud formulation is quite nice. I would be skeptical if the point clouds were isotropic (and few), but with a number of anisotropic points, the results look quite nice. My only concern would be getting out other forms of shapes (e.g., a mesh or voxel grid), since simply cutting at the isocontours might lead to weird surface normals, but all representations have their difficulties and that's probably fixable.   c) The experiments seem quite thorough and the authors compared to all the relevant baselines and included sensible ablation and control experiments (including validating the proposed representation of point gaussians in space against voxels).  d) Finally, I feel that the paper is well-written. I have a good sense of how the work differs from past work and what the contributions are, and I feel as if the authors are being clear about their method and fair to past work.  One small quibble with the authors is the claim that voxels are unscalable. Naively, yes, but if one uses the frameworks from either Haene or Tatarchenko, one can produce high resolution voxels.