Applying ALM to the Burer-Monterio problem and to nonlinear programs in general is natural and well summarized in the monograph Ref [8]. Allowing first-order and second-order approximate solvers for the primal subproblems is also classic, and can be found in, e.g., Ch 8 & 9 of Ref [8].  I think the main novelties here lie at the nonsmooth, convex term g(x) and the convergence rate results. Sec 5 of the paper has provided a comprehensive review of pertinent results under different assumptions.  I have several concerns that I hope the authors can address:  * The BM example does not quite justify the inclusion of the possibly nonsmooth term g in (1). The authors may want to balance out and briefly discuss other examples as appearing in the experiments.  * Suppose there is no g, are there already existing convergence results of similar nature? Also, would the idea of proof be substantially different? If possible, it may help to sketch the high level idea of the proof in the main text.  * Compared to the convex case, Alg 1 for the nonconvex case is obviously more complicated. I think for the benefit of the machine learning community which are mostly only familiar with the convex case, the authors may want to explain the main changes, e.g., why \sigma_k needs to be updated.  * For the presentation in Sec 5, would it be better to tabulate the main results rather than the current form? It cost a bit of effort to really digest the fragmented pieces.  * Maybe I'm missing something---the paper has mentioned twice that the regularity condition in (15) will be checked in Sec 6, i.e., the experiment. But I've not detected the presence.  * I was reminded of a possible dual submission of this paper with paper # 6483, which I also reviewed. It seems to me that the linearized ADMM can indeed also be applied to the current model problem (1), although I'm not sure if a convergence rate result can be obtained. On the reverse direction, it's not clear if one can apply modified version of inexact ALM to the problem in # 6483 can still obtain the global results therein. Maybe the authors want to clarify on these.