There seems to be an increasing amount of interests in improving the design of communication systems using neural networks. Most of the papers in this direction, at least to the knowledge of the current reviewer, are rather simplistic (if not like laughing stocks) to serious communication engineers. The current paper is the first exception the current reviewer has witnessed.  The paper proposes an RNN architecture to learn a feedback code over the additive white Gaussian noise channel with noisy feedback. Using the proposed approach, the paper constructs a concrete rate 1/3 (150, 50) feedback code that seems to perform better than a few existing codes. The paper also exhibits practical considerations such as delayed (noisy) feedback and longer block lengths. Although the original architecture is rather simple, how these additional components can be added is carefully studied.  There are a few reasons why the paper, despite the highest praise in the opening sentence of this review, did not receive a higher score.  First, a more recent result [27] was not compared to the current development (although [27] is mysteriously in the reference list). Instead, the paper keeps going back to Schalkwijk-Kailath, which was proven to fail miserably [8]. Overall, the paper is somewhat backward-looking in the literature of feedback communication. There are many recent results discussing better coding schemes for noisy feedback in the literature. Even if the results are comparable to the state of the art, the approach itself is quite interesting, so the paper should be less defensive and strive to include the best recent results.  Second, the focus is clearly on the communication theory side, not on the network development side. For that reason, the current reviewer is ambivalent on whether this contribution fits a communication theory venue better. It's a tough balancing job to adequately explain both of the network architecture and the problem it solves. The network architecture in the current paper is a bit too thin, so as a NIPS paper, the current reviewer would like to see more on that side, not on the nitty gritty communication engineering issues. I would be a good idea to decide if the paper is for NIPS or for ISIT/GLOBECOM. If the former, which is apparently the case, it should be written in a way that is more appealing to the NIPS audience.