Title: Generative Neural Machine Translation  Summary:  The authors introduce a latent variable into a neural machine translation approach that aims at learning a sentence's semantic meaning. In contrast to common approaches to neural machine translation which model the conditional distribution of the target sentence given the source sentence, GNMT models the joint distribution of the source and target sentence given the latent representation. Because the network's objective is to generate both the source and target sentence from the same latent representation, the latent variable tends to become language agnostic representing the semantic meaning.  Strengths:  Idea is quite intriguing.  Approach facilitates multilingual and zero-shot translations.    Weaknesses:  Reproducibility: Sample size S is not reported.  The test sets were directly sampled (and excluded) from the training data, which makes it fairly easy to yield high BLEU scores. Also, the style of the Multi UN corpus is very specific and somewhat inflates the baseline BLEU scores. To give more support to the suggested method, it would be better to also report BLEU scores on other standard corpora and test sets such as WMT. This would also facilitate a better calibration of the BLEU score results and make them comparable with the state-of-the-art. It might be difficult to find a large enough portion where sentences are fully parallel across more than two languages, though.  There is still no guarantee that the model has learned a semantic representation rather than a hidden representation that is similar to what common NMT architectures do. Particularly in the GNMT-Multi setup, it is conceivable that the network learns two separate tasks that form two well separated clusters in the parameter space where one set of parameters is used to do translation and one is used to copy sentences across the decoder.  -----------  Thanks to the authors for addressing my comments. Just to clarify my point concerning the two clusters: The capacity of the model may be large enough to actually allow for having two cluster (with potentially some overlap) and not observing any quality loss. A t-SNE visualization might give some clarity here. Anyway, this will be difficult to analyze within the scope of this paper. I definitely would like to see this paper accepted at NIPS, although I still may not place it among the top 50% (yet).