This paper proposes a combination of two modifications to make neural networks robust to adversarial examples: (1) reverse cross-entropy training allows the neural network to learn to better estimate its confidence in the output, as opposed to standard cross-entropy training, and (2) a kernel-density based detector detects whether or not the input appears to be adversarial, and rejects the inputs that appear adversarial.  The authors appear to perform a proper evaluation of their defense, and argue that it is robust to the attacker who performs a white-box evaluation and optimizes for evading the defense.  The defense does not claim to perfectly solve the problem of adversarial examples, but the results appear to be correctly verified. As shown in Figure 3, the adversarial examples on the proposed defense are visually distinguishable from the clean images.  It is slightly unclear what is meant by "ratio" in Table 3. In particular, what is a ratio of 1 or 0? Are these values rounded from something different, or are they actually 1 and 0?  I am left with one question after reading this defense: what fraction of the difficulty to evade this defense comes from evading the KD detection, and what fraction comes from using the RCE training? It would be interesting to perform a study where KD is used without RCE, and RCE without KD, to determine the relative contribution of both. Does each piece require the other to be useful, or does one piece contribute more towards the defense?   Minor comments: - Are the results of Table 1 statistically significant? The accuracies are very   close, and so it may or may not be the case that RCE actually gives a lower   misclassification rate. - If space is needed, Section 4.3 can be cut in its entirety. The problem of   detecting attacks that are not attempting to evade the defense is uninteresting   and has been solved several times before  - The authors may want to cite Feynman et al. 2017 who also employ a KD-based   adversarial example detector on the final hidden layer. Are there any important   differences between this work and that work (other than RCE training)? 