Summary: The paper presents new exact algorithms for computing game theoretic equilibria. These algorithms are based on a new general solution technique for solving perturbed LPs. Empirical evaluation shows that the algorithms can find exact equilibria orders of magnitude faster than the state of the art methods.  Quality:   It is very hard for me to asses the technical quality of the contribution for two main reasons.   1) The authors unfortunately submitted the very same file as the main submission and the supplementary material. Since the proofs, which are crucial for evaluating the correctness of the algorithm are supposed to be in the supplementary materials, it is impossible to validate them.   2) The paper assumes a detailed knowledge of linear programming, which is, in my opinion, beyond the level that I would expected from an AI researcher. Terms, such as the "optimal basis of an LP" are used without any introduction. It is not specified what is denoted by the bar over a (real) matrix or by the upper index "-T", if it is not a typo. I suggest clearly defining the used symbols, even though they may be standard in a different community, referring to some suitable introductory texts, where the required knowledge can be obtained or ideally including a brief introduction to the necessary concepts in the appendix.  The experimental evaluation seems to be sufficient and clearly demonstrate the point of the paper well.    Clarity:   With the exceptions of sections 4 and 5, the paper is written clearly and it is easy to understand.  The key technical sections do not properly introduce the used notation and assumes knowledge of several concepts which cannot be considered common knowledge in AI.  Originality:   I cannot asses how original is the solution from the linear programming perspective. However, its application for solving Nash equilibrium refinements is certainly novel.  Significance:   It the algorithm is correct, it allows for a substantial increase in the speed of computation of refinements of Nash equilibria. This is significant mainly from the basic research perspective, as it introduces a new algorithm that can be useful for a wider class of similar problems.  On the other hand, I consider the practical significance of the algorithm to be limited. A highly related paper, which is not cited in this work (Čermák et al. 2014), shows that even the undominated equilibrium gets almost the optimal performance against imperfect opponents in practice. This refinement is easy to compute using linear programming. Practical significance of the paper would be greatly improved if it provided some evidence that the proposed refinements can perform substantially better than the undominated equilibrium in practice.   Čermák J, Bošanský B, Lisý V. Practical performance of refinements of Nash equilibria in extensive-form zero-sum games. In Proceedings of the Twenty-first European Conference on Artificial Intelligence 2014 Aug 18 (pp. 201-206).   After rebuttal:  After going through the appendix, I am happy to increase my scores. The algorithm seems to be sound and its speed is impressive.  I am still not convinced about practical significance. I am aware of the simple artificial counterexamples showing that the stronger equilibrium refinements make sense. I was questioning whether they have any practical benefit over the easily computable undominated equilibrium in practical problems. There is some evidence that they do not. I believe that showing a substantial improvement on a specific game with a realistic error model for the opponent would make the paper much more significant.