The paper describes a framework to learn from different expert trajectories how to decompose a task into smaller sub-goals. This is used to define a reward function and imitation learning is first  used to learn a policy followed by reinforcement learning given the sub-goals. Also a module to deal with new states based on one-class learning is used to provide robustness to the system.  A nice feature of the system is that it can learn tasks even with sub-optimal trajectories.  One limitation is that the system assumes a sequential order of the sub-goals and all the trajectories must start from the same initial state distribution. This means that the system is unable to deal with sequences following different paths or from different initial states.   The number of partitions is given in advance, and although the number seems not to be too relevant, in some cases it may hamper the performance of the system. It would be great if there could be some guidance or process to make this selection more easily.  The DTW process is not sufficiently clarified. The system evaluates DTW for all pairs of trajectories? It is also not clear how the goal assignment is performed for each state after DTW. It seems to be an implicit assumption that all the trajectories must have very similar number of states, is that the case?  It is clear that pre-learning process helps the subsequent RL process, however, it is not clear why the information from sub-goals cannot be used from the beginning with only one learning process.  In the experiments the trajectories given to the system are not very good, not surprisingly the other methods perform poorly, however, with information from sub-goals, this initial guidance proves to deal even with noisy information. I will be very useful to see how the other methods perform with close-to-optimal trajectories.  After reading the author's rebuttal, I have chosen to maintain my score for these reasons:  I believe that automatically decomposing a problem and being able to use information from noisy trajectories are relevant topics. Although there are some concerns with this paper, and I will not argue too much for its acceptance, I still think that it opens some new lines of research for solving more complex tasks.