Originality: The two algorithms presented in the paper are basically applications of the existing algorithms, namely, Metropolis Hastings sampler and distorted greedy algorithm. However, the paper presents nice new theoretical results which partly guarantee that the proposed algorithms work well. The paper clearly explains how this work is related to existing ones and provides an adequate number of citations of the related works.  Quality: The quality of the paper is generally high. The authors have done careful work in terms of both theory and experiment. In particular, I think that the theoretical results of the paper are interesting and have a great value.  Clarity: The paper is clearly written and well-organized. Although the paper includes some mathematical terminology which many participants of the conference might not be familiar with, I imagine that the nice presentation of the paper enables such participates to understand at least intuitively the contents of the paper. Regarding the presentation of the paper, I have only the following minor comments:  (a) line 25: Is the word "conxevity" correct?  (b) p.3, last line: The range of $y$ or the domain of $H_k f$ should be given.  (c) line 175: ov ===> of  (d) lines 222 and 223: It is not clear what 'all examples discussed above' refer to.  (e) lines 250-252: The definition of OPT should be given.  (f) line 255: appling ===> applying  Significance: I think that the algorithms and theoretical results of the paper are important. The presented algorithms are based on the existing ones, but they are potentially useful for practitioners. The theoretical results related to the algorithms are very nice. The conclusions induced from the experimental results do not seem particularly significant, but it is helpful to find how one of the presented algorithms works under some settings of the size and parameters.  EDIT: The authors have carefully responded to my comments, and I am satisfied with their responses. I think this is a nice paper and I will keep my good score.