This paper continues along a thread in the literature linking GANs and deep energy-based models, the basic idea being that the discriminator can represent an energy function for the distribution and the generator a sampler for the same; this allows, among other things, a sampling approximation of the negative phase term (the gradient of the partition function) using samples from the generator. Taking this view, the manuscript under consideration proposes to leverage the gradient of the discriminator’s parameters to produce both Fisher vectors and a (diagonal approximation to the) Fisher information matrix for the model distribution. This allows for a powerful form of unsupervised representation learning, an induced distance metric (both between points and between sets of points, by applying the distance measure to the means of the sets).  Overall, I feel this is a solid piece of generative model research. It proposes a fresh take on well-worn territory, makes several principled contributions as regards training methodology, and empirical demonstrate the method’s usefulness, in particular a classification result from unsupervised representation learning that is quite impressive.  My criticisms below mainly concern the text. Obviously I’d really like to see how this stacks up on full-resolution ImageNet classification against recently proposed mutual information and BiGAN approaches, but I understand this could be resource-intensive and perhaps not feasible during the rebuttal period.  One glaring omission from the discussion of related work is Ravuri et al’s method of learned moments work, which also uses the discriminator parameter gradient albeit for a different purpose. Lines 100-102 start off a sentence with “Intuitively” and then continue with an “if and only if” statement. Surely something more formal can be said, and this “intuition” can be made concrete. Footnote on page 3 refers to entropy regularization but AFAIK the entropy is not computed or approximated in the referenced work, rather “minibatch features” are computed as a way of detecting low diversity. Section 3.2 is a bit fuzzy on the details, and in particular the repeated references to MCMC are confusing. As best I can determine the loss term is MCMC *inspired*, but MCMC is not performed (otherwise lots of details are missing!). I’d try to make this clearer throughout. Also the use of the script I both for the Fisher Information and for the Identity matrix on 135 is potentially very confusing. The loss term proposed is quite similar in spirit to the historical averaging discussed in Salimans et al, except that it is realized in sample space rather than parameter space. It would probably be appropriate to make this connection explicit. 5.1 mentions a sigmoid nonlinearity (omitted from the referenced work since it was a WGAN) but then a least squares loss. Can you confirm, and clarify in the text, that it is a least squares loss applied to sigmoidally squashed outputs? This seems quite strange, though not unheard of (if I recall correctly, contractive autoencoders of Rifai et al used something similar). Probably appropriate to add Deep Infomax to the results table for CIFAR10 classification (to which you are superior). Re: “higher propensity to overfitting”: it’s not obvious to me that this should be the case, given that while the representations are higher dimensional they are also highly structured, as opposed to something like a feedforward autoencoder bottleneck.  Post-rebuttal: I've reviewed the authors' responses, and am satisfied with their clarifications. While larger scale experiments would be ideal, I note and understand that there are difficulties inherent. I believe with the modifications and clarifications requested this is a very solid contribution, and have raised my score to an 8.