The paper presents a method for casting the problem of learning a Bayesian network that best explains observed data as a continuous optimisation problem on matrices. This has the advantage of allowing existing powerful solvers to be used. The presented results show an improvement in the quality of networks learned over a leading existing approach.  The paper tackles an interesting and relevant question in which there has been a significant amount of research and improvement in recent years. The approach presented is motivated strongly in the paper by the desire to get away from discrete superexponential acyclicity constraints and replace them by a continuous function. In doing so, it creates a significantly different approach from existing work and could well lead to further work building on that presented here.  The paper would benefit from it being made much clearer and earlier that the presented technique is a heuristic method rather than an exact global optimal method. The paper originally seems to promise a real breakthrough in the harder global optimal problem which it does not provide. This aside, the introductory sections of the paper provide a clear and precise overview of the material presented. The literature review mentions the relevant work that one would expect, but doesn't really get into any depth - for example it does not explain how acyclicity is handed in the approaches it will go on to compare to.  The description of the novel contribution and the methods used to solve the problem are clear. I can follow the techniques used but lack sufficient knowledge to say whether these are the most suitable for this problem.  The experiments performed are valid ways to compare the methods and do not appear to bias in favour of the new algorithm. The results show that the technique generally outperforms one of the top existing approaches. There are always more experiments that could be performed and further ways in which data could be analysed but the presented results are generally sufficient for the conference. One notable missing item from the results is any mention of runtime. This is (almost) as important as solution quality when considering heuristic algorithms. It would also be beneficial to see the results obtained on some standard benchmarks in order to more easily compare with other past and future techniques.  Overall, the technique is an interesting and very novel approach to an important problem, with results that appear significant. There is a great deal of clarity throughout the paper, though more attention could be paid to situating the approach within the existing field.