Summary This paper describes an approach to learning the dynamics of financial time series. The authors describe a parametric quantile function with four parameters (modelling location, scale, and the shapes of the left and right hand tails of the conditional distribution of returns). The time dynamics of these parameters are learned using LSTM neural network. The performance of the algorithm is compared to various GARCH-type specifications and a TQR model (which combines "traditional" quantile regression with a LTSM neural network).  Strengths I enjoyed reading the paper. The ideas are nicely conveyed (although there are some problems with the grammar). The idea of using a parametric quantile function offers a way to move beyond models which concentrate on volatility and allows time-varying estimation of tails. The idea of combining this approach with a LTSM is a novel and interesting specification which allows complex dynamics in the conditional distribution of returns. The performance is compared to a range of generally used models. The authors make a good case that their model leads to better estimation of the time-variation in the tails of the conditional distribution of the returns.   Weaknesses My main concern is whether the Q(tau|.) function in equation (6) is sufficiency flexible since the tails have to vary in a particular parametric way (which depends on the values of u and v). I would have preferred a model where the complexity of (6) could be tuned in the learning algorithm. I don't understand the claim that the model is easier to fit than GARCH-type models since both involve optimisation of some loss function. The authors show improved performance over GARCH-type models. I found it difficult to understand whether these improvements are "substantial". The paper also lacks discussion about where the improvements come from: is it from the LTSM or quantile function? TQR and QR-HTQF often have very similar performance and so I would suggest that it's the LTSM which is helping (in particular, TQR may prefer better if the number of quantile used was optimised in some way).  Confidence score I have a lot of experience working on modelling financial time series in econometrics.