Originality: While using polynomial approximators for functionals of distributions has a long history, the "local" sense in which this paper proposes using them is interesting. The discussion of prior work in the context of the paper's results could use more elaboration; see below.  Quality: I have not checked all the proofs, but the ones I did check seem correct.  Clarity: The paper is reasonably well-written and intuition is presented well.  Significance: While the methodology is interesting and the applications to various estimation problems seems promising, the paper would benefit from a revision that better articulates certain specific conclusions. Details below:  -- The paper left me slightly confused about the correct asymptotic to consider in order to compare the various methodologies for these problems. In particular, the results of the current paper seem to exhibit a variance term that has a strictly sub-optimal exponent of the sample size n. In the case where k is fixed and n \to \infty, this should imply that the estimators in the current paper are not actually minimax optimal? Optimality is of course evident in the case where k grows, but this is not mentioned anywhere in the manuscript. It would be good to be up front about this.  -- In the absence of concrete experiments for some of these properties, it is not clear that this methodology is actually more suited to the various properties than existing estimators, so an empirical evaluation (even just on synthetic data) would be very useful. In parituclar, many of the claimed imporvements over prior art are (sub-)logarithmic, and so it is not immediately clear that employing this methodology provides practical gains in useful regimes of n.  Specific comments: -- It would be good to make the Lipschitz constant explicit in the statement of Theorem 1. -- In table 2, I think it would be helpful from a comparison perspective if the best available bounds for these three properties (before this paper) were also included, so as to facilitate a concrete comparison. -- Line 101: plug -> plugging -- Line 234: liner -> linear -- Line 277: Number of symbols is at most k, correct? The draft says n. In general, this subsection is slightly confusing and should be rewritten for clarity.