This study develops a Bayesian approach to denoise dendritic voltage traces in the context of large dendritic trees. Below, a review according to relevant criteria.  Originality: The novelty of the study is two fold: (1) it resides in the usage of the recently developed model class of recurrent switching linear dynamical system (rSLDS) to do (temporally-)locally linear approximations of the non-linear interactions between membrane channels and voltage in dendritic trees; (2) such approximation allows for the usage of the machinery of rSLDS to perform inference of the latent voltage traces, given noisy voltage traces in a large number of compartments of a dendritic tree.  The manuscript makes it clear how it differs from previous work (in particular, regarding inference of dendritic voltage traces), and related work on inference with rSLDS is appropriately cited.  Quality: The methodology, results and analyses are insightful and technically sound.  Clarity: The manuscript is clearly written, and provides enough information for an expert reader to understand all the steps to reproduce the results. Some minor comments to improve clarity and some typos:  -the manuscript should discuss how the levels of noise added to the voltage data in the numerical experiments compare to the noise observed in real voltage imaging data; -in Figure 3, it would be good to have a quantitative comparison between the Kalman smoother and rSLDS; -throughout the paper, "data" is used as a singular word, although it is a plural word, so this should be corrected; -line 173 "the model does an excellent job denoising the data". Instead of "excellent", it would be good to have a more quantitative/objective statement about the quality of denoising; -lines 196-198: "There is a slight spatial correlation in the errors...". Although perhaps trivial, a short discussion of the reasons for this and solutions would be desirable.   Significance: The methodology and results presented are of interest to both the computational as well as the experimental neuroscience community and will inspire applications to real data, and further method development. Indeed, the approach and respective results presented are a substantial improvement compared to previous approaches, in particular regarding the expressive power of the latent voltage dynamics and the dimensionality of the voltage signals (number of dendrites in the dendritic tree), and constitute a solid step towards applications in real datasets.  -- After the rebuttal -- The authors' response addressed satisfactorily all my comments, and I therefore maintain my support for the acceptance of this paper.