The paper proposes an approach to learn structured low-dimensional representations of a latent deterministic dynamical system using the realization of the system dynamics in the form of sample trajectories. The paper specifically tackles the 'reachable path' problem where the objective is to find a finite sequence of actions required to realize a given source-destination path with a priori fixed intermediate states. The authors introduce a new approach called the 'Causal InfoGAN' which I find to be a very minimalistic extension to the existing InfoGAN approach of Chen et.al. The authors have incorporated the self-consistency loss to the existing InfoGAN to quantify the correlation between the abstract states and the real observations.  Further, I have the following concerns regarding the exposition of the paper.   Problem 1 is irrelevant to the paper and so does not require explicit mentioning.  Section 3.1 seems amateurish. Apart from the binary state representation (which is adapted from VaST) definition, I think the Bernoulli(0.5) details are inappropriate. Also the statement "is done using Gumbel-softmax trick for each element" should be elaborated.  I have similar concerns for Section 3.2. It seems the section contains practical details and should be incorporated in the experimental section. The main content should be assigned to elucidating the conceptual aspects. The section does not add any value to the paper.  In Section 4, the authors define their algorithm. The algorithm is very naively described. The algorithm seems to be the main contribution of the paper and it needs to described more vividly. Details like how the Causal InfoGAN optimization problem (4) is being realized tangibly is indeed lacking.  In line 106-107, the authors mention that "balancing the complexity of the model and its accuracy".  But I could not find details in the paper regarding how it is achieved.  In lines 211-214, the details pertaining to training the Causal InfoGAN is lacking. The whole training procedure is explained in a single sentence. I believe more details are required to appreciate the algorithm.  In line 238, the authors mention that the best trajectory is obtained as argmax min_{t} D(o_t, o_{t+1}). The details pertaining to the tractable approach to solve this particular step is not present.   Overall, I find the paper very premature. Even though the empirical analysis shows considerable improvement (albeit debatable) which is indeed inspiring, I recommend the authors to reconsider the exposition of the paper to reflect the conceptual aspects with the experimental section corroborating it.  ==== I have read the response, and would like to upgrade my score to 5 or 6. The current comparison study in the review is really not satisfactory. 