The authors describe a method for estimating the difference between two functional graphical models using time-varying data. This is done by first modelling the functional graphical models as multi-variate Gaussian processes, and then defining the differential graph as arising from the difference between the covariance functions estimated for both processes. Optimization is done via a proximal gradient approach, and the method is evaluated under 3 different data generating mechanisms, before being applied to an EEG dataset.  As I am not an expert in functional data analysis, I cannot vouch for the originality except to say that I have not come across a similar method.  The quality of the method and experiments is high, and the inclusion of theoretical consistency results is welcomed. It would have been nice to have seen, in addition to the different data generating mechanisms, an exploration of the behaviour for different time series length and different numbers of variables. The latter is included in the supplementary material, but it would have been good to have at least a discussion of these results in the main text.  The presentation of the manuscript was clear, and I was able to follow most of it despite it being somewhat removed from my expertise. Section 2.2. was a bit mystifying, but I suspect that is due to lack of background knowledge rather than any fault of the authors'.   I would think that the significance of this method is high, as functional data is ubiquitous, and robust methods for comparing time series are hard to come by.  Minor points: - The title should probably be "Direct Estimation of Differential Functional Graphical Models" rather than "Model". - In 2.1, it's not completely clear to me what makes this cross-covariance function "conditional"? I see the conditioning in the expression, but how is this different from an unconditional cross-covariance function? - Section 3, there is a typo in "eignvalues". - For the different data generation models in the simulation study, I would have liked to see an illustration of the kinds of networks that arise from these models. - It would also be useful for reproducibility if the authors could make available the code that generated the simulation data. - The authors do not seem to have plans to make the code available, which would be a shame.