Originality: I am not very familiar with the prior work on energy-minimization models, nor am I familiar with the related work the authors mention in section 2, so I can not speak very well to the originality of the authors' proposed approach. From the authors' description, it seems like their approach is related to Keagen et al. which has been made more stable and scalable.  Quality: This paper attacks an important problem, provides a unique and useful approach, and demonstrates its utility by achieving SOTA performance on a number of competitive baselines. I believe this to be high quality work.   Clarity: The paper was quite clear. The motivation was strong and the math was logically described. To make the problem setup more clear, perhaps the authors could have included a more concrete example of an energy-based optimization problem. This is done in the supplement, but to someone who is less familiar with the vision literature, this problem setup may be a bit foreign and a clear example might be useful.   I believe a section on limitations might have been useful. The proposed approach is quite appealing but likely cannot be applied to any bi-level optimization problem. I think it would strengthen the author's claims if they included a section on what kinds of problems they believe their approach can be applied to and what kinds of problems would require further algorithmic development. Specifically, some mention of the computational bottlenecks when scaling to energy-functions with many parameters would be useful in helping a reader understand what types of problems this approach could be applied to.   Significance: Energy minimization problems are very common in machine learning and the inability to 'backprop' through their solutions has kept researchers from applying many feature learning techniques to them. This paper presents a method to do just that which could open up a great deal of possibilities adding end-to-end feature learning to these problems.  ------------------- post rebuttal -------------------- I feel the author's addressed most of the other reviewer's concerns and mine were somewhat addressed at well. As I enjoyed this paper, I will keep my score the same. But, I am not very familiar with much of the related work discussed so I will also keep my confidence score the same. 