• I struggled to follow the paper, which in my view has several reasons   - While I am familiar with statistical relational learning, I lack some of the background to digest the paper in full. The paper is not very self contained and many concepts are assumed to be known to the reader or only touched upon briefly. For example, what is a universal closure (L100),   - The paper is very dense, not leaving much space for intuitive explanations or examples. My impression is that this work might better fit into a journal format. I could also imagine it would make sense to move most of the proofs to the appendix and use the space to add examples and more intuitive explanations. A good example of what I mean can be found in lines 214 to 221. The explanation there was really helpful and I would want to see more of these throughout the paper.   - The notation, while I assume common in this subfield, clashes with symbols commonly used in machine learning (e.g. θ,Δ,α)   - The paper is notation heavy. I understand it is a theoretical paper and space is limited, but I felt at various points the authors should have spent more time spelling things out (e.g. In Theorem 16 it would literally have been shorter to briefly restate what δ,γ,k,m are rather than referring to Theorem 13). • How does learning from entailment here is connected to learning from entailment in the inductive logic programming literature (e.g. Stephen Muggleton. Inductive logic programming. New Generation Comput., 8(4): 295–318, 1991.)? • Weaknesses of the proposed approach are not discussed. For instance, is the time complexity mentioned in Theorem 14 good or bad? To what extent does it have implications for practical application (e.g. Knowledge Bases with thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of facts)? My main problem is gauging the significance of the presented work. I think this is in part me not able to understand the paper in detail, but also due to the fact that there is no empirical validation of the presented approach.  Minor comments • L65: I would add neuro-symbolic learning to the unification of statistical and logical representation here. See for example   - Cohen, William W. "Tensorlog: A differentiable deductive database." arXiv preprint arXiv:1605.06523 (2016).   - Rocktäschel, Tim, and Sebastian Riedel. "End-to-end differentiable proving." Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 2017.   - Evans, Richard, and Edward Grefenstette. "Learning explanatory rules from noisy data." Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 61 (2018): 1-64.   - Manhaeve, Robin, et al. "Deepproblog: Neural probabilistic logic programming." Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 2018. • L81: I am not familiar with the last logical connective. • L107: What does "maximal" mean here? • L111: What does "eθ" refer to? Applying substitutions θ to e? • L116: I am confused since as far as I understand z would be a rank and a name here? • L155-7: I think this is a good summary of the goal of the paper and should be stated earlier. • L175: Can you elaborate why summing εi is valid here? My intuition is that this only works if the clauses are independent. Maybe this is trivially the case, but it is not obvious to me. • L220: This seems to depend on the distribution of test queries though. Are you assuming the follow the same/similar distribution as test queries?  UPDATE: After considering the rebuttal by the authors and discussions with the other reviewers I am happy to increase my score. That said, I strongly encourage the authors to make the paper more accessible and improve its clarity. I particularly believe more running examples and intuitive explanations would make the paper stronger.