Summary:   The paper shows that SVRG and SARAH can be (modified to be) fundamentally faster than methods that satisfy the “span assumption”, which is followed by algorithms that minimize finite-sum smooth functions. Moreover, the author(s) also provide some lower bound results to show that the speedup is optimal when \kappa = O ( n ).    Comments:   The paper is well written and provides an interesting aspect for variance reduction methods. From my view, the results in this paper are non-trivial. I have the following comments:   1) When n >> \kappa, the author(s) show that SVRG and SARAH are faster than other variance reduction methods. According to the original SARAH paper, the author(s) discussed some advantages of SARAH over SVRG in the strongly convex case. Do you have any idea or intuition (in mind) about comparing these two methods together?   2) I saw that the paper is analyzing SVRG but also implies the same conclusion for SARAH. I somehow agree with the author(s) with this conclusion, but the analyses of SVRG and SARAH are totally different, especially SARAH has a biased estimator of gradient while SVRG has an unbiased one. Do you think whether it is trivial to apply the results of SVRG into SARAH?   3)  I agree with the author(s) that the hybrid method(s) could be faster since the full gradient steps could ensure the iterations make some progress toward to the optimal solution. Section 3 is useful and I think it could help people have some intuitions in order to improve SVRG and SARAH in the future.     4) I understand that the paper focuses more on theoretical side. However, you could also consider to add some numerical experiments. It does not affect much, but it may make the paper become nicer.   5) A minor comment: The name of Section 4 is a little bit confused. I understand that you are considering the case where component functions f_i are not necessarily convex, but the objective function F is still strongly convex. The title may make the readers think that you also consider the nonconvex objective.   In general, I think the paper is useful and could help people understand more about variance reduction methods. 