The paper introduces a scalable approach for doing meta inverse RL based on maximum entropy IRL. The baseline is a meta-learning method based on behavioral cloning over which a significant performance improvement is obtained,  Pro: The approach seems technically sound, building on the theory of AIRL/GAIL. Also, implementing the equations in a practical and efficient way is a non-trivial contribution. Furthermore, the paper is clearly written. The motivation for IRL versus BC and the advantages that IL can have over RL are clearly explained.   Con: The evaluation of the method could be more extensive. Specifically, a more detailed comparison with meta-RL methods and existing meta-IRL methods would help in better evaluating the strengths of the method. Currently, only an empirical comparison is made against a meta-BC baseline.  Comparing against meta-RL methods is relevant, because the paper motivates the use of IL by the fact that it can be used on complex tasks where RL methods fail. While this is true in principle, the domains used in the experiment are all domains where standard RL methods can obtain a good performance.  Comparing against meta-IRL methods is also relevant, in particular, with the method from citation [33]. The main advantage of SMILe over this method appears to be a computational one. However, it remains unclear how much this computational advantage is for the domains considered in this paper. Furthermore, it would be interesting to also compare the sample efficiency of the two methods. This gives insight into the cost (in terms of sample efficiency) that SMILe pays for the gain (in terms of computation).  Overall:  Interesting, new meta-IRL method with limited empirical evaluation.   Minor:   line 39/44: what does "intractable" mean in this context. If it just refers to general function approximation, I would drop this term.  AFTER AUTHOR REBUTTAL: The additional experiments from the author response have (partly) addressed my concerns. I've increased my score by 1, on the condition that these experiments are added to the final paper. 