Summary: The authors consider Gaussian latent tree models for which they derive algebraic polynomial constraints. These constraints extend the results of Shiers et al. [2016] and allow for the observed variables to correspond to nodes with degree larger than one (hence observed variables are restricted to being leaf nodes). Based on the polynomial constraints, the authors construct a goodness-of-fit test for the restricted class of star tree models. This test is based on a bootstrap approximation of the asymptotic distribution, in a way that makes this test feasible for practically relevant data sizes. Finally, the proposed test is empirically assessed compared to a LRT for the one factor factor model (which corresponds to the star tree structure).  Detailed comments: As this is not my field of expertise, I will not judge the novelty of this paper. However, overall the paper is well written and nicely structured and to the best of my knowledge the results of the paper seem correct. There are, nevertheless, some questions/concerns I had while reading:  (1) The first part of the paper (Section 2) extends the results of Shiers et al. [2016] to tree models in which the observed variables do not need to be leaf nodes. While this extension seems interesting it is later not used in the construction of goodness-of-fit tests in Section 3. If the construction of goodness-of-fit tests to more general tree models is too hard, why did the authors introduce the more complicated extension to the tree models in the first place?  (2) The results given in Figure 4.1 were rather surprising to me. If the proposed procedure does indeed approximate the exact asymptotic distribution, why does the test become more conservative when the sample size is increased from 250 to 500 (top vs bottom left) for low levels? Also for the LRT why does the method become worse in reaching nominal level for larger sample sizes? Again this test should be asymptotically consistent.  (3) In the experiment with Setup 2 the results are quite promising for the proposed procedure. However, to my understanding this is a setting that is close to a model violation for the LRT, therefore it would also be interesting to see how the proposed procedure would behave in terms of a model violation of its own assumptions. For example, if one uses an underlying factor model with two unknown factors.