Summary: The paper proposed to improve the interaction modeling between pedestrians by using a graph attention network [22] for the trajectory prediction task and learn multimodal trajectory distributions by using Bicycle-GAN [23]. The experimental results showed the effectiveness of the proposed approach by achieving state-of-the-art performance on the public benchmarks. Also, they showed that the performance of the proposed approach is more robust to varying K than that of the baselines, indicating that the proposed approach was successful in addressing the high variance issue in the existing approaches to a certain extent.    Strengths:  -- The paper is clearly written so it was easy to follow. The reasoning behind the choice of [22] and [23] for the trajectory prediction task is also clearly presented in the paper.  -- The proposed approach achieved good final performance and also provided ablation study results to validate each of the proposed components. The authors' claims regarding why [22] and [23] would be effective in overcoming the limitations of the existing approaches are backed up by these results.  -- The visual examples also back up the authors' claims and provide more insights about the proposed model to the readers.  Weaknesses: -- Although I value the authors' observation regarding why [22] and [23] could potentially be effective for the trajectory prediction task, I feel that the novelty of this paper is limited in a sense that the authors mainly adopt and combine two existing frameworks for their task. -- The claim "While the BiGAN architecture does not help performance much when K = 20, we show in Table 2 that it does help improve generalization at lower settings of K" in lines 243-244 was not supported by Table 2. Table 2 only compares Social-BiGAT against two other baselines. In order to validate the above statement, Table 2 should also include the results from GAT and BiGAN as Table 1 did. -- I have a few questions for clarification    1) In lines 154-156, why is it the case that max or average pooling leads to each pedestrian receiving "an identical joint feature representation that discards some uniqueness". Wouldn't each pedestrian still receive a unique features that encode interactions between the selected pedestrian and other pedestrians?     2) Was Sophie the state-of-the-art approach at the time of submission? I am asking this to make sure that the proposed method was compared against strong baselines.  Overall comments: I think that the technical contributions of this paper are on the NeurIPS borderline due to the fact that the authors mainly adopted the existing frameworks for a new task. However, I believe that applying these to a new problem is not trivial. The authors well justified their choice of [22] and [23] for the trajectory prediction task in the paper. Also, the authors provided enough experimental results to validate their claims and show the effectiveness of the proposed method. Thus, I believe that the paper is in good shape and includes enough new findings that an ML audience like NeurIPS would appreciate.  Final comment: The authors addressed the major concerns raised by the reviewers successfully. Thus, I will keep my original score (7).  