This paper is very well written, nicely motivated and introduces a general principle to design neural network for data with conservation laws using Hamiltonian mechanics. Contrary to what the authors state, including energy conservation into neural networks and optimizing its gradients is now common procedure in this domain, for example: - Pukrittayakamee et al. Journal of Chemical Physics, 130(13). 2009 - Behler. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, 13(40). 2011 - Gastegger. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, 11(5), 2187-2198. 2015 - Schuett et al, NeurIPS 30 / Journal of Chemical Physics 148(24). 2017 - Yao et al.,  Chemical science 9(8). 2018  The proposed approach constitutes a generalization of neural networks for high-dimensional potential energy surface by including the momentum in the input to arrive at the Hamiltonian formalism. For classical systems, as presented in this paper, it seems that this addition is rather counter-productive: while the change of momentum is described by the potential (see references above), the change of positions directly follows from the equations of motion and does not require an additional derivative of the network. This is both more computationally efficient and generalizes by design to all initial momenta (provided the corresponding positions stay close to the training manifold). On the other hand, I am not convinced that the proposed architecture would still work when applying a trained model to a different energy level.  The mentioned property of reversibility is not convincing as it is not described how this property can help to make back-propagation more efficient. Reversing the trajectory only allows to discard the intermediate time step, which are already present in the training set. For the network itself, one still needs to use the full back-propagation of each time step to get the gradient w.r.t. the parameters. Beyond that, the mentioned reversibility is given for all predictions that are by-design conservative force fields, such as the earlier mentioned neural network potentials.  A strong point of the paper is the application to the pixel pendulum. This could inspire new and creative applications of neural networks that encode conservation laws. I would still guess, that similar results can be obtained from a pure potential approach without momentum inputs. It would be interesting to see future, more general applications, where this is no longer possible.   In the author feedback, my main issue with the paper has not been addressed sufficiently. The Hamiltonian formalism is more general than predicting just the potential energy + derivatives (which amounts to energy conservation from classical mechanic), but this is not taken advantage of. The author's response, that potential energy approaches need potential energy labels is not correct: they can also be trained solely on derivatives (e.g., see JCP ref above).  A concrete example: A consequence of the more general Hamiltonian formalism is that the network would need to be retrained for a pendulum with a different total energy since the impulse at the same pendulum position would be different. In contrast, a network using potential energy derivatives + equations of motions can handle different energy levels, since it does not depend on the impulse and takes only positions. Apart from this, the approach is a valuable contribution with great potential in other areas than classical mechanics.