This paper addresses the problem of enforcing fairness in robust graph covering problems. The goal is to choose a subset of nodes in a graph to maximize the worst-case coverage, while maintaining that all protected groups receive some minimum amount of coverage (subsets of nodes make up protected groups). This paper deals additional uncertainty in the 'availability' of the chosen nodes: if a node is unavailable, then even if chosen, it will not cover its neighbors. They do not assume anything about the distribution of unavailable nodes.   Originality: This paper's novelty comes from adding fairness constraints to robust graph covering. To my knowledge, this is the first work enforcing this particular minimum group coverage constraint in the context of graph covering.  Quality: The quality of the experiments is hard for me to assess with certain details missing in the methodology (see Clarity and Improvements). This is the main issue holding me back from a higher score. The theoretical optimization problem setup seems solid, though Theorem 1 was hard to parse (see Clarity). The theoretical results regarding the price of fairness in Section 3 seem to be good justification for the paper's study of SBM networks.  Clarity: The paper is organized well and presents the robust graph covering problem and price of fairness nicely in Sections 1-3. However, I have quite a few concerns with the clarity of the experimental results. There were many important experimental details that I could not find in either the main paper or the appendix (see Improvements). This hurts both the interpretability and reproducibility of the empirical results. Also, Theorem 1 is hard to parse. Can the authors summarize in words what the terms (or groups of terms) in the mixed-integer bilinear program generally represent?   Significance: The proposed fairness metric of minimum group coverage seems to make sense in the practical settings that the authors cite of suicide prevention and disaster risk management. Thus, the setup and solution the authors propose seems to have practical significance.