The authors discuss the recent literature of probabilistic numerical (PN) methods for solving initial value problems (IVPs). Based on this analysis, the authors propose a novel probabilistic model for IVPs whose structure resembles implict methods for IVPs. The authors present a rigorous error analysis and compare their method on a standard problem in the literature.  PN is an idea that seems to generate momentum in the community (two previous NIPS papers, an AISTATS paper, an UAI paper and further journal works for ODE solvers alone). In terms of clarity, a strength of this work is that it presents an excellent overview and comparison of related work. I particularly appreciated the context to gradient matching methods. This clarity continues in the derivation of their own work, as well as in their detailed discussion of the experiment.  This clarity and detail of description is the flip side of the weakness of the paper: it only provides one experimental evaluation. In particular, I would have liked to see a discussion of the solver for linear problems for which the implicit likelihood (6) turns into a non-central Gaussian. This would have been particularly interesting, as classical implicit methods are highly effective for stiff problems. It could have been investigated whether this holds for their probabilistic counterparts as well.  Secondly, I had trouble following the description of Sect. 2.4. In particular: did I understand correctly, that you do _not_ sample from (6) in practice, but from the non-centered Gaussian described in Sect. 2.4? How does this not introduce a bias into the method? As a side note: if I determine a valid Lipschitz constant for f, I should be able to generate a rejection sampler zeta_c,h, correct?  I think this work could be an important piece in the puzzle of covering all variations of classical numerical integrators. As the authors rightly point out: many previous publications on the subject have thoroughly, but narrowly, explored the space of explicit step-by-step methods. I have the impression that the path followed by the authors here could lead to a whole new class of probabilistic numerical integrators that might have properties orthogonal to the existing class of solvers. Thus, I strongly recommend this work for acceptance. As some open questions, in particular the analysis for linear and stiff problems, remain completely unanswered, I refrain from giving a higher score.  Minor points for improvement: - In Sect. 1.1, the authors could consider also discussing https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.04303 - The last sentence of Sect. 1.2 mentions the connection to predictor-corrector methods. Schober et al. (2018) point out that their model corresponds to an implicit method, although they only evaluate it in PEC fashion. This connection could have been discussed in your work. - In Sect. 2.3, the authors could consider refering to https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.03673 - In the discussion of the scaling matrix H below Eq. (10), the authors could discuss the resemblance of their idea to the Milne device of predictor-corrector methods - I have a mixed impression of the comments on the "de-biasing effect" (starting on line 331). I appreciate that they highlight the observation and I agree with their rationale on the method by Conrad et al., but I think it's a bit too early to attribute a de-biasing effect to the novel method based on one experiment. In this respect, the authors might also want to discuss the connection to probabilistic symplectic integrators of https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.01340  Some stylistic feedback which is orthogonal to the scientific discussion. a) the authors often apply dashes in their punctuation. I suggest using an em-dash and dropping the neighboring white-space like---so. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dash#Em_dash b) Figure 2: the authors could mark the true value of theta_3 = 3.0 in the figure and also put it in the caption.  --- Post-rebuttal update: I have read the rebuttal and agree with the authors' points. My overall (already good) impression from the paper was unfortunately not further improved, but I appreciate the clarifications.