This paper is about Cascade RPN, a novel region proposal network which is typically used to propose potential boxes containing objects of an image. Starting from the observation that the original RPN has fixed anchors distributed uniformly and do not reflect the arbitrary locations of ground truth boxes, the paper describes the recent attempts to address this issue. Accurate description of Iterative RPN, its plus version, and GA-RPN is reported with their issues regarding the feature alignment problem. The paper then describes the use of adaptive convolution and the use of iterative anchor distribution which form the base of Cascade RPN. Anchors are predicted dynamically along with their features properly aligned. Experiments on the popular COCO2017 detection dataset show that the proposed Cascade RPN has better performance vs previous RPN models in terms of average recall. The integration of Cascade RPN with state of the art object detection model Fast RCNN and Faster RCNN show a slight improvement on mAP performance.   Strengths: + The paper is very well written, clear and easy to follow. + The proposed Cascade RPN goes into the good direction of improving the RPN network by dynamically set the anchors.  + The method is sound and experiments seems to be well carried. + Performance in terms of average recall is clearly improved by the approach, and the integration of the model into Fast(er)-RCNN show a little improvement.  Weaknesses: - The approach is a refinement of previous methods (iterative RPN, GA-RPN) and thus incremental. Nonetheless, the performance are significant. - More analysis regarding the various parameters would have been interesting. For instance, typically a region proposal is tested according to its average recall by varying the number of proposal emitted. It would have been interesting to see a plot when varying such number.  After the rebuttal update —————————— I thank the authors for addressing my concerns. As a result, I increase my score to accept.