In this paper, the authors introduce a method to interpolate between RESCAL and HolE in the setting of knowledge base completion. Whereas RESCAL models the score of a triple (o, r, s) as <W_r, e_o  x e_s>  (with x the tensor product), HolE models the score of a triple (o, r, s) as <w_r, conv(e_o, e_s)> where conv is a circular convolution.  The authors show that by adding a hadamard product with e_o and a vector c_j, with k independent c_j, we obtain a rank-k linear transform of the tensor product e_o x x_s. Thus, by increasing the rank, the authors interpolate in expressivity between RESCAL and HolE. The next part of the paper introduces 2 specific bases, based on haar wavelets and bernoulli vectors. Finally the authors test their algorithms on FB15K.  I like the main idea to interpolate between HolE and RESCAL, but didn't understand section 3.1 and 3.2. It seems to me that the only criteria for expressivity is the rank of C_d. In this case, why not use a truncated Identity matrix for C_d? Why is there a difference in performance between the Haar basis and the bernoulli basis ?  Regarding the Haar basis, why are we happy to get partial sums of the diagonals ?   As currently explained, I didn't understand the value of theorem 2 and 3. Why would we want to "pin-point" (and what does it mean) non-zero values? is it realistic to have a sparse tensor product matrix ? (embeddings are not asked to be sparse, I don't see where the sparsity in this matrix would come from)  I think this part should be re-written, maybe using figures, and theorem 2/3 should be written in a more formal way. The same comment on formality applies to the proofs of theorem 1 and 2, which are elementary but hard to follow because objects are not properly defined before they are used.   It seems natural to introduce what would happen with a truncated identity matrix. This would amount to only using the k first values in the left-hand side vector, which would lead to a RESCAL with a matrix of size (k,d) pre-multiplied by a projector on the first k vectors. This begs the question, is this method very different from a low-rank RESCAL ? I think this comparison would be much more informative than the current section 3.  Regarding experiments, I find the state of the art badly represented. Notably "Knowledge Base Completion: Baselines Strike Back" by Rudolf Kadlec et al. obtains a hit@10 of 89.3 with DistMult, which is higher than the results reported here for HolEx. Thus, the claim in the abstract about beating the state of the art seems wrong.   ---------------------------- AFTER REBUTTAL ----------------------------  Thank you for your feedback, and for discussing the truncated identity matrix solution. Since this doesn't work as well as the Haar or Bernoulli "basis", I would think the real justification for what this work does lies in fourier space, rather than in a low-rank approximation of the tensor product.  After discussion, I change my decision to a 6. I believe that the theory is not currently satisfying and / or supported by experiments.  - low rank approximation of tensor product doesn't seem to be what makes this work. - no experimental evidence that the tensor product estimated are sparse. (which kills justification based on sensing) (regarding the author's feedback, maybe the type "person" won't be encoded on one dimension, but on a linear combination of dimensions. Since everything is initialized at random, I find it hard to believe that the canonical basis will have any meaning in the final embeddings) - no experimental evidence of a full "interpolation" between HolE and RESCAL (i.e., an experiment that shows HolE and RESCAL performances and how this method's performance get close to either HolE or RESCAL depending on the size of the basis used) With these, this paper would easily go from a 6 to a 9. 