The paper proposes a novel kernel approximation method by utilizing quadrature rules. Similar to random Fourier features, the proposed approach targets shift invariant kernels and pointwise non-linear Gaussian kernels. The spherical radial quadrature rules are applied rather than simple monte carlo (as is the case in RFF) and are shown to improve the constant terms in the asymptotic  convergence to exact inference as the number of samples tends to infinity. Further, conditions for probabilistic epsilon-delta bounds are derived for the absolute error on the results of ridge regression in the kernel space. RFFs and Orthogonal Random Features are both shown to special cases of the general approach. The authors take advantage of Butterfly matrices which speedup the approximation. Finally the authors perform experimental results on a range of datasets and show speed and accuracy increases.  At a high level I thought the paper was quite dense with content and the supplementary material was necessary to go through in detail in order to follow a number of the claims in the paper. In the supplementary material, however, the authors took advantage of the extra space and made it a lot easier to follow and understand more clearly.  In comparison to, for example, RFFs the method is a little more complex by nature as they are not using the trivial simple monte carlo in Fourier space approach. However, this appears come come with great advantage from a performance point of view. Fortunately it appears the authors have made available the code via a GitHub repo (which should probably be left as an anonymous link until after the review in future in order to preserve fully double blind reviews).   In lines 112-114, the authors also explicitly describe how to use the approach for the commonly used Gaussian kernel and others.  The results show the normed relative error of an approximate Gaussian, Arccos 0 and Arccos 1 kernel over a range of standard datasets. The proposed method consistently outperforms competing approaches. However, I would suggest clarifying that ‘B’ represents the proposed approach. Not only is is there reduced error in the kernel matrix but they show empirically that this has a knock on effect to the accuracy. Again I would note that the authors may want to be consistent between the figures in terms of naming convention (Arccos vs Arc-cosine) but that is only a minor point.  The only part of the paper which did not come across as thorough, be it a minor part, was the timed experiments. One would expect the authors to run the timing multiple times so that the effects of randomness due to processor scheduling etc are not causing any effect. That said for d=3000:7000 there appears to be an order of magnitude difference between explicit mapping times.  Overall I think the paper was well written, presents an interesting addition to the literature and opens the door for future research which takes advantage of other quadrature rules and classes of kernels.  