The paper presents a solid contribution into the statistical literature related to the stochastic block model. The related work on the Goodness of Fit and Two Sample Testing is up to my knowledge very well covered. In my opinion the paper present a couple of drawbacks that I list below:    I believe that the reason SBM is so widely studied largely because some of the constants, that in other statistical models might be very hard to determine, can be determined in this model. This being the main attraction of the model, and given that the present paper does not specify the constants, this limits the significance or the contribution.    The manuscript is not consistent in terms of the scaling of the degree that is considered in various parts. The abstract states "we consider the challenging sparse SBM regime, where degree-per-node is constant". Then for instance the results on [DAM17] are used, but those apply to degree growing with n, analogous results of \Lamba < 2 for constant degrees are due to Mossel, Neeman, and Sly, "Stochastic Block Models and Reconstruction", 2012. Towards the end of page 5 they state: "a, b = O(log n) considered in this paper", contradicting the abstract.  Are the obtained result useful in practice? The experimental part contains results in the blog network, but it is also stated that "TST plot suffers since the political blogs graph is not completely described as a 2-community SBM". Real networks are indeed rarely well described by the 2-community SBM, the authors should comment more on this issue.   (minor) The papers studied SBM with two equal-sized groups, this should be specified from the beginning as this is a particular case of the more general model. And several of the informally stated claims in the first 3 pages do not apply to the general case.  --------  post-feedback:   I have read the authors answer and the other reviews. While the feedback clarified some issues (sparsity for instance), it also made it clear that applicability of the theory in its present form is limited. In my opinion the paper remains of borderline originality.  