I have edited my review to reflect the author feedback.  Summary: This paper introduces a model for dyadic interaction data.  The data consists of (t, i, j) triples where t is a timestamp and i, j are nodes/individuals in a network.  The presence of a triple indicates that an interaction between i and j occurred at time t. The model does not capture direction in the base rate of interactions (i.e., \mu_{ij} = \mu_{ji}).  The model assumes that each sequence of interaction events specific to an (i, j) pair is drawn from two mutually-excitatory Hawkes processes (i.e., N_{ij} and N_{ji}).  The base rate of the Hawkes process is factorized under a simple CP decomposition involving a dot product between the K-dimensional vectors w_i and w_j, which each embed the nodes i and j.  An interesting prior, introduced previously by Todeschini et al. (2016), is imposed over the entries of the embedding vectors; this prior encourages sparsity and power-law properties in the node degree distributions.  The model is expressed using the language of point processes and completely random measures; in so doing, the paper makes clear the relationship between the proposed model and previous work.  Posterior inference of the model parameters is performed using a “two-step” approximation to MCMC; this algorithm is not asymptotically guaranteed to sample from the exact posterior but can scale to larger data sets than MCMC. The paper provides some intuitive/anecdotal evidence that the scheme provides a close approximation to the exact posterior. The link prediction performance of the proposed model is compared to a series of baselines on four real-world interaction data sets; the proposed model predicts the overall number of links in the heldout portion of the data more accurately than any of the baselines (as measured by RMSE). The latent structure inferred by the proposed model is demonstrated to be interpretable; moreover the model appears to correctly capture the degree distribution and sparsity of the heldout data in the posterior predictive distribution.    Detailed comments:  The proposed model is elegant. Its formulation is neatly expressed and the paper cleanly situates the model in the context of previous work. Overall, the paper is well-written and a pleasure to read.   While the model is elegant, I think its assumptions are too simplistic for real-world interaction data and the model itself is not novel enough to justify this. The novelty of the model stems mostly from the combination of two previously introduced components—namely, Hawkes processes and the compound CRM prior—and the approximation scheme that allows MCMC to scale. The model cannot capture any asymmetry in the base rate interaction behavior of two nodes. The base rate of events i->j is exactly the same as events j->i. Many real-world data sets that feature directed interactions also exhibit this kind of asymmetry. In order to capture that kind of asymmetry the model could make the dot product (in equation 9) into a bilinear form involving a middle matrix e.g., as in Zhou (2015) [1] (which is a paper that should be cited alongside the other papers on edge-exchangeable models). The model makes the assumption that the event sequences are mutually-excitatory which does capture "reciprocity"; however the fact that the model is able to capture reciprocity, sparsity, degree heterogeneity, and community structure is not surprising; these properties have already been shown to emerge independently from the two pieces the proposed model combines.  Question:  —The results reported in Table 2 are reported to be “the root mean square error between the predicted and true number of interactions in the test set”.  Does this mean the RMSE between the pointwise counts N_{ij} for each pair (i, j) that was heldout? Or does this mean that *ALL* events in the test set were summed and compared to the prediction of the sum of all heldout events. The latter would be strange (but is most consistent with the wording). Please clarify.  [1] Zhou, Mingyuan. "Infinite edge partition models for overlapping community detection and link prediction." Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. 2015.