The authors study the problem of setting (individual) reserve prices in a scenario of repeated contextual second-price auctions. The buyers are assumed strategic, i.e. they optimize a cumulative discounted utility, where their valuations are  linear functions of the feature vector of a good. The considered scenario explicitly assumes existence of noise in the market. The seller’s goal is to find an algorithm for setting prices that has sub-linear regret. Two algorithms are proposed:  - the first one attain O(d log(Td) log(T)) regret bound, when the market noise distribution is known to the seller. - the other one attain O(d (log (Td))^1/2 T^2/3) regret bound, when the market noise distribution is unknown to the seller. T is the horizon of the game, while d is the dimension of the feature vector space.  The authors conducted a large study. The results are technically good. However, the presentation of the work can be significantly improved.    Key weaknesses: 1. Positioning with respect to related work: - The authors compare their work with literature on the non-contextual single strategic buyer case and cite [1,25]. However, for this case, the state-of-the-art solutions have been found recently, see (Drutsa, WWW’2017) and (Drutsa, ICML’2018), where first algorithms with optimal regret bound of O(log log T) are presented. It seems that the authors are unaware of those studies. Thus, it is unclear in the paper, whether the proposed algorithms (e.g., CORP) are optimal and is it possible to find an algorithm with a more favorable regret bound (since, in the non-contextual case, the bound is doubly logarithmic). - The buyer valuation is a linear function of a good’s features. This approach assumes that the seller knows in advance the type of the model used by the buyer, what seems too unrealistic. There are works on multi-dimensional non-parametric search, e.g., (Mao et al., NeurIPS’2018) - Besides [2], there is a lot of works on contextual pricing for auctions, where buyers are not strategic. For instance, [11, 18] and (Leme and Schneider, FOCS’2018). I hope a light on this can be done in the paper. - Moreover, Cohen et al. in [11] also provided tricks for robustness of their algorithm (including a stochastic noise). Could you position your ways to fight noise w.r.t. that study, please? [After author feedback phase: Thank you for the clear discussion of the related studies. Please, include these discussions in the final version of your paper. Such a discussion of related work will help ML community to better understand the position and the scope of the study.] 2. The study deals with assumption that the buyer valuation linearly depends on the features of a good. What if the dependence is not linear? [After author feedback phase: Great, it is a good way to extend your result. I hope you add it in the next version of your paper] 3. There is no conclusion of the study.   Refs: Drutsa, “Horizon-independent optimal pricing in repeated auctions with truthful and strategic buyers”, WWW’2017:  Drutsa, “Weakly Consistent Optimal Pricing Algorithms in Repeated Posted-Price Auctions with Strategic Buyer”, ICML’2018 Mao, Leme, Schneider, “Contextual pricing for Lipschitz buyers”, NeurIPS’2018 Leme and Schneider, "Contextual search via intrinsic volumes", FOCS'2018. 