This paper tackles the challenging problem of controlling for unconfounded bias by using a smaller, but still related randomized experiment. More specifically, the authors propose an interesting methodology that first estimates the difference in conditional average outcomes in the observational data, and then a "correction" term obtained from the randomized experiment. Many authors and have studied this problem; however, few have proposed such a solution. The paper adds a new perspective that has many potential applications.   The technical content of the paper appears to be correct in the sense that given their assumptions their technical results hold. My primary concern in this area is the validity of their assumptions. In particular, for the randomized experiment to be useful, they require that the relationship between any unobserved confounders and the outcome remain constant in both the observational study and the randomized experiment. I think this assumption needs a little more discussion as there are examples where it does not hold. Can you say anything more about this?   I  think the data generating process in their simulation study is rather strange. Usually, in observational studies, we assume that the treatment is assigned as a function of the covariates, rather than the covariates are generated as a function of the treatment. The end results are pretty much the same - there is a correlation between T and U; however, the interpretation is different.   Overall, I found the paper well written and reasonably clear, although there are some minor errors, the main ones are: - writing omega instead of \omega,  - not formally defining the event E  - line 82 "population" I assume you mean a "super population" - this is a very important distinction in causal inference!   The main contribution of this paper is the method summarized in Algorithm 1 that describes how the unobserved bias can be removed and the accompanying theorem that provides theoretical garantees.  This is novel work and is something that expands the toolkit available to practitioners.   I believe that this is a significant contribution as it provides a new an underexplored avenue for further research. In particular, I can envision many applied areas that can utilize and expand this work. 