This paper presents an extension of convolutional sparse coding for electromagnetic brain signal analysis. The idea is to impose a rank-one constraint on every dictionary atom (channel x time), which is justified due to the instantaneous nature of the forward model. An efficient algorithm for estimating sparse codes is developed based on locally greedy coordinate descent (LGCD) method developed in a previous work. Experiment on real MEG data shows that the algorithm is more efficient than existing ones and the method can learn reasonable pairs of spatial and temporal atoms related to the mu-rhythm located at the somatosensory area.  The use of rank-one constraint is well motivated for applications to MEG or EEG. Although technically rather straightforward, the combination with CSC in the particular application context sounds fairly an original idea and will be practically very useful. The application to real MEG data well demonstrates the validity. The presentation is clear, although the paper seems to put too much emphasis on algorithmic details rather than the data analysis results.  About the timing comparison, the L-BFGS method by Jas et al. [13] appears to have a similar performance with the proposed method in the univariate case (Fig 1b). The improvement in large lambda is evident but the difference is relatively small as compared to the difference to the other methods. I suppose the L-BFGS method can readily apply to the multivariate or rank-one constraint cases by just replacing the Z-step, so the practical advantage of using LGCD may not be very large.  The computational speed appears to be similar between the proposed multivariate and rank-one models, although I supposed rank-one constraint generally improves the speed by reducing the number of parameters. If it could be shown in some setting, this point may increase the relevance of the proposed rank-one model.  About the MEG application, the figure only displays one atom obtained by the rank-one model. Since the rank-one constraint is the key idea of the proposed method, it should be compared with the multivariate model without the constraint (possibly with post-hoc rank-one approximation). Moreover, what was the nubmer of dictionary atoms in this experiment? It would be better if some comments on how other atoms look like as well as the robustness of the result shown here.  Some symbols like [[1,T]] (=1,2,..,T) or that of the floor function are used without definition. It will be helpful for readers if they are provided in the text. 