Summary:  The authors propose a novel distance based ranking model (Mallows model) for partial ranking. More concretely, top-k rankings can be observed and the rest of the items is considered as being in the same bucket at the end of the ranked list. The authors introduce a novel distance metric which is based on Kendall distance restricted to top-k element, i.e. two items add 1 to the number of discordant pairs, if they are discordant and are in the top-k lists, they add p to the distance, if the pair of items are in the top-k only in case of one of the top-k rankings of interest, otherwise they add zero. Parameter p penalizes the event when one top-k ranking includes the pair as top ranking, whereas the other top-k ranking doesn't.  The authors propose two sampling techniques, an exact one based on dynamic programing, and a second one based on MCMC. The exact seems not so practical, since large table needs to be computed and kept in the memory (as big as O(4^k)) . The MCMC based sampling seems more practical. A transition operator is designed so as the underlying chain is ergodic and the first eigengap can be computed, which, in addition, allows the authors to come up with a bound for mixing time.  Reconstruction of the central top-k list is also considered for mixture model as well. The reconstruction algorithm is based on simply counting the number of wins, and if this number > K (>0) or < K or between -K and K for a pair i and j, i is considered winner, j is considered winner, or tie, respectively.  Experimental study is presented to show that the proposed methods are indeed versatile.  Summary of the review:  I have found the topic of the paper very interesting. However, I have several concerns regarding the technical content of the manuscript, so I cannot make my decision before the author's rebuttal.  Thank you for the rebuttal! I believe that this paper is ready for publication. I recommend the paper be accepted!  Comments:  Can the normalization factor be computed in a closed form?  Regarding the MCMC part: - why the dependency on p and \beta remains hidden in the bounds? What is the reason of this? I thought that the reason of this complex transition operator is that the largest eigengap can be computed analytically, and then mixing time again can be quantified in terms of the parameters of top-k Mallows.  Regarding the reconstruction part: - Braverman & Mossel 2008 and 2009 papers are based on the observation that the rank of an item coming from the model cannot differ ``too much'' from its ranking in the ground truth or central ranking. This property is called location stability, as far as I remember. The reconstruction technique proposed in the paper is also based on this observation, in addition to that the probability of items from the top-k list are not comparable, is also ``small'' which is basically the new part of the reconstruction technique. But the proposed reconstruction algorithm does not use the location stability the most efficient way, because this observation is used only to find a feasible threshold (K) for pairs of items. Whereas Braverman and Mossel came up with a bottom-up dynamic programing approach to find the center ranking which is based on the location stability too, but it makes use of this property in a more principled way than that of taking into account only pairs. It would be great to elaborate more on this issue. I mean what is similar to Braverman & Mossel's technique and what is novel. And why their DP technique cannot be applied for partial ranking. - it would be great to report the algorithms mentioned in the Theorems - in case of mixture model, assuming \beta<1 means that the random rankings (top lists) concentrates around the central top-k ranking. This is the easy case basically. Why this assumption is needed here? - the bound given in Lemma 8 should depend on p. As far as I understood, if p is small, then the model is reconstruction problem becomes very hard, because we observe items from the ground truth top-k very rarely.   Regarding the experiments:  - when the MCMC based sampling is tested, what is not clear to me, why the red line (\beta=0.5) converges to the green one in case of n=25 , and it doesn't in case of n=10 and k=5. \beta=0.5 is a more uniform distribution than the one with \beta=1.0, thus the L1 difference should be bigger in case if n=25 too.  - when the center ranking is found, can \beta be estimated by using maximum likelihood, like in case of original Mallows?   line 23: Mallows mode -> Mallows model references are not read from bib file in appendix 