Update: Based on the rebuttal I tends to accept this paper. The rebuttal solves most of my concerns. Although the quantitative improvements of using physics reasoning is not impressive as stated by R3, I believe incorporating physics reasoning is an inspiring approach to the community of 3D scene understanding. It's interesting to know voxel representation could not help much in stability reasoning compared with cuboid representation. Therefore I'd suggest the authors to include the clarifications in the rebuttal in their final draft and push forward a quicker code release for reproducibility.  This paper proposes Prim RCNN, which involves stability reasoning for 3D objects and layout estimation in single RGB image of an indoor scene. The novelty point is incorporating physics reasoning in neural network which can be trained end-to-end. However my major concern is the missing comparison with state-of-the-art 3D scene estimation approach to validate the contribution of stability reasoning: 1) Although Table 2 shows better performance of Prim-RCNN with stability reasoning, it's not clear to me whether a good 3D object detection without stability reasoning can achieve better performance. I suggest the author to compare with the state-of-the-art 3D scene recovery approach: IM2CAD (Izadinia, Hamid, Qi Shan, and Steven M. Seitz, CVPR 2017 ) to validate the Prim RCNN approach. IM2CAD also predicts on both layout and shapes from single RGB image based on a Faster-RCNN structure, with detailed CAD model representation rather than 3D bounding boxes (which I believe is better). Unfortunately the author missed citing this paper.  2) Since SUNRGBD dataset has groundtruth 3D bounding box labeling, it's intuitive to directly train and evaluate on the SUNRGBD dataset. Thus the contribution of transferring from synthetic to real is not clear to me. 3) The User study in the experiments section is not convincing. Since the approach produces 3D bounding box of shapes, it tends to be "3D detection" rather than "3D reconstruction". In this case it's hard for users to say which is more physically reasonable by observing 2D images with rendered 3D blocks (often occluded) from single view only. 4) Quantitative evaluation on the layout estimation with or without physics is missing. 5) The proposed method is built upon Factored 3D, by substituting the detailed voxel-based shape prediction branch to simple 3D bounding box detection. However I believe predicting on detailed shapes (e.g. CAD models or voxel based representation) and layouts is more suitable for physical reasoning. Therefore the author's approach tends to be a preliminary exploration to involve stability reasoning in the neural network design.  Other minor issue: 1) Table 2 column for "0.1 mAP", bold numbers are wrong.