I understand that definition 2.1 is new, but this is not entirely clear to me. The authors should explain what is new in definition 2.1. Has it been considered in the literature in the past? The implications of Def. 2.1 presented in sections 2.2 and 2.3 are strong and interesting.  One of the key contributions of the paper addresses the question of how to modify explanations to improve sensitivity and fidelity. The authors show that they can improve both sensitivity and fidelity simultaneously. In order to judge the significance of this contribution, I would expect the authors to clearly explain the differences between fidelity and sensitivity. Fidelity is based on the effect of perturbations, whereas in lines 58-59 the authors say "It is natural to wish for our explanation to not be too sensitive, since that would entail differing explanations with minor variations in the input (or prediction values)". It is clear to me that fidelity and sensitivity are highly correlated, and I am a not sure why anyone could think that it is important to show that sensitivity and fidelity could be improved simultaneously. Sensitivity seems to be a weaker metric because it does not use information about the outputs when the inputs are perturbed, whereas infidelity uses the error. So, it is a kind of trivial that infidelity that has both perturbations and access to the outputs is consistent with sensitivity that knows about perturbations but ignores the outputs. I believe that if the authors could explain the difference between sensitivity and fidelity, and it would be possible to see importance of this contribution.  It seems to me that the idea of smoothing of explanations is related to "ensembles" in machine learning. If so, the authors should mention this fact clearly and state that their explanations are in fact ensemble explanations.  As long as I am familiar with explainability in machine learning, my knowledge of metrics to evaluate explanations is limited. For this reason, my questions above ask for some clarifications. The experimental results are very comprehensive, and they indicate that the methods proposed in this paper can generate explanations that are useful both with respect to a subjective evaluation by humans and quantitative metrics. I have to admit that the empirical evaluation is strong.  The authors could proofread the paper to fix small errors, e.g., "to to" in line 96.