This paper proposes a novel learning frame-work for Markov State Models of real valued vectors.  This model can handle metastable processes i.e. processes that evolve locally in short time-scales but switch between a few clusters after very long periods. The proposed framework is based on a nice idea to decompose the transition from x1 to x2 to the probability that x1 belongs to a long-lived state and a distribution of x2 given the state. The first conditional probability is modeled using a decoding deep network whereas the second one can be represented either using a network that assigns weights to x2 or using a generative neural network. This is a very interesting manuscript. The proposed decomposition is a neat idea that allows to harness flexible representations to Markov processes with a complex structure. The model has the merit that it can efficiently simulate transitions from long-lived states that would take an extremely substantial number of steps using conventional simulations. Additionally, it allows to learn the stationary distribution of the process.  The general flow of the paper is good, but some rearrangement and modifications could have make it easier to follow: (1) Mention that \tau is fixed, and in Equation 5 state that the approximation holds for sufficiently small \tau (2) The ‘rewiring trick’ is introduced after Equation 2 and in Figure 1, however it is not clear what it does. As far as I understand, the idea is to sample a transition from state $i$ to state $j$ by generating a sample $x$ from the generator of $j$ and passing this sample through the decoder. Then $K$ can be approximated using many sample. This trick also allows to estimate $K$ using the maximum likelihood approach as introduced in Equation 9. I think that explicit explanation after Equation 2, will make it easier to understand. (3) In Equation 1, y represents a state in the configuration space, whereas in Figure 1 it seems to represent an index of the latent space, which is confusing. (4) In the left-hand-side of Equation 11, x and y represent random vectors. It is not clear what do they represent in the right-hand-side. Are there averages of these variables?  (5) In Equation 12, specify if the second line is conditioned on x_t.   *** After rebuttal *** I have read the other reviews as well as the author's response. They address the issues I raised, which were oriented to improve the clarity of the paper, and therefore I maintain the original high score.