I enjoy the paper very much as it carefully discusses the problems with uncertainty estimate and its (sometimes underestimated role) in deep RL.  Summary: The paper starts with previous methods on uncertainty estimate and their applications to RL. By noting that these previous methods all have disadvantages, the paper proposes a prior mechanism for exploration, which passes sanity check under linear representation and is shown to over-perform deep RL algorithms without a prior mechanism. Questions: 1. In line 68, why should exploration be to prioritize the best experiences to learn from. Probably the author can elaborate more on this concise statement. 2. Lemma 1 seems a bit vague and too general. Though I could clearly see the reason why the posterior produced by dropout does not concentrate. Probably more explanation will help. 3. What exactly is the confounding effect of sgd optimization mentioned in line 117? 4. Lemma 2: why the objective is a variational loss? Does it follow from the variational objective of one variational distribution against a posterior, what are these? 5. I am familiar with the work of distributional RL, and I understand the orthogonal role of distributional RL and Bayesian prior. However, I do not completely understand the figures in Figure 1. The author should explain the experiments and illustrations more clearly. 6. How are the graphs in Figure 2 obtained? Can authors explain a bit more in the paper? It is a bit compounding at the first sight. 7. In line 214, does a random neural network refer to a network with random weight initializations? One per each ensemble member? 8. In Figure 5, the initial performance of BSP (light blue) is obviously worse than the other algorithms especially when zooming in in (b). What is the reason? General Advice: 1. This is no doubt a paper with rich content, and can probably use better presentation. The paper presents a lot of topics related to uncertainty estimates (in RL and deep learning) and their corresponding weaknesses. However, after reading up to page 5, I have very little idea as to how these various methods relate to the proposed prior mechanism. It feels a bit like reading a list of methods without too much contrast. Though the authors have definitely identifies their disadvantages using small and contrived experiments. I just feel that the first five pages can be better organized and presented. 