The authors investigate the influence of uncertainty prediction in model-based reinforcement learning. They hypothesise that learned transition models should model both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty to work well in model predictive control (MPC). Probabilistic neural networks capture the former well, but tend to over-fit with few samples and Gaussian processes capture the latter well, but do not scale well. The authors propose to use probabilistic ensemble neural networks and compare their method with a variety of model architectures and propagation methods for MPC. They conclude that both probabilistic networks and ensemble methods significantly improve the performance on MuJoCo tasks. The authors claim that their method reaches the same asymptotic performance as model-free methods with only a fraction of training samples.  Including uncertainty estimates into model-based RL is a promising research direction and the authors discuss a variety of potential and existing approaches. The paper is well written and the discussed methods are thoroughly evaluated. The results show significantly improved performance in the harder tasks, like PR2-Reacher and Half-cheetah. As minor criticisms, the authors emphasise the importance of estimating aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty. While the difference is crucial in many ways, the authors never really make use of this difference or discuss how it affects their framework. The authors also claim that their "approach matches the asymptotic performance of model-free algorithms on several challenging benchmark tasks". While this is technically true, the reviewer is missing a discussion about the Half-cheetah task, in which the novel method did not outperform SAC and in which the asymptotic performance of the model-free algorithms differed wildly. Nonetheless, the paper is a very good contribution and should be accepted. The authors should seriously revise the appendix, though.  COMMENTS: l.155: the norm in the MSE definition should be squared l.168: the formula refers to the mean, not to the distribution l.185: you state that MPC does not require a planning horizon, but then you introduce on in l.188 and even evaluate the influence in appendix A.7  l.194: you should choose one word in "for in"  l.195: "than what" is technically correct, but sounds weird l.288f: it is hard to see a difference between "same bootstrap" and "same bootstrap indexes" l.291: rouge "a" l.308f: you claim that GP-MM outperforms PE-TS1 on cartpole, but in Figure 3, only GP-E outperforms your method. l.327: "aadvanced" Most figures in the appendix are not readable due to tiny fonts It is not obvious how to interpret Figure A.7  A.10 misses any description what the ablation study was about