The authors develop a dimensionality reduction method to identify a low-dimensional representation of olfactory responses in Piriform cortex. Each trial is embedded in a low-dimensional space, and for each neuron a different nonlinear mapping is learned to predict firing rate from this low-dimensional embedding. The nonlinear mapping is parameterized by a Gaussian Process with a relatively smooth prior, which aids in interpretability. The authors assume and exploit Kronecker structure in the noise covariance matrix of the learned model, and describe efficient methods for variational inference.  I think this method could be very useful in other experimental systems--not just piriform cortex. I wish the authors had discussed other applications of this method in the paper!  I generally like this paper. The writing style is dense and technical, but clear enough to be understood by readers with an understanding of Bayesian statistics. The quality of the work and attention to detail is exemplary.  My only concern with this paper is that the comparison to PCA is not well-described, and there is not a deep discussion or comparison to other approaches. My guess is that PCA was applied to a D x NT matrix of firing rates, but this doesn't seem to be stated explicitly in the text (sorry if I missed it). It also would have been nice to describe how the data were pre-processed for PCA or compare to factor analysis for a stronger baseline. Other baselines that the authors might consider include tSNE and linear discriminant analysis (LDA) -- see Cunningham & Ghahramani (2015) for other linear dimensionality reduction methods.  The paper also does not discuss differences between this model and previous work on neural data analysis. They cite 9 papers in the introduction, but do not go into detail about the differences between their work and others. The main difference that I see is that this work focuses on static, evoked neural firing rates to different odor stimuli while most previous work has considered temporal dynamics. The model described in this paper is also simpler and potentially more interpretable than some of these previous models.  Overall I think this is a technically sound paper and should be accepted. But I encourage the authors to develop the discussion and comparison to other methods.  === Update After Rebuttal === I bumped my score up slightly - I think this is a really detailed and carefully written paper and I look forward to seeing it published. One small comment - I think that the tSNE plot in the author rebuttal may not be well-tuned and you might try tweaking the perplexity for a more fair comparison. This isn't a big problem though -- I like the author's approach much better than tSNE anyways. I think an interesting direction for future research will be to see if the nonlinear mapping learned by the authors is somehow interpretable or consistent across animals. I look forward to seeing further developments.