Summary:  The paper introduces a new method for estimating personalized treatment effects (i.e. individual level effects based on policies that are functions of relevant covariates) from data obtained under two differing policies where for each record either the treatment or the target effect has been recorded, but never simultaneously, e.g. due to privacy reasons. It is shown the optimal policy can be recovered from the available data (assuming some appropriate functional form is known), but that a naive approach (estimating 4 required quantities separately from the data) may result in unstable solutions. Instead an alternative method, called MinMaxGauss, is proposed that rephrases the target optimal policy as the solution to an empirical optimization problem that should be more robust. Error bounds based on Rademacher complexity are derived for the difference between the inferred and optimal policy, and more general loss functions are introduced. The resulting method is compared against two baseline (‘naive’) approaches on both synthetic and real world data sets.   The problem is well known, and frequently encountered in areas where it is difficult to track the impact of different strategies due to privacy concerns.The fact that it is still possible to infer the treatment effect even though these are never measured together may initially be surprising, but the key to the solution: having data from two different policies, is closely related to recent insights into multi-source causal discovery. However, the fact that this also suffices to determine *individual* treatment policies was (at least to me) a new and unexpected find. The reformulation in terms of a regularized empirical optimization problem is both elegant and flexible, and the resulting error bounds are very useful and impressive (although I did not check the derivation of Thm2+Cor1).  Regarding novelty: I checked, but as I am no expert in uplift modelling I am not entirely certain to what extent there may be overlap with existing articles/methods. Still, as far as I can tell the solution presented is original, interesting, and significant.  The paper itself is well written, and makes the entire problem setting and solution good to follow even for relative novices into uplift modelling.  The only disappointment / source of concern was the evaluation part: experiments+results were strangely messy (see details below) and in some cases the figures presented seemed to contradict the conclusions drawn. I suspect this is partly due to some unfortunate textual/caption mistakes, but it does definitely leave room for improvement in order to fully vindicate the claim of superior efficacy of the method over the naive baseline approaches. (That said: as far as I can tell even the baseline methods are new, so in that sense even those are already relevant).  In summary: challenging problem, interesting solution, good paper => accept.  ======= Details: 42 : typo ‘have exposed’ 60: so treatment is entirely mediated by variables x? 61: typo: repeat of case 1 (instead of -1) 115: ‘by multiplying y to Eq.(5) …’ => bit unclear  143: repeat ’n_1 = n_2’ 170: function’f’ is clear, but can you give an intuitive interpretation for the function ‘g’ ? 189+,Th2,Cor1: interesting result, though I did not check this derivation .. 229: ‘point in [0,2]’ => in Fig1a ‘b’ seems to run from [0,10] ? 243/4: ‘impression’? ; also ’has 10 features … we take the 12th’? 248: ‘we can virtually shift ..’ => this sounds a bit suspicious: not sure whether I agree Fig1a: is this correct? is suggests the FourNNC baseline outperforms the proposed method … and does not seem to match Fig1b … idem: why the temporary breakdown of FourLogistic for values of b [1.5,3]? Fig1b/c: what is the coloured axis? .. also: text suggest ‘light = low’, axis the opposite? Fig.2: use consistent colours for the methods between the plots idem, Fig2b: what method is ‘MinMaxLin’? (not mentioned in text) 286: ‘ … problem, …’ => remove comma (alters the meaning of the sentence to one that is definitely wrong) 290-293: this is a very relevant issue that should probably be part of section 5