This paper presents a novel approach for computing a distance between (unaligned) graphs using the Wasserstein distance between signals (or, more specifically, random Gaussian vectors) on the graphs. The graph alignment problem is then solved through the minimization of the Wasserstein distance (which has an explicit formulation in this case) over the set of permutation matrices, encoded using the Sinkhorn operator.  The paper is easy to read and very interesting. The ideas proposed for this challenging problem (the computation of graph distances and graph alignment) are very elegant and, based on the experimental section, efficient in practice. The use of the Wasserstein distance between graph signals for computing graph distances appears novel, and the work contains many interesting ideas that would be valuable for a researcher attending the conference and working on a similar topic.  My two main concerns are: 1) Weak experimental section: Several technical aspects of the algorithm are missing. For example, the choice of parameter \tau, number of samples S and number of iterations of the Sinkhorn algorithm. Are you using automatic differentiation to perform the stochastic gradient descent? How robust is the optimization algorithm to different initialization? In practice, do you run the optimization multiple times to avoid local minimums? The computation time and complexity of the algorithm would also make a valuable addition to this work, as it is hard to evaluate the speed of such a computation based on the text, and the algorithm seems intuitively rather slow due to the many iterations of the Sinkhorn operator required to converge to the permutation matrix. Is this number of iterations large in practice? 2) The distance is only applicable for graphs of the same size. This should be clearly stated in the abstract, as many graph datasets contain graphs of multiple sizes, making the approach impossible to apply. Is the method easily extendable to graphs of different sizes?  Minor comments and typos: 1) In the abstract, the authors mention that the distance can capture the "global structure of graphs", although this claim is never proved nor motivated. Can you elaborate on this aspect? 2) The notation N(0,x) is ambiguous, as x may represent the variance or the standard deviation. Can you clarify this before or after eq.(3)? 3) l.15: "the-state" -> "the state" 4) l.53: "a NP-hard" -> "an NP-hard" 5) footnote 2: "ensures" -> "ensure"