 - Originality: The authors tackled the well-known sleep staging segmentation task with a new method U-Time for time-series segmentation, which derived from the commonly-used image segmentation model U-Net. Also, different from the previous studies mainly focus on RNN-based architecture for time-series analysis, the authors proposed a 1D convolution and FCN-based model which has less limitation on temporal resolution and distributed computation. The sleep staging literature is well-cited but needs more comparison (better in the related work section). The methods used for comparison in Table 1 are better to be discussed in the beginning. The references of time-series segmentation/classification should also be added from the methodology perspective.  - Quality: This is a complete study, and the proposed U-Time method is technically sound for the time-series segmentation problem. No theoretical analysis is provided but the empirical results demonstrate that the method is promising and support the claims that it works better than other recurrent-based methods in some conditions. The authors also performed detailed hyperparameter experiments in the supplementary material. The weakness of the study is that the baseline for each dataset is not unified---in S-EDF-39 there are many methods for comparison but for others, there are one (but different across datasets) or no baseline to compare with.  - Clarity: The paper is well-written and well-organized. The dataset description may be organized into a table instead of using a full page to describe them. Some qualitative analysis would be helpful for model interpretability.  - Significance: The results of using U-Time on multiple sleep staging datasets demonstrate that the proposed framework is useful for time-series segmentation in sleep staging problem. This may be potentially helpful for other, general time-series segmentation tasks as well. From a clinical perspective, good PSG/EEG segmentation and classification can assist neurologists to diagnose sleep-related diseases in a shorter time, which may optimize the clinical workflow.