The paper considers the adaptive influence maximization problem with myopic feedback under the independent cascade model. In the adaptive influence maximization problem, the seed nodes are sequentially selected one by one. After each seed selection, some information (feedback) about the spread of influence is returned to the algorithm which could be used for the selection of the next seeds. In the myopic feedback, the set of activated immediate neighbors of the selected seed is returned as such feedback. Finally, in the independent cascade model, every edge of the graph has an independent probability of passing the influence.  This problem is shown to not be adaptive submodular. Therefore, it was an open problem if a constant approximation can be achieved. The paper shows that the answer is yes and prove that the greedy algorithm gives a (1-1/e)/4-approximation. The main idea of the proof is to show that for each adaptive policy, we could construct a non-adaptive randomized policy, such that the adaptive influence spread of the adaptive policy is at most 4 times the non-adaptive influence spread of the randomized policy. This shows that the adaptivity gap of the problem is at most 4 and proves the approximation factor of the greedy algorithm.  The paper then proceeds to show that an adaptive version of the greedy algorithm also achieves the same approximation factor. They also show that there exist cases where the adaptive greedy and non-adaptive greedy (classic greedy) cannot find an approximation factor better than (e^2+1)/(e+1)^2. I personally am not a fan of this last result because it only focuses on the greedy algorithm. It would have been better to give an actual hardness of approximation result.  I haven’t checked the proofs presented in the appendix but I believe the results are very interesting and the (1-1/e)/4-approximation result guarantees the acceptance. However as I mentioned before, I would really like to see a hardness of approximation result since the problem is not adaptive submodular and the hardness might be different than 1-1/e+epsilon. 