After rebuttal: I am happy with the rebuttal and the authors have addressed all my concerns. Therefore, I will still recommend accepting this paper.  Before rebuttal: Working with exchangeable data, the authors propose a Bayesian method called BRUNO to construct posterior predictive distribution. The main idea is to first map observations unto the latent space by stacking coupling layers consisting of neural networks, where this map is bijective and it preserves the exchangeability property. Once in the latent space, they assume that the transformed data follows a student-t process, and they derived efficient recurrent equations to construct the resulting latent posterior predictive distribution. When predictions are desired, exchangeable samples are drawn from this latent predictive distribution, and they are coupled with the aforementioned map to obtain the corresponding predictions in the original space.  This paper is very well written and the main ideas are presented clearly. The authors show that their method can be applied in many application domains, such as conditional image generation, few-shot learning and online anomaly detection; and they conducted extensive numerical experiments to further show that it is competitive with respect to the state-of-the-art, at least for the few-shot learning task example. The success of the method appears to depend crucially on using student-t distribution to make predictions, and they gave detailed explanation as to why this is superior to the more commonly used Gaussian processes. On top of that, exchangeability in the latent space allows one to derive updating equations with computational complexity that is linear in the dimension, and this allows one to bypass doing matrix inversion if the usual full hierarchical Bayesian approach is used. Consequently, I find that this work is a very nice contribution to the literature.   My first comment concerns the interpretation of the generated images (e.g., Figure 2 in the main text and Figures 3-6 in Appendix Section G). For the MNIST data (Figure 6), it is clear that BRUNO is producing good results as the conditionally generated images are the same as the conditioned input images, albeit with some slight (stochastic) variations. However I notice that in the CIFAR10 example (Figure 4), there are a lot of green patches and I am curious to know what are they? Also in this example, what constitutes a reasonable performance? For example, if the conditioned images are horses, then the generated images must have horses in them with some variations? I am having a hard time to recognize the generated images for CIFAR10 given the input images. In fact how does BRUNO compare with other generative algorithms in generating images such as Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)?  As exchangeability seems to feature prominently in this paper, a natural question then is whether BRUNO will work for non-exchangeable data, or whether it can be extended to this case?   Here are some typos and further comments: 1. Line 35 "which of the random variables" 2. Line 98, because NVP is mentioned many times in this paper, I think you should at least write what NVP represents in this line. 3. Lines 122-123, $\beta$ should be $\beta_a$ 4. Line 148, $Z$ should be $\mathcal{Z}$ 5. Line 174, explain that $\beta_1$ here is the initialization of $\beta_a$ in Eq. 6 6. In both the main paper and the appendices, the citation format is not consistent, some are numbers but others are names and numbers. 7. In both the main paper and the appendices, correct punctuation (commas or periods) should be placed at the end of displayed equations, e.g., see the display in Line 180 and many others. 8. In Figure 3, the label "theor" is theoretical (i.e., the assumed prior)? Maybe it is better to clarify this in the caption. 9. For Appendix A, it seems that Lemma 1 is not used in the proof of Lemma 2, or anywhere in the paper as far I as know. So I think Lemma 1 can be dropped from the paper. 10. In Line 24 of Appendix B, I would write "simpler" instead of "easier". 11. Line 35 Appendix B, I think it is better to give a reference to the Sherman-Morrison formula, so that people who are not familiar can look it up. 12.In Line 50 of Appendix B, the $\beta_{n+1}$ equation does not seem to be correct, see the display in Line 180 in the main text. Also, $s_1=0$. 13. Line 59 of Appendix C, no need "the the" 14. Line 61, what is $\alpha$ here? 15. Line 105, I think it is better to clarify the right plot of Fig. 1 in Section E. Also it appears that the left plot of Fig. 1 is not discussed in the few-shot learning experiments in the main text. 16. At at my first read, I did not understand the schematics in Figure 1 and many expressions and work flows will only be explained in subsequent sections. However, subsequent sections do not refer back to Figure 1. Therefore, I suggest that this Figure should be moved to a place after BRUNO has been explained, or at least make frequent references to it when discussing BRUNO.