 The paper examines the intrinsic dimension of representations learned by neural networks. This direction is a natural and worthwhile one, in order to understand the behaviour and complexity of DNNs from a geometric angle.  The paper is reasonably clearly written overall.    Treatment of related work is brief and not well connected to the proposed study (the main claim of novelty is that the study is more "systematic" compared to previous works, but its not clear what that actually means).  Some important related work is missed.  The technical contribution is low from a methods perspective, since the study is almost entirely empirical and doesn't develop new technques (the intrinsic dimension estimator that is used has been published previously).   Of the various findings/studies performed, the most original is the investigation of the curvature of the representations (comparison to linear dimensionality).  However, this alone isn't enough to lift the paper into the "high significance" category, since most of the conclusions made are not surprising in light of existing work.  Other works have also made similar observations that the intrinsic dimension is much lower than the input dimension (see [C] below). [C] has already observed that the intrinsic dimension decreases during training (and the accuracy increases during training as intrinsic dimension decreases). [C] also studied the case of noisy data (permuted class labels) .  Hence the findings of 3.2 and 3.5 have limited novelty in light of [C], which isn't referenced.  The estimator: I recommend the authors emphasise that they are using a global estimator of intrinsic dimensionality, rather than a local estimator.   i.e. they are assessing the dimension of a collection of points, rather than the (local) intrinsic dimension around a point (which is covered in [A] and [B] below, and these works should be cited for completeness).  -reference [7] in the paper should probably instead have been the ICLR'18 paper by X. Ma et al.  References [A] Estimating Local Intrinsic Dimensionality.  Amsaleg et al.  KDD'15 [B] Maximum Likelihood Estimation of Intrinsic Dimension.  Levina et al.  NIPS'04 [C] Dimensionality-Driven Learning with Noisy Labels. Ma et al.   ICML'18