Summary:  The paper introduces a new method, called Granger-Busca, to learn (Granger) causal structure from spiking time-series data based on Wold processes instead of the more commonly used Hawkes point processes. A key difference is that the latter requires the whole history of previous events to model the distribution of the next event per point, whereas the Wold process only needs to keep track of the time since the last event per point. If this can provide a suitable approximation to the actual generating process, the inference procedure becomes much more efficient, scaling up much better than standard state-of-the-art approaches. The parameters of the model can be learned using a straightforward MCMC sampling scheme to infer which point processes are likely to influence/trigger which others. Further speedups can be achieved by changing to a MH approach and/or employ parallel sampling of multiple processes. The resulting method is evaluated on a number of different (de facto) benchmark data sets, and shown to significantly outperform current state-of -the-art in terms of both speed and accuracy.  Although I am no expert on learning causal interactions between point processes, the approach presented in the paper seems both novel and very promising. As far as I could tell the Granger-Busca model and associated techniques to learn/infer the model parameters are sound, and should be applicable to a wide range of real-world problems.  The paper itself is well written, and does a reasonable attempt to guide readers less familiar with the subject through the various steps and principles involved.  The evaluation shows some impressive performances, however, it also raises a few question marks. For example, I can understand why the method is faster than certain Hawkes based versions, however, it is less clear why it should also be much more accurate. Given the extremely low precision rates achieved by Hawkes-Cumulants on the Memetracker data in Tab/Fig2 it suggests that this particular application is in fact not suitable for HC, which also makes the comparison a bit of a straw man, in turn removing some of the gloss of the results. Still, the overall impression remains favourable.  As a result, I would expect that the ideas in this paper are of potential interest to many other researchers in the field, and may inspire further developments and improvements in this challenging application domain, and hence recommend accept.