The authors consider an adversarial hypothesis testing game. There is a fixed null hypothesis p known to both the attacker and an external agent. The type of the external agent is determined to either be an attacker with probability theta, or non-attacker with probability 1-theta. If the external agent is a non-attacker, the defender observes n examples drawn from p. If the external agent in an attacker, the defender observes n examples drawn from q != p selected by the attacker.   A pure strategy of the attacker is a function which classifies its observations as coming from p or not p. The utility of the defender is to minimize a weighted combination of its Type I and Type II errors.  The utility of the defender is the probability that samples from q are misidentified as coming from p (i.e., the defender makes a Type II error) minus a cost term for playing q.   The cost function for the attacker is assumed to be continuous with a unique minimum q*. The paper also makes the additional assumption that distributions closer to p than q* (in KL) are not available as a pure strategy for the attacker (A4). While some regularity assumption seems necessary, this seems constraining essentially guaranteeing the attacker plays a point near q* in equilibrium, as this both minimizes cost and is difficult for the defender to detect. I wonder if a weaker assumption is possible here.   Since the strategy sets belonging to the attacker and defender are uncountable, some work is required to establish the existence of a Nash. Moreover, the authors are able to prove that every Nash equilibrium can be replaced with one where the defender plays a likelihood, thresholding on q(x_n)/p(x_n) for observations x_n. This is an interesting result connecting the setting to ordinary hypothesis testing.   Even without A4, the paper shows weak convergence results as n -> infinity. Namely, the defender’s error vanishes in the limit of infinite samples, and the attacker converges to the minimum cost distribution. Finally, the main result of the paper states that the defender’s error vanishes exponentially in the limit, and characterizes the exponent of the decay. The exponent from classical hypothesis testing is recovered.   Overall the paper is clear and easy to read, and the results are interesting. 