=============== Post-response Update:  I thank the authors for their response. As I pointed out in my original review, I think this is an interesting (if somewhat limited in novelty) work, therefore, I maintain my score, and recommend acceptance on the understanding that:  1) The additional results and modifications mentioned in the rebuttal are included in the final version (in particular, details about the node measure). 2) The redundancy pointed out by R3 is discussed in the final version. 3) The "initialization" strategies section is updated and clarified to reflect the additional information provided in the rebuttal   ===============  Summary:  This paper investigates the use of the Gromov-Wasserstein (GW) distance for large-scale graph partitioning and matching. The GW distance produces as a byproduct of its computation a transportation coupling, which can be used to infer node-to-node correspondences between graphs. In addition, the optimal transport framework has the appealing property of generalizing to multi-distribution comparisons thorough barycenters, which is exploited in this work to yield joint multi-graph approaches to partitioning and matching. Instead of a the more traditional projected gradient descent approach, the authors rely on a regularized proximal gradient method to compute the GW distance and barycenters. In order to scale up to large graphs, they propose a recursive divide-and-conquer approach. Various experiments on benchmark graph/network partitioning and matching tasks are performed, showing that the proposed method compares favorably (both in terms of accuracy and runtime) to various popular baselines.   Strengths: - Strong theoretical foundations (the Gromov-Wasserstein distance) to a task often approach with heuristic methods - Superbly written paper: clear and concise argumentation, easy to follow, and a pleasure to read - The thorough experimental results, which show that the proposed approach is effective and efficient in practice - Rigorous and comprehensive review of computational complexities of the proposed + alternative methods  Weaknesses: - Limited novelty of methods / theory   Major Comments/Questions: 1. Novelty/Contributions. While GW has been used for graph matching repeatedly in previous work (albeit for small tasks - see below), I am not aware of other work that uses it for graph partitioning, so I would consider this an important contribution of this paper. It should be noted that most of the individual components used in this work are not novel (the GW itself, its application to graph matching, the proximal gradient method). However, I see consider its main contribution combining those components in a coherent and practical way, and producing as a consequence a promising and well-founded approach to two important tasks. 2. The Scalable method. While recursive partitioning methods are a common fixture of discrete optimization (and thus its use here provides limited novelty), it is satisfactorily applied in this case, and it seems to work well. My main concern/question about this component its is robustness/reliability. Recursive partitioning methods are prone to be unforgiving: I a wrong decision is made in the early stages, it can have disastrous consequences downstream as there is no possibility to revise poor early decisions. This seems to be the case here, so I would be interested to see if and whether the authors observed those catastrophic early mistakes in their experiments, and whether a best-of-k version of their method (e.g., like beam search for sequence decoding) would be able to lessen these. 3. Adjacency matrices. The paper continuously refers to the C matrices as adjacency matrices, yet they are defined over the reals (ie., not binary, as adjacency matrices usually are). I assume they are using soft edges or distances for the entries of these matrices, and that's why they are continuous, but the authors should clarify this. Also on this note, I would have liked to see some intuitive explanation of Eq (4), e.g., I understand it as a soft-averaged (barycenter-weighted) extrapolated similarity matrix. I would suggest the authors to discuss its interpretation, even if briefly. 4. The paper mentions node measures being estimated from node degrees (e.g. L58). How exactly is this done? 5. Initialization. I might be missing something, but I just don't see how the approaches described in the "Optimal Transports" and "Barycenter Graphs" paragraphs are initialization schemes. In particular, the former looks like a regularization scheme applied to every iteration. Could the authors please provide more details about these? 6. Complexity Analysis. I appreciate the thorough yet concise complexity analysis of related methods. This is sadly less and less common in ML papers, so it's encouraging to see it here. One comment: I would suggest reminding the reader what d is in Table 1. 7. Results. I have various minor comments about the experimental results:     * The adjusted mutual information should probably be spelled out explicitly (perhaps in the Appendix). I suspect many readers are not familiar with it or don't remember its exact form (I didn't).      * Fig 1(e) would be more meaningful with two-sided error bars     * What is q%|V| in L273? Is this a product?     * Why are there no results for MultiAlign for > 3 graphs? Was it because of timeout? Please mention this in the paper.     * NC@1 and NC@all could be better explained - it took me a while to understand what was meant by these    Minor Comments/Typos: - L83. "discrepancy" repetition - L107. Two arbitrary nodes - L138. Convergence is not properly linear, but nearly-linear - a detail, yes, but an important one.  