SUMMARY OF THE PAPER  This draft has a combination of good points and grey areas. The problem is of utmost importance and the research questions are clear, but the hypothesis (that neurons receptive fields are organized as low-dimensional manifolds expressed by atlases of locally overlapping charts) is presented as a fact. I’m not sure the normative approach from sociology does apply to neuroscience (see below). The material on the supplementary material provides hints about how to reach a proof but does not provide a proof for theorem 1. It is also said that they can show proof for Eq 9, but I’ve been unable to find a formal proof in the supplementary material. In general, I was left with the feeling of a good and intuitive idea to provide support for an interesting hypothesis, but with a rushed implementation with several gaps.    STRONG POINTS • The problem, the research question and the hypothesis makes the potential interest and impact very high • The illustration that the manifold learning approach can have applications beyond neuroscience. • Results, despite my concerns about the formalities, are actually very good, suggesting that the authors intuition and heuristics is working pretty well  WEAK POINTS • Some formal aspects are based on intuition and not formal derivation. • Methodological contribution is unclear; the objective functions is suggested to “have been proven successful” previously. • The underlying manifold traversing the observations is simply assumed to exist but never proven. Topological data analysis formally demonstrates that there are infinite topologies to a given cloud of points and it is a matter of choosing some topological constraint. Which one is chosen here and whether as a result, the observations lay in a manifold, is unclear.   SUGGESTIONS TO (PERHAPS) IMPROVE THE PAPER Major • Personally, I find the use of the normative approach unnecessary and a long shot for this research. It would be easy to ask whether the normative approach has been validated for its use in neuroscience, but it is something more profound – normative analysis is about fitting expectations and not about decoding some biological truth from observations. If you put an objective function that guides a similarity-preserving mapping, it is no wonder you learn a similarity preserving manifold; that’s what you are fitting!.  • Claims that the approach can learn any “arbitrary” manifold is not backed with any theoretical support. • How does the proposed model help to explain the opening problem regarding the understanding the localized receptive fields of neurons? Minor • The paper studies self organizing (tiling) manifolds and they seem to missed the self organizing maps (SOM).  • Label all axis in all figures. • What do the authors mean by “unlike most existing manifold learning algorithms, ours can operate naturally in the online setting”. 