Overall this work has multiple original contributions, the main one being the formulation of tractography estimation as a fully unsupervised learning problem. While the base of the formulation is not particularly novel (minimization of a linear least-squares objective via subgradient descent), the authors introduce a convex regularizer that encourages biologically plausible solutions through continuity in space and orientation of learned fascicles, which is a novel addition to help yield better solutions specifically in this domain. Furthermore, the use of a custom objective for screening orientations for each voxel by greedy selection is an original contribution that seems crucial for achieving plausible results as demonstrated by the experiments.  The work is clearly written in general, with each component explained well. One comment is that there seems to be no explanation for the choice of the regularization parameter in Section 5.2; it would be worthwhile to justify this choice, or explain a proposed method for choosing this parameter in general. The overall technical quality is good, with convincing empirical evaluation and theoretical claims that are elaborated in the Supplement and appear to be sound. However, one primary shortcoming of the work is that there is no indication of how the specific choice of convex regularizer affects the results, and the empirical evaluation seems to indicate that the combined effect of the greedy selection method and the regularizer is necessary for the learned fascicles to be continuous (i.e., convex regularizer + OMP still leads to subpar results, indicating that the convex regularizer alone may be insufficient). Another main component that is lacking was brought up by the authors themselves in the Discussion: "understanding strengths and weaknesses compared to current tractography approaches". An empirical comparison to alternative tractography estimation methods would validate the unsupervised learning approach overall, and not just the use of a custom greedy selection method for screening.  Since the missing components described above seem crucial, I lean towards rejecting the submission, though the inclusion of either component would lead me to increase my score.  Other minor comments: - Line 228: seems like this should be "Figure 5a" - Line 231: seems like this should be "Figure 5b" - Lines 251-252: Figure 6 references have typos  Update based on author feedback: Having read the authors' response, I feel that my concern about the effect of the custom regularizer versus the greedy screening method was appropriately addressed, and I no longer consider this an issue. I still feel that a lack of any kind of comparison to other tractography methods is a main shortcoming of the paper, despite the authors' claim that this is outside the scope of this submission. However, the authors' response has led me to lean more towards accepting the paper overall, and I have updated my score to reflect this.