Summary: This paper considers a new attack style named unorganized malicious attacks in which attackers individually utilize a small number of user profiles to attack different items without any organizer. The authors formulate this kind of attacks and give a clear comparison between unorganized malicious attacks and shilling attacks.  Detecting this kind of attacks is an interesting and important problem. A framework is established where the observed rating matrix is the sum of the ground-truth rating matrix X, a sparse attack matrix Y and a Gaussian noise matrix Z. The goal is to accurately recover X and Y to determine who are malicious users, which is achieved by solving a variant of matrix completion problem. Theorems 1 and 2 give the theoretical guarantee about the recovery of X and Y under some mild assumptions. The optimization problem is solved by alternating splitting augmented Lagrangian method. Theorem 3 guarantees the global convergence of this method and this theoretical result for three-block convex problems is attractive. The experiments are conducted on the common-used datasets MovieLens where attack profiles are inserted by the authors and a real dataset Douban10K. Empirical studies show that the proposed method UMA outperforms other state-of-the-art methods for attack detection and robust PCA.  Detailed comments: I do agree that unorganized attacks detection is a well-motivated and important problem, while most attack detection methods focus on shilling attacks. Considering to address this problem is itself a novel contribution.  The paper is clearly written. It is natural and reasonable to formulate the unorganized malicious attacks detection as a variant of matrix completion problem and each term of the optimization problem is suitable. Different from robust PCA, it considers the specific characteristic of unorganized attacks to better distinguish Y and Z. The global convergence of the three-block convex problem is also attractive.  Various state-of-the-art attack detection methods are compared on the common data set MovieLens. The real data set Douban further validates the effectiveness of their method. Results are well analyzed and I am most impressed by the analysis of the failure of the traditional attack detection approaches and the advantages of their method against robust PCA and MF-based method.  Minor suggestions: What is the intuitive explanations for the assumption about X_0 (Eq. 7)? Besides, I think it will be a good extension of this work to further consider side information.