I have carefully read other reviewers' comments and the author feedback, and I understood that it's important to have these details in the applications section. I really appreciate the additional work done by the authors to improve the writing and contents of this paper, and these work addressed my concerns. Thus, I have raised my score. -------------------------------------------------------------------- Summary:  This paper shows an interesting result which connects the landscape of the empirical risk and population risk. This result is an extension of (Song, Mei et al, 2016). The previous result establishes important connections between critical points, especially local minima, of empirical and population risk. These connections are helpful in understanding the landscape of the empirical risk and the behaviors of optimization algorithms like gradient descent. Previous work requires three assumptions: The strongly Morse property of the population risk, and the proximity for the gradient and Hessian of the population risk. The authors relaxed the first assumption and only requires the minimum eigenvalue of the Hessian is away from zero. Thus, this paper further improves the understanding of the landscape in a more general setting. They have found some examples for this new result to be applied to and done experiments to verify the theoretical results.  Detailed Comments:  1. The authors spend half of the paper explaining the applications of the main result, but only use less than one page to show the main result without providing any sketch for the proof. From my point of view, this is not a very well-organized paper. The main result section is the core part of this paper, so I would expect more explanations of the main result, e.g., a proof sketch with some intuition about the significance of this result.  2. The contents in the Applications section contains too much detail. I don't think we need to look at these applications that carefully because they are just the applications of the main result. In this section, there are tons of constants like 8/7, 1.91, 0.06 and so on, which I don't think people will be interested in, and you can hide those constants using asymptotic notations or some letters. There are also details that are too technical, e.g., the division of regions, and formulas like line 196. I would suggest the authors hide this detail and make more space for the main result section.  3. The experiments only cover the case of the examples, i.e., the rank-1 matrix sensing and phase retrieval. It even doesn't cover your applications because you have proved the case for a more general matrix sensing. I think it would be better to do experiments on settings that are more general, e.g., the setting you use for the first application.  4. It would be better to have more figures in this paper to make people understand better. One figure is provided for the partition of regions in matrix sensing, so it's better to have another one for phase retrieval. Also, for the main result section, the authors can also use a figure to illustrate the assumptions or results better.