UPDATE AFTER AUTHOR RESPONSE: I have read the author response, and I maintain my score.   This paper establishes several new theoretical properties of tree ensemble methods. The authors first establish two conditions, diversity and locality, that are necessary for local average estimators in general to be consistent. Viewing tree ensembles as a type of local average estimators, they then show that under certain settings, tree ensembles can be inconsistent by violating the diversity or the locality condition.  While Random forests are widely used, their good predictive power still remains unexplained from a theoretical point of view, and the present work is certainly an interesting contribution to the theoretical study of the consistency of Random forests. While most of the (few) previous works focus on deriving settings for which it can be shown that a tree forest is consistent, the present paper rather focuses on negative results by presenting settings under which the forest becomes inconsistent. Theorem 1 shows that without subsampling, randomized, deep trees having the nearest-neighbor-preserving property are always inconsistent. As a consequence, Theorem 2 shows that without subsampling, random projection trees can be inconsistent. Proposition 1 shows that without subsampling, randomized, fully-grown trees with fast shrinking cells diameter can be inconsistent. Finally, Theorem 3 shows that when using too severe subsampling, fully-grown trees are inconsistent.  All the claims are supported by theoretical proofs. I spotted a few errors within the proofs that seem to be typos rather than mathematical errors (see below).   The paper is well-organized and very clearly written.  Here is my main comment: the authors say that the Extremely randomized trees (or Extra-trees) proposed by Geurts et al. (2006) are constructed “without using information from responses Y_[n]” (lines 152-153). This is not true. While at each tree node, K splits are indeed selected completely in a random way, the split that is eventually selected is the one that, among the K random splits, maximises the output variance reduction. The term “Extremely randomized deep trees” used for Definition 5 is therefore quite misleading as the reader might believe that this the definition of the Extra-trees (as actually emphasized by the authors below the definition) while the Extra-trees actually do not have the UW-property. The authors should clarify that and remove any ambiguity.   Typos:  - Throughout the paper and the appendix, the authors refer to Equation (2) for the data properties, but Equation (2) does not exist.  - Equation between lines 452 and 453: the sum should be towards \eta(X) instead of 0. - Equation between lines 477 and 478: the first exponent should be 1/(d0-1) instead of (d0-1). - Line 604, conditional Jensen property: this should be a “greater or equal to” sign.