In this paper the authors propose an efficient method for tree probability estimation (given a collection of trees) that relies on the description of trees as subsplit Bayesian networks. Through this representation, the authors relax the classic conditional clade distribution - which assumes that given their parent, sister clades are independent - and assume instead that given their parent subsplit, sister subsplits are independent, thus allowing more dependence structure on sister clades. The authors first present a simple maximum likelihood estimation algorithm for rooted trees, and then propose two alternatives to generalize their work to unrooted trees. They finally illustrate their method on both simulated and real-data experiments.  I think this paper is very well written, in particular I have greatly appreciated the Background and SBN description sections that make use of a simple though not trivial example to introduce new notions and provide useful insights on the assumptions. The authors might want to add a supplemental figure describing the representation of the rooted tree from figure 1 in terms of SBN to further illustrate this notion. To my knowledge the use of SBN for posterior distribution of trees inference is knew, and the results are certainly encouraging. However, if I understand correctly; the ultimate goal is to reconstruct the posterior distribution of the shape of the tree. The authors are particularly interested in phylogenetic trees, for which the size of the edges is a crucial information as it represents the age of the most recent common ancestor. Do the authors have some insight on how to extend SBN to these kind of trees?  As additional minor points, I would appreciate if the authors could provide details on the KL computation with Dirichlet prior (as a supplementary material). I also think the authors should provide the runtime required by each algorithm in the experimental study. Finally, in the introduction, I am not sure of what the authors mean by "SFR foes not support trees beyond observed samples", which seems to me is the case for all presented methods including SBM. Have I misunderstood something?  --  I thank the authors for their response and think they have answered my questions in an appropriate manner. I look forward to reading their updated submission and extension, and think this paper should be accepted.