Summary:      Conditional Independence Testing is an important part of causal structure learning algorithms. However, in the most general case either one has to do a lot of conditional independence tests and/or test by conditioning on a very large number of variables. This work proposes using at most two CI tests per candidate parent involving exactly at most one conditioning variable to filter the real parents of a response variable under certain conditions.   This work is interested in identifying direct causes of a Response variable from amongst a set of a candidate parent variables {M_i}. Response variable does not have any observed descendants. Suppose, each candidate parent has a known parent P_i and suppose, there is no causal path from R to M's or from M variables  to P variables, authors show that by doing two conditional independence tests per candidate parent, false positives can be made to be 0. That is if a perfect CI oracle is used the declared parents are always real under causal faithfulness. I checked the proofs. They are correct to the best of my knowledge.  In fact, the results also hold under common latents between P and the M variables. Authors essentially say that through EEG cortical activity in certain areas of the brain can be observed during planning, doing action where action is movement of the limb. Response is the time it takes to move the limb within a certain duration. Special EEG data is collected where patients are asked to plan to move, then attempt to move within a certain duration. So the plan stage cortical activity would be the parent (P_i) of the cortical activity during movement (M_i) and it is the same variable across time.   The authors argue that their data fits the model they propose and hence their tests have very low false positive rates. They conduct  tests where a candidate brain feature is log power of the cortical activity in various frequency bands at various positions.  Authors show that for patients that are not able to move limbs well, certain frequencies in certain areas become causal factors and in people with good motor actions, certain other frequencies become causal factors. They provide details of actual experiments done with patients and corroborate with neuroscience experiments.  Originality:  The notion of doing efficient CI tests with appropriate assumptions accompanied with the EEG experiment and final results corroborating with neuroscience literature makes it very original.  Significance:  Goes without saying that this would inspire neuroscience community to adopt such techniques directly inspired by CI testing and causality with DAG models. Further, it is a great work to follow up even within the causality community.   Clarity:  The experimental setup, the mapping to their model with P,M and R variables. Justification of using non-i.i.d data with time as latent variables and showing that it does not affect their conclusions are all very clear.   Quality:  Definitely very good quality empirics combined with some very cute theoretical observation.