 Originality: First-order Gradient-based MCMC methods have to deal with determining an appropriate length scale for each variable. NUTS is one approach and this paper gives another approach whereby a parameter theta of a proposal distribution is adaptively improved to account for the covariance structure. At the same time theta is adapted to consider the entropy of the proposal distribution. This trade off for theta is rolled into a new speed measure which is the central point of this paper. The paper includes a lower bound of the speed measure that can be directly differentiated resulting in a practical algorithm. The paper also includes a heuristic that makes this adaptive MCMC algorithm applicable to MALA as well. All of these ideas are very original.  Clarity:  The paper is quite clear, but maybe the authors could include more results from the supplement into the main text.  Quality: The technical quality is good and the results confirm the claim that the new algorithm is definitely more sample efficient than NUTS. This makes this work a very important contribution to the field. There are only a few results in the main paper, but the supplement has a lot more results.  Significance: The results are very important because they have provided an adaptive approach that can be applied to even the trivial random walk proposers as well as the more sophisticated Langevin proposers. Given the overall simplicity of the approach this would be a very strong competitor for the popularly used NUTS algorithm, specially in light of the presented results, and would trigger further research.  Some minor comments:  It was not clear how the Adaptive MCMC (AM) described in the results works i.e. what is the objective function of the adaptation. A reference is made to the supplement, but I didn't quite find it there (lines 226-227).   Line 266 and Figure 2 top panel. This should really be the auto-correlation plot. It's hard to interpret auto-correlation from a trace plot.  The choice of rho_t on lines 136, 137 is not well motivated. In similar situations a Robbins-Monro sequence is typically used.  ** POST REBUTTAL **  Thanks for answering the questions and for promising to update the plots. However, I would strongly advise you to provide results comparing with Stan. It will be very hard to take this as an improvement over the state of the art without a comparison to the state of the art!  