This work focuses on a new type of attack in collaborative filtering named “unorganized malicious attacks”, and the uncoordinated attacks are different from shilling attacks where attack profiles are produced in an organized way. Attack detection based on the common characteristics of the attack profiles may not work in the new attack style. The authors propose a new optimization function and algorithm UMA which works to distinguish attacks from noise under the low-rank assumption. They also give the theoretical guarantees of recovery and global convergence. Empirical results show the effectiveness of the proposed method and some insightful discussions are given.  This paper is well structured and clearly written. Unorganized malicious attacks detection is a well-motivated problem and I personally find it interesting.  Such uncoordinated attacks do exist in the common recommendation systems. For example, on Amazon, online sellers may produce several fake profiles to give negative ratings to their competitors’ good products and the negative ratings do affect customers’ choices.  Various works has been conducted to study attack detection in collaborative filtering, while most works focus on coordinated shilling attacks and detect attacks by finding the group with common characteristics which are different from normal profiles. Detecting unorganized attacks is a hard problem. The authors propose a new model to distinguish sparse attacks from noises under the low-rank assumption. Instead of finding groups of profiles acting together, they directly find the malicious ratings that deviate from the real ratings a lot. Each term in the formulation is reasonable and the whole formulation is precise. Is that possible to use L2,1-norm to regularize Y instead L1-norm? What is the reason that this problem prefers the L1-norm?  Experiments show the effectiveness of the proposed method, and I am impressed by the hard case under general unorganized malicious attacks. This case considers that attack profiles can come from normal profiles with a malicious rating. UMA performs consistently well to detect these attacks, while the comparison methods suffer performance degradation. Detailed explanations about these phenomena should be added.  ==========Update after authors' response==========  I have read authors' response. The response has addressed my concerns.