This work describes experiments done using pretrained word embedding model representations, and fMRI and MEG representations when reading the same text. Bringing these together is original and an interesting avenue of research, yet I have doubts about the significance, clarity and quality of this work.  There are several points where references would have been needed to refer to prior work, or to back up some claim (e.g. line 41, line 63). The paper furthermore has a significant part of its material deferred into the appendix, including parts that are crucial to understand the experiment. From the main paper alone it is for example unclear which metrics are used when evaluating the fitted linear models,   and even information as basic as whether the task is a regression or a classification task. In the main prediction task, no other baselines are tested (e.g. prediction from previous brain activity alone, without any text encoder representations).  Linking observations made with the brain activity prediction model (uniform attention) to better NLP task performance is a relatively weak argument that would in my view need additional justification or empirical support. I am not convinced that the presented results (Table 1) are clearly different from the base model (small sample sizes, multiple testing) nor that the chosen syntactic tasks are very meaningful for NLP tasks in general. I also believe that predictiveness for other tasks than brain activity could equally have suggested the uniform-attention layer modifications, and one would have to be more precise in what exactly predicting fMRI or MEG adds, as compared to predictiveness of other NLP signals (e.g. syntactic). Changing the BERT model architecture after pretraining is somewhat of a hack -- the model would have to be retrained again with the new architecture to test whether the claimed insights on architecture have a practical benefit.  I did not obtain insight or interpretation of the pretrained neural models, as suggested in the abstract ("We propose here a novel approach for interpreting neural networks [...]"), to the point that I think this is misleading. There are very specific hypotheses made: "When we align that specific network representation with fMRI and MEG data, the result will be a decomposition of the representation into parts that correspond to different processes and should therefore be more interpretable." (line 67) which are neither experimentally tested nor referred back to later on.  Overall I think this is a very interesting direction of research, the paper is well-related to prior work, and takes care about some important experimental aspects (cross-validation, multiple participants, etc.). But overall the line of argumentation, presentation, and experiments have not convinced me. 