Update: authors "We are puzzled by this statement since none of the mentioned works provides any tools or partial progress toward the 7 solution of the problem we consider. Most notably, [JMNR19] considers a separation of completely unrelated nature 8 and is also subsequent to our work." ---  I was referring to the distribution specific separation that you reference in the paper. my review is unchanged.    originality: the separation between interactive and sequentially interactive is novel, and uses a new technique for lower bounds that relies on margin complexity. There has been similar work on interactivity, and smith does obtain a separation albeit while requiring the optimization algorithm to access only local information.   quality: the technical work is sophisticated and at a high level.  clarity: the writing is clear, the positioning relative to related work is comprehensive. see detailed comments for specific suggestions on improving the draft.   significance: A definite contribution to our understanding of the power of interaction under local differential privacy. Certainly not a breakthrough result however, as separations with slightly stronger assumptions (distribution-specific learning, accessing only local information, separation between SI and Fully Interactive) already existed.   **Comments** * Definition 2.1 is actually incorrect. This would be what is defined in [JNMR] as a compositional epsilon-LDP algorithm. It is possible for the transcript to be epsilon dp and the epsilon_j to sum up to more than epsilon. I don't think changing this definition would impact the rest of the paper.   *  The authors should update the related work and some of the statements to reflect the recent work [https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.00813]. Obviously this was uploaded subsequent to the current paper...they do show an exponential separation between sequential interactivity and full interactivity, which implies an exponential separation between full interactivity and non-interactivity. Note that it does not imply the exponential separation proven here between SI and non-interactive.   * The way thm. 1.2 is stated its a bit unclear if its  for any class C or a specific class of large-margin linear separators.   *I wasn't familiar with margin complexity before... so based on 2.5 if the dual class of f contains the all zeros classifier, e.g. x such that f(x) = 0 for all X, the margin complexity is infinite?  *In line 254 shouldn't this be E[f(x)h(x)] > 1/m?   