Originality:  The paper is mainly based on the idea presented in [14] and could be considered a generalization of it. Section 3.2 is the part which makes this paper's originality clear.  Quality:  Quality is the issue which makes the reviewer to believe this paper is not ready for publication yet. Here are the issues:  - First of all, there are few previous works on the exact same problem that are neither cited nor compared against in this manuscript. These papers even do not need either ground truth data or two sets of measurements (unlike the submitted paper) and have shown impressive results. Examples are but not limited to: -- Simultaneous compressive image recovery and deep denoiser learning from undersampled measurements by Zussip et al. -- Unsupervised Learning with Stein’s Unbiased Risk Estimator by Metzler et al.  - Another major problem with this manuscript is that all the methods presented in the experiments section are patch-based methods and are not state-of-the-art methods in learning-based image recovery. Instead, there are other approaches that can recover images in whole (instead of patch-based recovery) and have better performance compared to ISTA-Net and ReconNet. However, authors have not compared their work against any of the non-patch-based methods. Please note that one problem which makes the applicability of patch-based methods limited is that they could not be applied in certain applications such as medical imaging. In other words, based on the structure of sensing matrices (e.g. Fourier matrices), sometimes we are not able to sense and reconstruct images patch by patch. Authors should at least compare against non-patch-based CS recovery methods even if their method cannot be edited in a way that works for non-patch-based applications.   - If you take a look at Fig 8 in the supplementary, there is an overlap between two partitions during the training phase. Now if authors claim the compression ratio of 10%, because of the overlap between partitions, the effective compression ratio of common area between two partitions is more than 10% and that makes the comparison presented in Table 1 unfair. In general, if you use two sets of measurements: Y1 = AX + e1 Y2 = BX + e2 you can merge the two and have [Y1 Y2]^T = [A B]^T X + (e1+e2) Although the authors are not using the exact same X during the training phase for the two sets of measurements, these two partitions have a considerable overlapping and that makes the comparison with other patch-based methods problematic.  Clarity:  The paper is very well-written and well-organized.  Significance:  The problem that is studied by the authors is an important problem. However, there are issues with the experimental results that should be addressed to consider the proposed approach significant and the reviewer believes that this paper is not ready for publication yet.  ------------------------------------------------------------ Post Rebuttal Comments:  Thanks to the authors for clarifications in their rebuttal, specifically for providing the new experimental results in this short amount of time. It would be great if authors could add the points they mentioned in the rebuttal to the final version of their paper as well. My score is now updated.