This paper focuses on the problem of 3D human pose reconstruction from multiple viewpoints in video sequences. The system assumes that a set of 2D human poses are available (e.g. by using OpenPose), coming from different camera viewpoints, and the paper proposes a pipeline for simultaneously selecting the next viewpoint that would be needed to decrease the reconstruction error and generating the 3D reconstruction. An artificial agent, named ACTOR, is defined for the purpose of selecting the camera viewpoints, following a reward-based approach.  The proposed system is evaluated on the CMU Panoptic dataset, which contains 480 VGA camera views. The experimental results show that by using the proposed agent the reconstruction error is better than using the baseline methods. Although worse than selecting the cameras in a greedy fashion ("Oracle" case).  * Originality: the originality comes from the definition of the agent that selects the most relevant cameras for the triangulation stage. The remaining components of the system do not seem to be novel. * Quality:  the technical content of the paper appears to be correct. No flaws have been found in the experimental setup.    - From Table 1, it does not seem that the difference between ACTOR cases and Random and Max-Azim is large, and they could be probably faster. Therefore, how much time is needed to select a camera viewpoint at each time stamp compared to the baseline methods?  * Clarity: the paper is well-written. Technical and implementation details are available. However, the description of the dataset where the system is evaluated is minimal. In fact, I do not see clearly stated if the almost 500 available cameras of the Panoptic studio are used for the experiments. * Significance: the idea of automatically selecting the most suitable cameras for the triangulation purpose is interesting. However, the practical situation where it is validated is quite rare, i.e., it is very unusual having such a large amount of cameras available. This limits the range of applications where this can be applied. Basically, if only few cameras were available, there would be no need of selection, all of them might be used.  *** Post-rebuttal *** I have carefully read the answer of the authors and my overall score goes towards its acceptance.