The paper presents a method for editing images using deep inverse rendering (encoder/decoder): an image is decomposed into a semantic, textural and geometric representation, which then is combined to produce the original image. The intermediate representations can be edited, altering the final image based on the type of modification (eg, 3D rotation-translation-scaling, texture).  I like the idea of inverse rendering for scene understanding and modification, and the paper proposes a good way of achieving it with deep architectures. Moreover, allowing the modifications of the geometric/texture representations is useful and can lead to further investigation of such edits.  My main concern is about the quality of the edits. The paper claims keeping the texture consistent (L200) but this is not the case for example in Figure 5 (b). The color is similar, but the overall texture is very different. Also, regarding the pose not being polluted, do you refer to a case for example of having a car at 30 degrees and the texture of 90 degrees? It would be good to include explanatory figures (eg for L154-157).   Having only 1 cad model is limited. What if the shape doesn't fit the object in the image (eg a sedan). A scaling factor can't compensate for the difference in shape.   I didn't completely understand the translation parameterization (L111-L122) and why it is important.   If the goal is a 3D edit of an object, why do you need to encode-decode all the elements in the scene and not only the effected (eg car+road)?  Why you did not try on KITTI, so a comparison with [Mousavian] is more fair (they were trained on KITTI only?).   At Section 4.2, it would be good to include an example of the baselines (at least in the supplementary).   Summary. Quality: the presented results include only few examples and the quality is not good, especially compared to [Wang]. The texture and pose edits look plausible in some cases but in my opinion the claimed decomposition has not been achieved. Clarity: the paper is difficult to follow, with dense content (eg L111-L114) Originality and significance: the work is original and the problem is interesting.  