This paper presents an approach to zero-shot learning through the use of a stacked attention mechanism. Given region-based features for an image and a class semantic feature, the semantic feature acts as a controller to an attention mechanism that computes a weighted average based on the relevance of each of the region features to the class semantic feature. This module can be repeated multiple times, adding the previous region features to the newly weighted features iteratively. In order to make class predictions, the authors incorporate a visual-semantic matching model that embeds the final region-based features with the transformed class semantic features, followed by a softmax over classes. At test time, a collection of semantic features for candidate classes are fed into the model, producing a distance to the processed region features. The class with the smallest distance is then assigned to the image. The authors perform experiments on standard ZSL benchmarks, achieving strong performance relative to existing methods. Furthermore, the authors validate the utility of their attention mechanism, showing that using 2 layers outperforms a single layer and a baseline model without attention.  The paper is well written and the method description is fairly clear. Overall a strong contribution. However, I am not deeply familiar with ZSL experimental protocols so I cannot comment confidently on the intricacies of the evaluations.  A few questions / comments:  - Since computing region features is conditional on the class semantic features, this would mean that inference would be much slower than an unconditional method whose image representations are not a function of the semantic features (e.g. uniform average). Presumably, this would restrict the scalability of your method in a setting with a large number of candidate categories. Could you discuss these trade offs?  - How is the initial fused image regions computed? Is it just a uniform average? Is this what’s done in the baseline model?  - There appear to be 3 losses: 2 based on L2 (Loss_G and Loss_A) and a third classification (presumably cross-entropy) loss. Do you directly optimize the sum of these 3 objectives? How do you weight the L2 losses with the classification loss?  - In Figure 3 you refer to the class semantic feature as “c” but use “s” throughout the paper.  - Have you experimented with alternatives to L2 for matching the 2 modalities? For example, using a contrastive loss?  - While attention may not have been applied to ZSL, it has been used in the related areas of one/few shot learning (e.g. Matching networks). Google's zero-shot translation paper (Johnson et al) may also qualify.