The method is interesting and the paper is well-written.  Moreover, it seems technically sound. Perhaps the contribution is a bit incremental and the degree of novelty is not very high. However, the state-of-the-art is well done, the paper is easy to read. I believe that in the literature, there is also a need of papers which focus on a detailed study of the previous literature in order to yield important and required variants, as new algorithms.  I have just some suggestions for completing the related references, clarify some points and maybe possible future works.  - I believe that your proposal could be itself a mixture of densities. In this sense, you could mix your work with the ideas in Cappe et al, “Adaptive Importance Sampling in general  mixture classes”, Statistics and Computing 2008, or better for MCMC to have a look to  Luengo and Martino, "Fully Adaptive Gaussian Mixture Metropolis-Hastings Algorithm", IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), Vancouver (Canada), 2013.  Please discuss.  - Another possible approach for using a mixture is the nice idea in   G. R. Warnes, “The Normal Kernel Coupler: An adaptive Markov Chain Monte Carlo method for efficiently sampling from multi-modal distributions,” Technical Report, 2001.  That you already consider as a reference. In any case, even without considering the possible use of a mixture, the discussion regarding  the Normal Kernel Coupler (NKC) should be extended since in this method there is also the idea of replacing one sample inside a population (one per iteration). In this sense there are several connections with the SA-MCMC method.  Please discuss relationships and differences. In this sense, I also suggest to have a look to the  recent reference   F. Llorente et al, "Parallel Metropolis-Hastings Coupler",  IEEE Signal Processing Letters,  2019,  which combines OMCMC and NKC. It could be nice to discuss it also as a possible future work (extension) of your paper. These discussions can improve substantially the paper and make it a very complete and nice piece of work.   I also suggest to upload your revised work to arXiv and/or ResearchGate to increase its impact. 