Originality: The proposed algorithm and analyses within the submission are variants of work done in the area in a new combination. Thus, the work is not groundbreaking in terms of its novelty.   Quality: Although the novelty of the submission isn't groundbreaking, the submission makes up for it in the quality of the analyses. The authors put together interesting current ideas together in a manner that is new and seems to work really nicely. The set of analyses illustrate the strength and limitations of different components of their method and how it compares to previous work. My only concern is how sensitive the method is to the number of learned tasks. Why did you pick those three? How is your method affected by the number of tasks it needs to learn? Is there a tradeoff in the number of examples needed per task as the number of tasks grows?  A minor comment: I was not convinced that the authors had disentangled interference and catastrophic forgetting (Lines 109-122). How is changing weights due to "task incompatibility" vs."overwriting" occurring due to learning a new task different? The distinction referenced by the multi-task structure seems to me to more mirror batch vs. interleaved learning from the cognitive science literature than interference and forgetting.  Clarity: The paper is well-written, albeit a bit challenging to access as an outsider to multi-task RL. If possible, it would be helpful to briefly describe some of the multi-task RL jargon that isn't standard across the rest of the NeurIPS literature (e.g., what is meant by "rollout" and "Importance Weighted Actor-Learner" in this context). I say if possible, because I'm aware of the space constraints.  Significance: I think this could be a highly important paper for the field, and inspire a number of extensions by different researchers.   Response to author feedback: I appreciate the thoughtful responses from the authors with regards to my initial review. I am still have some concern with regards to the arbitrariness of some choices (especially after having a chance to see the other reviews as well), but I am satisfied enough that I vote for its acceptance.   With respect to the forgetting and interference, I hope you clarify these two terms a bit more than in your feedback. The issue is that one of the major theories for forgetting within the psychology memory literature is due to interference. I appreciate that the authors will be revising the paper to ensure it is properly understood across disciplines.