This is an interesting paper advancing a new method of so-called “joint modeling”.  The goal of this analysis is to create new neural models that are required to account for both brain data and behavior at the same time.  This is a very important advance for cognitive neuroscience (indeed, it is almost necessarily the “right” way to approach neuroscience) and the approach developed here is novel to my understanding, interesting, well conducted, well described, and innovative.    I think the paper could be improved in a couple of small ways.  First is that joint modeling has actually be around for a while now and the authors review of past work was a little limited in that respect.  I think the work by Tubridy, Gureckis and colleagues on joint models of memory/knowledge tracing are one example, but perhaps even more so B. Turner at Ohio State has been a pioneer in this idea.  There certainly are sufficient differences between this past work and the present paper to mean that there is a lot of new ideas here and so I don’t mention these to suggest anything negative about the current paper.  More that readers of this work might find it interesting to consider the broader space of ways people are thinking about this.  I also had a little trouble understanding the interpretability of the model in terms of the gradients.  I think a ML audience might find this more clear but for a general neuroscience/cog neuro audience what one is supposed to conclude from the gradients with respect to particular inputs is less transparent.  Since this ends up being the main DV plotted in many of the figures I think it might help if the authors included a paragraph or so on what these things mean and the right want to think about them instead of just stating "the most fundamental quantity is the gradient of the output with respect to the input."  In addition, I didn’t get a sense of the advantages of this model in terms of absolute prediction.  I guess the main threshold I’d be interested in is if the model fit to both brain and behavior outperforms the model fit to behavior alone (or possibly more standard behavior only RL models).  As best I can tell no model comparison is reported in the paper which is a major limitation on the contribution (and subsequent interpretability of the brain analyses/gradient terms).  I totally believe the logic in the paper that the brain data might discriminate between equally compelling behavioral models but the results do not demonstrate this to be true here.