Update after rebuttal ---------------------------- Thanks the the authors for their response. I have read their comments, but have decided to maintain my original score, as my concerns about the input noise and correlations largely remain.  Original review -------------------- I enjoyed reading this paper. The paper leverages the fact that for a block diagonal input covariance matrix (which occurs if the inputs to the two regions are independent), then the optimal solution relies on simply taking the top $m$ eigenvalues from the jointly sorted list--this means that the output space can have proportionally different representations of the input, compared to the original ratio (called $r$ in the paper). This is a simple, yet surprising, fact that is clearly presented. The mathematical details are also easy to follow. I am unaware of other work in the efficient coding literature that addresses this problem in the same way, as such, I believe the work is original. The figures are clean and elegant and also greatly aid the presentation.  I would have liked to see the authors address a couple of additional scenarios in their work: - What if there are not just two different receptor densities, but three, four, or many? In that case, what does the resource allocation look like. This is mentioned in the discussion, but it seems like a simple enough extension that may be worth including in this paper. - What about input noise? Decorrelation is optimal only when there is no input noise. The presence of (independent) input noise means that the system may want to average over the redundancies in the inputs to improve the signal to noise ratio. Can this analysis be extended to this scenario (c.f. Doi et al, ref. [6] in the paper). - I think more should be said about the block diagonal assumption. It seems unlikely that nearby receptors (fovea vs periphery, or fingertip vs hand) will experience totally independent inputs (there are strong long range correlations in natural stimuli). I appreciate that the assumption allows for an analytic solution, but perhaps more can be said about how the analytic solution breaks down as this assumption is violated. - There is a difference between receptor densities that tile *different* parts of the input space (e.g. cones in the fovea vs periphery, or mechanoreceptors in the fingertip vs the rest of the hand), vs receptors that tile the *same* part of the input space (e.g. overlapping cell types in the retina, or multiple mechanoreceptor types in the skin). The paper seems to address the former scenario, where correlations between the receptors would be reduced, but what about the latter? Perhaps the authors can comment in the discussion on whether this analysis is appropriate for overlapping receptor populations that each tile the same input space.