Quality: The technical content of the paper is well motivated and the approach taken is interesting. However, a few things are worth mentioning. 1 - The classification parameters for a given class are generated independently from the other classes. This means that the classifier is more likely to act as a prototypical model than a  discriminative one. 2 - In the adaptation network, the auto-regressive component is not technically motivated.  The fact that it improves results just shows the lack of capacity in the FiLM network as a way to modulate the feature extractor parameters alone. Did you compare different ways of modulating the feature extractor parameters? 3 - z_G is computed using only the inputs from the query set, what about the labels?  4 - The statement “ Allowing θ to adapt during the second phase violates the principle of “train as you test", i.e., when test tasks are encountered, θ will be fixed, so it is important to simulate this scenario during training “  is technically false as within each meta-learning step θ will be fixed even when is not pretrained. Thus, the justification for the training procedure is a bit weak despite the comparison between the proposed approach and the classical one. Maybe the sensitivity of the hyper-parameters is more the main reason for those differences. 5 - Related to the previous point, pretraining θ requires a large dataset, which is not always available in other domains as it is in computer vision, do not play in favor of the proposed training procedure. Thus, it is critical to find an alternative that works for training all parameters together using the meta-dataset instead of the two-phase approach proposed. 6 - Despite great results shown for the few-shot learning settings, the results section is a bit unfocused as the application to active learning and continual learning seems unnatural and forced.  Clarity: The paper is generally well-written and structured and really easy to understand.  Originality: The main originality in this work is definitely the auto-regressive modulation network that was proposed.  Significance: This work shows significant improvements over the state of the art in few-shot classification which is an important contribution. While weakly motivated, it also proposes a new neural net architecture that improves upon modulation results achieved by FiLM, which helps to achieve better results.  