Originality ----------- The paper seems to be significantly novel, and the related work section touches on many related areas and prior work. Admittedly, I am no expert on the field of robust control, however my impression is that the authors have done their due diligence in citing prior work and delineating their contributions from these works.  Quality ------- The quality of the work is perhaps my greatest concern. As I have mentioned, experiments were only conducted on numerical simulations and a simple hardware setup, and though the analysis on these two domains are decently thorough, it is rather unclear from just these domains how well the method scales or whether it provides tangible benefits on systems of actual interest. I would request that the authors do two things:  (1) Elaborate further on the real hardware experiment. Is there a goal for controlling this system, i.e., why is this system of interest beyond demonstrating the capabilities of the method? The physical servo is connected to a synthetic linear system, which seems to make the experiment more toy as this limits the realisticness of the setup. Finally, is there any reason this system in particular benefits from robust control, in that there may be danger or costs associated with running the system?  (2) Conduct further experiments, ideally on real robotic systems. As the authors do not assume that the underlying dynamics are known, it seems feasible to run this algorithm on, e.g., robot arms or locomotion platforms where the true dynamics are not linear. These systems seem much closer to reality and can benefit much more convincingly from robust control, as safe control is certainly desirable. If real robots are not an option, additional simulated systems could be useful, even extremely simple domains such as a 2D point mass navigation domain where the system truly is linear quadratic. This would have the benefit that the domain can potentially be engineered with obstacles, traps, etc., that make robust control extremely desirable.  Clarity ------- In general, the paper is well-written except for some minor issues. Most egregiously, there is no conclusion, which makes it hard for readers to understand the key takeaways and limitations of the work. A couple of minor nits:  - line 52, “essential for implementation on physical systems”: I would argue that this is only true for some physical systems - proposition 2.1: it may be useful to explain that the “uniform prior over the parameters” is an improper prior, or otherwise remove the need for a degenerate prior altogether from the analysis  Significance ------------ As I have already discussed most of my concerns, I will simply state that the aforementioned improvements to the quality and clarity of the work would greatly improve the significance as well.