- - - - - - - - - post-rebuttal - - - - - - - - - - After reading the rebuttal and the other reviews, I am happy to recommend acceptance of this paper. My concerns were answered in the rebuttal and I do not see any major concerns in the other reviews. The provided explanations and results should be integrated into the final version.  - - - - - - - - - original review - - - - - - - - - - W1 - Evaluation W1.1 The 2D model has much less capacity than the 3D/4D model. Thus, one could evaluate how much the LSTM module contributes by repeating the RGB input-frame 12 times. This way the model architecture is identical to the 4D version but the input data is only 2D. A direct comparison would then be possible.   W1.2 How are the results for other (learning based) methods in Tab 2 obtained on the dataset that is introduced with this submission? Are they retrained and then evaluated or are the pretrained models evaluated on the new data? The later case would make the evaluation not directly comparable since different data was used.  W2 - LSTM One of the main advantages of sequence models is that they can deal with variable lengths. Here, every “sequence” is of fixed length and the order of focus planes is not really crucial for the task. So the question arises if there is a simpler model that can deal with the presented data. For example a temporal convolution approach could also be used to fuse feature map across time steps and would reduce the complexity of the model. An order agnostic operation such as max/average-pooling would make the method invariant to the order of input images.   W3 - Clarity  W3.1 Table 1 is very tedious to read since one has to refer to the caption of Fig 3 to understand the row labels. A better solution would be including a short-hand notation for the ablated components that are written in the appropriate column (also Fig 3 could benefit from this).  W3.2 The notation is slightly difficult to follow since there is often double and triple indexing, variables, indices and functions using words or multiple letters (Att, Conv_dilated, rates_set). I.e. operators should be typeset appropriately to make a proper visual distinction to variables and their multiplication. 