Summary  This paper considers the prediction with limited advice game, in which a forecaster is to predict an action, but only sees the loss for that action and and the losses for a limited number of other actions. The algorithm that is developed, SODA, is able to adapt to two types of easiness: stochastic loss sequences and adversarial loss sequences with small  effective loss range. One contribution of this paper is to show that with only one extra observation compared to the bandit setting SODA is able to bypass the impossibility of being adaptive to the effective loss range in the bandit setting. This extra observation is used to estimate the loss differences between the actions and used in a similar manner as Wintenberger (2017) uses the true loss differences. This paper also provides lower bounds in the adversarial setting to show that the regret of SODA matches the lower bound up to logarithmic factors and lower order factors. Furthermore, SODA achieves constant regret for stochastic loss sequences, with suboptimal scaling in the total number of  actions.   Strengths and weaknesses  The paper was pleasant to read and clearly written. SODA is based on standard  exponential weights with second order corrections, but with SODA the loss differences are estimated instead of observed. The estimates of the loss differences are based on an extra randomly chosen observation, which seems to be a novel approach. However, the extra observation is based on uniform draws from the remaining actions after choosing which  action is played in the current round. As the authors note it seems unlikely that the regret guarantees for adversarial and stochastic sequences can not be improved by sampling the additional observation in a more clever manner. Especially for stochastic losses it appears there is room for improvement. Also, it would be interesting to see how allowing for more than one extra observation improves the regret. Nevertheless, with limited feedback being able to adapt to the two types of easiness simultaneously is a significant contribution.   Minor Comments - line 84: suffered.) -> suffered). - in line 210 of the "full version including appendices" version of the paper the equation numbers are replaced by ??.   In the rebuttal, the authors cleared up any remaining confusion. 