The authors extend the study of clustering with queries to the scenarios where the clusters may overlap. There has been previous work regarding the query complexity of clustering using same-cluster queries. However, this is the first work that deals with situations that a point can belong to multiple clusters. Multiple types of oracles has been considered including + Direct response oracle where given two points, the oracle outputs the number of clusters that the two points belong to simultaneously (also called the similarity of the two points).  + Quantized oracle where the output is just whether there exist a cluster where the two points belong to it simultaneously. Noisy versions of this oracle is also considered where the oracle's output is flipped with some fixed probability. + Dithered oracle where the oracle first adds a Gaussian noise to the similarity of the two given points and then outputs the quantized version.  The authors propose methods that recover the true clustering (up to a permutation) with high probabilities. In order to avoid the identifiability issues, the authors consider assumptions under which knowing the similarity matrix is enough to reconstruct the clustering assignments (at least with high probability).  I think the paper is well-written and the setting is very interesting. Adding short discussion regarding the tightness of the upper bounds for each scenario (and the possible room for improvement) would help as there are various variables involved in the bounds.   Some questions.  + In Theorem 5, the given query complexity does not depend on Delta but intuitively it should be higher for larger Delta. Can you clarify?  + In Theorem 5, T is logarithmic in k and n...so in the special case where the clusters are non-overlapping we seem to be able to recover the clustering using less than nk queries...which should be impossible. What am I missing?  + Theorem 2 has exponential dependence on Delta. Is that really necessary?  + I did not fully follow the role of |S| in the experiments; is there an intuition why the theoretical value does not work as well?    + In the last experiment (unquantized query responses) a particular heuristic has been used (e.g., selecting 5 movies, etc.). Why do we do that (and not follow the proposed algorithm)? Will the result be different if we did so? how much?  == After reading other reviews and the authors' response I see no reason to change my score.