The authors propose a marked process latent variable model that leverages Gaussian processes for continuous latent sates, a generalized linear model for discrete latent states and an inference network for efficient inference. Results on real data suggest that the proposed approach is interpretable and outperforms standard baselines on held out data.  I really enjoyed reading the paper, it is very well written. That being said, the notation is sloppy and lack of details makes it difficult to appreciate the contributions of the paper. The authors seemed to have assumed that the reader is very familiar with point processes, Gaussian processes, variational inference and deep learning. To name a few, no distinction between the covariance function K() and the covariance matrix K is made; the forms of the parameter functions for Gamma and Gaussian distributions in the generative process below line 156 are never introduced or defined (closed-form conditional posteriors are available or are they specified as neural networks?); the form of the generalized linear model \pi_\theta() is never made explicit; no details of the RNN are provided; it is not clear whether the inducing points are estimated, set on a grid or why 50 or 25 inducing points are enough; in Table 2, no details about Poisson, GRP and AR apre provided. How were the many parameters of all models selected?  In a paper like this with so many details missing, a supplementary file with formulation, inference, model architecture details and experimental setup details is a must, however, none was provided. Besides, lack of space seems to be not a problem provided that Figure 2 is not terribly informative, and Figures 3-5 could be made a lot smaller without sacrificing readability.  Minor: - eq. (1), N_m not defined, typo? - line 137, GP mean and covariance functions not defined. - line 156, undefined quantities, \mu_\theta(), \Sigma_\theta(), a_\theta(), b_\theta(), m_n|1:n-1, K_n|1:n-1 - line 252, locomotion - line 259, remove finds or reveals  In their rebuttal, the authors have provided enough detail about the approach and experiments. I am happy to recommend acceptance (score changed from 3 to 7).