After reading through the author response, the authors have not only agreed to make the organizational changes requested but also added a new experiment. We maintain that this paper should be accepted. We had one reviewer disagree on the basis that this is an incremental theoretical result from [27], however the theoretical result of this paper is a new one that expands on just one of the empirical observations made in [27]. The theoretical result here is still a significant one, in our opinion.  -------------------------- Before Rebuttal   The authors present a novel proof regarding the Hamming distance of random bit string inputs with different binary classifications to random neural networks. Their proof helps explain some experimental results observed in prior work [27] and notably, their predicted theoretical results are experimentally confirmed even after a network has been trained.  The mathematical set up of Gaussian process approximation for their proof is by the author’s admission not novel, coming from [41]. However, they expand on this setup to show that classification outputs of nearby (short-distance) inputs are almost perfectly correlated, i.e. they have the same classification. This expansion on [41] allows them to construct their proof of Theorem 1.  The major drawbacks of this paper are due to presentation style and organization. The immediately obvious mistake is that the authors label Theorems 1 and 3, but there is no Theorem 2. More importantly, the paper requires the reader to bounce between the proof logic in the body of the paper and the proof setup in the supplement. The result on MNIST is also buried in the supplement. While it is understandable that the proof setup must stay in the supplement due to space restrictions, it might be more prudent to move the heuristic argument into the supplement and the MNIST result into the main paper. Another option is to move the proof entirely into the supplement, leaving only the theorem statements, the heuristic argument for intuition, and all experimental results in the main paper.  Section 1.1, while very clear in explaining how the authors’ work fits into the research landscape, could at least be broken into paragraphs and made a bit more succinct. It would also be nice to see some standard deviation error bars in the figures. The supplement also mentions the greedy algorithm for finding a nearest neighbor bit string as being in Section 6.1 of the main paper, when there is no Section 6 in the main paper. 