The paper address the problem of accurate object detection on mobile device which an important problem has not been solved. Current accurate detectors rely on large and deep networks which only be inferred on a GPU. To address this problem, it proposes a SSD based detection method based on a new network termed as Pelee.  Pros: + The Pelee detector achieves 76.4% mAP on PASCAL VOC2007 and 22.4 mAP on MS COCO dataset at the speed of 17.1 FPS on iPhone 6s and 23.6 FPS on iPhone 8. The accuracies are getting very close to the SSD detectors with VGGNets. The result on COCO outperforms YOLOv2 in consideration of a higher precision, 13.6 times lower computational cost and 11.3 times smaller model size. The results are very strong.  + Some new designs which are different and effective that make Pelee works. (1) Two-way dense layer motivated by GoogLeNet. (2) A cost-efficient stem block before the first dense layer. (3) Dynamic number of channels in bottleneck layer: the number is dynamically adjusted according to the input shape, to ensure that the number of channels does not exceed the input channels. (4) Transition layer without compression: it uses the conventional wisdom of “post-activation” (Convolution - Batch Normalization [11] - Relu) as the composite function.  (5) Feature map selection, selected set of 5 scale feature maps (19 x 19, 10 x 10, 5 x 5, 3 x 3, and 1 x 1). To reduce computational cost, it does not use 38 x 38 feature map.  (6) Residual SSD prediction block.  (7) Small convolutional kernel for location and confidence score prediction.   Cons: - The technical contributions are not significant enough, since it is in the existing SSD detection framework and the network design are mainly based on experience. There is no theoretical finding. - It lacks comparisons to the state-of-the-art mobile deep detectors, such as SSD with MobileNetV2 & NasNet. - The efficient implementation of SSD on iOS cannot be regarded as a contribution since it simply based on the CoreML library.  Some minor issues: - The format and the presentation of the paper are not good. Tab 2&5 are not not well-aligned which make people hard to read.  - Some grammar mistakes: e.g., the “innovate” connectivity pattern. - Why the method is termed as “Pelee”?