This paper presents a well thoughtout procedure for estimating the system parameters of a LQR system identification problem from data.  Unlike H-inf, which assumes as worst-case disturbace model, the paper formulates as solution based on a confidence region in parameter space from data using Bayes rule.  The formulation leads to a non-convex optimization problem.  The proposed algorithm iteratively minimizes a convex upper-bound converging to a local minimum.  The problem that the paper aims to tackle, safe/robust RL, is important and compelling.  The proposed approach is motivated by deficiencies in prior work and its development, at a high level, is easy to follow.  The second set of experiments, on a real dynamical system, build confidence in its effectiveness.  The approach is solid and is relevant to the NIPS audience.  Below are some concerns regarding clarity and significance.  Completely missing from the paper is a discussion of computational complexity.  Solving an SDP with an off-the-shelf solver costs n^3.5*log(1/epsilon) where and n is usually the square of the problem dimension.  The initialization SDP (8), grows with the number of samples and should quickly become computationally infeasible.  The iterative procedure at least decomposes into M separate SDPs.  Even an informal discussion about the observed computational requirements, e.g., how restarting the solver from iteration to iteration would be appreciated, and how it compares to the alternatives.  The statistical complexity of the approach is discussed experimentally (both in respect to the MCMC sampler as well as in comparison to prior work), but a more formal discussion would greatly improve the paper.  Particularly since the computational complexity is dependent on the number of samples.  The interplay between the mixing time of the MCMC and the rejection of unstabilizable systems is also important.  It is hard to properly evaluate the significance, i.e., the applicability, of the approach without these complexity results.  Unfortunately, my guess is that, like most SDP relaxations, it will only be of academic interest.  Though the development of the approach is intuitive, the details of the paper can be hard to follow.  This will turn away readers and hinder reproducability.  The notation is challenging:   - pi is probably unnecessary and different than Pi, just use p   - consider elimating theta, e.g., (6b) A_i,B_i,\Pi_i = theta_i not immediate     or make it explicit like (2)   - M, theta_i not defined after first use in (4) until next section   - c is both overloaded, used in both Theta^c and as an upper-bound in     S^n_epsilon (whose dependence on c is not part of the notation)   - J^c_M is not an MC approximation to J^c since the \bar S is now included   - \bar S and S are not related   - J and \hat J's dependence on i is not obvious (9a-b,10a-b)  Minor comments:   - Theta^c is "the c% confidence interval", can't there be more than one?   - LMI not defined (line 148)   - remove (0)'s from table 1 as only one entry differs