Edit: Post author-feedback period, the authors have addressed both the patient specific hazard as well as the variable importance well and would be interested in the final version of the manuscript.  Original Review: The authors tackle the problem of modeling time-to-event datasets under competing risks. Patient health trajectories are typically affected by multiple diseases that can influence the occurrence of each other. While survival analysis has been studied in depth, most of the methods were modeled for single outcome analysis. Also, the authors note the current methods on modeling competing risks typically make certain parametric assumptions such as proportional hazards for cox models.  The key idea of this paper is to adapt boosting process to model time-to-event datasets under a non parametric setting. Going a step deeper, the core contribution is to explicitly extend discrete label boosting to multivariate non parametric setting.  The paper presentation is okay and while the model could have been better described, algorithm 1 helps with the overall clarity as well as reproducibility of the paper.  The evaluation protocol presented in the paper is well reasoned and the results are promising.   However, there are a few areas where the paper can improve:  * The variable importance as described in 3.3 doesn't seem to be a natural extension of the model and can benefit from a better motivation behind the formulation * While the results are promising, only analyzing the time-dependent C-index is insufficient. For e.g. it would have been interesting to analyze particular cases with multiple comorbidity and explore how the model interpreted the same.  * The paper is in a way a very clever approach by using the well studied technique of boosting and applying it in a sequential manner. However, for this to be practically useful, models need to reason behind the adjustments of hazards over time which is currently missing.  A minor point about the synthetic datasets. Instead of separating out the cases for imbalanced and balanced synthetic datasets, the space could have been better utilized by analyzing the real datasets. 