Paper Summary: The paper presents a technique for testing whether a given set of samples are drawn from a postulated Gaussian latent tree model or a saturated Gaussian graphical model. The paper first characterizes a set of necessary and sufficient constraints that any covariance matrix of a Gaussian latent tree model should satisfy. It then uses these constraints to come up with a test statistic.   The paper extends past work on testing for Gaussian latent tree models to settings where the observed variables are allowed to have degree up to 2. The test statistic presented in the paper is based on gaussian approximation for maxima of high dimensional sums. Simulations suggest that the test statistic can potentially work in high dimensional settings.  Comments: 1) Section 3 is mostly focused on star tree models. The general setting is covered only briefly in the last section. I would have preferred more details about the general setting. If the inequality constraints are considered, will the resulting test statistic still have the distribution in lines 201-202? What will be the exact test when inequalities are considered? 2) [Equation 3.5] For what kind of dependencies among Y_i's does the equation hold? Will the dependencies among Y_i's defined in (3.3) satisfy the required conditions for 3.5 to hold?  3) [High dimensions:] The proposed approach needs to estimate a covariance matrix, which can be rank deficient and very inaccurate when the number of tetrads is larger than the number of samples. As a result the approximation in lines 201-202 could be inaccurate. Given this, I'm surprised that the proposed estimator performed so well in section 4.1. Can this behavior be explained? 4) The paper is mostly well written, however there are some sections which need more details. For example, in line 160, it is not clear what is the "gradient" of tetrad. Lines 159-162 will need more explanation. In line 91, what is a minimal subtree? Also, the proof of Lemma 2.1 will need some more details (especially lines 21-25). In line 21, what is T'|S \leq T|S?