Originality: This paper consists of several engineering "tricks" that enable 4D cost volume filtering. While these modifications re relatively straightforward, they are well motivated, principled and of great use to practitioners and deployment of optical flow models.  Quality: The technical content of the paper appears to be correct. There are multiple aspects I like about this paper: + Proposed modifications seem to speedup the training process (~10x) and improve its stability (wider range of learning rates). + Proposed model significantly reduces number of required flops (< 50% of PWCNet, ~25% of LiteFlowNet), and memory while achieves state of the art accuracy (among compact models). + One of the motivations of this paper is to reduce memorization and improve generalization - this is nicely demonstrated on two tasks (stereo -> flow and small -> large motion). Perhaps, it might be interesting to see whether it also helps domain adaptation (however this is certainly beyond the scope of this paper). + Experiments in this paper are very clearly described and contain great discussion.  + As this paper would be of great use to practitioners, its also nice to see the authors will release the code.  Clarity: The paper is very-well written, contains nice figures that illustrates well the key concepts and authors will release the code. Perhaps, I'd just modify lines 22-30 which somewhat repeat the abstract and certain design choices could be better motivated/explained/justified (e.g. why cosine similarity is used). It is well organized, experiments section contain great discussion and I've enjoyed reading it!  Significance: Memory and compute requirements of modern optical flow estimation methods represent a real bottle-neck - this paper might make deployment of optical flow much more easier. This paper proposes several relatively straightforward modifications of standard dense optical flow matching models, however, I believe these would be of great use to practitioners! 