Summary:  This paper explores the problem of finding the equilibrium of a game between an adversary and a team of players who can coordinate on strategies before the game starts. The authors first argue that this game can be expressed as a two-player game with imperfect recall (intuitively, we can treat the team as a meta-player since they can try to agree on some strategy beforehand). They then propose a new game representation, realization form, and introduce an auxiliary game that is easier to deal with (two-player with perfect recall) and is equivalent to the original game (in the sense that there exist mappings between strategy profiles in two games). The authors then modified the standard fictitious play method that takes advantage of the new structure and is able to find the equilibrium. Experiments are also conducted to demonstrate that the new presentation improves the efficiency in equilibrium computation.  Comments:  Overall, I think the idea of the proposed algorithm is interesting: utilize the property of the auxiliary game to guarantee fictitious play would converge to equilibrium, and use the original game to help efficiently find the best response in each iteration. I would lean towards accepting the paper.  Since the contribution of the paper is a more efficient way of finding the equilibrium, it might be helpful if the authors can provide discussion on the efficiency issue? For example, the current paper has focused the discussion on the 2-player vs. the adversary case. The authors do explain that there is a straightforward way to extend it to more players, as mentioned in the conclusion. However, the size of the auxiliary game seems to grow significantly when the number of players increases. How much will this impact the performance of the equilibrium computation?  The proposed algorithm relies on solving integer programs at each iteration. This seems to limit the scalability of the algorithm? In particular, I am wondering how much does it impact the algorithm when the number of pure strategies and/or the number of players increases?  It seems to me the paper might be more suitable for AI or game theory conferences since the main contribution is in game representations and the discussion on learning is limited.