The proposed algorithm is well motivated and provided significant improvement over the original SSC in terms of computational cost. The approximation has been well justified by performance guarantees that hold with high probability. I think the contributions are significant. On the other hand, there are several questions and major issues particularly with the presentation.  1. The algorithm is not clearly presented in the main manuscript. (It was better described in an appendix in the supplementary material.) To understand the implication of the main theoretic results, it will be important to see the key structures of the algorithm. So I suggest to elaborate on Section 3.1 in this perspective.  2. Continued from the previous item, due to some missing critical details about the algorithm, the statement of Theorem 1 is not very clear. For example, there is no randomness in the model. The only source of randomness is random selection per iteration within the algorithm. Without clearly explaining this aspect, one may wonder what the probability means in the statement of the theorem.  3. Another issue with the statement of the main theorems is the interpretation of the result. T is rather the size of selection. The number of iteration has to do with how the algorithm finds S. So its meaning as the cardinality of S looks more important.  4. It would be interesting to see how the main results reduces to the analogous results by the original SSC. Does it reproduce the original result as a special case?  5. How can the result be compared to fully stochastic setup where new selection is given not by an optimization of a given large set but by random sampling of the union of subspaces? What would be a gain from "optimizing" from a given set rather than purely random increment?  6. As the authors discussed, the original SSC formulation decouples over columns and can be implemented as a set of Lasso problems in a distributed way. If one uses a cluster to solve the problem, the implementation can be parallelized. For example, each lasso can be solved by FISTA or ADMM. If this is correct, can one still suffer from failures in Table 1 for the original SSC? 7. There were a few critical typos. For example equation (3) and line 193 (SEP?) 8. It might be useful to provide a geometric interpretation of the affinity in Definition 6 in terms of principal angles between subspaces.    