 The article presents Causal InfoGAN, a framework for learning a low-dimensional generative model and structured representations of sequential high-dimensional observations, such as images, from a dynamical system, for use in long-horizon planning. The focus is discrete and deterministic dynamics models that can be used in graph search methods in, for example, classical AI planning  The work follows the InfoGAN approach, adding to the GAN training a loss function that maximizes the mutual information between observation pairs and transitions in the planning model. The GAN is trained to generate sequential observation pairs from the dynamical system maximizing the mutual information between the generated observations. The objective helps the abstract model to capture the relevant changes in the observations, for simplicity this work ignores partial observability. The generative process is induced by a transition in a low-dimensional planning model with noise such that "small changes to the abstract state correspond to feasible changes to the observation" -- planning in this model involves "interpolating between abstract states".  The transitions in the planning model lead to a low-dimensional representation that is claimed to explain the causal nature of the data.  The experiments reported using Causal InfoGAN include * A toy 2D navigation problem which shows that state abstraction leads to better planning, with clusters that correspond to the possible dynamics of the particle in the task that leads to reasonable generated planning trajectories. The model does not rely on the Euclidean metric which leads to better planning -- the authors point out that E.D can be unsuitable even on low-dimensional continuous domains. * A Rope manipulation data problem which shows that training loss of Causal InfoGAN can generate a latent space that leads to accurate representation of possible changes to the rope and generates high-level plans directly from data without requiring additional human guidance. It is claimed that the objective guarantees feasible transitions and "causality preserving loss" leads to a learned latent space in which local perturbations correspond to plausible changes in the image (unlike an infoGAN with a MI loss that does not involve state transitions). Causal InfoGAN appears to generate convincing "walkthrough sequences" for manipulating a rope into a given shape, using real image data collected from a robot randomly manipulating the rope.  The paper is generally clear and well written, the quality of the work and the paper seems to be reasonably good, to my knowledge the work seems original and its relation to other work in the field seems to be clearly described, I do not feel able to comment on the significance of the work.