Originality: As far as I can tell, the paper uses fairly standard arguments to achieve its theoretical results. However, I would argue that the simplicity here is a virtue, not a fault. In a sense, the paper is a showcase of the powerful FPT toolkit being applied to the cascading portfolio scheduling question.  Quality: The paper thoroughly considers many possible parameterizations of a very general problem (see above). This problem captures many plausible scenarios of how one might want to try running a sequence of algorithms, and encompasses algorithms with unreliable running time or output. Despite the generality of the problem, the paper still manages to establish positive results for a number of cases. I think a reasonable case for acceptance could be made even without the last set of results (failure/success cover number); differentiating between the tractable parameters and intractable ones of (i) and (ii) is already an interesting contribution.  Clarity: The paper is well-organized, presenting the parameters in the natural (simple to complex) order. It might be helpful to add a chart to the introduction, indicating the map from parameter to tractable/intractable. Figure 1 was helpful in illustrating the parameters based on covering number, thanks. As one minor nit, the paper said that it would use a spade to mark statements with omitted proofs, but they were not actually marked with spades.  Significance: This is a nice foundation to build future work on top of. I think the biggest weakness of this paper is addressing whether these parameters are actually small in any of the original motivators for the problem, i.e. are these algorithms useful for the original questions that lead us here. Leaving this question unanswered is why I would argue that this paper is just an accept instead of a strong accept. Contrast these results with standard treewidth results, where we know that many graphs of interest (e.g. road networks, social networks) have small treewidth, making treewidth a meaningful characterization, not just a characterization that we can prove results for. Is there a good reason to expect failure treewidth to be small?  Rebuttal: I've read your rebuttal. Sounds good, I hope your QBF data works out!