# Summary   This paper presents a new family of variational distributions with posterior dependence preserved, targeting for high-dimensional problems. The construction of variational distribution is motivated by Sklar's theorem, in which the dependence structures and univariate margins are handled separately. While the marginal distribution of any copula has to be uniform, the proposed copula-like density allows for non-uniform marginal distributions.  As a result, the dependency structure can be parametrized flexibly with linear complexity, and sampling from the copula-like density is easy.  While the number of parameters in an unconstrained Gaussian covariance is quadratic. It has been pointed out by Opper, M., & Archambeau, C. (2009) that the number of parameters in Gaussian variational inference can be O(d) instead of O(d^2), with a parameterized covariance matrix. Please refer to Khan, M. E. et al. (2013) and the references therein. Admittedly, although the Gaussian covariance matrix is flexible and easier to optimize, it may not necessarily close to the true posterior as well.   The dependency parameters presented in this paper are hard to optimize. To alleviate this problem, a sequence of Givens rotation as normalizing flow are considered to make further adjustments. It is nice to see that the transformation follows the FFT-style butterfly-architecture, and it could serve as standardization and potentially improve Variational Gaussian approximations as well.  Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method yields higher ELBO than mean-field Gaussian and Full-covariance Gaussian methods in several tasks. Potentially, the ELBO can be further improved by adopting a more flexible margin.   # Originality  This paper presents a novel way of constructing variational distributions motivated by Sklar's theorem. Toward high-dimensional dependence, both the copula-like density and the sparse rotation matrix are carefully designed, leading to a tradeoff between flexibility and computational efficiency.   # Quality   The mathematical derivations look solid. The experiments are well-designed and results are clearly presented.      # Clarity   This presentation is clear and the paper is well-organized. It would be good to add more discussion on the intuitions of the copula-like density before throwing out the complex mathematical form. More discussions on the efficiency of sampling and how the numerical value of delta manifests the strength of dependence are needed.    # Significance   Existing multivariate copulas are often restrictive. This paper breaks the constraint of uniform margins in copula density in exchange for better scalability of structured stochastic variational inference to high-dimensional problems. The method is appealing as a tool for approximate Bayesian inference in deep models.  