The main contribution of this work is to show that the approximate message passing (AMP) algorithm, which has originally been developed in the context of losses with separable penalties, can be adapted for a specific non-separable penalty. It moreover focus on proving that the resulting algorithm successfully converges to the correct solution.  It is important to mention that the focus here is on providing an AMP-based solution to the problem, as similar results for this penalty had already been obtained using different techniques in [20].  The mathematical analysis performed seems sound, and while the framework used has already been introduced in [7], new techniques were employed in order to deal with the possibly non-strongly convex loss.  While AMP algorithms have gained prominence in the last decade, there remains much work to be done before they become practical, mostly on providing convergence guarantees for arbitrarily distributed data. Adapting AMP to specific losses is important, but does not necessarily translate into a big impact for the machine learning community. As such, I believe this work belongs to more specialized venues rather than at NeurIPS.  Minor points follow:  - the notation $|b|_{(i)}$ is not clear; order statistics should be defined to the unfamiliar reader  - typo on caption for Fig/Table 1: "hasi.i.d."  - on page 2: emphasize experiments are on Gaussian i.i.d. data  # Post-rebuttal addendum I believe the authors have put a great deal of effort on the rebuttal, answering most of the points raised in the reviews. Moreover, I am impressed they were able to come up with a SLOPE variant of VAMP in such a short notice. This new algorithm, together with remaining results presented, addresses my concerns regarding the usefulness of the proposed approach. I have thus decided to increase my score to 7, in spite of my belief that the paper is perhaps a bit too specific.  I recommend the authors update the manuscript with the information contained in the rebuttal, in particular regarding the possibility of having alternative message-passing algorithms that are more stable in practice.