The paper proposes a new supervised learning approach for graphical models that differs from structured output SVMs and from maximum likelihood learning. Given a loss function, the task is formulated as a minimax problem that searches the best inference strategy for the worst model among all probability distributions that have the same unary and pairwise marginals as the empirical distribution given by the training data. It is shown that the saddle point problem is tractable for acyclic graphical structures and graphs with low tree-width. Two simple(?) experiments demonstrate the superiority of the approach over structured output SVMs and maximum likelihood learning.  Paper strengths: The proposed approach is to my knowledge novel and highly interesting. It can be seen as a variant of Bayesian learning over an infinite model class without explicit parametrisation and without the requirement to fix a prior distribution on it. At the same time it enjoys tractability for models on acyclic graphs and additive loss functions. This theoretical paper is well structured and by and large well written.  Paper weaknesses: This highly theoretical paper his hard to read (at least for me). The vast number of auxiliary quantities and notations makes it hard to follow the derivation steps. I would have appreciated a simple example demonstrating the main ideas and steps of the approach. The description of the two experiments is somewhat too short - it requires the reader to consult quite a few papers to get a clear understanding of the tasks and the used models.  Further comments/questions: When trying to gain more insight into the proposed method I have noticed that the inner constrained minimisation task in Definition 1 is in fact a linear task and can be replaced by its dual task. This seems to lead to the following (somewhat simplified) interpretation: The optimal inference minimises the energy of a graphical model with "loss augmented" unaries, whose parameters are chosen such that the unary and pairwise statistics taken over the optimal labellings for the training data inputs (x) is equal to the same statistics on the complete training data (x,y). I would appreciate if the authors could comment on this.   Overall, this is a highly interesting theoretical paper that proposes a novel (supervised) learning approach for graphical models.