The manuscript proposes new methods for spike sorting, response modelling and adaptive stimulation.  The spike sorting algorithm minimizes the penalized reconstruction error by subtracting linear combinations of known artifacts and spike waveforms from the recorded signal. Response modelling is performed in two ways. Firstly, by modelling spiking probabilities as Bernoulli distributions and inferring its parameters by maximization of logistic log-likelihood, and secondly, by modelling spike amplitude and stimulation thresholds jointly across multiple cell-electrodes pairs. Adaptive stimulation is implemented as closed-loop algorithm that uses prior stimulation responses to choose subsequent stimulation patterns. The methods are based/inspired by the literatures and original. The reviewer did not check all equations in detail, however, used methods are valid and the reasoning of the authors is sound. The level of detail is ok. Authors evaluate the algorithms by performing one single ex vivo stimulation experiment of primate retinal ganglion cells. The preliminary results are promising; however, the significance of the results is still somewhat limited. The method, if transferable to other experiments, has potential and will be useful to other researcher.    Please find additional comments below:  #0: The title says “efficient” and “neural interfaces”. The manuscript does, however, not quantify efficiency. Also, the method is tested for retinal implants only.  #93: Word repetition “the the”  #143: Word repetition “that that”  #190: How was the shape/duration of the stimulation?  #205: Activation thresholds identified by the method are compared human results. What precisely do authors mean by “match the value”?   #209: Authors again use the word “matched”. Please quantify.   #246: What is the computational complexity of the algorithm?  Pros and cons of the method are not discussed in enough detail. Specifically, in the context to large-data sets. Would recording hardware or other factors impact on the performance of the method?  ======== Response to authors’ feedback: Thank you for the clarifications and for the willingness to characterize the pros and cons of the proposed method. The reviewer still thinks that the manuscript is above the threshold. But the question now is how the authors manage to present this variety of information in a short and clear way.  