The problem dealt with in this paper is the adaptive influence maximization with myopic feedback model. This problem was proposed by Golovin--Krause (2011), but they did not provide any bound on the approximation ratio of the adaptive greedy algorithm. They conjectured that this algorithm achieves constant-factor approximation. In this paper, the authors affirmatively solve this conjecture by analyzing the adaptivity gap. The adaptivity gap is the largest ratio of the objective values achieved by an optimal adaptive policy and an optimal non-adaptive policy among all graphs. The authors provide lower bound 1/4 and upper bound (1-1/e) on the adaptivity gap. By using this bound, the authors show both the adaptive and non-adaptive greedy algorithms are (1-1/e)/4-approximation to the optimal adaptive policy. Also, it is shown that neither the adaptive greedy nor the non-adaptive greedy is better than (e^2+1)/(e+1)^2-approximation. This paper is generally very well-written. In the proofs, this paper utilizes several novel ideas such as the multiplied version \sigma^t of the influence function. The open problem solved by this paper is significant not only in theory but also in practice. The results would give an impact on future research on influence maximization. I would be for the acceptance of this paper.  Small comments: - In the first formula of (38), G(t) could be replaced with G(w). - In the proof of Claim 5, though it is not theoretically essential, 2d/(e+1) might not be an integer. It would be better to add a flooring function. - The statement of Lemma 7 would be a little bit misleading. In the current form, it sounds to me that "for any graph, the approximation ratio achieved by the non-adaptive greedy is no worse than the approximation ratio achieved by the adaptive greedy *in the same graph*." However, it is not what the authors mean. In my understanding, the authors mean that "for the approximation ratio of the non-adaptive greedy in any graph, there is some graph for which the approximation ratio of the adaptive greedy is equal to this one."   Update after the author feedback: I have checked the author feedback. The authors explain why they did not conduct experiments, and I am satisfied with their comment. My opinion about the theoretical results remains the same, so I don't change my score.