The paper studies a model of production economies with linear production functions, and a dynamics based on trading posts and proportional updates, to show that (i) growth is guaranteed whenever it is possible and (ii) inequality grows under this model. The paper also provides several numerical experiments.  The paper is well written and pleasant to read. The setting and main results are illustrated with simple examples in the introduction, then further developed in the main text. The proofs rely on elementary arguments that are easy to follow. The literature review is extensive and the results are placed in the context of the relevant literature.  I would like to see further motivation of the model. It is mentioned in the paper that most of the existing work focuses on studying convergence of dynamics to equilibria, while this paper is interested in diverging trajectories, and I do not see a good justification for this model. Diverging growth does not seem to be a realistic model of a production economy.  The paper has some formatting issues: references to the appendix are broken, the orgnization paragraph (line 185) refers to inexisting sections, and the paper ends abruptly at the end of Section 5. It is evident that the paper was cut down to eight pages from a longer version given in the supplement. Further efforts need to be put into polishing the main paper.  The statements of the results in the introduction are informal, especially Theorem 1.2. For example, "most efficient production cycle", and "inequality gap" are not properly defined until later sections. The definition of universal mechanism is also informal, as "mechanism" is not properly defined until much later in the paper. How can one define a universal mechanism before defining a mechanism? Given the need for additional space (see my previous remark), and the issues caused by stating results before definitions, I strongly recommend reorganizing the introduction to move statements of main results to later sections.  The numerical simulations of the Gini index make for interesting plots, but they are simply given without discussion. What is the purpose of these figures? Is it to highlight the dependence on initial conditions? Or to show the existence of certain phase transitions? What insights can we draw from these plots?  * Post rebuttal * Thank you for the responses and clarifications. I agree with the argument that the quantities produced in production economies do not converge, but this does not prevent other quantities (such as production rates, prices, etc.) from converging, and the study of a model which does not guarantee convergence must be more carefully motivated and justified. The second argument made in the rebuttal, that there is a "conceptual problem with equilibrium based analysis", namely that "market equilibrium solution does not explain how players would trade when the market is out-of-equilibrium" conflates equilibrium and adjustment dynamics: the study of adjustment dynamics (such as tatonnement, proportional response, etc.) answers the question of how players can reach equilibrium. My question on the purpose of the Gini index plots was not addressed.