Summary:  This paper proposes a novel framework, FD-GAN, to learn identity-related and pose-unrelated representations for person re-identification with pose variation that does not require extra auxiliary pose information or increase the computational complexity during inference. FD-GAN uses a Siamese structure, including an image encoder E, an image generator G, an identity verification classifier V and two adversarial discriminators. The image encoder E at each branch first transforms the input person image into feature representations. An identity verification classifier is utilized to supervise the feature learning. An image generator G conditioned on the features from the encoder and a target pose map is added to make the learned features robust without pose-related information. An identity discriminator and a pose discriminator are integrated to regularizes the image generation process. The image generator together with the image encoder are encouraged to fool the discriminators with fake generated images. Taking advantages of the Siamese structure, a novel same-pose loss minimizing the difference between the fake generated images of the two branches is also utilized, which is shown to further distill pose-unrelated information from input images. Using a novel same-pose loss minimizing the difference between the fake generated images of the two branches, the entire framework is joint trained in an end-to-end manner. For inference, only the image encoder E is used without pose information. Experiments shows that different network components in FD-GAN is effective on Market-1501 and DukeMTMCreID datasets. Experiment comparing to other state-of-the-art person reID methods on Market-1501, CUHK03, and DukeMTMC-reID datasets shows that FD-GAN has the best performance. Comparison of generated images from FD-GAN to those from other methods also shows that FD-GAN has better generated images.  Strengths:  - This is a technical sound paper with enough experiments to justify the effectiveness of their approach. - This papers propose a novel Siamese network structure and novel losses to ensure the framework learns more pose-invariant features for robust person reID. - This paper is well written with good presentation of FD-GAN.  Weaknesses:  - In section 4.4, the number of cases used for visualization comparison to [18, 19] is small. It is unclear how [19] performs on the left and middle cases, and unclear how [18] performs on the right case.   Rebuttal Response:  After reading the rebuttal, it addresses my comments on lacking of visualization comparison to [18, 19]. I support accepting this paper, and I will not change my score.