This paper presents an extension to MCTS that uses maximum entropy/softmax instead of UCB and hard maximization. A bandit-based (horizon 1) and tree-based version of the algorithm are given along with theoretical results showing improved convergence rate (exponential instead of polynomial). Experiments are also given that show the proposed method (Maximum Entropy Tree Search or MENTS) outperforms UCT on a synthetic tree benchmark and a set of Atari games.   MCTS and UCT are widely used, but as pointed out by the paper, the convergence rate is slow and practical performance is not always well understood. Therefore, developing improved, more efficient algorithms is an important problem. Maximum entropy methods have become popular in RL, so the idea of using them with MCTS is promising.   The algorithm itself is somewhat straightforward: the softmax value is optimized to choose actions within the tree (instead of UCB) and softmax values are used (and backed up) at the leaves (instead of 'hard' max values). This makes MENTS relatively simple to implement, but potentially quite powerful.   The main contribution of the paper is the idea to combine maximum entropy methods and MCTS along with a proof of convergence in the bandit and tree (i.e., sequential) case. The tree case follows from the bandit case and the efficiency improvements are significant (exponential convergence rather than polynomial). The theorems are included in the paper and proofs are included in the supplement. These proofs are a significant contribution to the state-of-the-art in sample-based planning.   The experiments show that the method works in practice as well. It is nice that MENTS outperforms UCT on the synthetic tree domain, but more significant that it does so on some of the Atari domains. Unfortunately, there is little discussion about the results and comparison only with 'vanilla' UCT. More discussion and analysis of the online planning results would be helpful since MENTS does not always outperform the other methods. It would have strengthened the paper to also present results for various number of simulations for the Atari games as is done for the sythetic tree domain. Also, as noted in the related work, several variants of UCT have been proposed that may result in better values. It would be helpful to see the results from some subset of these other methods.   The writing was generally clear, but a few things could be improved. For example, the axes should be more clearly labeled in Figures 2 and 3 and the 'example' in Figure 1 is not really an example, but a list of the relevant aspects of UCT and MENTS.   ==== After rebuttal ====  After the response and discussion, I still believe this is a strong paper. The authors should make the issues from the reviews more clear, but the approach is novel, the theoretical and empirical results are strong and the approach is widely applicable. 