The paper presents a continuous-time ODE interpretation of four popular optimization algorithms: Gradient descent, proximal gradient descent, coordinate gradient decent and Newton's method. The four algorithms are all interpreted as damped oscillators with different mass and damping coefficients. It is shown that this ODE formulation can be used to derive the (known) convergence rates in a fairly straight forward manner. Further, the ODE formulation allows to analyze convergence in the non-convex case under the PL-condition. An extension to nonsmooth composite optimization is also discussed.  Quality The mathematical analysis seems widely correct. Some aspect on the extension to nonsmooth optimization are unclear to me. The function $G(X,\dot{X})$ must not necessarily be (Lipschitz) continuous. Analyzing the convergence of an ODE with nonsmooth force field requires specific care (e.g., existence & uniqueness of solutions). It seems much more natural to me to analyze nonsmooth functions in a discrete-time setting, rather than in a continuous time setting. The implications of having (potentially) a non-smooth vector field should be carefully analyzed here.   Clarity The paper is clearly written, with a straight forward line of argumentation. I would appreciate a brief notation section, introducing all special symbols.    Originality The unified interpretation of the different optimization algorithms in one ODE formulation is nice to see. The differentiation to [15] by choosing a different step size is interesting. I would appreciate a further discussion on the impact of different choice. This could for example be investigated in the simulation section. Would the ODE representation of [15] approximate the discrete steps better or worse? I very much like the connection of the PL condition to Hooke's law, although the discussion of this is very brief in the paper.   Significance The paper gives some nice insights. However, it seems that the practical relevance remains limited. It is mentioned that the method can potentially help to develop new algorithms, but this step has not been taken.   After the authors' feedback: My comments were properly addressed. I have no concerns and recommend to accept the paper.