The authors describe a graph variational autoencoder with applications to molecule design. The proposed model specifies latent space variables that encode the nodes in the graph. The graph generation is then performed by iterating over nodes, and connecting the current node with others until a connection with an empty node is obtained. At the end, some nodes may not be connected to a bigger connected component and they are discarded. Simple rules guarantee that the proposed model can generate always valid molecules. The proposed generative model is evaluated in different tasks including the generation of synthetic molecules with similar properties as real-world ones and on molecule optimization.  Quality:  I found the experiments on directed molecule generation (section 6.2) quite limited. The authors only show a single example. It would be good to compare with simple baselines here and to include results for many different optimizations from different points in latent space.   Clarity:  The paper is clearly written and it is easy to read.  Originality:  Similar graph generative models have been proposed. However, this is the first one based on a variational autoencoder. The way in which they address the problem of being insensitive to the ordering in which the graph is generated (for example, Figure 2) is novel. The same happens with the masking approach to guarantee that the generated molecules are valid.   The authors should include the following paper in their related work section:  W. Jin, R. Barzilay, and T. Jaakkola.  Junction tree variational autoencoder for molecular graph generation.  In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2018.  Significance:  The proposed model includes significant novel contributions as mentioned above. I would only indicate the need to improve section 6.2 as mentioned above and perhaps include more experiments showing the gains of the different contributions mentioned above: masking, order independent training (figure 2).