Originality: I’m not very familiar with RL and imitation learning, but the work seems original. The word directly addresses a deficiency in existing approaches to learning complex behaviors like mixture-of-experts and hierarchical models.  Quality: The quality of the work seems high overall. The explanation of the model is fairly clear, the experiments seem thorough, and there is abundant followup work suggesting that the model is achieving the desired effect, namely that the model is learning a set of primitive experts that combine to learn complex behaviors (Figure 7).  Clarity - I found the terminology around a primitive’s “activation” to be quite confusing. My understanding is that a primitive being “active” means that it is contributing to the distribution that is actually sampled from. Under this definition, it makes sense that we would want multiple primitives to be active so that we can leverage the representational power of K many models rather than just one, in addition to primitive specialization. On the other hand, when you mention activating “primitive skill”, you seem to suggest performing multiple actions at the same time step. Does this mean that that model is allowed to activate several actions at each time step? That doesn’t seem to be the case in the studied setting, but seems to be used to justify MCP. - Using the definition of a primitive being active meaning they contribute to the sampling distribution, in the additive model, it seems fairly trivial to sample in a way such that multiple primitives could be “active”: Instead of sampling from w, compute the linear combination of the primitives and sample from the resulting distribution. If that’s the case, this seems like a useful baseline in the experiments for isolating the effect of the representational power of the particular model used (multiplicative factoring primitives) versus the ability to have multiple primitives active.  Significance: Overall the work seems quite significant. The theoretical benefits of the proposed model allows the model to learn complex behaviors, which seem to indeed play out in experiments. I could see work building directly on the model presented here, and comparing to it as a baseline.