This paper proposes an extension of seed sampling for coordinated exploration to enable scalable learning to high dimensional problems.   The first set of experimental results in Section 2, feels like an incremental extension of a previous publication (cited by the authors as [1]) as it is not justified well as a direct contribution to the topic of this specific paper and uses the algorithm proposed in the previous paper not the new algorithms proposed in this paper. This section also assumes a significant amount of prior knowledge of the previous work. I would recommend this space would have been better utilised to give a detailed description of seed sampling so that the paper is a self contained reference on scalable seed sampling.   The experiment in Section 2, uses a reasonable set of baselines with good alignment with the conditions the authors argue are necessary for concurrent exploration. However, the UCRL method used is a weak baseline and a fairer comparison would be to parallel UCB. As a starting point for exploring the literature on these methods, I would suggest the papers:  - T. Cazenave and N. Jouandeau, “On the Parallelization of UCT,”  2007  - G. M. J.-B. Chaslot, M. H. M. Winands, and H. J. van den Herik, “Parallel Monte-Carlo Tree Search.” 2008 - A. Bourki, G. M. J.-B. Chaslot, M. Coulm, V. Danjean, H. Doghmen, J.B. Hoock, T. H´erault, A. Rimmel, F. Teytaud, O. Teytaud, P. Vayssi`ere, and Z. Yu, “Scalability and Parallelization of Monte-Carlo Tree Search” 2010  In Section 3, the authors propose three algorithms that are later tested (seed LSVI, seed TD and seed ensembles). They then argue that this method could also be applied to policy function approximation, which seems feasible but is not empirically demonstrated. I would argue that, given the motivation of scalable approaches, an evaluation of using seed sampling with a modern policy gradient algorithm would have been more insightful than seed LSVI as LSVI is known not to scale well.  The results in Section 4.1 are promising and a useful comparison for understanding the effect of the changes proposed in this paper. The authors have again done a great job of aligning the example problem domains and baseline comparisons with the beneficial features of the method they are proposing. However, Section 4.2 is less impressive and (as the single large scale experiment in a paper on scaling up an existing method) significantly weakens the contribution of the paper. Specifically, I would note that this section does not provide sufficient details of the hyperparameters used to reproduce this experiment and compares against a weak baseline. Why hold the number of agents for DQN fixed whilst modifying the number for the proposed method? Why only compare against a baseline that never learns to improve above a random policy? Are there no existing methods (perhaps ones that are significantly more sample inefficient) that can learn to act in this problem domain?  During the rebuttal period, it would be useful for the authors to discuss the motivation for including the experiments of Section 2 within this paper and to justify the choice of baseline or proposed changes for the results in Section 4.2.  -- Having carefully considered the authors' response, I have raised my view of the paper to just above the acceptance threshold. Particularly based upon the promise in the response to fully document all hyperparameters in the appendix and to release the source code. These efforts will greatly improve the reproducibility of the paper, and help with the uptake of the work by others to further build upon the results presented.