This paper extends the non-blind deconvolution in [1]. The author proposes to use a generalized low-rank approximation method to model a wide range of blur kernels and train the non-blind deconvolution network with the low-rank representation.  Strength: - Unlike the model in [1] that requires a specific training (or fine tuning) for each kernel, the proposed model can handle different blur kernels. - The model can use the low-rank representation results to initialize the model parameters. - Experiments show that the model can achieve good performances on different images and performs better than the compared methods, such as [1].  Weakness: - The most important motivation of this paper is to make the learning-based CNN model being able to handle different kernels. I did not find the reason for using the low-rank approximation-based method. Regarding the extension of the model in [1], I agree the low-rank representation idea is straightforward and clever, but, generally, I am wondering whether building a pre-defined and restricted representation for kernels is necessary. In many optimization-based neural network design, the blur kernels can be directly fed into a learnable neural network. Please check [2,3]. They both can work as a flexible model for different kernels and perform very well for different images. I want to see the discussions and comparisons (if possible) with these neural networks motivated by the conventional optimizer.   - The author may experiment to study the sensitivity of the proposed model to the noise. - More experiments on the standard non-blind deconvolution benchmark datasets are necessary to validate the proposed method.   [1] L. Xu, J. S. Ren, C. Liu, and J. Jia. Deep convolutional neural network for image deconvolution. In NIPS, 2014.  [2] Kruse, Jakob, Carsten Rother, and Uwe Schmidt. "Learning to push the limits of efficient fft-based image deconvolution." IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). 2017. [3] Gong, D., Zhang, Z., Shi, Q., Hengel, A. V. D., Shen, C., & Zhang, Y. (2018). Learning an Optimizer for Image Deconvolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03368. [4] Zhang, K., Zuo, W., Gu, S., & Zhang, L. (2017, July). Learning deep CNN denoiser prior for image restoration. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (Vol. 2).  The authors address my major concerns. I tend to vote for acceptance. 