I thank the authors for a very well written paper with clear motivation, results and substantiation.   Originality: This paper extends the work of Cohen et al. by considering smoothing distributions that can provide defenses to l0 attacks. This seems like a natural next step given the work of Cohen et al., The focus on structured classifiers (decision trees in this case) is novel. Decision trees have a natural structure which lends itself to tighter certificates for l0 attacks.  The paper also provides some tricks to handle numerical issues when applying their approach to larger datasets like Imagenet.  Quality: The paper is of very high quality and well written. The theorem statements and proofs seem accurate. (I haven't looked over the proof of Lemma 6, but from a cursory glance, looks right). However, on the empirical side, I have the following concerns.  -- The baseline of using isotropic Gaussian smoothing (which is tight and suited for l2 robustness) seems too weak. There are some missing key comparison to previous work on l0 defenses, for example those based on sparse recovery (via Fourier transforms) considered in Bafna et al. 2018.  -- Are the numbers reported in Table 1 and 2 performing a max over \alpha (the noise parameter?) If so, what's the corresponding clean accuracy? Ideally, one would report the certificates at all radii for each value of \alpha. The main concern with smoothing approach is that the noise needed to be added to get any meaningful robustness could be too large to allow good classification. Hence, it's important to see the clean accuracy numbers.  Clarity: The paper is mostly well written and easy to follow. Here are some suggestions -- The theoretical results for l0 could be presented in a way that reflects how the noise parameter \alpha scales with dimension (assuming radius of l0 fixed).  -- The relation between the warmup and the main distribution isn't very clear. What's the main intuition that carries over, and what changes? -- (Minor) H*-1 looks like inverse in Eq(2)    Significance: The significance of the approach proposed for l0 defenses depends on the comparison to other existing approaches which hasn't been addressed in this work.  The restriction to structured classes (say decision trees) is interesting, but upfront seems  hard to extend to realistic settings due to a) Decision trees seem very tailored to l0. It's hard to think of similar structures for other lp norms b) Imposing structure might not allow certification of neural networks and other SOTA methods that would be most relevant.   Questions to author:  a) How many values of \alpha were considered in the experiments? b) From the warmup results, it seems that \gamma should grow exponentially with d for fixed R. This seems quite restrictive.   -- Author feedback response -- I thank the authors for providing clarification on some questions. Regarding significance, unfortunately, I still feel the current presentation makes it difficult to see what are the key technical ideas (for certification for the discrete case) can be used in other distributions.  Regarding decision trees, I agree it's an interesting observation but i still believe it's fairly specialized to the structure of decision trees and l0 norm. Therefore, I retain my overall score.   Small clarification regarding comparison to other approaches: Since this is the first work to study "certified" defenses in l0 norm, apart from just the certification procedure, I think it's important to understand the tradeoffs introduced by the certified aspect. Hence, i recommended comparing to other defenses even if "heuristic/empirical". For example, the assumption in Bafna et al., is definitely not guaranteed to hold, but it would be illustrative for a reader to see how restrictive/helpful certification and different assumptions are in practice. 