Summary  A method for learning a classifier robust to label noise is proposed. In contrast with most previous work, the authors take a simplifying but realistic assumption: there is of a small subset of the training set that has been sanitized (where labels are not noisy). Leveraging prior work, a noise transition matrix is first estimated and then used to correct the loss function for classification. Very extensive experiments support the validity of the method.  Detailed comments  This is a good contribution, although rather incremental with respect to Patrini et al. '17. Experimentation is extensive and the presentation is mostly fluid and clear.   I found few passages a little confusing and encourage the authors to elaborate better: * line 102: ’This has the effect of allowing the GLC to handle a degree of instance-dependency in the label noise’ Why? * line 115: ‘However, we find that the GLC still works well in practice,;perhaps because this assumption is also satisfied when the data are separable, in the sense that each x, has a single true y, which is approximately true in many of our experiments’ ?  I also did not understand what is the Forward Gold method that is compared with. In particular, what do you mean with identity on trusted examples? I can see the use of the Forward correction with your estimator of C in page 2 (please add numbers to formulae). But this is precisely your proposed method GLC, correct?  Another question on the experiment: why does the proposed method not exploit the clean label for training of the final network? If they are assumed to be available, why not using them during training? This does not sound realistic. You can probably improve further performance of your method utilising the clean data during training, not just for the correction but also as training points. Is this done?  On the experiments on Clothing1M, ~ line 279: the best result in [23] was obtained with an AlexNet and therefore is not clearly comparable. [17] reports accuracy of 80.38, using a simpler 50-ResNet. Please clarify what you mean with state of the art exactly.  Minor: * Table in appendix: best results are *not* given in bold * Do you have a citation for the cosine learning schedule?