--- After rebuttal  I'm convinced with the correctness of Lemma 2.3. I also have a follow-up question: by taking (tilde x) as the optimal solution of Eq. (3), all inequalities become equal in L155. This implies that (tilde x) and (hat x) can only differ at where d attains maximum. Together with norm( (tilde x) - (hat x), 1) = delta and norm(A * (tilde x) - b,1) = 2*delta, it's possible to derive that (tilde x) = (hat x) under mild condition (e.g. max of d attains at d_{1n}=d_{n1}). That means Eq. (3) yields optimal solution that already satisfies the marginal constraint. This seems strong which made me think Lemma 2.3 is wrong. But now I can't seem to find a contradiction. Could you extend your analysis to address this?  Some other corrections/suggestions: - Theorem 2.2 should have simplex constraint. - Page 4, L142: A has "2n^2" nonzero entries. - Pape 5, L152: min_{x \geq 0, Ax = b} - Page 5, L154: A(tilde x) - b (you've noticed this) - Appendix Lemma B.1 L415, better say you "add three times the first inequality to the third". - Lemma B.1 L422. Elaborate more on the last sentence. I believe it's because g is "affine" and the matrix is skew symmetric for you to make the LHS above equal to the LHS of the Lemma. - Lemma B.2. I think you need epsilon'/(2 kappa) additive error instead of epsilon' - Lemma B.3. The proof can be made simpler here. First r is area-convex, and hence convex, and hence its Hessian is nonnegative definite. Then the claim holds since you can split the matrix to [Hessian(r), 0; 0, Hessian(r)] which is nonnegative definite, and [0, -J;J, 0] which is skew symmetric. These two imply nonnegative definite. - Line 455: define z {k + 1/2} before using it, or use "where ...".  Other thoughts: I like your reformulation of the original OT (1) into the min-max form (3). Although this is not the only way to solve (1) using primal-dual, it does yield an iteration complexity of n^2 (the 1/epsilon part is not that surprising since it's prima-dual, but you managed to show an n^2 which is not trivial). That said, I somehow feel that your attempt is a bit "too hard": you rely on the outer iteration complexity independent of n and inner iterations to converge linearly to get an overall n^2 complexity (so log epsilon inner complexity). In practice, I wonder if this worths the effort, especially when the contraction rate (upper bounded by 23/24 in your case) is a bit close to 1. That may give you a large constant in the complexity which may be even bigger than sqrt(n), where n couldn't be too large--an intrinsic issue with discretized OT.   I raised my score and am inclined to accept, but hope you can address the issues I mentioned in your revised version.    === Orignal review First of all, this paper is organized and presented in a very poor way. The main idea is merely solving the modified OT problem (3), which brings the marginal constraint in the original OT as a penalty term into the objective function. The modified problem is solved using a primal-dual algorithm, then the result is projected by an existing rounding algorithm to satisfy the marginal constraint exactly.  This work is heavily based on Lemma 2.3, which states that an epsilon-solution of the modified problem is still an epsilon-solution of the original OT after the projection. However, this claim is problematic: the proof does not show Eq. (3) has the same optimal value OPT as the original OT--in fact, its optimal value should be smaller than OPT.  In terms of algorithmic development, the paper just applies known dual extrapolation to solve the modified problem and the rounding algorithm for the projection, so the novelty is limited. The practical performance is even worse than some comparison methods.  The presentation of the paper has a lot to improve. For example, Algorithm 1 should be introduced in companion with the considered problem with explanations on the terms. The regularization r in (6) should be presented before it's used. Notation section should be given before Overview where you actually use the notations extensively, etc.