The paper explains well its connections to related work. I would like to see the authors' view of how the geometric descent method of [1] fits into the picture. The authors should also say more about the difference between their method ond that of Allen-Zhu and Orecchia 2017; isn't the distinction not the geometry, but motivating via the proximal method?  It seems the authors have squeezed the space from above certain display equations. I consider this a grave sin. Certainly other authors also had plenty to say, and figured out how to say it in 8 pages, following the template. There are sections you could remove without much loss. For example, the heavy ball section, 6.3, adds little.  I still found the definitions of biorthogonality and of flatness of a connection confusing. I am not sure whether you can explain these better, or whether these ideas are just not suited to an 8 page format. I hope you can explain them better. Why is the relation above line 87 called "biorthogonal", and why is it important? It seems like a simple change of variables. As for flat connections, can you say why the connection coefficients vanish for the dual connection? A reference back to the equation below line 54 might also help. I struggled in particular to extract meaning from lines 102-105.  [1] Sebastian Bubeck, Yin Tat Lee, Mohit Singh. "A geometric alternative to Nesterov’s accelerated gradient descent" https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.08187.pdf  Detailed comments: (I'm picky with you on grammar here because it's so close to perfect. Also an expository paper should have perfect grammar.) * capitalization errors in abstract, also line 30 * spacing error line 51 * the spacing above the eqn below line 68 is absurdly compressed. * line 116: have you left a \nabla off here? (to match the display equation below) * line 120: sentence fragment. * line 134: comma splice. * line 163: why do you think your method has three parameters? shouldn't two be enough? * below line 197: should be a nabla, not prime * line 215: its, not it's * line 216: write out wrt * line 218: sentence fragment   * line 245: generally one avoids contractions in formal writing unless it serves a higher purpose. * line 248: why does momentum yield the accelerated method for Su 2014, but not for you? * Bibliography needs cleaning. You have two references to the same article by Su, Boyd, and Candes! 