The work introduces a beautiful formalism and a host of reasoning-related operations. For instance, they introduce the equivalent of basic logical operations (AND, OR, negation) in their formalism. Additionally, they formalize higher-level operations based on these atomic relations. For instance, enforcement of type-hierarchy in the representation or membership queries.   My biggest concern is the experimental evaluations. The first experiment (link prediction) is a must here, but certainly not enough. The other experiments on the LUBM dataset, which is claimed to evaluate “reasoning capabilities” is a bit vague. In particular, when you say “we custom designed eight new queries that comprise higher level predicates,” I would like to understand it better how you did this.   Interpreting the results in Table 1 is a bit hard:   - When looking at HITS@1, E2R is way better than others in FB15K, but not much difference between E2R and CE in WN18 (in fact, CE is better); why?    - Why in WN18, the mean rank of E2R is vastly bigger than other systems?   Overall, it’s a nicely written work and I enjoyed reading work. I would have expected more careful experimentation on the claim, especially in more natural settings.    Writing:  - “aims to bridges”: to bridge  - Figure 1, the label of the right figure should be “T-Box”?  - In Table 1, the middle row you never boldface any of the systems; not sure if it was intentional (also the top-left row.)   - “embed a DL based symbolic KB into Hilbert space”: we’re really mapping KB to finite vectors in R^d (which is a subset of Holbert space, but it does not cover the whole Hilbert space. Might be helpful to be clear about this, so that it doesn’t come off as an over-claim.  - There are some terms borrowed from abstract algebra literature which could be clarified with an extra bit of explanation/pointers: “field”, C (space of complex numbers?), “isomorphic”.  - There are other works that try to induce logical relations between the concepts/relations when embedding; for instance:   * Low-Dimensional Embeddings of Logic, 2014   * Injecting Logical Background Knowledge into Embeddings for Relation Extraction, 2015   * Lifted Rule Injection for Relation Embeddings, 2016   