Update: overall I'm quite happy with the response and I think the work is great overall. However, the writing needs to be cleared up based on all the feedback to make this a better paper. Based on the extra information in the response I am updating my score to a 6.  === SYNOPSIS:  This paper proposes an unsupervised method based on GANs and Variational Auto-endcoders (VAEs) for performing one-to-many cross-domain image-to-image translation by optimizing a variational information bound during training. Instead of mapping both domains into a shared latent space, the authors separate the space into a domain-specific and domain-invariant space. By implementing the generator as a VAE, the method allows for sampling from the target side.  HIGH-LEVEL FEEDBACK:  The overall idea is neat and in line with several recent works in the Domain Adaptation and Image-to-Image Translation literature which either  i) separate the latent space into learned private and shared spaces, or  ii) employ VAEs.  However, the combination of these two into one framework is novel to the best of my knowledge.   The model description is thorough, but I do think the authors are unnecessarily verbose at times, and can improve the paper's overall readability. I had to read and re-read several sections to get the gist of what was done.  The Experimental section is the weakest in my opinion. As it is known to be hard to do quantitative experiments with these models, I was at least looking for a more detailed qualitative analysis and discussion. Instead of what appears to be cherry-picked generations, it would also be instructive to view the failure cases as well? In particular, the Discussion section seems to be almost completely missing?   Furthermore, there are no ablation results. Eg, what happens as you vary the \beta's in Eqn 4 or the \alpha's in Eqn 12?  Note: The recent "XGAN" paper is very related, and tries to solve a very similar problem, and might be good to compare to [https://arxiv.org/pdf/1711.05139.pdf]  OVERALL  The model is interesting, and the results presented look promising. However, I think the paper needs a bit more work, and especially the Experimental section needs to be expanded to include more analyses of failure cases and ablation studies to get the paper up to NIPS standard.  Fig 2 caption: "inforamtion"->"information"