The contribution approximates activation of NNs by zonotopes, ie affine combinations of intervals of possible input-output relationship. Unlike previous work, the computation is efficient. It enables a test towards robustness of a deep network, thus addressing adversarial examples. The idea is to compute the effect of input perturbations based on this abstraction directly. The crucial question is then how to approximate nonlinearities and how to do so efficiently. Results show that the proposed method is more efficient and effective than a previous one. Yet, it is not so clear which adversarial attacks are prevented this way, a bit more comments would be welcome. Also, the work is rather straightforward.  The article seems pretty ok as regards the question to robust computation, since it builds on the classical work of zonotopes and it formally allows to identify robustness by means of formal interval arithmetics. The proposed novel approximation of the common  functions rely, sigmoid, maxpooling seem straightforward yet doing their work. The auhtors specify why this is novel in clear terms in the rebuttal - so the work contributes a possibly useful extension. to previous work My main critic concerns the claim that adversarial attacks are addressed this way.  The authors reply that this is a robustification against standard attacks (basically there does exist a small region around the given data where the network provably yields the same results). How will this affect attack defense in practice? A partial answer is given if (as the authors reply) robustly trained networks are used. Yet, I would like to see the bevaior against adversarial attacks -  as an example, I would expect experimental work which demonstrates the distribution of adversarial attacks with respect to the region of robustness which is verified by the model, or checks which demonstrate that such a verified network is more robust in a quantitative way to the existing attack mechanisms.  So I think the work is interesting as regards robustification, but I would expect a demo how this can be lined back to robustness to adversarial attacks in practice for the NIPS community    