The quality of the submission is fairly high; the writing is good and the paper is easy to follow and feels complete. The originality of the work is just OK; it is a fairly straightforward idea and can be boiled down to ``AIRL with conditioning''. Significance is reasonably high given the current popularity of meta-learning and IRL. No theory is provided but the experiments have good coverage, testing a number of different aspects of the proposed method, and the methodology seems sound. One exception to this is the rather weak behavior cloning baseline.  One way in which the exposition could be improved is by being more explicit about how different functions are parameterized, and being more explicit about how the discriminator is optimized. At this point in the history of AI I guess it's safe to assume you performed gradient ascent on the objective in equation 4, but it's probably still worth being explicit about that.  line 87: shouldn't there by an entropy term in the reward function?  In Figure 1, it feels like there should be an arrow from E to C, especially since for all tasks considered in this paper, C takes the form of expert trajectories, which are of course heavily dependent on E (e.g. beginning of section 3.3). E and C are definitely not independent of one another given T.  Line 250: did you mean \exp_base instead of exp_base? or maybe \pi_base? exp_base seems out of line with the rest of the notation.  The subsampling of trajectories, discussed briefly in the caption of Table 1, is not really addressed in the main text, but probably should be as its role was not clear to me.  Would be interested in seeing results for non-trivial generalization (e.g. extrapolative generalization rather than interpolative), and in more difficult stochastic domains.  The description of the classification experiment in Section 4.4 should be made clearer. I'm confused about what the classification decision is supposed to be based on, given that the agent is provided 2 points, one on either side of the hyperplane for the task. Is it based on the order of the two points? (i.e. if the first point is on side A of the hyperplane, go to location 1, if it's on side B of the hyperplane go to location 2). Also I'm confused about how you are able to use the experts from Ant 2D goal as the experts in this task, since the state space is now augmented with the 2 4-dimensional vectors to be classified...I guess you just choose which expert to use based which target the expert is supposed to go to, and have the chosen expert ignore the 4-dimensional vectors? To provide context for the level of performance achieved in this task, it might be useful to see performance of a linear binary classifier trained under the same conditions (e.g. seeing only 1 to 8 pairs of training points per task).