The paper proposes a novel adaptive empirical Bayesian method to train sparse Bayesian neural networks. The proposed method works by alternately sampling the network parameters from the posterior distribution using stochastic gradient Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) and smoothly optimizing the hyperparameters of the prior distribution using stochastic approximation (SA).   Originality: the proposed sampling scheme enables learning BNNs of complex forms and seems novel. However, I am still unclear as to exactly what limitations of the previous related methods that this work aimed to address, and what was the key ingredient to enabling such advance.   Quality: I believe the work is technically sound and the model assumptions are clearly stated. However, the authors do not discuss the weaknesses of the method. Are there any caveats to practitioners due to some violation of the assumptions given in Appendix. B or for any other reasons?  Clarity: the writing is highly technical and rather dense, which I understand is necessary for some parts. However, I believe the manuscript would be readable to a broader audience if Sections 2 and 3 are augmented with more intuitive explanations of the motivations and their proposed methods. Many details of the derivations could be moved to the appendix and the resultant space could be used to highlight the key machinery which enabled efficient inference and to develop intuitions. Many terms and notations are not defined in text (as raised in "other comments" below).   Significance: the empirical results support the practical utility of the method. I am not sure, however, if the experiments on synthetic datasets, support the theoretical insights presented in the paper. I believe that the method is quite complex and recommend that the authors release the codes to maximize the impact.   Other comments: - line 47 - 48 "over-parametrization invariably overfits the data and results in worse performance": over-parameterization seems to be very helpful for supervised learning of deep neural networks in practice ... Also, I have seen a number of theoretical work showing the benefits of over-parametrisation e.g. [1].  - line 71: $\beta$ is never defined. It denotes the set of model parameters, right? - line 149-150 "the convergence to the asymptotically correct distribution allows ... obtain better point estimates in non-convex optimization.": this is only true if the assumptions in Appendix. B are satisfied, isn't it? How realistic are these assumptions in practice?  - line 1: MCMC is never defined: Markov Chain Monte Carlo  - line 77: typo "gxc lobal"=> "global" - eq.4: $\mathcal{N}$ and $\mathcal{L}$ are not defined. Normal and Laplace I suppose. You need to define them, please.  - Table 2: using the letter `a` to denote the difference in used models is confusing.  - too many acronyms are used.   References: [1] Allen-Zhu, Zeyuan, Yuanzhi Li, and Zhao Song. "A convergence theory for deep learning via over-parameterization." arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.03962 (2018).   ----------------------------------------------------------------------  I am grateful that the authors have addressed most of the concerns about the paper, and have updated my score accordingly. I would like to recommend for acceptance provided that the authors reflect the given clarifications in the paper. 