The paper deals with algorithms and regret guarantees for the non-stochastic delayed reward bandit problem. The authors make three main contributions. 1. For the setting of non-stochastic bandit problems with unknown, variable, but bounded delays the authors establish regret guarantees for the delayed EXP3 algorithm. These regret guarantees establish a conjecture of Cesa-Bianchi[2016]. 2. The authors then study regret guarantees for the case where the delays are potentially unbounded, and variable. For this setting the authors provide an algorithm that is a slight variant of delayed EXP3. Regret bounds are established for this setting.  3. Furthermore, via a non-standard application of the doubling trick the algorithms are made robust to various unknown parameters.  The results are significant and the problem of bandit learning with delayed feedback is significant. The writing could have been improved as it was not always easy to follow the paper. I have a few suggestions and questions.  1. It is important to clearly explain the setup early on in the paper, ideally in the introduction itself. I am not that familiar with delayed reward setup in bandits and it took me a bit of time to understand (1) How the regret of the learning algorithm is calculated. (2) What extra information does an oracle comparator have that the learning algorithm does not have. (3) How the delays effect the learning algorithm.  Furthermore, I initially assumed that the delays are themselves arm dependent but that turned out not to be the case. Hence, it is important that the authors clearly explain the above points in the introduction so that the learning setup is clear.  2. It looks like the idea of stability-span is new to the analysis and that the definition/usage of this quantity is also a contribution of this paper. Can the authors confirm this?  3. On line 119, the authors claim that N \leq 2 \max d_t. However, since the set N_t has at most d_t points, it should be the case that N \leq \max d_t. Can the authors explain why a factor of 2 is necessary?  4. Does Theorem 1 assume that the losses are bounded?  5. For the skipper algorithm it would be great if the authors could provide some intuition as to why it achieves potentially lower regret. What would be especially insightful is if the authors can explain why the algorithm works fine even though it potentially throws away information. I understand that the stability span in this case is lower, but I would like to see a simple, explaination that does not have to resort to the use of stability span.  6. In section 4, it would be nice if the authors explained the reasoning behind the definition of epochs as shown in equations 4-6. For example, why is the definition of epoch in equation 6 the correct definition?  Overall, I like this paper and I think it is an important contribution. However, the writing is not up to the mark and with some effort this paper can be made reader-friendly.