Reading the rebuttal and the promised improvements to the writing have increased my score to a 7. ----------------------  The paper presents a spatially-structured memory model capable of registering observations onto a globally consistent map, localizing incoming data and hallucinating areas of the map not yet or partially visited. Although borrowing architectural details from previous work especially with respect to MapNet, the paper proposes a way to incorporate a generative process directly into a spatially structured memory. Previous generative models for scenes have omitted any spatial inductive bias, and present the model directly with the sequence of observations. Additionally, previous spatial architectures often assume the setting where an oracle localizer is available. The proposed architecture provides the generative model with strong geometric priors, which enable it to perform localization without needing an oracle and accurate view generation. A toy image generation task and vizdoom navigation experiments demonstrate the improved performance of the proposed model over a previous (non-spatially-structured) generative baseline method in terms of view synthesis quality and localization accuracy.  The paper's main novelty can be summarized as augmenting MapNet's localization and registration modules with an integrated generative process. This seems like an important contribution: generating a whole (or parts of a) scene from a prior distribution could have important downstream effects in exploration, agent navigation and memory systems, where an agent can explicitly reason about where objects or rewards likely are in the environment based on past experience. This is in stark contrast to the current standard for unexplored areas in spatial memories, which are either zeroed out or initialized to a single learnable embedding. Additionally, the generative process can be a useful window into the agent's mapping procedure, enabling visualization and rendering of the agent's semantic representation of the scene, which is for the most part opaque to the agent designer for current spatial memories (except in the case where the memory is forced to represent a provided semantics, like in CogMap).  Despite the positive and interesting contribution of generative modeling to spatial memories, there are several concerns with the current paper:  (1) Perhaps the most obvious is that the quantized orientation limits the current applicability of the method and I don't think that this point is adequately addressed. Doesn't quantized orientation make localization trivial? A local odometry method can probably learn to predict the motion of very long sequences accurately without drift, especially at the quantization levels tested in this paper.   (2) With respect to the first point, I think that odometry is not an interesting evaluation setting for what this model can do. It would be far more informative, for example, if you could train the model in a set of mazes with structured goal spaces, and afterwards test how accurately it can imagine reasonable goal locations. You can then also measure how accurately it is predicting the correct goal location as a function of environment explored, etc. This would directly demonstrate the model's capabilities to be used for downstream exploration and navigation tasks, which is where I believe it would be most impactful. (3) More pressing is that the technical writing in the main text is very poor, with critical architectural details omitted and left unexplained, and figures and tables having minimal captions. For example, despite being a central contribution, the generative process is mostly left unexplained. Is it a deterministic autoencoder or some stochastic variant? The only reference I can find to the generative process is Figure 3, which makes a reference to DAE (I assume it is referring to denoising autoencoders?). (4) There is some description of the generative model in the appendix, but even then it is not completely clear. It seems there is no noise in the generative process? Does that mean that there is only a single possible decoded view given an encoded map feature? If that is the case, this is a serious limitation and seems to be in contention with point (d) in the abstract.  In conclusion, the method seems like an otherwise important contribution to spatial memories, but currently poor technical writing, a relatively uninformative evaluation setting and confusing architectural description make me somewhat cautious in recommending this paper for acceptance. 