Originality I cannot comment much about the originality of this work because I am not familiar with the related works of this research field. To my best understanding, the image encoder, section 3.1 and 3.2 until right before the global descriptor MLP, is proposed by [13]. Putting aside the image encoder, which can be easily plugged in with any better one, I believe the arbitrary continuous displacement field predictor by itself along with the smoothness proof may be a significant contribution that the proposed parameterization of deformation field that is free from any geometric constraint performs better than the previous works with geometric constraints. The baseline methods in experiments are modified to use the same image encoder for fair comparison which strengthens the contribution of this paper. Quality I believe the proposed method is sound and well-motivated. This is a self contained paper with interesting core idea with clear desirable properties. The results are convincing and the baseline seems to be relatively recent works with improvements for fair comparison. Yet, inconsistency in baseline is making the comparison of performance difficult. I believe it would be helpful to report CNNGeo-4D result on experiment 4.3 and use at least the best performing baseline for experiment 4.4 and 4.5. Clarity The paper is well-written and easy to follow. It clearly motivates the problem and explains the details of the network in a degree that it is reproducible. The experiment protocol and the dataset are clearly described and convincing. Minor comment: typo does => does line 148 Significance Although I am not familiar with this field, I find this paper interesting. For previous works, it makes perfect sense to apply pre-defined parameterization of known geometric transformation to model deformation, or to apply additional constraint for smoothness, based on traditional computer vision and graphics knowledge. However, the method this paper is proposing gives me an interesting insight that we instead can train a single continuous function to output a smooth and continuous displacement field without any geometric assumption. From my 3D vision background, this lesson aligns with recent trend of 3D parameterization in a single continuous function such as DeepSDF or OccupancyNet. The paper seems to try to make a fair comparison against recent related works and clearly demonstrates the strength of the proposed method.