Paper main ideas/claims: This work presents a technique for performing image-to-image translation based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and a novel auto-encoder approach, which is named cross-domain autoencoder. The approach relies on partitioning internal representations into shared components between the input and output domain (X and Y, respectively) and also the exclusive components to X and Y. The authors test their results on a variation of MNIST, a 3D CAD car and a 3D CAD chair dataset.  Strengths: I found the paper to be extremely clear and well written. The architecture proposed is novel, simple, and has very good results on the three datasets studied when compared to sota models for image translation such as pix2pix and BicycleGAN. The generated samples for each domain are diverse and seemingly avoid mode collapse. The results on cross-domain and domain agnostic retrieval without the need for labeled data are very encouraging.   Weaknesses: The main weakness of this paper is not testing in a more realistic dataset. Moreover, I found the ablation study to be a bit on the weak side. It would have been interesting to see the results for the 3D car and chair datasets as well, since they are the most challenging in terms of internal representation. For example,Table 2 indicates that for the MNIST-CB and MNIST-CD datasets, not having an autoencoder is better than having a standard one -- which seems a bit odd. Same comment holds for the domain-specific interpolation, cross-domain and domain agnostic retrieval results.  Error estimates in the numerical results are missing. Finally, one potential limitation of the approach proposed is the reconstruction loss from equation (2), which might only work well for domains in which the 'exclusive part' can be modeled by a low dimensional vector -- since otherwise the amount of noise added to the inputs might be too large.   ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Post rebuttal comments: I really appreciated that the authors addressed most of the concerns raised by the reviewers. For example, extending their ablation studies and testing on more realistic datasets: facades and maps. I keep my initial grade, and think the paper should be accepted.  