This paper proposed a first order motion model for image animation. Firstly, motion is modeled as a set of keypoints and local affine transformations, which has the capability to model large object pose changes compared to the previously proposed zeroth order model. This paper approximated the motion between two frames based on first order Taylor expansions. Secondly, this paper proposed to model occlusions to indicate the generator network about which image parts should be inpainted. This is needed to handle the large motion patterns in the driving video.   Pros: - Extensive experiments are performed on high resolution datasets. The proposed method shows clear improvement over the previous methods quantitatively and qualitatively. - This paper also released a new high resolution dataset Thai-Chi-HD for the community.  Cons: - Lack of insight into why the first order motion model is necessary. For example, in the ablation test section, I see a gap between "Full" model and "Pyr.+O" model. It would be nice to include a test showing all the factors in between, e.g. first order model vs zeroth order model. - Missing citations for GANs and VAEs in line 24-25.  I. Goodfellow, J. Pouget-Abadie, M. Mirza, B. Xu, D. Warde-Farley, S. Ozair, A. Courville, and Y. Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. In NIPS, 2014. D. P. Kingma and M. Welling. Auto-encoding variational bayes. In ICLR, 2014. - Clarity improvements:  Reconstruction loss Line 194: which VGG-19 layer did you use exactly? What are the resolutions used for reconstruction loss?  Instead of a pyramid of resolutions, have you tried to compute the same loss on multiple layers of the same input resolution? In such a way, it's more efficient as only one feedforward path is needed.   A few minor issues:   Line 243: How do you preserve the aspect ratio if you resize a video to the fixed target 256x256 resolution?    Line 172: is moves -> is moved   Line 196: similarly to -> similar to   Line 203: Lets -> Let's   Line 240: until its it -> until it is   Line 302: every single metrics -> every single metric 