This paper presents a method for end-to-end co-optimization of soft robots. The proposed algorithm is based on learning low-dimensional robot state while simultaneously optimizing robot control and/or material parameters. This is realized through a learning-in-the-loop co-optimization algorithm in which a latent state representation is learned as the robot solves a task.  Originality: the proposed method is a novel interesting solution to controlling soft bodies in simulation; the paper frames the contribution within relevant related work, highlighting the differences of the proposed method to the state-of-the-art, including both classical control methods and data-driven approaches.  Quality: the submission is technically sound and claims are supported by adequate analysis of the experimental results; authors also underline limitations and constraints of their methods (e.g. different performance with different working setups and design choices), which give valuable insight and understanding of the proposed method.  Clarity: the paper is clearly written and organized, the description of the method is clear, and pseudo-code supports the text. It would be interesting to clarify the following points: - how realistic is it to assume a large dataset of robot motion data that is "*representative of the way the robot will move* when completing the prescribed task"? If part of the optimization goal is to actually learn how to perform the task, where is the initial dataset coming from? - how much did the feature oscillation affect the experiments? do you have quantitative results on the instability given by this effect?  Significance: this is an interesting piece of work that can have a good impact in the field of soft robotics modeling and control in simulation. The experimental setup is simple but diverse enough to evaluate the proposed method. It would be interesting to see how the proposed method perform with more realistic models of soft bodies, possibly including multiple bodies interacting. The experiments presented seem however a good starting point for demonstrating the new proposed method. 