The authors leverage on data recorded in multiple domains with changing parameters of a linear Gaussian models to learn causal direction and relations beyond Markov equivalence class. The paper is clearly written and includes good synthetic data simulations. The result is theoretically interesting.  The method seems to need a lot of samples and domains that may not be available in real cases. The authors present different options to improve the methods in this respect.  In the abstract the authors claim that they “do not assume any invariance of the causal process across the domains”:  But firstly, it seems the causal structure stays the same. What happens with domains with intervention experiments that change the causal structure? Also, without any invariance assumption the causal direction may change from domain to domain.  Secondly, the authors assume that the means (of the noises) stays at zero in all domains. This seems odd here, although the authors claim that they make this “without loss of generality” (which is of course true for a single domain system). I think the paper should absolutely also deal with the change of the mean in the different domains, since this would be very much expected in any real data. Changes in the mean should be noted in eqs 1 & 2. (Note that intervention may also change the mean, so I guess the current model does not allow for interventions.)  The simulations are in need of a baseline: since the parameters of the Gaussian model change, the pooled data is possibly linear non-Gaussian, or  non-linear non-Gaussian ANM. So it would make a lot of sense to plot LiNGAM and ANM for the pooled data as a baseline.  The paper could cite the work on transportability by Bareinboim & Pearl where similarly parameters change across domain, although the focus there is inference not discovery. Also the work of Kummerfield and Danks (NIPS) on online varying causal structure seems relevant here.  AFTER AUTHOR REBUTTAL: -Still: mean is a parameter similarly as the variance and its changes could be used. If not, longer discussion is needed on this and why mean is not analyzed similarly as variance. -"LiNGAM cannot be used", you can use it, just input the data and see the result. The result may be poor but this is then good to your algorithm. Some baseline would be good. 