[Summary] In this paper, a new tensor completion method is proposed using 'l2' latent trace norm regularization.  Authors claimed that the standard(l1) latent trace norm regularization has an issue of ignoring the low-rank structure of several modes, and focusing only on the low-rank structure of a few specific modes.  Thus, Authors proposed the l2 latent trace norm regularization.  Its dual formulation provides some efficient low-dimensional optimization on the matrix manifold.  Interestingly, the dual parameters look like those in a tensor factorization: a (core) tensor, and individual mode-matrices.  Experiments show some advantages of the proposed algorithms.  [Related Works] Standard (l1) latent trace norm regularization [15] is related and it can be regarded as a baseline.  [Strengths] I think this work is original and interesting.  Contents are technically solid and informative.  [Weaknesses]   1) Protocols of computational validation for some tasks are slightly unclear.  For example, Authors did the training by 10% of full-samples and the testing by another 10% for image inpainting task.  In normal sense, the validation should be performed by the other 90%.   2) Experimental results show some advantages of the proposed algorithms, however it is not very significant.  Still competitive with state-of-art algorithms.   3) Another some validations such as noise robustness, outlier robustness, are also interesting to see and to improve the experimental parts.   4) Properties of l2 latent trace norm regularization are nice to discuss more.  For example, difference from the Tucker based multi-linear low-rank decomposition is nice to discuss because Tucker decomposition (Rprecon) was slightly better than the proposed method for the movie recommendation task.  Also, what kinds of tasks is the proposed method preferably applied for?  I guess that the use of only proposed regularization is not the best for image/video inpainting task because another image priors (such as smoothness) will contribute to improve the performance.  [Minor points]  -- In Table 3, should T-svd for Ribeira 0.064 be also bold?  --- after authors feedback --- Thank you for doing additional noise experiments. 