This paper addresses the problem of temperature and airflow regulation for a large-scale data center and considers how a data-driven, model-based approach using Reinforcement Learning (RL) might improve operational efficiency relative to the existing approach of hand-crafted PID controllers.  Existing controllers in large-scale data centers tend to be simple, conservative and hand-tuned to physical equipment layouts and configurations. Safety constraints and a low tolerance for performance degradation and equipment damage impose additional constraints. The authors use model-predictive control (MPC) to learn a linear model of the data center dynamics (a LQ controller) using safe, random exploration, starting with little or no prior knowledge. They then determine the control actions at each time step by optimizing the cost of the model-predicted trajectories, ensuring to re-optimize at each time step.  The proposed work is not the first to apply MPC to data center cooling. Zhou et al. (2012) used MPC to control adaptive-vent floor tiles and air-conditioning units with a system identificaition done via random exploration. Here, the authors perform an open-loop linear system identification, then follow it by MPC. Their approach does not depend on historical or physics-based models. In fact, they show that the use of historical data might even be harmful to the control performance since the model learnt on observed data might not capture the key underlying dependencies in the system. This seems obvious, in light of the fact that in a data center, state values are unlikely to vary much due to the steady-state of the PID controllers. Hence, observed data might not be rich enough for system identification.  This paper is easy to understand, with the background of data center cooling explained clearly with diagrams and the list of variables (controls, states, disturbances) linked to predictors. I enjoyed reading this application paper since the authors were careful in setting up the context for the relevance and challenges associated with the temperature and airflow control problem.  The problem examined in this paper is certainly a relevant one, given the increasing demand for computing resources and the corresponding expectation for performance and reliability. The contribution here is less algorithmic in nature but more on the illustration of a open-loop linear system identification approach + MPC on a real-world large-scale dynamical system. It is an interesting application of RL deployed to a significant problem domain.  I have read the authors' response and thank them for their comments.