Summary The authors analyse adaptive Bayesian quadrature in a general form. Via relating the algorithm to weak greedy set approximation algorithms in RKHS [11], they prove consistency and provide high level convergence rates of the estimated integrals.  An excellent paper: highly relevant and worthwhile problem, a neat solution, very nice to read, theoretically thorough. I enjoyed reading it and have very few points of critique.  Significance Adaptive Bayesian quadrature methods have been shown to work very well in practice, with many published methods. Phrasing those within a unified framework, and proving consistency and its conditions therefore is a major step forward in this field.  Clarity The paper is very well written, with great introduction and conclusions. Despite the very technical nature, the series of arguments that lead to the final rates are reasonably easy to follow. Moving all proofs to the Appendix is obviously required to to space constraints, although I liked the geometric interpretation of the proof of Lemma 3.1 and think it might be a nice fit for the main text. I am not sure it is possible though If anything, the conclusions and intro are slightly redundant and potentially could be shorted in favour of the figure. However, since the paper is incomplete without the proofs anyways, maybe that is not worth it.  The relation to weak greedy algorithms My compliment to the authors for realising and establishing the connection -- very neat!  Simulations The paper does not contain any simulations, but I think that is justified.  Bayesian quadrature vs Monte Carlo I am somewhat sympathic that the authors promote BQ over MC methods in the intro, since this is a BQ paper. However, I think the presentation is slightly one-sided: while BQ methods certainly have their merits for certain types of problems, the are definitely not a silver bullet. One obvious (and probably often invoked) comment here is that the convergence rate when estimating integrals with MC is independent of the dimension, whereas the BQ rates suffer quite a bit. Of course all this depends on the problem at hand and the context, but my point is simply that MC, especially when combined with MCMC, has been a hugely successful technique for a reason -- and it is unlikely that it will be fully replaced by BQ methods. The example cited in via [24] is not representative whatsoever, but rather cherry picking. I feel the general tone should be rephrased to be more neutral -- highlighting pros and cons of each side.  Ergodicity / detailed balance / weak adaptivity The abstract, intro, and conclusions use the these terms in a quite bold fashion. However, the main text and analysis falls short in even mentioning them -- not to speak of any formal connection. I think this is bad practice (over-selling) and suggest a more minimal comment in a discussion section instead. Minor: I think an intuitive discussion of the weak adaptivity condition would be helpful immediately after stating it. Currently, this is done in the conclusion (line 316), which might be a bit late.  Supplementary material / proofs The main text has a very nice flow of arguments, while the Appendix is slightly less so. I was able to more or less follow most proofs in the Appendix, but it would be helpful if the authors would provide some high level overview or map of the different components, how they interact, and what techniques are used within. This would help the reader substantially in my opinion.  Thanks to the authors for commenting on my points of critique in the rebuttal. I am happy with the response and the planned edits. During the reviewer discussion, some points of critique on the proof (and the updated version from the rebuttal) were raised. Namely that the provided rate of decay only holds asymptotic (see comments of R1). It might be possible to fix that and we encourage the authors to either do that or adjust their discussion of the rate. In the discussion, we agreed that consistency is nevertheless a major step forward.