Besides the above-mentioned strong points of contributions, the following concerns should be taken into account to improve the current paper.  (1) Presentation:  - The Appendix is too long, but it is an optional for reviewers and readers to   further read. The important contents, such as the Table 2 describing the   parameters of data sets, figures of experiment results, and the related   work, should not be put at the Appendix. The authors are suggested to try to   make the introduction to the key idea of their approach more compact, so   that these key information can be included into the main body of the paper.  - The title with the keyword of "Certification" is misleading to the reviewers   and readers. Actually, in the paper, there is nothing addressed that is   related to how the PIDForest is doing the certification of anomaly. The   authors are suggested to reconsider a more appropriate title.  (2) Experiments:  - In the algorithm of PIDForest, there are several parameters that will have   significant impact on the performance of efficiency and accuracy. Such as   $k$, the partition number would influence the size of the forest structure,   which will finally influence the speed of finding optimal split for a node.   These parameters $t$, $m$, $k$, and $h$ should be varying on the synthetic   data sets to show their impacts on the PIDForest algorithm.  - In Fig. 1 (b), the authors only showed the results of comparisons with three   related methods, but indeed there are six comparative methods that are used   in this paper. Why do not show the results with others, including RRCF, SVM,   kNN and PCA? Is it probably that the others would have higher ability of   handling random noise? Or the proposed algorithm would still show higher   ability with random noise? It is not clear to reviewers and readers. This   important point should be clarified in addition.  - A minor concern is that the word "EM" is the first time appearing in the   paper but without any descriptions. Although its meaning should be   straightforward, it is still worthy making it clear explicitly for readers.