The manuscript proposes a new potential energy surface model designed to be scalable, accurate, and to preserve natural symmetries. The model is tested on a range of systems, and compares favourably with existing methods.  Quality:  The manuscript is of high technical quality. It contains a good motivation (stating desirable requirements), and then lays out the necessary theory step by step, illustrating the behavior of the model through examples on one system (Figure 1). This is backed up by experiments on a range of different systems, further establishing the competitiveness of the method.  Clarity:  The paper is well written and well structured. Although I am not an expert in the PES-estimation field I found it fairly easy to follow, and enjoyable to read.  Originality:  The authors present a convincing case for the originality of their approach, with considerable effort summing up existing efforts in the field. However, I am not comfortable enough within the literature in the PES-estimation field to reliable assess the degree of originality of the approach.  Significance:  Finding better ways to estimate potential energy surfaces is an important task in molecular modelling, and the ability to efficiently encode relevant symmetries will be an important ingredient for further progress. In my view this manuscript therefore constitutes an important contribution  Specific comments:  It was not entirely clear to me how requirement 3) (introduced in line 27) is ensured with your model. It seems to me that you consider pairwise distances between atoms (e.g. the double indices in eq 8), which would imply that the method scales quadratically rather then linearly in the number of atoms (which is also what you would expect for a molecular forcefield). Perhaps I misunderstood something. Could you clarify what you mean with linear scaling?  Minor: Figure 1, caption: There is a spurious '=' preceding '(b3)'  Update after rebuttal period: I only raised minor issues in my review, which the authors have addressed in their rebuttal. I therefore stick with my original (high) rating of the manuscript.