This paper aims to quantify behavior during training (as opposed to after training) of animals and humans via a dynamic logistic regression model that tracks trial-to-trial changes. This approach scales to large behavioral datasets (requiring ~500K parameters) by using the decoupled Laplace approximation. The advantages of this method include being able to study how various task factors (such as stimuli, choice history, etc) impact learning on the single trial level.  I really like the motivation for this paper. It’s true that often in neuroscience and cognitive science experiments we neglect the dynamics of learning the task and only look at steady state behavior. This approach could point to new theories for learning and behavioral strategies, so the significance is high. The method also appears to be well-validated via simulation in section 4 and figure 2.  However a large drawback to this paper is its severe lack of background literature review. How does this approach relate to for instance beta series analysis?   How does it compare against simply blocking the data into eg 10 trial blocks and performing normal logistic regression? (Is the issue overfitting?)  What is the relative computational/time complexity of blocking trials vs their approach vs not using the decoupled Laplace approximation?   Are there instances in which the evolution of weights cannot be assumed to evolve with independent Gaussian noise?  Finally, I would have liked to have seen this method applied to a much more complex task. For the humans especially this seems too easy, and as the authors even comment, humans don’t really display learning since they can understand the task structure from instructions. Looking at the results for all humans in the supplement, many of them don’t have evolving weights at all, making this task quite unsuitable for the motivations given in the intro.  Update after reading rebuttal: The authors' response adequately addressed all my concerns, and I look forward to seeing the follow-up to this work on more complex tasks!