Originality: the paper focuses on rather classical question of distribution shift, with as few example as possible. It also  proposes preliminary idea to identify examples that are representative of the shift,which seems to me more novel and beyond that, proposes to distinguish between benign and malign shifts. However this aspect is not very developped.  The studt is restricted to "natural" shifts, ie. no attacks.  Quality: the submission is similar to a review paper. Many technics are compared and very well presented, the supplementary material contains a lot of results that could be exploited. There is no theoretical part, which is not really a problem considering this paper.  Section 2 is ok for the related work part, as far as I know.  Section 3 is a (quite long) description of studied algorithms, followed by a (also quite long) description of used tests. Then comes 2 short parts on "most anomalous samples" and "malignency of the shift" : the main contribution of this work should be there, but the description is rather vague. I'm confident that the author could sumerize the way they select the most anomalous samples with more formalism (for instance : l 178 : "we can identifiy..." : there has to be an equation to make this think clearer?) Section 4 seems sufficient to reproduce results Section 5 : this part is more the experimental results summary than a discussion. I would expect in the discussion may be more intuitions or interpretations of the results.  Clarity: There is a well-though labelling of different methods, such that one can read results more easily. The whole paper is very organized.   Significance: the subject is interesting and there are good ideas in the paper. However the most significant part (characterization and malignency detection) are not supported enough to say this work can be used in its present form.   Details, in the order of appearance in the paper: Section 3.1 : can you make clear, among used algorithm, which one are original (I suspect "label classifier" and "domain classifier" not to be standard tools?) or give a reference if they are not? l139 : you precise you used a squared exponential kernel : is it a usual setting, can it have an impact on results ? (the "we use" somehow indicates it's an arbitrary choice) l 165 166 : notation : c and r are not defined ll 196 : "the difference classifier" : which one is it? l 197 : I think a word is missing l219 : not sure of what "label proportion" refers to  table 1 : how the "detection accuracy" is obtained?  figure 2 /3 : I have a hard time trying to interpret all your figures (linked with previous comment on discussion part) : can you help your reader in this task? fig 3.c : I don't see why those examples are different? biblio : ref[3] was published in UAI 2018 ref [24] : typo "reviewpart" ref [38] : ICLR 2014?