The paper proposes Deep Defense, an algorithm for training deep NN to be more resistant to adversarial test samples. In order to defend against attacks that use the gradient of the classification function (f) the central idea is to add a regularization term into the training objective that prefers functions f that are resistant to (reasonably small magnitude) gradient attacks. Thus the aim is to directly identify classification functions f that are more resistant the types of attacks generated by Deep Fool and other similar algorithms.   The idea is not entirely novel and there is already a class of methods based on regularization. However in its implementation, the specifics of the proposed method seem to be novel. The authors claim that the main benefit is that they do not have to employ approximations or optimize potentially loose bounds and may thus defend against these attacks more successfully (PS: While I publish papers on Deep NN, I'm not an expert on adversarial attacks and would defer to other reviewers who are more familiar with the literature regarding novelty).   Experimental comparisons are not very rigorous. For example no error bars are provided so it is hard to even guess whether superiority of the method is statistically significant or an artifact of random chance. However, it seems to be slightly more robust compared to state of the art methods from recent papers including Deep Fool and Parseval training.  I found the paper to be not entirely clear or self-contained in explaining its concepts. For the most part this is entirely avoidable and is a result of not making enough of an effort to make the paper more accessible.  For example, why not just provide equation 6 and plug in the exponential function right from eqn 3? Why keep us guessing about the form of the R till the end, needlessly confusing the issue? This would avoid lots of opaque discussion and would make it clear from the beginning what they are proposing. Such simple means would make the paper much more readable and easily reproducible especially since the concepts are relatively straightforward when examined from first principles (similarly lines 126 and 127 should just explain the concept instead of referring the reader to [26]). 