After reading the author feedback, I am increasing my score as the authors have largely addressed my main concern of comparison/relating to existing locally adaptive NN estimators. The authors address this concern on the theory side. I still think additional numerical experiments to compare the proposed method with other adaptive NN approaches would strengthen the paper and be beneficial to practitioners (and could possibly lead to interesting theoretical questions if, for instance, there are some surprising performance gaps). Thanks to the authors for a well-thought-out response to the reviews!  * * * * * Original review below * * * * *  I found this paper very well-written and clear. The analysis is quite clean and elegant due to the newly introduced local notion of "advantage" as an alternative to the usual local Lipschitz conditions.  The paper, however, does not discuss enough related work, especially adaptive nearest neighbor and kernel methods based on Lepski's method (for example, the adaptive k-NN method by Kpotufe (2011)). I realize that much of these existing methods are specified in the context of regression rather than classification but it's straightforward casting the regression results in terms of classification (by thresholding on the regression function, taken to be the conditional probability function). Mainly I would like to better understand fundamentally what is different about the strategy used by Kpotufe (2011) (as well as Lepski in many papers that are more focused on automatic bandwidth selection for kernel methods) vs your approach (I realize the theoretical analysis is quite different, and the proof ideas using advantage are much cleaner). Separately, there's also the $k^*$-NN approach for adaptively choosing k per data point (Anava and Levy 2016), for which theoretical analysis for a toy case is presented in Section 3.7 of Chen and Shah (2018). Is there some toy setup for which all three approaches could be analyzed to compare them theoretically? Separately, there are various works on adaptive k-NN classification for which the metric rather than k is adaptive (e.g., Short and Fukunaga 1981; Hastie and Tibshirani 1996; Domeniconi, Peng, and Gunopulos 2002; Wang, Neskovic, and Cooper 2007, Kpotufe, Boularias, Schultz, and Kim 2016).  In experimental results, perhaps it would be helpful to benchmark against existing locally adaptive methods for choosing k (Kpotufe 2011; Anava and Levy 2016) as well as some simple sample splitting/cross validation kind of approach to selecting a single k, preferably on more datasets. In particular, it would be helpful to practitioners to understand how these locally adaptive nearest neighbor methods compare with one another, and when using a locally adaptive k yields a significant accuracy improvement over a global choice of k.