In the inference problem of multivariate Hawkes processes, the regularization is critical for avoiding over-fitting when only short sequences of events are available. This paper develops the variational EM algorithm, which allows for efficiently determining a lot of hyper-parameters that control the influence of regularization penalty. Also, it can estimate the model parameters while considering the uncertainty of them.   This paper is well-written and easily understandable. The proposed algorithm is practically useful but seems to be a straightforward application of the existing techniques.   Comments following the guidelines as requested. [Originality] Strengths. The authors make use of the black-box variational inference to effectively determine the hyper-parameters for controlling the regularization penalty.  Weaknesses. My concern is that the proposed algorithm seems somewhat incremental, as it is a combination of well-known techniques. I think It would be interesting to consider the case of more high dimensional data, that is, the number of nodes is large. In that case, the authors might need to stretch the algorithm so that the computational complexity can be reduced.   [Quality] Strengths. I think this paper is technically sound, and the experimental section is well-organized. There is convincing experimental evidence, i.e., analysis of the uncertainty, in Figure 3.  Weaknesses. The limitations of the proposed approach are not discussed. How is the efficiency and execution time of inference? Could the authors provide enough experimental results or theoretical analysis? Especially, in all the experiments, the authors consider the case of relatively low dimensional data (up to 143). It would be a good idea to discuss the case of applying to more high dimensional data; is it applicable in terms of computation costs? The number of nodes might be larger in typical applications such as social-network studies (e.g., [1]).  Several questions are as follows: 1) Why don't you optimize the decay-parameters? 2) Could the authors visualize the estimated causal-networks? I would like to see the networks that are estimated by the MLE-based method and the proposed method, respectively.   [Clarity] This paper is easy to understand and provides enough information to implement. Small suggestion: In the re-parameterization of $\mu$ and $W$, the superscript notation (e.g., $\epsilon^\mu$) might be confusing. It would be better to denote them as alternative notations, e.g., $\epsilon_\mu$.  [Significance] The inference problem of multivariate Hawkes processes under short observation sequences is an important task, and this paper has a useful contribution, easy to implement. However, I worry whether an application to the large-scale data sets whose number of nodes is large is difficult in practice. I think it would be significant to address the case of high dimensional data and provide analysis of the estimated causal-structures from the large-scale graphs.  [1] T. Iwata et al., Discovering Latent Influence in Online Social Activities via Shared Cascade Poisson Processes, KDD, pages 266–274, 2013.  ------------------------------ After author feedback: I appreciate the responses to my questions. The new experimental results in the rebuttal is a welcome addition. On the other hand, I think It would be a good idea to add the comparisons of the estimated excitation matrix $W$ and clarify the effect of the reguralization. Also, I still think that the variational inference scheme derived by the authors is a combination of several ML techniques; its technical contribution is somewhat low. But I think the proposed algorithm is effective and has a good impact for ML community and practitioners. Overall, my score for the paper remains the same.