Originality: The scope of the paper is higher original in both achieving and discussing a regret bound with multiple phase changes. Notably this is achieved in a setting well motivated in literature and with a model corresponding to real use cases.   Clarity: The paper is well written. The language is easy to read and informative while still being sufficiently explicit for instance when defining algorithms. While what is written is excellent the space management of the paper is decidedly poor. In my opinion this is the paper's main weakness: While the abstract and introduction promises treatment of the case of general switching costs and connections to graph traversal, this significant part of the paper is given half a page (section 5) with large portions of not just technicalities relegated to appendices. From my point of view this has not received a proper treatment in the main text of the paper, and I will largely consider it outside of the scope of the present text! With this removed it is however not unrealistic that the remaining scope could be accepted! Similarly it is shame that little space is devoted to proof techniques in the main text.  Significance: The results are important in two ways: The model of external switching constraints is a significant framework for dealing with real life models. Secondly achieving a regret with phase transitions in this fashion is interesting in its own right and the paper puts a great deal of effort into the discussion hereof, which could spark interesting discussions of characterisations of bandits in general.   --   Further comments and questions: 1) It would be nice with a more thorough treatment of the necessity of the phase transitions in the "actual regret scaling" compared to the asymptotic bounds shown here. In other words answering the question: Could there be a smooth regret scaling (i.e. not displaying phase transitions) for which the proven bounds still holds?  2) While the even spacing of phases is interesting, the terminology of "cyclical" seems a bit contrived. It is technically correct but seems oversold as a separat topic in the title rather than a characterisation of the phase transitions.   ====  After the author response and reading the other reviews, my opinion is that the paper has significant contributions and the authors are willing and able to significantly reorganise the paper in a way to address our concerns.   While a thorough reorganisation plan is sketched out in the response, it is my opinion that this is too significant of a change to accept without further review.  