Supervised dimensionality reduction has become a topic of interest in the systems neuroscience community over the last few years. Here, the authors suggested a very sensible extension to demixed PCA and targeted dimensionality reduction (TDR), which are recently developed but well-known and impactful methods in the field.  From a modeling standpoint, I generally like the ideas behind this paper. However, I am disappointed that it heavily relies on simulated data rather than real biological datasets for its results. In particular, all datasets examined by the demixed PCA paper (in eLife) are freely available, so I feel that at least one of those datasets should have been analyzed for the purpose of comparison. I am not convinced that the proposed model would produce qualitatively different results from those already published.  That being said, I think the proposed modeling framework is more straightforward than demixed PCA and offers the possibility of interesting future extensions. For example, one could incorporate a Poisson loss function or nonnegativity constraints into the model and deal with missing data in a straightforward manner. Thus, I think this deserves to be published as a worthy advance in the field, although I feel it is only marginally above the acceptance threshold due to limited empirical support on real data. Further development in this area would greatly improve the impact of the paper, especially if this method led to new scientific insights beyond what can be found with demixed PCA.  The paper is of good quality and is clearly written. The ideas are original within the field of systems neuroscience; I wouldn't be surprised if other applied fields have developed similar methods (but I don't know of any). The ideas in this paper have the potential to be impactful if greater empirical support is shown on real data and if the authors provide well-documented and easy-to-use code to the community.  Other comments:  - The greedy method for estimating the dimensionality is sensible, and I can see why it could work well on simulated data. But I'm skeptical that it would unambiguously identify the "true" number of dimensions in real data where the model is misspecified. Choosing the number of components is always very challenging in real data and you can't trust everyone to choose this hyperparameter by the same procedure. Thus, an empirical demonstration that conceptual scientific insights are not overly sensitive to this hyperparameter choice would be a good addition to the paper.  === New Comments After Author Feedback === I still feel that demonstrations on experimental data are critical to thoroughly evaluate this type of work. Thus, I am sticking to my score of "slightly above acceptance threshold". I think publishing this work will lead to interesting new discussions and models down the road. I congratulate the authors on their hard work thusfar and am looking forward to new developments.