This paper tackles a class of algorithms defined as Disparate Learning Processes (DLP) which use the sensitive feature while training and then make predictions without access at the sensitive feature. DLPs have appeared in multiple prior works, and the authors argue that DLPs do not necessarily guarantee treatment parity, which could then hurt impact parity. The theoretical analysis focuses on relating treatment disparity to utility and then optimal decision rules for various conditions. Most notably the per-group thresholding yields optimal rules to reduce the CV gap. As outlined in the beginning of section 4, the theoretical advantages of DLPs seems to optimality, rational ordering, and "no additional harm" to the protected group.   In the experimental section, the authors use a corrupted version of one dataset (CS grad admissions) and five public datasets (many of whom are drawn from the UCI dataset collection). For the grad admission dataset, DLP violate within-group ordering and "no additional harm" criteria. Comparing the DLP with a thresholding decision scheme, the authors show that DLPs may cause both accuracy and impact disparity (CV gap) to decrease.   I enjoyed this paper and its discussion of treatment parity and impact parity. In particular, the legal background helps ground the competing definitions of parity which therefore extend outward into classes of classifiers. At the same time, parsing out the implied definitions was surprisingly difficult. The paper would be strengthened by formal mathematical definitions of treatment parity and impact parity early in the paper. Without rigorous definitions, it was difficult to align the legal definitions in the introductions and the claims later in the paper. For example, are the criteria listed in the beginning of section 4 included in the definitions of either treatment parity or impact parity -- or simply other fairness criteria that the authors chose to consider?  A more minor thought, but the title of the paper asks whether impact disparity requires treatment disparity. This question is not answered in the paper since the paper only addresses DLPs, specifically how DLPs claim to address both impact and treatment disparity but may in fact fail. As I understand it, if there is another method out there that satisfies impact disparity without treatment disparity, we have not yet disproven its existence. 