Summary The paper proposes a collaborative learning strategy in which multiple classifier heads of the same deep network are trained simultaneously on the same data. Unlike ensembling, knowledge distillation, multi-task learning or training auxiliary classifiers, this seems more effective from the point of view of training time and memory utilization. In addition, the proposed training objective improves generalization and makes the network more robust to label noise. For the intermediate representations that are shared, the authors propose a backpropagation-rescaling technique so as to control the variance of gradients being propagated to the previous layers. Empirical results demonstrate the efficacy of the method w.r.t. Robustness to label noise and generalization improvements over other approaches and baselines.  Strengths - The paper is clear, well-written and easy to follow. Several design choices - the formulation of the objective function, the gradient re-scaling, etc. are well-motivated and demonstrated via empirical results. The proposed approach in itself is simple and seems easy to implement within limited additional memory capacity. - The paper presents a fresh-perspective on the problem of improving generalization and robustness to noise. - The results presented in Table. 4 and Figure. 3 show clear improvements over the baselines. Backpropagation scaling clearly leads to better results (Table. 3).  Weaknesses - The authors mention they fixed the hyper-parameters \beta and T in all their experiments. Were these hyper-parameters chosen by cross-validation? If not, how sensitive are the results to the choice of \beta and T. I am curious if some sort of annealing schedule for \beta and T leads to better results.  -----------  I read all the reviews and the feedback provided by the authors. The rebuttal addressed my concern regarding the choice of the hyper-parameters and annealing schedule for \beta and T with experimental results. Given from what I understood from the paper, feedback and some of the comments mentioned by the other reviewers, I am inclined towards sticking to my original score regarding the paper.