The paper develops a new integration method which follows from a Gaussian process (GP) modeling of the integrand. The author starts by defining the posterior of the GP model, which appears as an approximation of the integrand. Fixing some parameters in the GP models, the author recovers the standard Bayesian cubature method (rk 2.3). The originality of their proposal, the Bayes-Sard cubature (BSC) method, comes from considering a limiting case in the GP model (which characterizes the most uninformative prior). The estimate given by the BSC method is the integral of the mean of the resulting posterior Gaussian process. It is a linear integration rule and another nice property is that it integrates perfectly the functions lying in some linear space pi (chosen by the user). The paper is reasonably organized and the ideas are well explained (with good examples). On top of that the paper surveys nicely many results by putting in light new links between some existing methods.   Here are some points/questions that might help to improve the paper: - The main contribution of the paper seems more methodological than theoretical but too few experiments are given in the end to validate the approach.  - The proposed method depends on a linear space pi (a notation which I find a bit exotic for a linear subspace). It is not clearly stated that the integrals of functions in pi should be known for the method to work. This being said, there might be some link with the control variates method as detailed for instance in the archived paper arXiv:1801.01797. In section 2.4 of the previous reference, the authors obtain a formulation with cubature weights of control variates (which integrates perfectly the functions in a linear space that correspond to your pi). In the present paper, the author gives some weights that, as well, are integrating perfectly the functions in pi. In Th 2.9 the weights are claimed to be unique. Does it means that both methods coincide? (the statement on uniqueness might require more details). - The statements of the theorems are too vague and it is sometimes difficult to understand their meaning. For instance, ‘’in the limit’’ is not clear while a standard equation would do the job. Especially, in Th 2.7, where one cannot know what means ‘’in the limit’’ without checking the proof. Another example is ‘’consider an n points cubature rule’’. This has not been defined. - Even if interesting, the convergence analysis is not the very point of the paper (as it follows from known results). It would be preferable to furnish some remarks on the rate and perhaps to compare with other methods (in place of theoretical consideration that would perfectly fit the supplementary material). - Section 2.1 results from classical techniques from the GP literature. It should be mentioned from the beginning (for the non expert reader). - page 3. line 105. As the meaning of the remark coincides with the definition of s and k (line 97), it seems to me redundant. - page 3. line 112. The remark should be at the beginning of section 2.1.3. - remark 2.13. It is said that the supplementary material ‘’elaborates’’ on assumptions (i) and (ii) whereas it just gives some definitions. I was disappointing to see no further explanation on the assumptions.