## Summary In the proposed approach, maximal correlations and correlation functions are first obtained from the feature functions and target samples. The maximal correlations and correlation functions are then used to predict the class for the target sample. The evaluation is done on 3 datasets (CIFAR100, Stanford Dogs, and Tiny Imagenet). The proposed MCW method is compared with SVM trained on output of the penultimate layer. For all the datasets, the Multi-Source MCW shows significant advantage especially when there are few samples. ## Originality Formulation of prediction method (MCW) using the maximal correlation and correlation function is novel. The appeal of the method is that no control over the training of the source networks is needed.  ## Quality The problem formulation and the method look sound. Source code is not provided with the submission. It would have helped in understanding the method better. Evaluation is a bit weak. There is no comparison with other few-shot learning algorithms. Even though these algorithms might be fundamentally different, ablation studies would have helped in highlighting specific features of the methods. For all the three datasets, only one set of randomly selected set of target classes is chosen. Ideally, the experiments should be carried on multiple subsets of randomly chosen target classes. ## Clarity The problem motivation and introduction is presented well. The problem formulation is also clear. The main section on MCW is a bit dry read. A little introduction to HGR maximal correlation (and correlation functions) and intuitive explanation of the method would be helpful. The algorithm listings, however, are quite helpful.  ## Significance The proposed method is simple and elegant. It doesn’t require joint training. It has the potential of opening up new avenues for reusing pre-trained networks.  ## Minor Line 110: “We also denote the correlation *of of* the ith …”  ## Post rebuttal comments Thank you for the response. Your results on the randomly chosen source and target classes are noted.