his paper presents a novel approach for reducing the latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) to a single topic allocation (STA) for more efficient and accurate reconstruction of the underlying topics. I find the idea quite interesting, but I have the following concerns.  First, this paper has many important parts missing and relies on other sources -- unpublished manuscript to show the equivalence of uniform LDA and STA, and "full version" for the general (p,t)-separable case. What would be this full version paper? As far as I know, NIPS conference papers should be mostly self-contained, except for some parts that rely on previous literature. While the appendix does include the unpublished manuscript, it is not required for the reviewers, and quite frankly this appendix is too lengthy and dense to review for accuracy. This paper would be better published as a longer, perhaps a journal, paper.  Next, in the experiments, why do you use very different document lengths for Recover/STA vs. Gibbs sampling? I understand that Gibbs sampling needs longer documents. Then why not us the same lengths for Recover/STA? Would there be issues with computation time? In practice, you would expect the document lengths to be closer to 10 or 100, the lengths used for Gibbs sampling, rather than the extreme length of 2.   Also, how was the parameter \rho set? Does the different settings of that parameter affect the results (i.e., loss and time)? It seems different settings would result in different numbers of anchor and quasi-anchor words. What are some anchor words found? As done in Arora paper, readers would probably like to see more details about the experiments and the results.  Lastly, I am not convinced that this problem of topic reconstruction is well motivated. The point of LDA is not just discovering a set of topics for a corpus, but also discovering the topic distribution for each document, such that it can be used for downstream tasks, such as document retrieval or classification. Although topic reconstruction itself is important, given the other concerns I expressed above, I would be hesitant to accept this paper as part of the NIPS conference.   Minor question: In line 167, distribution induced by STA should be S, not D?  *** Update *** I appreciate the author response. I had overlooked the contributions of reconstruction of the topics, and I have gone back to previous relevant papers in NIPS and similar venues to confirm. That was my main issue, and thus I increased the score. I also understand the authors' point about the document length issue, while far from what would be used in practice.