The submission proposes a Gaussian-Process based method for Safe Active Learning on time series. For Active Learning, the authors generalize the known GP-based techniques to estimate potential decrease in GP vairance (the full covariance matrix is taken into account). The novelty of the submission is claimed to be in that safety is taken into account. Rather than generating unconstrained time series to be tested in the real system, the approach also builds another GP model for safety of the system at every moment (assuming the data for safety is provided as well, for example from known physical properties of the system), and generating the times series under the constraints. Theorem providing probabilistic guarantees on the safety is proven. Another theorem proving the reduction in system variance is presented. Experiments with artificial data are performed, comparing random selection with the proposed method. Experiments with real fluid dynamics system are performed demonstrating the benefits of the proposed approach.  The submission is well written, clear, interesting, and grounded. Theoretical analysis is well-justified and thorough, experimental analysis is mostly convincing. Some notes to the authors: * Please provide other baselines for the experiments than Random. If none of them work with safety constraints, demonstrate that the currently available techniques significantely break the safety guarantees. * Theorem 1 proves probabilistic guarantees. However, I can imagine for the real systems, it might be unacceptable to have any even rather small probbability of failure (e.g. the required bound is extremely tight). How does/can the proposed approach work for hard constraints on safety? ---- * On line 20, you mention that the data "has to be generated". There are some Active Learning methods for regression where there is no need to generate new data (e.g. referenced Guestrin et.al. paper), is that still the case for time series? Please refer to other time series-related work * You mention that there is work on safe exploration in RL. How novel is the current approach in comparison with those? Can this approach be used in RL? * On lines 73-81, it's really hard to distinguish $\tilde d$ and $\bar d$, please change the notation * On lines 150-153, there are references to various methods of working with I. Some discussion on whether the method selected for the submission is better/worse would be good to have. * In Theorem 1, what does "correctly" mean? * In Figure 2, right, it might be better to use a different axis for the blue line. * Please provide time for computation for the experiments and the method * It is hard to reproduce the experiments without code for the method and data. Please provide these with the final submission.  ---- I have considered authors' feedback, and thank them for the explanations. My opinion about the acceptance remains the same