This paper seeks to bridge two areas - the use of boosting and tree-like models as well as robustness in machine learning. They show that for such models, it is possible to derive the optimal robust loss (for decision stumps) or an upper bound on the robust loss (for decision trees) and also propose a training procedure for each type of model that shows empirical improvements in robust accuracy.  The mathematical analysis of the proposed loss computation algorithm and the related training algorithm is solid and seems correct. The authors do make some simplifications such as assuming the loss function is an exponential loss, but claim (without proof) that the analysis also applies to other strictly monotonically decreasing loss functions such as logistic loss. The math is explained well in a step by step manner. Still, I would have found it clearer if it had an “algorithm” section that lists out the steps of the algorithm described in Section 3.2 in bullet point form. This would also make the runtime complexity analysis more clear.  On the empirical side, the results show an improvement in robust test accuracy by using the proposed algorithm. The improvement is clear and it is done over a range of different datasets. However, I would focus more on the interpretability of the resulting models. In particular, I liked the discussion in Figure 2 analyzing exactly how robust boosted stumps on MNIST 2-6 split differently from regular boosted stumps. Interpretability is one of the main advantages of these types of models, so I would be more interested in seeing even more analysis on this front. It is okay to place the analysis in the Appendix, but I would be particularly interested in seeing if the robust and interpretable trees say anything interesting about the health-related datasets. Otherwise, if you ignore the interpretability of such models, the robustness result on MNIST is easily surpassed by deep neural network models.  Additionally, on the empirical side, I believe it is worth comparing results directly to [7] whenever possible, as the work of [7] seems quite similar. While there are differences in the approach taken to train such robust models and obtain robust loss guarantees, both approaches do obtain robust loss guarantees by the end. Thus, having a side-by-side comparison of the results whenever a fair comparison is possible seems important to include (again, having this in the Appendix is okay too).  Finally, a small interesting note the authors mention is that a simple sampling method tends to result in a close approximation to the true robust test error for boosted trees for small datasets like the ones used in the paper. Thus, it may be worth having a training method based on sampling to compute the robust loss as another baseline algorithm to compare to. This is akin to having a (possibly weak) adversarial training procedure as a baseline for provable robustness in deep neural networks.  Overall, the paper has room for improvement (especially on the empirical analysis side), but addresses an interesting question in a mathematically sound way.  Small comments Line 9 - “Up to our knowledge” -> “To the best of our knowledge” Line 71 - “and allows to see” -> “and allows us to see” Line 77 - what is N_t? Line 99-100 - “Our goal … are provable guarantees” -> “Our goal … is provable guarantees” Line 105 - “in original Adaboost” -> “in the original Adaboost” Line 105 - “successfully in object detection” -> “successfully used in object detection” Line 135 - It maybe worth mentioning somewhere closer to the beginning of section 3.2 that you’ll first describe what to do for a specific coordinate j, then choose which coordinates j you will use later (you discuss this in lines 163-165). Again, this could also be improved with an “algorithm” section that has an algorithm with bullet points. Line 243 - “to judge about robustness” -> “to judge robustness” Line 264 - “which allows to” -> “which allows us to”  *** After Author Response *** I am satisfied with the additional experimental results presented in the author response. Again, as discussed previously, I hope the authors do indeed have a longer discussion on interpretability as that is probably one of the main advantages of using decision trees/stumps. I will keep my score as an accept.