The authors present a model of grid cell – place cell interactions and apply it to the question of how associative (place-scene, place-object encounter) memories for separate environments and for separate locations in a single environment can be linked through a stable grid cell map like that of the medial entorhinal cortex in rats.  Linked between-environment memories and linking in the form of predictions for upcoming changes in spatial and sensory context associated with locomotion through a single environment are achieved through mapping of locations within a grid network.  One key to this is that the grid network is “universal” in the sense that the spatial firing relationships between members are constant.  The larger meaning(s) of such universality in representation has not been adequately addressed in the literature.  The authors test the model’s ability to predict the upcoming sensory context during locomotion for locations that, as yet, had not been visited during a given session of exploration.  They also test the ability of the model to achieve “one-shot” learning.  The performance of the model is strong in both respects.    The effort and results are very original in attacking the problem of generalization using place-cell, grid cell network interactions.  The model and its dynamics are clearly presented.  The work represents an important contribution to the study of learning and memory processes as they relate to representation.  It is well-positioned to inspire further work that takes the study of grid cells beyond the mapping of environment space.  A few points that might enhance the presentation:  1) The authors might give some consideration, however short, to the issue of how variation in environmental border geometry, scale, and distal cue similarities would affect linking of place cell representations through the grid cell network. 2) The authors repeatedly refer to the importance of the hierarchy of separate grid networks in the model that vary by scale.  Have they tested model performance when fewer grid networks are used?  Some type of explanation of why hierarchy is important would help to maintain the conceptual thread.  Is it simply that larger-scale grid networks broaden the ability to link memories/representations?  3) While neurons with “banding” patterns have been published in a prominent publication, their existence is very much in question in the field (perhaps a by-product of poor discrimination of multiple grid cells).  Given this, can the authors make mention of how critical their inclusion is to model performance?  Is it possible that head-direction cell patterning or head direction X border patterning (Peyrache, Nat Comm, 2017) could serve to accomplish the same thing in the model?    4) It is a bit odd that head direction cells are not included in the model.  This cell type is clearly among the most impactful in driving spatial representations.  Furthermore, such cells might serve a linking function for single locations with different views associated with different head orientations. This is a “link” that is not addressed in the current work.   