This paper is methodological (and experimental) in nature, providing a suite of approaches to differentially-private Bayesian linear regression. The key significance is to revisit DP linear regression in the Bayesian setting, where it is natural to consider 1) how privacy-preserving noise affects posterior estimates; 2) leverage Bayesian inference through directly modelling the noise process, to improve utility (broadly construed including in terms of calibration).  The paper does a quality job of exploring how such modelling and inference could be performed based on sufficient statistic perturbation. The paper has high clarity, further adding to the potential practical impact.  The main technical ideas are largely inspired by prior work such as Bernstein and Sheldon (2018)'s work on exponential families. Although it is important to note that the extension does require careful technical work.   There are some improvements listed below that could have led to a more comprehensive treatment.   Some minor comments: line 20 and in related work otherwise, the discussion around posterior sampling being deficient in forming private posteriors seems at odds with the fundamental approach taken of MCMC - also sampling from the posterior. I view the key distinction here as instead modelling the DP noise process akin to the vision set out by Williams and McSherry [34] and applied here with care. Def 2 line 68 the max might not exist, instead use supremum (and Delta could be an upper bound). It is appropriate to cite McSherry & Mironov's KDD'09 paper as it is early work perturbing sufficient statistics for DP.  The feature normalisation in line 304 - I don't think that's DP, is it?  UPDATE POST REBUTTAL  I thank the authors for their thoughtful rebuttal. Their response has cleared up a number of questions around VI, feature selection (not ideal but fair point regarding convention), and more. I like the work and believe it will have practical impact. I'd second another reviewer (also mentioned in my initial review I believe) that it would be nice to see some point estimate baseline comparisons made, even though the authors could lift their rebuttal comments directly into the paper instead, I view the point as more about being comprehensive without taking much space/time to achieve - it may help the paper have further reach, and does reflect on interesting questions that I'm sure other readers may have too.