In this paper the author propose a new hierarchical Bayesian model allowing to borrow information from related domains (e.g. NGS data from patients of related cancer types) to subtype more accurately a domain of interest (e.g. cluster NGS data from patients from a specific cancer). The model assumes that the counts from a gene are drawned from a negative binomial distribution which is decomposed into subcounts (also drawned from NB distributions) resulting from different factors. Those factors are shared across different domains, and their importance (including their possible absence in some domains) is modeled through a spike and slab like prior. Once those factor scores have been learned (through a Gibbs sampling algorithm), classification algorithms can be run to subtype the target domain. The authors illustrate and compare their method both on synthetic and real-data experiments.  The question of appropriately subtyping cancer is certainly very timely and from their experiments section the authors have convinced me that their approach leads to substantially better results than state of the art models. However, I think the authors could improve the clarity of the reading by giving more examples throughout the introduction and stating more clearly the global workflow of their approach: what are the parameters that really matter? How is the subtyping performed? (though this is written in the introduction it took me quite some time to understand that the information borrowed from other domains is used for a better inference on the parameters which are then used to classify the patients regardless of the model).  I am not familiar enough with the domain to really assess the novelty of the contribution. From my reading this paper is a "model - prior - Gibbs sampler" paper which seems to improve the classification scores but does not provide breakthrough to the learning community. The novelty essentially seems to come from the choice of the prior which allows but does not require factors to be shared across domains. Moreover, the authors state that details on their Gibbs sampler are provided in the supplementary materials but I can only trust them as there seems to have been some mistake on uploading the supplementary materials (the actual manuscript was submitted instead).  I would have liked to have some intuition on how to chose the parameter K, and how does its value affect the results, both in terms of subtyping and in terms of complexity. In general, how does the approach scale with competitors in terms of run-time?  In the case study section, how many subtypes of lung cancer were considered? Have the authors tried their approach with more than two domains? (for instance it would have been nice to see the case-study with both the high and low-related datasets).  There are a few typos throughout the manuscript. Here are a few that I picked: l25: including in the case of the arguably l91 This may lead to information loss l244 it should be figure 2.a)  -- I thank the authors for providing an answer to my questions and I am satisfied by their response. 