Summary: Direct optimizing F-measure has gotten constant attention over time, and authors extends the latest online F-measure optimization (OFO), and proposes a new method called FOFO (Fast OFO). Albeit the fact the proposed algorithm has a similar asymptotic computation time and  memory consumption with OFO, authors proves the convergence rate bound, which didn’t exist for the previous study. Authors also conducted various experiments to prove their algorithm.  Quality: The technical content of the paper appears to be solid with various theoretical analyses and with experiments. I liked the in-depth related work section comparing various previous F1-measure optimization-approaches against this work. One thing is that, I would like to see more direct comparison of the OFO/FOFO in the algorithm section. In particular, additional convex optimization problem was introduced in FOFO compared to OFO, so authors might remark this fact when they were describing the algorithm. Also, I would like to encourage authors to include time-vs-F1-score figures in the main paper (as their main contribution is fast learning) and also add an additional memory consumption comparison experiments.  Clarity: The paper is pretty readable, and well structured. I did not find trouble following the main contributions and supporting materials of the paper.  Originality: The main contribution of this paper is to suggest a new algorithm with additional theoretical convergence guarantee. This made possible by changing the way they choose the optimal threshold by solving a convex problem instead of choosing a heuristic way (previous work). Even though the paper seems to be a direct extension of  a previous method (OFO), the paper has original materials such as new theoretical analysis.  Significance: The paper seems to be a useful contribution to various applications to maximize the F1 measures. In particular, their experimental results show consistent improvements over other methods.  Conclusion: I believe this is a solid paper, probably not the best paper though.  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Post rebuttal:  I thank authors for the clarifications. I have read other reviewer's responses and discussions and decided to keep the current score believing authors handle the remaining concerns made by reviewer #2 and #4 in their final version of the paper.  Thank you.