The paper presents a kernel (and MLP)-based approach for node classification in a graph.  The system is rather complex and takes more than one reading to understand it.  The paper lists four contributions, two more than the ones I reported in the "Contributions" section. I do not fully agree with the remaining ones:   "we theoretically show that our formulation is powerful enough to express any valid positive semidefinite kernels.". As the authors state, their results assume the feature mapping \phi to be invertible, which I do not think it is true for any \phi. The authors should smooth the claim or prove any kernel is invertible. I understand they use a MLP to approximate \phi^-1, but that's an approximation, it should be proved how precise that is for every kernel for the claim to be true in its current form.   "our model captures the structural information of a node by aggregation in a single step, other than a recursive manner, thus is more efficient". However, an analysis of the efficiency of the method, together with a comparison with related methods, is missing in the paper.   If I understand correctly the statement in rows 114-115, it should be rephrased to "it is impossible to..." (see [1] for a justification).  The inline equation in row 119 reminds me of the Mapping Kernels framework, it would be fair to assess whether I am correct and, in case, cite the paper [2].  Theorem 1 is straightforward, there is no need for a Theorem.  It is not easy to understand how significant is the improvement, because a description of the datasets is missing in the paper and no statistical analysis is provided. However, I see the main contribution of the paper in the novel theoretically-guided approach.    ----------------  [1] Ramon, J., & Gärtner, T. (2003). Expressivity versus Efficiency of Graph Kernels. Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Mining Graphs, Trees and Sequences {(MGTS-2003)}, 65–74.  [2] Shin, K., & Kuboyama, T. (2008). A generalization of Haussler’s convolution kernel: mapping kernel. In Proceedings of the 25th international conference on Machine learning (pp. 944–951). Helsinki, Finland: ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/1390156.1390275