This paper studies a variational theoretical framework for stochastic optimization. In particular, the authors showed that finding the minimizer of stochastic optimization is equivalent to finding the solution of a variational problem over a latent function space and also equivalent to finding the solution of a forward backward SDE. They also showed how to recover some popular stochastic optimization algorithms through discretizing the optimality equations defined by the SDE. However, this part is not so clear in clarity and still requires more discussion on the theoretical behavior of these discretized algorithms. Overall, this paper is well written and has strong results. My major comments are as follows:  The stochastic mirror descent problem has also been studied by [1,2] for general convex and strongly convex functions in a similar way to this paper. Under a very similar Bregman Lagrangian to equation (8) in this paper, they first derive the corresponding ODE for deterministic optimization. Then they derive stochastic differential equations based on this ODE and noisy gradient. Both papers provided Euler discretization of the SDE that enjoys the optimal convergence rates as the stochastic optimization algorithms. Due to the similarity, I think a discussion between the difference of the method in this paper from these references should be provided.  References: [1] Xu, Pan, Tianhao Wang, and Quanquan Gu. "Accelerated stochastic mirror descent: From continuous-time dynamics to discrete-time algorithms." International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. 2018. [2] Xu, Pan, Tianhao Wang, and Quanquan Gu. "Continuous and discrete-time accelerated stochastic mirror descent for strongly convex functions." International Conference on Machine Learning. 2018.  For the discretization methods presented in Section 5, can you guarantee the convergence of these methods under general assumptions? A discussion on the theoretical behavior of the discretized methods is needed. In particular, it would be interesting to know how the analysis of the variational problem can be used to understand the convergence of these discretized methods.  Minor comments: Line 44: there is a (!) symbol and the text color is also different Line 112: “define” should be “defined” Line 330: “FBSDE 9” should be “FBSDE (9)” Line 474 & 482: equations are exceeding the margins   === after author's rebuttal === I have read the authors’ responses, which addressed my comments. Given their rebuttal, I am willing to raise my score to 7. I am looking forward to seeing more discussion on the relationship between the variational models and the discretized algorithms.    