I appreciate the author's taking time to respond to comments from my review. In particular I look forward to see similar techniques applied to multi-agent hidden network zero-sum games as per their response.   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- In this paper, the authors present a (mild) generalisation of two-player zero-sum games motivated by GANS. The action space is given by finite vector spaces, and these map to a lower dimensional space via a smooth function. Payoffs are then zero-sum in this space. Although it is already known that gradient descent is difficult for games (even zero-sum games as those used), the authors show that even in this general dynamic the situation is just as dire.  For classes of unique mixed equilibria games (such as matching pennies and generalisations), no matter the parametrisation functions for both players multiple undesired scenarios are possible when both players utilise a dynamical system analogue of gradient descent: -In the case that the components of the unique equilibrium are in the trajectory of the dynamical systems of each player (which already depends on the initial conditions), the orbit is either trivial (stationary), or periodic. Although this disallows convergence, the equilibrium and value of the underlying zero-sum game can be recovered as time averages. -There are cases where the equilibrium does not lie on the trajectory of the dynamical system for a given initial configuration and furthermore, in these scenarios, the dynamical system can have spurious stationary points that do not correspond to equilibria in the original game. -In higher dimensions analogous results hold, where even dynamical systems with the desired equilibrium in their trajectory are either trivial or diffeomorphic to a Poincare recurrent flow. For sigmoid functions in the hidden layer the dynamical system is indeed Poincare recurrent.  -As in the two-strategy case, examples can be constructed where spurious stationary points occur as well in the gradient descent dynamic.  -Finally, the authors demonstrate that the situation is even worse for discrete time approximations to the dynamical system.  Overall the submission is well-written and well motivated.