Edit: My score remains the same after the rebuttal. They addressed my minor comments, but no additional experimental results are shown.  Summary  The paper proposed a novel sampling method to compute the approximated leverage score quickly and then use the sampled row and column based on the leverage score to compute the kernel ridge regression with computation complexity smaller than existing methods.  Though existing approach to compute the approximated leverage score by first sample larger candidate set uniformly and then resample smaller set based on the first candidate set, the proposed method adopt a bottom-up approach that first much small subset and then gradually increasing the set using the leverage score to the previous candidate with \lambda decreasing.  After the index of samples used is determined by the algorithm, then they apply the modified FALKON [10] algorithm called FALKON-LSG that use the score calculated in the previous algorithm to reweight the sample.  They theoretically and experimentally demonstrated that their method can calculate leverage score faster than existing methods with similar approximation accuracy and their FALKON-LSG converges faster than FALKON with uniform sampling.  Qualitative Assessment  Their approach to calculate the leverage score and sampled index incrementally and use the calculated score for the approximate kernel ridge regression seems novel and rational.  Our main concern is about the experiment. They fix \lambda in the experiment that measure the computation time (Figure 2). It seems unfair because the paper say to vary \lambda according to the number of samples. Thus, it seems better to change \lambda as N increases in Figure 2, too. I think the difference in computation time decreases in this setting because \lambda should be decrease as the number of samples grows. Also, as for the experiment for AUC, (Figure 4, 5) it is better to compare with other method SQUEAK and RRLS along with Uniform because uniform does not show good performance in figure 1.  Some links to reference or others in the paper is corrupt. For example, L17, 31, 208 and Algorithm 3. In Algorithm 2, Rejection becomes Regection.  Overall, except for the above faults, I did not find major drawback to counteract the potential impact of the paper. Thus, I vote for acceptance.