This paper presents an impressive application of deep RL to navigation from large amounts of visual data, allowing an agent to navigate to a goal location from vision alone and no map. They further show that their proposed architectures which are motivated by the navigation task help learning, especially on multi-city tasks.  The novelty of the paper lies mostly in the choice of architecture and particularly the relative success of the “transfer” setting using this architecture. This could deserve further inspection and experiments.  In section 4.1 I am not sure if understand correctly what was meant by “general” vs. “locale-specific” and how they relate to the network modules. I believe “general” might mean things like how to navigate roads and buildings, while “locale-specific” means memorizing place locations. However, since x and g are seen by both LSTMs, how exactly they are operating seems unknowable. It would be good to make these points clearer and more concrete. In the experiments, freezing the weights for the “transfer” setting works alright with enough cities but performs worse than the single-city method, so this suggests the two types of information are not cleanly divided between the modules. While the architecture choices are justified by the performance gains, analysis of the learned features of each module would help motivate the architecture if possible.  I could not find details of the exact reward function used. This is important information to include prominently in the paper.  It is good that the reward shaping and curriculum results are included in the paper but they are not too surprising.  Although the method is not very novel, there are some interesting architecture innovations and the results are very polished. Assuming the dataset and environment are released, it will be a very valuable testbed for the learning community and will likely prompt very interesting future research questions. The experiments are thorough and the writing is clear.  Figure 2b image c: what is meant by the dotted line? Initially I thought this was the skip connection referred to in the text but it seems that skip connection also applies to CityNav.   Figure 3a: why does GoalNav fail? It seems two things are changed from GoalNav to CityNav: the architecture and heading auxiliary prediction, so its tough to know which made the difference.  Line 202: typo, missing word between “we in”.   Line 218: sentence seems unfinished  Great video!