This work builds on a long debate in cognitive science and AI on systematic and compositional generalization abilities. While previously the debate had to do with appropriate models of cognition, recently the debate has turned towards imbuing machine learning models with the systematic and compositional capacities that humans tend to exhibit.  The experiments are based on a previously introduced dataset designed to measure compositional generalization (SCAN). The authors demonstrate substantial improvements over previous results, and they attribute this to a new memory-based architecture and training protocol called meta-seq2seq, which embeds the conventional seq2seq training setup in a meta-learning framework. The overall effect is to “abstract away the surface patterns and operate closer to rule space.”. I believe that the work clearly outlines the methods and model details, and there is no reason to think that anything reported may be technically inaccurate.   All-in-all I believe the results are quite a nice demonstration of how learning-based models can exhibit some of the contentious skills so often argued about in the literature. Perhaps someone steeped in meta-learning may think the results are to be expected, but it is nonetheless a novel demonstration of the use of meta-learning for instilling machine learning models with the capacity for systematic and compositional generalization.  My primary worry has to do with the framing of the work and some of the phrasing contained within. At a high level, it is motivated and pitched as an addition to a story with the structure “Humans can do X, but machine learning models cannot”. This is evident from the very first sentence of the abstract:  “People can generalize in systematic ways from just one or a few examples...In contrast, powerful sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) neural networks can fail such tests of compositionality“  Though this phrasing isn’t exactly wrong on its surface (indeed, I used similar phrasing in the first paragraph of this review), it nonetheless fails to capture or communicate the nuance needed to properly engage with the underlying debate. Given knowledge of the history of the debate, it is much too easy to call to mind an implicit assumption common in these arguments: humans have a powerful ability that nearly comes for free because of some innate “capacity for compositionality” (this is sometimes even made explicit, such as in the sentence “People can learn new words and use them immediately in a rich variety of ways, thanks to their skills in compositional learning.”). Arguments of this type then go on to suggest that neural networks (in the case of this paper, “standard” neural networks, though I’m not sure what makes one standard or not) fail to match humans in this regard, and hence are deficient in some way. I think we need to be careful with these types of arguments because it is actually not quite clear (a) how good this skill actually is in humans, (b) how much the skill has to be cultivated and honed through long, arduous learning, and (c) whether neural networks as a class of models are indeed deficient or whether we are simply deficient practitioners unable to exploit their full potential. If we are convinced that humans actually need to *learn* this capacity, then it stops being a mystery why neural networks that are not tasked with learning this capacity fail to exhibit it. Indeed, as this paper shows, once a neural network is tasked with learning this capacity it can indeed exhibit it, just like humans!  To sum up this previous point and to provide actionable criticism, the authors are encouraged to better contextualize the comparison to human abilities. If they believe that humans are not learning this ability, then they should state so clearly. If they believe that humans are indeed learning this ability, again they should state so clearly, and subsequently explain why previous learning-based models have failed to learn similarly. (Here, I suspect the story isn’t so “flashy”, but nonetheless needs to be told: humans have an immense amount of training experience, much of it as a “meta-level”, and bring in tons of background knowledge knowledge and abilities, whereas neural networks must start “from zero”). If the nuances aren’t appropriately fleshed out, then the argument unfortunately reads as a strawman that the subsequent work sets aflame.  Similarly, in the results and discussion the authors are encouraged to write a bit more to contextualize what is happening: through meta-learning, the models are learning *the fact that* primitives that are seen only once/a few times should be treated the same way as others, which is impossible to learn without meta-learning. Again, this is also a potential explanation for how and why humans behave this way; they have a ton of experience learning such facts. The implications of these results should be looped back into the claims made from previous work, such as the paper that introduced the SCAN dataset.  Finally, I think that in their argumentation the authors need to keep in mind that they are demonstrating that when a neural network is given an opportunity to learn X, then it will most likely learn X. This is a bit obvious, but too many within this debate lose sight of this fact while trying to argue that neural networks as a class of model are inherently deficient. The results presented here speak directly against this notion and deserve to be emphasized. 