 In this paper the authors introduce CoDA-PCA and a surrogate variant for representation learning of compositional data. They introduce and derive their framework on the context of the standard in the field being PCA applied to a transform of the original data that lies on the simplex (here the CLR transform), and demonstrate that their loss function upper bounds the exponential family PCA loss applied to the transformed data. An extension is developed incorporating a deep-neural-net likelihood and the authors apply their methods to several real datasets measuring accuracy in terms of variants of reconstruction error, convincingly demonstrating an improvement over the current standard.  Overall the paper seems technically sound and introduces an original method to the field. I think it would be greatly improved if the fundamental message was made clearer (transformed vs untransformed, see point 1 below), and some example visualizations of the   datasets were included. Overall I found the paper mathematically very dense with sometimes too short explanations, though I appreciate the 8 page limit imposed. Further comments below.  This paper essentially proposes two approaches to PCA for compositional data - a CoDA-PCA model that operates on CLR-transformed count (or otherwise) data, and the surrogate CoDA-PCA that operates on the original count data. The authors allude to the fact that models that operate on untransformed data are advantageous and this is the main proposal of the paper as outlined at the end of the introduction. However, on the experiments in section 5 they demonstrate that their model that operates on the transformed data performs better than the variant that operates on the untransformed. Does this alter their original belief that operating on the original data is advantageous? I’m also curious about the justification of this belief in the first place - I can understand it in the context of generative models and wanting to have calibrated uncertainties, but if one is simply defining a loss function and optimizing, it seems a moot point as to whether the data is transformed or not?   Towards the end of the introduction, the authors frame their method as being required to overcome the issue of scaling data as input to PCA. However, depending on the variant of PCA used this isn’t strictly necessary, e.g. in PPCA the data is centred to remove the need to explicitly model an “intercept” term but in practice this can be easily included. Can the authors comment on this in the context of their model, i.e. could an intercept be incorporated?  Given the important justification and motivation of compositional PCA for understanding the blossoming field of microbiome studies I think it is important to plot the latent space as fitted to the real data in the paper. Does it appear dramatically different from the existing variants? Does it differentiate or identify e.g. different strains any differently?  I somewhat object to the authors’ repeated description of count data as “crude” - can they clarify what they mean by this?  Line 65 - the authors explain the drawbacks of the CLR transformation as “car leads to degenerate distributions and singular covariance matrix” - given their subsequent results are essentially based around the CLR transformations, can the authors elaborate on these drawbacks and discuss how they might apply to their proposed model?  Line 73 and figure 1 - is the tSNE representation computed using the CLR-transformed data or the original untransformed?  The authors refer to the loss of the CoDA-PCA model (equation 7) as the “CoDA loss” (e.g. on line 117), but this is somewhat confusing as pretty much all the losses are “compositional data analysis losses”, so it would be good to stick to the “CoDA-PCA loss” or similar  Lines 119-121 state “However, if we wish to perform PCA on the crude count data, while maintaining the clr transform, we need an additional normalization term…”. Can the authors explain this further? Indeed equation 7 is essentially PCA on clr-transformed “crude” count data, so what they state appears already performed?  I think it’s important the authors include a version of dimensionality reduction in their real-world experiments (section 5) that doesn’t take into account the compositional nature of the data. This is important as the large difference in log-likelihood achieved would convince the reader of the importance of the proposed compositional methods, and similarly as the data presented contains many features (~130) which in practice may mean the overall denominator is approximately constant and the data doesn’t exhibit compositional “properties” per se.  I don’t understand the inset text in section 5.2, e.g. the sentence “Visualization of the two main axes of Principal Component Analysis based on the 130 genus-like groups across the 1006 samples.” This doesn’t seem to reference or be shown as a figure? Is this PCA on the raw data, transformed data, or using methods proposed by the author? A similar sentence is present in the next paragraph also.  Line 60 - “loosing”