Overview and Recommendation: Many popular binary classifiers are defined by convex margin-based surrogate losses such as SVMs and Logistic regression. Designing a semi-supervised learning algorithm for these classifiers, that is guaranteed to improve upon the "lazy" approach of throwing away the unlabeled data and just using the labeled data while training, is of considerable interest, because of the time-consuming experimentation that the use of SSL currently requires. This paper analyzes this problem and the results presented in the paper are primarily of theoretical interest.  I had great difficulty in rating the significance of this work, therefore my own confidence rating is only 3. The proofs of the theorems use elementary steps. I checked them in detail and they are correct, but, the significance of the theorems themselves was hard to measure. There is definitely some importance for theorem 3 as a good counter-example for common intuition and previous conjectures, therefore I have given the paper a rating of 6.   Summary: The paper gives a new definition of a  "safe" semi-supervised binary classifier as a classifier that is guaranteed to attain a lower loss on the combined labeled-unlabeled dataset  than the loss achived by a supervised classifier learnt from just the labeled data. Under this definition of safety, theorems 1 and 2 in the paper prove that a safe semi-supervised classifier/hypothesis does not exist for  monotonically decreasing convex margin-based, e.g. SVMs, and therefore safe SSL is impossible for such classifiers. Next, a more surprising result is shown in theorem 3, that it is possible to do safe SSL for some special convex surrogate loss functions that are not monotonically decreasing, e.g. the quadratic loss.   Pros: - This gives a very general proof for the common intuition that it is not possible to do semi-supervised learning for discriminative classifiers without making assumptions about the joint distribution of inputs and labels. - One important strength of our analysis is that we also consider the minimization of loss functions that may not induce a correct probability.  - There are no assumptions on the input features so the inputs can be the features extracted from the last layer of a neural network and the results will continue to hold.  Cons: -  In Theorems 1 and 2, the paper shows that "safe" semi-supervised learning, under an extremely stringent definition of safety, is impossible to perform for "reasonable" convex surrogate loss functions such as hinge loss and logistic loss, which seems unsurprising. And on the other side the paper proves that "safe" semi-supervised learning is possible for some "unreasonable" classification surrogate loss functions such as the squared-loss. My main concern is that it is not clear how useful "safe" semi-supervised learning on squared surrogate loss function is since it is not a common surrogate loss anyway. The authors do anticipate this objection in line 304-307 but they really need to give many more examples for their claim that "surrogate losses like the quadratic loss generally give decent performance".  - The definition of safety in this work is very stringent and fairly non-standard. For example, (Sakai 2017) present estimation error bounds for PNU learning and they present sufficient condition when learning from positive-negative and unlabeled data is likely to outperform supervised learning with high probability. The authors should give more motivation for why their definition of safety is preferable compared to Sakai et al.  [Sakai 2017] "Semi-Supervised Classification Based on Classification from Positive and Unlabeled Data" by Sakai et al. ICML, (2017)  === After Author Response ===   Based on the additional references for the use of squared loss provided by authors in their response, I feel better about the use of squared error loss. I will encourage the authors to make space for discussing these references, even if briefly, in the main body of the paper since it can make the audience more accepting of the ideas in the paper. Note that the other reviewers had similar doubt about the usefulness of the results. 