The paper studies the repeated posted-price setting against a single strategic buyer with fixed valuation and a known prior over that valuation, and asymmetric discounting. They give the optimal algorithm when the seller is less patient than the buyer, which is simple and straight-forward but insightful. When the seller is more patient than the buyer, they provide an interesting characterization seller algorithms as a piece-wise linear surplus function over buyer valuations. The final results here are less clean. The authors avoid giving an explicit characterization of the optimal algorithm, but instead suggest an (exponential) procedure for computing the optimal seller algorithm.   “The case of our setting where the time discounts of the seller and 42 the buyer are different was never studied before.” This is studied in the referenced works [7], and [8], specifically where the buyer is less patient than the seller. Perhaps the authors mean that this has previously only been studied in the worst-case setting.   Line 75: It is a little strange to call a sequence a strategy. A strategy is typically a function of the information received on previous rounds, although maybe this distinction is unimportant since A is deterministic?  Line 77: “Given an algorithm A … is uniquely determined.” If this is the case, seller algorithm is constrained to be deterministic, which could be restrictive. This should be stated earlier.   Line 99: “Expected” does not make sense as there is no expectation in (1).   Line 125: “How greater the maximal ESR” => typo   Line 158: typo: Myeson   Line 171: The algorithm requires the seller to know gamma_B.   Line 211: “tangent” here is a little unclear. Do you mean equal at the valuation v?  Lines 213-227: There seems to be something wrong with this construction. Consider, for example, the big deal algorithm from the beginning of the paper. This algorithm is not completely active. Let a be a buyer strategy that accepts the initial big deal, but then rejects some of the free items that come afterwards. There is no valuation that makes this surplus-optimal. However, A(n) cannot be decreased any further (it is already zero). Am I missing something?  