This paper provides both a theoretical and empirical analysis of disparate learning processes (DLPs). Disparate learning processes seek to learn "fair" decision rules by taking into account sensitive attributes at training time but producing rules that do not depend on sensitive attributes.  Building on existing results, the authors show that for two natural measures of disparity between group outcomes, the optimal way to maximize accuracy subject to a disparity threshold is to set group-specific threshold.  They go on to show experimentally the cost of using DLPs, which cannot use information about the sensitive attribute at decision time, compared to group-specific thresholds. As expected, the group-specific thresholds outperform DLPs. Some experiments are done on data that isn't publicly available, though the authors do show similar results on publicly available datasets.  The paper is well-written and easy to understand.  I find the results in this paper to be underwhelming. The theoretical results follow almost directly from Corbett-Davies et al. (reference [10] in the paper), and they imply that DLPs must be suboptimal, which the experiments go on to show. There is an argument to be made for the value of the experiments demonstrating the degree to which DLPs are suboptimal, and this to me is main contribution of the paper; however, this in itself doesn't seem to be particularly compelling.  One interesting direction that the paper touches on is the legal argument for using DLPs. Given that they're clearly suboptimal at reducing the particular forms of disparity being considered here, it's natural to ask why one would consider them at all. Here, the authors claim that DLPs are somehow aligned with the ruling in Ricci v. DeStefano, which set precedent for designing and administering decision-making rules in hiring contexts. This seems to be crucial point: if DLPs are legal in some contexts in which group-specific thresholds are not, then they could be in some sense Pareto-optimal in those contexts; however, if there are no such contexts, then it doesn't seem particularly relevant to investigate how suboptimal they are. This may be outside the scope of this paper, but it would be interesting to see at least some discussion or justification for the use of DLPs.  The biggest factor in my review is the lack of novelty in this work -- in my view, most of the theoretical results are easily derived from previous work, and the empirical results are fairly unsurprising.