Thank you for your response. I would love to see this paper published, but feel that there are still issues that should be addressed: - More convincing experimental results (mostly in terms of effect size) - Better justification as to why fairness is expected to improve under HRM (since, as noted in the response, all subgroups should be effected) - Decoupling the part risk aversion plays in model selection vs. prediction And while my score remains unchanged, I truly hope that a revised and improved version of this paper will be published in the near future.  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  The paper explores a conceptually intriguing question - what if predictive machines were trained with imbued human biases (e.g., loss aversion)? The authors propose that this would trade off accuracy for other measures of interest such as fairness, which they aim to show empirically.  Overall the paper makes an interesting point and offers a novel perspective, and the paper generally reads well. There are however several issues that I'm hoping the authors can elaborate on.  1. I'm having trouble untangling what aspect of the machine learning process is drawn the analogy to human decision making. In some parts of the paper, human preferences are linked to model selection (as in the example in Sec. 2.1, and in general in its relation to the ERM setup). However, the paper is motivated by the increasing use of machines in real-world decision making, which relates not to model selection but to per-instance decisions (made on the basis of predictions).  2. In Def. 1, F is portrayed as 'given'. Is it indeed a given object, or is it the cdf induced by the data distribution (through \ell) (which makes more sense here)?  3. How do the authors propose to optimize the EHRM in Eq. 5? Specifically, how is F and/or F_n modeled and parameterized? Is it computationally efficient to train? In general, F can be a complex function of \theta, and possibly non-differentiable (e.g., if it bins values of \ell).  4. It is not clear which parts of Sec. 4 are novel and which are not.  5. The link between human-aligned risk and fairness is presented in line 176: "... we expect minimizers of HRM to avoid drastic losses for minority groups." I understand why HRM avoids drastic losses, but why would these necessarily account for those of minority groups? This is an important argument that the authors should clarify.  6. The empirical section (which is stated as being a main contribution) is somewhat discouraging, specifically: - he effects seem small and noisy (especially in the figures) - the table is missing many of the stated model configurations - the table lacks significance tests (that should correct for multiple hypotheses, of which there are fairly many) - there is no comparison to other fairness-promoting baselines - Sec. 5.3 considers only one configuration (without and explanation) - feature weights is not a robust (or meaningful) criterion for comparing models 