--  In general, distributed algorithms are measured in terms of the size of messages or by the number of messages. This is not the case here: the only measure taken into account is the regret. I do no understand why the nodes then just not send a vector of O($K$) reals that corresponds to some estimation of the reward of arms. Why   can every agent not broadcast the following information:  for every agent i (if  he knows it),  for each arm a , the number of times  arm a has been selected by agent i, plus estimation of the reward for a. If these informations are available (and of course updated) why matrix P is required?   One must take into accounts the cost of communications. Without these taken into considerations, this is very hard to compare the various algorithms.    -- the paragraph that starts at line 227 (page 5) should be rewritten.   -- How matrix P is computed? Is that expected to be some prior knowledge of the network, or should it be computed in distributed manner? If so, it would be good to consider also the related communication costs (evaluate the quantity of informations that will transit).      -- Page 4, line 190 ``''See [37] for a proof and for a discussion on how to choose matrix P ''. Seeing the role played by the matrix P in this article, the intuition about its meaning should be explained in the current article, otherwise the current article is of very weak interest. I hence disagree that the current paper refers to other articles about how it is built and chosen.    -- The work related to experimentation is very limited (even with the details in appendix). There is no explanation why the algorithm has good performances compared to other algorithms. My opinion is that the topologies that are used are graphs whose nodes have mainly a same type of neighborhood. It would have been good to understand the performance with respect to the ratio ``''number of vertices/diameter`''.  Other comments/questions just listed: --- In the experimental part, the topologies are very regular graphs and that means that matrix $P$ is very regular (an probably too regular). Would it be possible (if the paper is accepted) to do some experimentations on less regular graphs.   --- Are the agents supposed to have distinct identifiers? If this is not the case, I do not understand how the algorithm   is working. There exist some impossibility results:  for example :  Julien M. Hendrickx, John N. Tsitsiklis: Fundamental limitations for anonymous distributed systems with broadcast communications. Allerton 2015: 9-16 