This approach tries to connect together the literature of learning deep embeddings and the literature on disentangled representation learning. In particular, it leverages the weakly supervised training process of the deep embeddings literature, which relies on the availability of data that either belongs to a class (shares a particular generative factor) or not. The authors encourage disentangling by separating the examples of the different classes based on independent per-embedding-dimension hypothesis testing using the F-statistic loss. Two examples are considered to belong to different classes based on their dissimilarity on a subset of d dimensions of the embedding, which allows the approach to be more flexible. The authors also show that this approach works when the separation is done not on class labels, but on attribute features.  The paper is very well written. The approach was evaluated on a number of standard datasets and compared to state of the art baselines in terms of both few-shot classification and disentanglement. It tends to perform as well or better than the baselines on all metrics and in my opinion is worth being published at NIPS. Saying this, I have a few questions:  -- Line 112. You mention sampling x_\alpha1...N and x_\beta1...M instances for each class. Shouldn't these be the same (N=M) given that it is better if N \approx M for ANOVA with unequal variances as you mention in lines 83-84?  -- Line 119. In terms of the separability on d dimensions - can the model look at the top d most different dimensions per batch of a pair of classes? In other words, are these dimensions dynamically changing throughout training?  -- Line 154. embeddings obtained discovered by --> embeddings discovered by  Other thoughts:  It would be very interesting to see how your model performs when combined with a reconstruction log likelihood loss as you suggest in line 125.  In terms of the tradeoff between the modularity and explicitness of the beta-VAE, we have noticed a similar trend. In our observation it happens because the capacity of the latent bottleneck is restricted too much at high beta values. This means that not all of the data generative factors can be represented anymore. Hence, while those generative factors that are represented end up being very well disentangled, the fact that some generative factors are not encoded in the latent space at all means that the explicitness score suffers.   