This paper studies the problem of recovering  n vectors in R^d (up to an isometry by definition of the Procrustes error) based on ordinal feedback. More precisely, the learner observes comparisons between triplets (i,j,k) similar to "j is closer to i than k" sampled from an oracle characterized by a link function. The approach proposed by the authors consist in selecting l landmark items and estimating the corresponding l columns of the distance matrix. This estimation is in 2 steps: i) maximum likelihod estimation under the Bradley-Terry-Luce model (as in ranking via pairwise comparisons) and ii) estimation of the column shifts. Sample complexity bounds are provided. Experiments on both synthetic and real datasets illustrate the efficiency of LOE methods.  Pros. - globally well motivated and well written - well connected with related works (e.g. use of LOE as a warm start for STE) - experimental part  Cons./Comments a) no discussion on the link function: what happens if f is not the logistic function? does LOE generalize? b) Procrustes error not well introduced: give reference or discuss this choice more. Moreover, theoretical error bounds such as Theorem 4 are not expressed in terms of the Procrustes measure. c) replace [n]\i by [n]\{i} (set difference notation) d) Avoid using the "consistent estimation" notation defined at line 104 as it is not explicit: it hides the dependency on epsilon and g. e) Lack of accuracy of the theoretical bounds because of the use of big O notations: constants are hidden. For example in Theorem 2, what is the influence of the regularization parameter lambda? Or in Theorem 4, what does "with high probability" means? (instead say: "with proba larger than 1-delta" and show the dependency on delta in the bound). In general, instead of writing A=O(B), rather write A <= c B and ideally give the expression of the constant c, or at least give the constants on which c depend (e.g. lambda, etc.). f) Rewrite the bound in Theorem 4 to show the rate of decay with respect to the sample budget m (instead of only using the fact that (m/l)=Omega(d^7nlogn)). And discuss the choice l=d+3 in Theorem 4. g) section 4.3 not well structured. Rather summarize it in lemma(s) and/or proposition(s) and give the underlying intuitions.