 The paper proposes a novel kernel for graphs, which is constructed from topological features, namely form persistence diagrams. The major contribution is to learn a weight function for the topological features from labelled graph data, rather than using pre-set fixed weights. In practice, such distance metric is learned on the persistent images, that is a vectorial representation of the persistence diagram. Using the graph labels, the kernel is then specifically optimized to better distinguish between classes. A matrix formulation for speed up calculations is proposed and experiments on graph classification tasks are presented.   Both the novel idea and experimental results support the validity of the proposed method. However, I found the technical structure and notation of the paper to be unclear in the model description; the experiments should be made fair by running the competitor methods with the same setup of the proposed approach.   Detailed comments are provided below  1) Section 2: the notation and background definitions should be presented more clearly.   2) Concepts such as shape or creation/disruption of topological feature can be introduced in a background section.  3) It would be useful to give practical examples of the topological features to consider for the specific graph application. In particular, the paper should better clarify how the proposed approach is extended to the graph framework.  4) It is unclear for which kind of graphs the method is designed. For instance, how are the features generated from node/edge labels/attributes?  5) The matrix representation idea is strongly emphasized to pursue the argument of efficient computation, mentioning that the optimization is faster in the popular programming language. Could the author(s) provide a more technical explanation?   6) It is mentioned that subsampling techniques for large datasets are used. It would be interesting to discuss how this affects the performances and when it is applied.   7) The manuscript claims statistical significance, but this cannot be guaranteed if the methods are not evaluated on the same splits. Taking the results of the other methods from the papers does make the comparison unfair.   %%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Thank you for your response and clarifications. I found the experimental setup to be improved, given the new results that have been provided.