[Update After Rebuttal] The rebuttal and other reviews address many of the issues I raised. I hope authors  improve the readability of the paper for camera ready. I increase my score to 6.  [END of Update]  This paper proposes a method to ask questions based on the information gain for the task of goal oriented dialog. The paper is terribly hard to follow hindering the communicating the technical contributions of the paper. I do not think that NIPS community would benefit from this paper in its current form. I listed my questions and issues I found with the narrative or nitpicking details about the writing. I hope it would help authors increase the quality of the paper.  Q1 Is there a non-trivial reason why you haven't tried your method on Visual Dialogue (VisDual) benchmark? Q2 Similar to papers in the literature, the terms answer and class or target is confusing in the paper. Do you thing replacing respond <> answer, class <> target or ground-truth or gold-label could be better? Q3 L62 states that AQM is a method to understand existing methods. I do not find evidence in the remaining of the paper. Could you clarify that part?  Please cite following papers. I also highly recommend reading their related work sections: "Unified Pragmatic Models for Generating and Following Instructions" Fried et. al. "Reasoning about pragmatics with neural listeners and speakers" Andreas et. al. "A joint speakerlistener-reinforcer model for referring expressions" Yu et. al. "Colors in context: A pragmatic neural model for grounded language understanding" Monroe et. al.  L1 The very first sentence is very important. However, this one does not any depth to the narrative. I highly suggest removing it. L4 "adequate" -> correct, right ? L6 "owing to" -> due to L7 the theory of mind L17 "classical" subjective, please remove L17 I am not sure "including" is the right word. Maybe "problem that needs to be addressed for digital personal ..." L21 "though a good solution .." this tone is not appropriate and not common in our community. Please rephrase it. L31 the theory of mind L67 the first sentence is not connected to the rest of the paragraph. Please rephrase. L137 "selects" -> select L142 "it is why" --> "thus, we need to train the AQM's questioner" L202 "indA" "depA"  "countQ" all the abbreviations are super cryptical. Please remove all of them and expand table 1 with several columns where you indicate different features and learning regimes L204-207 First start motivating the experiments. Why are you doing the experiment? What are the implications of possible outcomes. Then explain the experimental method.  L211-213 Please motivate first why you need to introduce counting method. L226 "comparative" --> "competing" "compared" L236 how do you measure interpretability? You did not mention interpretability till now. It is very abrupt. L260-266 with all abbreviations it is impossible to read this part. Please consider rephrasing. 