EDIT: I thank the authors for their rebuttal. As the authors promised, I stongly encourage them to clarify all notions on a simple example throughout. Some key points of the approach, like the output of the algorithm, had been understood differently by different readers. This is a sign that clarity should be improved.  # Summary of the paper Label switching is the result of the invariance of some likelihood-prior pairs to a group of transformations. It is a major hindrance in obtaining meaningful point estimates in e.g., mixture models. The authors propose a novel point estimate, which is obtained as a Wasserstein barycenter of all symmetrized MCMC samples.  # Summary of the review Overall, I like the paper. First, the topic is impactful; while label-switching may seem obsolete, it is still in many aspects an open problem, and it appears in many ML models, such as neural nets, when treated in a Bayesian way. The paper is well-written, the proposed method is novel, and brings a new viewpoint on the problem, as well as new tools. My main concerns are 1. I would keep a running example using a simple mixture of Gaussians, and strive to relate every abstract notion to this example. Currently, the reader has to wait until Section 4 until he understands what the authors propose in this fundamental example. This should be clear, at a high level, after the introduction. And the more abstract definitions of Sections 2 and 3 would benefit from being related to this concrete running example. 2. There lacks a discussion of how to intepret the reulting point estimates, especially in the case of non unique barycenters. What do the point estimates look like, compared to those obtained using, e.g. Stephens's algorithm with a comparable loss?  # Major comments * L29 "do not identify ... in a principled manner" This statement lets the reader think that the current paper aims at a more principled way. But I could argue that your proposed method also has arbitrary components (the choice of the Wasserstein metric, for starters), which do not follow from basic principles. * L30 to L39: I would add here a paragraph to describe the proposed approach to someone who is used to MCMC for mixture models, at least in a handwavy manner. In particular, it should be clear after the introduction that you propose to take the MCMC chain, replace each sample by a symmetrized measure with finite support, and compute the Wasserstein barycenter of these measures. Correct me if I misunderstood. Currently, I had to wait until Section 5 until I had a complete idea of what the authors propose in this simple case. * Section 3: relatedly, I would add a running example to that section. For instance, keep the mixture example throughout, and explain what the different abstract objects correspond to in that example. At first read I had a hard time understanding what, say, \Omega was in the mixture example. In the end, one has to wait until Sections 4, L167 to L174, to get a grasp of what you propose. * Incidentally, am I right to think of \Omega as the collection of MCMC samples, each of which has been symmetrized and is thus now a finitely-supported measure that is invariant under G? * Section 3: the approach seems to be mainly motivated by the fact that it is convenient to take a barycenter in the quotient space. Could I also take the opposite viewpoint, and say "1) I want to perform loss-based Bayesian inference [Robert, "The Bayesian choice", 2007], 2) my action is the choice of a symmetric finite measure, 3) my loss function is the Wasserstein metric between my choice of finite measure and the symmetrized measure corresponding to the value of the parameters to infer, 4) an approximate Bayes action is thus any Wasserstein barycenter of the symmetrized history of the chain". It seems that I would obtain the same algorithm as yours, but with a clearer Bayesian motivation, what do you think? It would remain to justify the choice of the Wasserstein measure in this application, and maybe the only advantage is that again one can efficiently work on quotient spaces. * L120 to L128: with the intepretation of my previous bullet, non-uniqueness is not really a problem anymore: any minimizer has the minimum loss, and is thus an equally good Bayes action. However, it'd be interesting to exhibit several minimizers in an experiment and discuss their individual properties: some of them may be hard to interpret? * L196: "Moreover..." I did not understand that sentence. * Section 5: Figures are way too small. I understand that keeping under 8 pages is hard, but your figures are unreadable unless zooming. Also, I'd use different markers for scatterplots such as Figure 3, to be more friendly to colorblind readers and poor owners of black-and-white printers. * Section 5: is code available? A simple jupyter notebook with an illustration on 1D mixtures would help the reader make the OT notions more concrete. * Similarly, L262, I would explicitly write your algorithm in the case of mixtures of Gaussians, giving all the details (including weights) to make manifold notions more concrete. For a NIPS submission, I would aim for an imaginary reader who knows a lot about mixtures, understands the necessity of dissambiguate invariance, but who is not used to manipulating OT or manifolds, although he regularly hears about it in different contexts and will quickly follow you if you relate the latter notions to what he/she knows.  # Minor comments * L23: strictly speaking, the prior also needs to be permutation-invariant for the posterior to inherit the invariance. * L111: push-forwards have not been defined so far, maybe this is the right place. * Section 4: actually, most statisticians agree that the best way to represent parameters in a mixture model is through a point process, thus naturally working with configuration spaces. Arguably, one could even say that this is the starting point of Bayesian nonparametric mixtures using Dirichlet processes. I believe this is more closely related to your use of configuration spaces than invoking algebra of physics.