ORIGINALITY  The idea of having a discriminative version of LDA, analogous to logistic regression, is interesting. This idea is carried out quite well with the logistic LDA, its inference algorithm, and classification results using various datasets.  QUALITY  One concern I have is with comparisons with supervised LDA models, such as sLDA, discLDA, or LLDA. I realize these are mentioned in the beginning of the paper, and authors may have felt they are not as relevant, as they are not discriminative models, but I feel that readers would natural wonder about this, and authors should compare them, not necessarily empirically (thought that would be helpful).  Another question I had was about topics being coherent. This paper (and supplementary PDF) shows example topics, both for images and text, but the more accepted evaluation is to actually compute topic coherence, which perhaps cannot be done for images but certainly for documents. The paper says "We find that logistic LDA is able to learn coherent topics in an unsupervised manner.", but I feel this is not supported with sufficient evidence.  CLARITY  This paper is very well written, and it is mostly very clear. However, I had trouble understanding the following few things:  LDA discovers, for each document, a distribution over topics. Does logistic LDA also assign multiple topics (and a distribution over them) for each item? If not, I think this paper should make that clear and discuss this limitation.  Perhaps related to this point, for evaluation of tweets, the papers says that when an author belongs to multiple communities, one is chosen at random. What would this mean in terms of the author classification results?   Lastly, in the tweet classification, I did not fully understand what is meant by the sentence "For LDA, we extended the open source implementation of Theis and Hoffman [36] to depend on the label in the same manner as logistic LDA." I am pretty familiar with the topic modeling literature, and I think this would need more explanation.    Miscellaneous question/comment  -- Authors mention that one of their contributions is a new dataset of annotated tweets. As far as I know, Twitter does not allow distributing tweets that researchers collect. Please make sure and describe exactly how these data will be distributed.   ** Post-author response ** I appreciate the authors responding to the questions and concerns in my review. I am happy with the response and raised my score accordingly.