 Summary The paper describes a generic 2nd order stochastic optimisation scheme exploiting curvature information to improve the trade-off between convergence speed und computational effort. It proposes an extension to the approximate natural gradient method KFAC where the Fisher information matrix is restricted to be of Kronecker structure. The authors propose to relax the Kronecker constraint and suggest to use a general diagonal scaling matrix rather than a diagonal Kronecker scaling matrix. This diagonal scaling matrix is estimated from gradients along with the Kronecker eigenbasis.  Quality The idea in the paper is convincing and makes sense. The derivation in the appendix looks correct. Although the empirical evaluation could have included some more baseline methods, the paper is in a very good state and contains all the information required to turn the idea into an implementation and to judge its merits.  Clarity The paper is well written, the figures are crisp and since the idea is technically simple; the material is easy to grasp.  Originality It seems that the proposed extension was not proposed before but it seems like a straight forward extension.  Significance The extension improves upon the basic KFAC algorithm and hence extends the optimisation toolbox of neural network practicioners.  Empirical Evaluation There are two sets of experiments, an MNIST autoencoder and VGG11 on CIFAR-10. The plots illustrate that there are situations where the extensions yields a favorable outcome compared to plain KFAC and SGD. Unfortunately, there is no curve for a simple diagonal scaling algorithm such as batch normalization or RMSprop, which renders the evaluation slightly incomplete.  Reproducibility The authors do not provide code but a detailed algorithm box in pseudo code. The datasets MNIST and CIFAR-10 are public and the network architectures are standard. So it should be possible to reproduce the results.  Details and Typos - line 63: not sure why there is an $f_theta$ - line 73: "Thus, natural"  I've read the rebuttal and updated the score and evaluation accordingly based on the discussion.    