- An important meta-observation is that the authors focus their work to be contributions to “fairness”. The reviewer believes that the paper is indeed motivated by discussions of fairness, however the paper leans too much on fairness wording, while the actual contributions are about making sure a model adheres to statistical properties and providing tools for developers to check for these. Specific fairness metrics are then examples where this approach can be used. To be more specific, the word “fair” is problematic in the conclusion that “RobinHood is able to return fair solutions with high probability given a reasonable amount of data”. Whether a solution is fair depends on many more aspects than just the statistics of the model, including the context in which a model is used and the ways in which the model is built. That said, there is great value in making sure models are statistically sound to begin with. And it is this basic but crucial challenge that your paper is taking up. - It is noted that the authors require 11 pages of supplemental material. As a result, both the algorithmic section as well as the theoretical section in the main paper are made rather brief and impossible to understand/reproduce without the appendices. The reviewer does not know what the Neurips standards are exactly, but this feel to be a bit over the manageable amount of supplemental material for rigorous review and reproducibility purposes. If the authors have ways to reduce this material and improve the flow of the paper (algorithmic and theoretical sections), that would be appreciated. Concretely, the reviewer believes it’s better to introduce all concepts that are mentioned in the paper in the main paper and not in the appendices (examples: inflateBounds, Assumptions of Theorem 2). - How is the candidate selection done? If the candidate set does not work, how do you resample in a way that increases the likelihood of success? In other words, what is the algorithm to optimize over different candidate sets? This should be addressed in the text. - In Algorithm 1, how do you update the iteration, or how do you construct the set \Theta? Is this agnostic to the ML model class/algorithm used? - The following sentence lacks clarity: “At a high level, in these helper functions, bounds on the base variables are found by recursively looking at sub-expressions of $E_i$ until a base variable is encountered, upon which, real valued upper and lower $(1 - \delta_i)$-confidence bounds on the base variable’s estimators are computed and subsequently propagated through $E_i$”. Please explain what is meant by “sub-expressions of $E_i$” and “propagated through $E_i$”. - Lemma 1 requires on details of algorithms specified in Appendix (inflateBounds) to set up the lemma. The reviewer is not fully familiar with the standards for Neurips papers, but it is advised to write the Lemma in plain English and only use quantities that are introduced in the main text. - Line 206: The term Seldonian does not seem to be very common. Please explain what it entails. - Theorem 2: the Assumptions are all written in the appendix. If the theorem is important, then understanding under what assumptions it holds, and what these assumptions mean in a practical context is just as important. Therefore the authors are advised to render visible in the main paper the assumptions (and thereby the affordances and restrictions) of their approach. - Line 250: in claiming the ability to “satisfy multiple and novel fairness criteria”, please provide nuances about the limitations of your approach. There are inherent impossibilities in trying to satisfy  multiple criteria, see [1, Section “Formal non-discrimination criteria”] and [2]. The paper’s algorithmic advance does not undo these formal restrictions, and the authors should there be careful about their claims, doing justice to the inherent limitations of fairness work, also acknowledging the . [1] S. Barocas, M. Hardt, and A. Narayanan, “Fairness in machine learning,” NIPS Tutorial, 2017. [2] J. Kleinberg, S. Mullainathan, and M. Raghavan, “Inherent Trade-Offs in the Fair Determination of Risk Scores,” in 8th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference (ITCS 2017), Dagstuhl, Germany, 2017, vol. 67, pp. 43:1--43:23. - Line 254: It is not clear what the role of expected rewards for female and male are in determining whether a model is fair. In line 261, fairness is mentioned without a proper explanation of why that is fair. It seems to the reviewer that there may be structural issues in the expected rewards, and therefore it would be needed to be more clear and explicit about why these constraint objectives are chosen. If it is just about making sure the empirical mean and expected value are in line for each group, that is merely making sure that each group is well trained, and the language of “fairness” should be toned down. - Equation below line 296 seems to have a typo P(A|C) = 1, should probably be P(A=1|C). Same for the other probability. - The related work session comes at the end. The authors are advised to move it to the beginning of the paper. It is important for motivating the work in this paper. For instance, in lines 330-334: The authors state a high-level reason why “the prior classification-centered approaches cannot directly apply due to the different type of environmental feedback in these settings”. This is an important argument, which should be part of the introduction. In addition, the authors should explain which fairness metrics can and cannot be applied and make clearer why (the feedback argument is not clear enough).