The paper clearly identifies which parts/techniques are taken from other papers (i.e. known coreset construction from Har-Peled et al), and where extensions have been made. It also gives a good overivew on the contributions and experiments and is easy to follow. The main techniques behind the theoretical coreset constructions are well-known from [25]. The two new components are the observation regarding the reduction of constraint types (theorem 4.2) and the Lemmata regarding the analysis of the number of "contiguous intervals" (Lemma 4.1 and Lemma 5.1 / B.2). (Note that Theorem 4.2 is a generalisation of Lemma 6 in [36].) It is great that, in contrast to many theoretical clustering papers, this paper includes an evaluation of a practical version of the  algorithm that's analysed in the theoretical part of the paper.  However, there are also some things about the experiments that I struggle with:   * As always, it is a bit hard to interpret the cost alone (without any goal of what actually will be done with the clustering). For errors of up to 10%, the results seem to be comparable with the BICO solution [36]. After that, there's a small gap (up to about 5%) between the solutions. I'm not sure if this is significant or not.   * There is *no* comparison to simpler baselines, ie.g. to uniform sampling where, to ensure fairness, one could just sample uniformly at random per "constraint type". (One might suspect that the number of constraint types grows, the performance of this simple baseline should become better and better (as the constraint types pre-partition the space kind of)).   * The experiments are only on two specific data sets. Given the fast processing times (cf. T_S and T_X in Tables 3 and 4), it is surprising that not more datasets have been considered.   * ... and the times needed to compute the coresets are not reported. Moreover, there is one point (right in the problem definition section) that remains unclear to me: the re-definition described in ll. 131 (after Definition 2.1): "a point [...] may be partially assigned to more than one cluster". This seems unnecessary. I guess the original intent was just to point out that the pointwise costs are now weighted? (otherwise, I might be missing something here)  Besides, some minor remarks: - Theorem 4.2 is not a pure "existence" statement (and it would be useless in the following if it was just that) - this should be made clear. - Table 2 is a bit confusing since some rows still contain eps, which should be Omega(1) - It should be made clear that a practial variant of the theoretical algorithm is evaluated. - There are some typos: several upper/lower-case typos in the references , l. 40 (due to the scale at which one is required to clustering), l. 175 (let ... denotes the) 