This paper considers the problem of online continuous DR-submodular maximization under full information and bandit feedback settings and also extends the bandit algorithm to the online discrete submodular maximization problem and provides sublinear regret bounds for each case.  Originality: This work can be characterized as a novel combination of well-known techniques. This paper builds upon the previous work on online continuous submodular maximization and using the well-known sphere sampling estimator, they provide a one-point unbiased estimation of the gradient for the bandit setting which is the main contribution of this work. All the related work and techniques used in this paper are adequately cited.  Quality: This paper provides theoretical analysis for all their claimed results and after doing a high-level check of the proofs, the analysis is technically sound. However, all the proofs are moved to the supplementary file and the main paper is focused on providing a high-level description of the algorithms. I think mentioning the main proof techniques and proof sketches in the main paper could be really beneficial. The paper doesn't provide any experimental results to verify the effectiveness of their proposed algorithms in practice. However, the theoretical contributions of this paper are significant enough to make up for the lack of experiments.  Clarity: The paper is extremely well-written and is easy to follow even for one who is not familiar with the prior work on this topic.  Significance: As it was mentioned in my response to the previous question, this paper obtains the first sublinear regret bound with a single gradient evaluation per step for the full information setting and additionally, it provides the first sublinear regret bound for the problem in the bandit setting. The main contribution of this paper is the technique used for one-point unbiased gradient estimation in the bandit setting and it is indeed a significant contribution. However, it seems that using other gradient estimation techniques rather than the sphere sampling estimator may lead to better regret bounds (which is an interesting future research direction).  