SUMMARY The authors introduce a new algorithm to compute in a distributed manner the (regularized) Wasserstein barycentre (on a fixed grid) of a family of distributions that can be sampled from. The authors reformulate elegantly the problem using the Fenchel conjugate of the entropy-regularized Wasserstein loss. They solve this problem with an accelerated stochastic gradient method on the dual and show how to recover the barycentre from these iterations, with precise error bounds. They conclude with experimental results realized on various distributed network configurations and on various images datasets.  QUALITY Compared to previous methods, the approach and analysis adopted in this article allows to greatly reduce the computations and communication needed once a new sample is observed. This leads to an efficient way to compute Wasserstein barycenters, even in the undistributed setting or in the discrete measures setting. The experimental results are relevant and agree with the theoretical part.   CLARITY The related work  and contribution section is particularly well written. I have doubts about the relevance of introducing an abstract setting in Section 3, but this might be a matter of taste. Also, I have a tendency to prefer the "unaccelerated variant" of an algorithm to be introduced first because the accelerated steps makes the pseudo-code much harder to parse.  ORIGINALITY The ideas presented here a quite natural from a distributed computing point of view, but are assembled for the first time for the computation of Wasserstein barycenter. The dual formulation is elegant and the authors had to prove new results to convert the dual convergence guarantee into primal guarantees.  SIGNIFICANCE In my opinion, this paper constitutes a reference method for the distributed computation of barycenters. The main limitation of the setting is the need for a fixed discrete support for the barycenter, but removing this constraint is certainly challenging.  SPECIFIC REMARKS Here I list some remarks or suggestions:  - l.21 : I find the explanation a bit strange and, as such, brings opacity (this statement could apply to any "length distance"). - I would state somewhere in the introduction that support of the unknown barycenter is fixed in advance. - l.134 : I am not sure that this changes anything (I guess that the solution does not change as long as the reference measure has a density with respect to the uniform distribution that is of the form f(y)*g(z) )  - l.153 : maybe say that this is the Kronecker product - l.203 : replace Phi(x,xi) by Phi(lambda,xi). Although I understand that it stands for "equivalence of oracle", the equality sign here is somewhat misleading. - l.207 : gradient - Theorem 1 : norm should be the norm in E. The output eta_N does not appear in (6), so it is void to say that it "satisfies" (6). - in Algorithm 1, the primal iterate x can be computed offline (given the sequences lambda, xi and tau ) : if I understand well, this algorithm is simply accelerated stochastic gradient method on the dual problem, but you are able to transfer the error bounds to the primal variable/objective using primal-dual relationships. If I am correct, then I think it would be much more clear if presented this way. In particular, I find the name "primal-dual" slightly misleading. - l.293 : missing space - I would have liked a comparison with unaccelerated stochastic gradient  [UPDATE AFTER REBUTTAL I am still confident that this paper is a good contribution to NIPS and I am very satisfied with authors' response. In particular, the theoretical issue raised by reviewer #3 seems to be resolved.]