Summary:  The authors present an angular discretization of a neural network with desirable properties that should also hold for the neural network if the  discretization error is minimal. The proposed discretization is an attempt to provide a new tool to the toolkit of theorical analysis of deep neural networks.  Quality:  The experiment section is very short and it is not followed by a discussion, thus results analysis is not developed enough. The interpolation made between the PNNs properties and unconstrained neural networks based on the low  approximation error of PNNs is not grounded on any proof.  Clarity:   The introduction is too long and contains too many details. Second and fourth paragraphs should be moved in a related work section. Paragraphs 3 and 6 contains too many details about the PNN model. This makes the reading difficult and the storyline becomes unclear. The idea is somehow simple add very easy to understand when presented as an 'angular discretization of functions'. This intuitive interpretation should be given in the introduction in a concise way.  The base theory presented is clear but could also be more concise. It is not  clear for example why they present a risk as the MSE. Is it necessary? If not  then this kind of detail should be skipped.   The definitions of matched and mismatched PNNs should be briefly reexplained in beginning of section 4 and 5. The proporties mentioned at line 124 should be at least enumerated in the core text. This sounds too important to be totally relayed to SM.   The purpose of sections 4, 5 and 6 is difficult to understand. We end up with a bound on the approximation error based on the size of the PNN and the UNN, but  it is not clear why would this information be helpful. Is the goal to infer correspondence of PNN's properties to UNNs? If yes, then the bound on the approximation error does not give any information about how accurate is this interpolation. At best we can only assume that the validity of the  interpolation is inversely propertional to the approximation error.  Originality:  The discretization scheme presented seems remanescent of projection methods such as the one described in [1]. Maybe a comparision with such random projection methods should be given in this work.  Significance:  In my opinion this work would be hardly reusable unless a stronger proof is given for the correspondence of PNN and UNN properties.