Summary of the model: A set of samples is either drawn from p or from some q chosen by an attacker from a set Q. The defended must look at the samples and decide which is the case. The attacker gets utility if the defender decides incorrectly, but pays some cost for drawing the samples that depends on the choice of q.   Summary of results: Shows existence of a mixed-strategy Nash equilibrium. Leaves open existence of pure strategy, or natural conditions under which the equilibrium is pure (it seems to me this would be a very nice and likely result, given some strengthening of the assumptions). Shows that in equilibrium, error rates concentrate to zero as the number of samples n grows large. Gives an asymptotic result on the rate of concentration, which is exponential in n.   Originality: medium-high. Combines ideas from different literatures to ask an interesting new question at the intersection. Quality: medium. Well-written and organized, results are a strong starting point for the problem introduced. Clarity: medium-high in my opinion. Significance: medium-high in my opinion. Hopefully will spark more work in this are in both modeling and results; perhaps applications as well.   Strengths:  - the paper is well-written and well-organized. However, I admit that I did not fully understand where the model was going from the introduction, until I got to Section 3 itself.  - the model is an interesting point to bridge from. It incorporates aspects of adversarial classification, hypothesis testing, and strategic attacker-defender games (strategic classification).  - the results are nice starting points as well, although I feel it seems relatively clear these must be true given the assumption that p and Q are separated.   Drawbacks:  - not a constructive algorithm or computational results, though this feels possible.  - model of attacker feels specific. It makes sense that the separation of Q from p is necessary for these results. But it feels natural that in many cases, the attacker could construct a strategy by first sampling from p, then making arbitrary (perhaps small) changes.   Other: Many questions arise for me, but it doesn't mean the paper is incomplete -- these could be future work. Can we compute an equilibrium; is it unique? (If not, are there natural assumptions where it is?) Is it ever pure-strategy; are there assumptions under which it is always pure-strategy?  It would also be interesting to understand the "gain" we get from knowing the game is not zero-sum and the adversary is strategic, and playing an equilibrium, versus if we had just played a min-max strategy and assumed the adversary only tried to minimize our utility.  For works like this, one may find the "Stackelberg equilibrium" concept useful. It supposes that the defender first commits to a strategy, then the attacker responds. It is used in some of this security games literature and may make sense here as well. That may turn out to have computational or existence implications.  Nice job on this paper and please respond to any of my comments if you feel it would be helpful.  --------  After response: Thanks for the author response. It was clear, interesting, and informative.