Summary: this submission considers Gaussian process regression when only aggregate outputs are available, that is individual outputs are not reported but grouped or bagged together. The paper proposes a likelihood model based on exponential families, assuming the mean parameters for the aggregate likelihood is the weighted sum of those of individual likelihoods. Inference and learning are made tractable using the popular sparse variational approximations based on pseudo-points. Additional intractable expectations in the lower bound are sidestepped using Taylor expansion or additional lower bounding. Some experiments were provided to support the proposed model and inference scheme.  Comments: The paper only focused on the Poisson case and developed additional approximations specific to this case. However, it is unclear how to move beyond these models (Poisson, exponential or normal [with very specific constraints]), say classification with binary aggregate outputs?. Only the Poisson case was demonstrated on real data.   The Titsias's variational approximation based on inducing points used here is, perhaps, well-known, and the approximation presented in this paper is a straightforward extension of Titsias's method for aggregate likelihoods.  The Poisson model was tested on one toy and one real world dataset. On the toy dataset, the results seem to be mixed and that the Nystrom method is doing quite well. On the real dataset, it is hard to judge quantitatively how well each model performs as the numbers in the appendix are really close [not to mention Bayesian linear regression with Nystrom features is again doing well here] and the standard errors are quite big, though I agree that, looking at the figures, the predictions using the VBAgg-Sq might be more interpretable. It might be interesting and informative if this was tested on another dataset where testing can be done at the individual pixel level, as well as the bag level.   Clarity: The paper is generally well written. The notations in section 3.1 are quite heavy.  Note: I have read the author response and will keep my original rating and evaluation as is. The work in this submission is solid, but would be great if the proposed model + inf method could be evaluated on some extra real datasets. 