This paper studies the geometry of deep networks with piecewise affine and convex nonlinearities using the max affine spline operator (MASO) framework (BB18a, BB18b). The authors establish a connection between input space partitioning of a neural network and power diagrams. They present analytical formulas for the power diagrams and decision regions. The paper is well-written, and presents interesting theoretical results. It would be great if the authors can provide more details on the computational aspects. Please see below for detailed comments/questions.  (0) It is obvious that deep neural networks with relu activations (and more generally MASOs) are piecewise linear functions where the input partitionings are convex polytopes (according to which max is active). Can you please clarify how does the power diagram notation advance this knowledge ?  (1) In eq (1), it looks like the '.' (dot) in the notation  [A^(l)]_{k,r,.}   is not defined. Could you please clarify this  (2) On page (2), is the notation z^{l}(x) used to explicitly state its dependence to the input x ? Is there any difference between x and bold case x ?  (3) Can you please clarify what you mean by 'orthogonal filters' on line 158, page 5 ?  (4) It would be great if the authors can provide details on computing the centroids and radii for all partitionings. What is the largest size that can be tackled ? Can they be approximated, e.g. by Monte Carlo ?  (5) Can you explain how the centroids can be used in semi-supervised learning ? (line 216 page 7)  (6) The proof of Theorem 4 doesn't appear to be included in the supplementary file  (7)  Can you please summarize how this work differs from the earlier works [BB18a, BB18b] ?  (8) Notational issues in the supplementary material:  In the proof of Theorem 1, what does the calligraphic v in V([t}_1) stand for ? Is the lower-case b same as upper-case B ?  (9) Proof of Lemma 6 needs clarification in most of the steps. In particular, how does the second inequality follow ?  (10) Can you provide the precise statement of the result from [Joh60] and its details (page number, theorem number etc.) ?