The paper introduces the three-slice Wasserstein metric as a generalization of the well known sliced-Wasserstein metric. The new metric can be computed very efficiently and it is more flexible than the sliced metric. The underlying idea is simple and appealing and it can potentially have a sizable impact on the generative modeling and variational inference. The paper also introduces a new positive-definite kernel.  In general, I think that the contributions of the paper are relevant and original. The writing is clear and the basic ideas are properly presented to the reader. However, I have some concerns concerning the theoretical results and the experimental analysis.  Major comments: - Most of the theoretical results (proposition 1 and 2) are not original as they follow directly from previous work on the tree OT metrics. In my opinion, the bound on the Wasserstein distance given at line 185 is an interesting result as it partially justifies the minimization of the sliced-tree metric as a proxy  for the minimization of the intractable Wasserstein metric. However, this result should be complemented with further analysis concerning the tightness of the bound and the limiting behavior for the number of trees tending to infinity under several possible tree distributions. Specifically, the properties of this limit under the hypercube sampling model deserves further investigation. In absence of theoretical result, it would be useful to run a numeric analysis comparing the limit of the hypercube tree-sliced metric to the Wasserstein metric and the sliced Wasserstein metric.   - The experimental section is fairly well done. However, the first experiment on topological data analysis is a bit to esoteric and it is not easy to interpret for the many readers not familiar with the field. All experiments concern with the tree-sliced  kernel but most of the paper is concerned with the metric itself. It would have been very useful to have an experiment where the metric is used in a more conventional OT problem such as color transfer or generative modeling.  Minor comments: - The results of the topological analysis are scattered across too many figures. I would suggest to organize them on a single multi paneled figures.  - The word embedding experiment should probably be presented before the TDA experiment as it is easier to understand for a wider audience.