Post-Rebuttal: Many thanks to the authors for their rebuttal and the effort they put on addressing some of the issues identified by the reviewers. The results presented seem to be on par with EM but the technique is a novel spin on the capsule routing. I am still not convinced that the main principles of Capsules are represented in the formulations presented but I am curious about the future iterations and improvements. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Originality: The paper explores an interesting avenue involving capsule networks, by bridging attention logic and capsule convolutional nets. The idea of using attention in capsule networks in itself is not brand new [Zhang et al., 2018, Li et al., 2019], however the formulation presented here is substantially different as it replaces the iterative routing with differentiable binary decision neurons for connecting between lower and higher level capsules via straight-through gumbel-softmax.   Quality: The technical content of the paper appears to be generally sound and the overall argument for the approach is persuasive enough. It seems plausible that replacing the iterative/recurrent nature of other routing algorithms with attention can work better, as is the case with recurrent networks and the Transformer.   One concern is the use of a global average pooling layer in the Decision-Learner (195-197) and activation probability (174-177) which seems to be against the capsule network philosophy outlined in the introduction and in previous works. I may be missing some details so perhaps further explanation and rationale for this decision could be made explicit.   The authors also opted for a differentiable hard attention module as opposed to soft when connecting capsules from a lower level (object parts) to higher level capsules (objects). The goal of capsule networks is to learn part-whole relationships and increase resilience to input transformations. So one can imagine a lower level capsule representing a wheel which should be connected in part to a higher level capsule representing a car, and another representing a different vehicle and the connection strengths depend on the objects properties such as scale/skew/viewpoint etc. Among other examples, it may seem rudimentary to have a purely binary decision on whether to connect a part of an object. Perhaps the authors could comment on this and clarify that their approach does indeed stay true to the original capsule network philosophy/logic.  Clarity: The paper is well written and the notation used is clear enough. However, a minor issue is that it may be difficult to follow for readers who are unfamiliar with capsule networks. The authors could consider making the introduction of capsule networks in general a little more detailed or aided by a diagram. Moreover, in light of previous work on capsules the authors could also consider adding a pseudocode Algorithm of their approach to make their explanation clearer and easier to replicate for the community.  Significance: The paper explores capsule networks which is a field in its early stages of research so the results presented are not state-of-the-art, which is to be expected, so the comparisons are made with previous work on capsules. There are several comparisons made with the EM routing algorithm on multiple datasets, showing that there is merit to the approach. However, the majority are made using MNIST which is indicative but not the best benchmark to use since it’s overused/simplistic. The novel view-point performance on smallNORB is nicely presented, but an overall classification performance on this dataset is missing. This would be a great addition/comparison to draw since smallNORB is the primary benchmark for capsule networks as EM routing holds the state-of-the-art performance. The authors could also consider comparing directly to other works aside from the original EM routing paper to validate their approach and strengthen their argument. The experiments on CIFAR/ImageNet indicate that the approach is somewhat scalable and that there is room for improvement going forward. In summary, the potential impact of capsule networks in general is significant and this paper proposes an alternative method so it is interesting to the capsule network research community.  Zhang, N., Deng, S., Sun, Z., Chen, X., Zhang, W. and Chen, H., 2018. Attention-based capsule networks with dynamic routing for relation extraction. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.11321.  Li, J., Yang, B., Dou, Z.Y., Wang, X., Lyu, M.R. and Tu, Z., 2019. Information Aggregation for Multi-Head Attention with Routing-by-Agreement. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.03100. 