Authors propose a novel framework for instance segmentation on 3D point clouds. The idea is new and I haven’t seen it being used in 3D before. The idea is to predict a set of 3D bounding boxes from some global feature of the 3D scene, pair predicted bounding boxes with ground truth ones using optimal assignment algorithm and then calculate carefully designed loss.   Quality:  Generally, the quality of the work is good.   The Computation Analysis section needs to be extended. Authors claim that their approach is approximately 10× more computationally efficient than (at least some) previous ones. Since the nature of approaches in 3D instance segmentation differs so much and different pre- and post-processing steps are used, it would be great to provide specific performance measurements for each step of the whole pipeline run at least for a couple of the solutions (e.g. with open code). E.g., many of the methods mentioned in this paper use Voxelization pre-processing, BlockMerging, Clustering, NMS, and true some of these can be costly, but on the other hand 3D-BoNet requires an additional run of SCN semantic segmentation  - how does the cost of that compare to these other components?  It would be much better to see some hard numbers on this comparison and not too hard to do (at least for the ones with code and are already prepped to run on Scannet).  Clarity:   The paper is well-written and structured clearly. The notation is good and overall paper is easy to read and understand. The code is going to be open-sourced, great!   One of the key contributions of the paper is the ability to approximate the gradient for the Hungarian algorithm.  This is a key component, and without an explicit statement of the gradient (more detailed than what is shown in the appendix) this method would be difficult to reproduce.  Aside from that, it looks like it would be possible to reproduce paper results.  Minor comments: Typo - “... Ai,j =1 iff the …” (page 4) SGPN [49] uses 1.5m×1.5m blocks for ScanNet training (see their C.1. Section).  Originality:   The paper presents an original and new method for 3D instance segmentation. The proposed approach correlates well with the proposal-free, per-point solutions for object detection that are gaining popularity in 2D.  Significance:   The results of the paper are valuable for people who research 3D instance segmentation problems (possibly 2D too). There aren’t many working approaches in this field and since 3D (2D) instance segmentation task is not as mature as say 2D object detection every new approach (especially an effective one) is certainly welcomed. 