The manuscript proposes a novel graph kernel for labelled graphs with ordered neighborhood. The main idea of the proposed (KONG) framework is to explicitely represent graphs using a particular feature map. This mapping is done by representing each node with a string representation derived from its neighborhood using a sketching technique to get compact represenations. Finally, the graph is the overall sum of the representation of its nodes. Authors provides also proofs about the complexity of the proposed algorithms and some bounds about the approximation made by using sketching methods. Finally, experiments with both standard graphs and neighborhood ordered graphs are desribed, showing the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposal.  The paper is clear and well written. The structure is ok and provides all the necessary background to ease the reader throughout the paper. In my opinion, the related work part is a bit weak and I would suggest to add some other references, e.g., - Graph Kernels Exploiting Weisfeiler-Lehman Graph Isomorphism Test Extensions, Giovanni Da San Martino, Nicolò Navarin and Alessandro Sperduti.  In Neural Information Processing, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Volume 8835, 2014, pp 93-100. - A Lossy Counting Based Approach for Learning on Streams of Graphs on a Budget, Giovanni Da San Martino, Nicolò Navarin, Alessandro Sperduti. In 23rd. International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, August 3-9, 2013 -  Beijing, China.  The technical part seems sound to me, and I've appreciated that all the proofs are in a separate Appendix. Regarding the experimental section I have the following comments: - It is not clear why the authors have selected those baselines. Which was the rationale behind such choice? - I've noticed that between the experiments with general graphs and ordered neighborhood graphs the validated ranges for the SVM hyper-parameter C  are different. Why? In particular, in the case of general graph the range seems quite small to me; - I would suggest to add a table with some information (#of classes, #of graphs...) about the used datasets even though they are pretty standard ones; - In Table 1, authors provide, inside the parenthesis, the best performing parameters. It is not clear to me whether the parameters have been selected a-posteriori or they have been validated. In the latter case should not be possible to give best performing parameters (each validation has its own best parameters); - Table 2: Since the experiments have been repeated several times the standard deviation should be reported (as in the previous case); - Table 2: It is not clear why KL has no AUC and accuracy for Movielens.     = = = = = = = = = =  Thank you to the authors for the response. I think this paper is a good paper and I confirm my evaluation.