Originality: The problem considered in this paper has not been extensively studied yet. The proposed solution is based on a nice combination of techniques from active learning and combinatorial bandits.  Quality: I didn't check proofs in appendix, but results look reasonable to me.  Clarity: This paper is well-organized. However, its technical part is a little bit dense and more explanation might be helpful. Below are some detailed comments: 1. It is very nice to motivate the problem with an application in the introduction. However, the example given is a little confusing to me. For example, Figure 1 is not well explained (what's the difference between babb and aaa? what does the distribution of bueired NPSA mean? What do you mean by "the distribution of a feature that is highly correlated with the fitted logistic model"?). These details might be irrelevant, but can be distracting for readers. Another issue is that when I was reading this part for the first time, at some point I thought the main issue was sampling bias or class imbalance, but actually this is not the point the authors want to make. 2. It might be easier to read if the authors could explain some high level intuitions for Algorithms 1 and 2 before explaining details. 3. Many definitions are not well explained (for example, V_\pi, V_{\pi, \pi'} in line 178-179, \tau_\pi in line 184-185, ...). Explaining these might shed some lights on how the algorithm/proof works and how much improvement had been made. 4. There seem to be some contributions this paper claims but are not very well explained in the main body. For example, the log(n) factors mentioned in line 121, local VC dimensions in line 180, the improvement over disagreement coefficient in section 3.1.  Significance: This problem is well-motivated, and results are better than standard baselines/existing methods. One downside though is that the techniques seem a straightforward extension of existing ones.  == After rebuttal: The authors have clarified some of my concerns. I hope the authors could improve the clarity of the technical part, and be more specific about the main challenges and the significance of its contribution in the future version. 