Summary of main ideas of the submission  The authors propose an extension of VAEs to a setting in which unsupervised latent subspaces are discovered. The latent subspaces capture meaningful attributes of each class.  Relation to previous work  The proposed CVAE is a straightforward extension of the semi-supervised VAE of Kingma et al. This relationship is clearly explained, a more detailed discussion of subspace analysis is missing.  Quality  The work is thoroughly executed and all derivations are sound. The experiments are well-done, but fail to clearly highlight the selling point of the method.  Disentanglement of attributes has been achieved in various papers and it is unclear how this particular model advances the state of the art, or even how it exactly compares to it.  Clarity  The paper is clearly written. The motivation is not very clear and the sizes of subspaces are chosen heuristically with no clear explanation. It would have also been helpful if the authors had included a graphical model diagram or at least a figure that displays the exact architecture used in some of the experiments. It is also not clear to me how attributes can be shared among classes and why it would be desirable to represent classes in independent, non-overlapping subspaces.  Originality  The work is original, as only a few works have added additional unsupervised structure into the latent space.  However, the originality is limited by the fact, that there is no clear explanation as to why the proposed structure is superior to other approaches that disentangle attributes from identity.  Significance  The paper is not very significant, as no new application or necessity for the work is presented.  No urgent point as to why this work should be presented at a top-tier conference like NIPS is brought across.  ======= Update Rebuttal:  I found the paper interesting and the results relevant. However, the presentation was not clear enough, especially with respect to how the main contributions have been presented. After reading the restated core contributions in the rebuttal and reading through the paper several times again, I found the core contribution (being able to manipulate class-specific attributes from a single example) much clearer. This is indeed a relevant and interesting novelty.  It would be great if the authors would have shown the proposed algorithm visually and put a stronger focus on the implications of their core contributions. Especially the role of the unstructured z space would have been much easier to grasp with a figure of the graphical model.  I like the paper better quite a bit better after reconsideration and thank the authors for the insightful rebuttal. As the authors address the main points of criticism and promise to rewrite the paper to make all of this more clear, I raised my score.