This paper attempts to answer the question of whether it is necessary to have the specialized architectures to solve the video prediction problem, and hypothesizes that the specialized architectures are not necessary and instead “standard” neural networks are capable of solving the problem as long as the networks are large enough. The paper then goes on in verifying this hypothesis using “standard” large networks in three datasets corresponding to three different types of video activities for video prediction.  The paper claims that this was the first work to answer the question of whether it is necessary to specialized architectures for video prediction and provides the empirical study addressing this question with “standard” large networks. While I am not sure whether this was the first such work on this question (I personally did not see such work before indeed), the hypothesis is pretty much in line with the well known understanding that larger networks may provide better generalization capability in general, that is supported in recent literature including those mentioned in the related work in this paper. Consequently, I am not surprised to see that the hypothesis was verified in the empirical studies reported in the paper, and thus, I don’t see that the novelty of this work is terribly impressive though I appreciate the efforts in conducting and reporting the experiments in this paper.  Regarding the empirical studies reported in the paper, I have the following two more comments/requests.  First, for the scenes in the three datasets studied (object interaction, human motion, and car driving), they are relatively causality-explicit in nature, and thus there is not much uncertainty in prediction. What if you have a scene with more uncertainty or stochasticity such as natural scene motion (e.g., tornado) or events (e.g., crowd gathering, earthquake)?  Second, presumably, the prediction accuracy also depends upon the length of the history data. Can you provide such empirical studies in the three datasets?  The above was my original review. I read authors' response and am happy with their answers. I still have my reservation regarding the novelty issue. But I am happy to bump up the overall score to 7.