[Post-rebuttal: The authors' response addressed some of my concerns and I have no problem seeing this paper accepted.  However, although the authors pointed out some differences between their method and the nonparametric Bayesian methods, they didn't address directly whether the nonparametric Bayesian methods could find an approximate probability of the clustering solutions.  If those methods could, it would be better if the proposed method could be compared to those methods.]  The paper proposed a method based on dynamic programming for computing the exact probability of clustering.  The proposed method reduces the time complexity by a factor of N (number of data samples) compared to the best known complexity.  The paper is generally well written.  It studies a meaningful problem attempting to find the exact distribution of clustering.  Though the resulting time complexity is still exponential in N and the proposed method is only feasible on small data sets, the reduction by a factor of N from the previous best known result looks significant.  One limitation of the theoretical result is that it is based on the assumption of an energy-based probability model for clustering.  Although the computation is exact, the resulting clustering distribution is still a approximation if the real data does not match the assumption of the energy model very much.  I think the paper should make the implication of this assumption clear or discuss more about it.  Even better, the authors may study the significance of this assumption using some synthetic data with known cluster labels in a longer version of this paper.  The empirical study showed that a direct measure (pairwise similarity) is not as good as the proposed method for finding the probability that two data points belong to the same cluster (pairwise marginals).  However, it does not seem to show that it is useful for finding such “pairwise marginals” or finding the distribution of clustering in practice.   Questions:  * There are some non-parametric clustering methods (e.g. Dirichlet Processes) that can give a (approximate) distribution over clustering models.  Could you please explain the difference between your proposed method and those Bayesian methods in your paper?   Minor comments:  Line 81-82: “reducing the time complexity of the problem from super exponential to sub-quadratic in the size of the cluster trellis” => This comparison is misleading, since it is using a different units. Line 112: The paper relates the proposed method with Variable Elimination.  Although I am quite familiar with VE, I don’t see many similarity between the proposed method and VE, except that both are based on dynamic programming.  Perhaps the authors may elaborate on this. Algorithm 1 should move to top or bottom. It doesn’t have a proper location now. The authors may briefly explain why Fact 1 is true (in addition to the proof already provided) since this seems to be an important fact for the proposed method. Line 292: “This highlights the superiority” => The authors may explain how to see this.