The authors consider unsupervised co-learning on G-manifolds. In particular they extend vector diffusion maps (VDM) to leverage more than one irrep of G. They calculated normalized and (spectrally) filtered adjacency matrices W_k corresponding to each irrep rho_k. They consider three approaches to dealing with pairwise alignment (i.e. finding the group operation that aligns datapoints i and j): 1) explicit optimization 2) using the trace of the power spectrum of W_k, averaged over k 3) using the trace of the bispectra of all pairs of irreps, averaged over pairs. The later two approaches are invariant to the explicit alignment so avoid the inner optimization leading to computational savings.   The paper is clearly written although the mathematical content is substantial. There are a number of small typos/grammatical errors so I would suggest carefully proof-reading on resubmission.   Is m_k defined in the text somewhere?  Define the direct sum when it is first used and not again.   It is challenging to fit this much material into an 8 page conference paper and the exposition suffers as a result. For people unfamiliar with topological data analysis more examples/intuition/figures on the setup would be helpful, e.g. a Mobius strip M is a simple canonical example of a fibre bundle where B is a circle and the fibers run perpendicular but twisting to B. Explicitly relating symbols to elements of cryoEM example might also help: e.g. G corresponds to possible rotations of the molecule. This would be more useful than the algorithms which could be moved to the supplement: algos 2, 3 and 4 are trivial (just apply the appropriate equations) and even algo 1 is obvious from the text.   This approach has a lot of tunable parameters: k_max, m_k, sigma or number of nearest neighbors. How are these picked?   The results are encouraging but it's disappointing that all the applications are to simulated data. Why not apply the method to real cryoEM data? Simply recovering the correct neighbors is not usually a task of interest in its own right: how do these improvements translate into a task of interest? I'm sure what that would be for cryoEM: accuracy of the estimated 3d structure maybe?   Typo in fig1: one edge in the second irrep is labelled rho_1 rather than rho_2.   Edit: I've read the author response and the other reviews. I'm updating my score to a 7. 