This paper presents a general method for distribution testing for classes of distributions that have a sparse discrete Fourier transform representation. As specific applications of the general method, the sums of independent integer random variables, the Poisson multinomial distribution, and the discrete log-concave distribution are considered, and it is shown that for all three applications, the proposed method can improve previously existing upper bounds for sample complexity.  The proposed method is based on a test that takes as input a subset S and sample access to an unknown distribution Q and tests if the distribution Q has DFT (approximately) concentrated on S or not. The proposed algorithm to do this is simple, it computes the DFT of the empirical distribution and checks two things:  1. Does the empirical distribution have a sufficiently small energy outside S? 2. Does the DFT of empirical distribution approximate well that of the original distribution on S?  The sample complexity for both these things to happen is analyzed by showing that the energy in the approximation error between Q and a function H obtained by restricting the empirical distribution to S in the frequency domain equals to the energies in the two error terms in items above. Therefore, when this approximation error is small, each error in the two items above is simultaneously small. Finally, to handle the sample complexity required to make this error small the paper uses a simple result on L_2 testing (Actually they build on a much stronger result, but actually need a much simpler implication of it.)   The paper has presented this as a meta tool that can be applied to the three problems specified above. But applying this tool to these problems is not straightforward. For each, tedious analysis is required to make the meta procedure above useful and compatible with known tests for these cases.   Overall, I think that the analysis of the general procedure as a meta tool, which is projected as the major component of the paper in the abridged 10 page version, is not so difficult. It is simply based on an earlier work [32]. What is really complicated is applying this tool to each problem, a procedure that has been described in the supplementary material. While at a high level, the analysis in the paper is based on simply combining the known methods for these problems with the meta procedure. However, making this combination work requires an insight into the structure of each of these problems. I feel this is the strength of this paper. It has successfully applied a simple approach to many problem, but the justification is technically tedious. Thus, a weakness of this paper is that the ideas pursued follow easily from prior work (discounting the technical difficulties required to complete a formal proof).  Overall, I feel that it is strong paper in theory of distribution testing, but may not add much to the algorithms themselves, which are obvious from prior work.     