The paper describes a new algorithm to leverage domain knowledge from several experts in the form of reward shaping.  These different reward shaping potentials are combined through a Bayesian learning technique.    This is very interesting work.  Since domain knowledge might improve or worsen the convergence rate, the online Bayesian learning technique provides an effective way of quickly identifying the best domain knowledge by gradually shifting the posterior belief towards the most accurate domain knowledge.   At a high level, the approach makes sense.  I was able to follow the derivations.  I have a few comments.  1) The section on moment matching is good, however the moments that are matched (first and second order moments) do not follow from minimizing KL-divergence.  Minimizing KL-divergence corresponds to matching the "natural" moments, which in the case of the Dirichlet are E[log theta_i] for all i.  See Section 4.2.1 of Farheen Omar's PhD thesis for a derivation and explanation (https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/~ppoupart/students/farheen-omar-thesis.pdf).  2) The symbol R is used to denote the immediate reward in Sections 2.1 and 2.3, while it is also used to denote the expected Q-values in Sections 2.2 and 3.  This is confusing.  I recommend to use different symbols.  3) Is the proposed Bayesian reward shaping technique guaranteed to preserve the optimal value function?  The paper highlights that reward shaping should satisfy Equations 4 and 5.   Does the proposed Bayesian reward shaping scheme satisfy those equations?  If yes, can you include a theorem?  If not, can you include a discussion to that effect?  4) The experiments are minimal, but perhaps sufficient.  They demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed reward shaping on a toy grid world (discrete states) and the cart-pole problem (continuous states).  Could you show additional experiments in domains with sparse rewards where the proposed reward shaping technique could lead to improved state-of-the-art results?  This could make a big difference between just publishing the idea vs showing the world that this is a useful tool to improve the state of the art in some challenging domains.