This submission proposes a method for off-policy estimation. The key idea behind the method is to use an importance sampling scheme that includes ratio of state densities rather than the ratio of the probabilities of the trajectories induced by the target and behavior policies. The theoretical properties of this estimator are then presented along with methods to estimate these ratios both for the discounted and average reward case. Experiments are then conduced on three toy environments. Some environements have a discrete state space, others a continuous one. The proposed approach is shown to outform the baselines in significant experimental settings.  Overal, I think this paper is a good submission.  - Off-policy estimation is an important problem.  - The paper is very well-written. I particularly like the motivating example in the appendix and the organisation of the paper that presents all important points in the body of the paper while providing lots of details and proofs in the appendix. While the paper contains lots of theorems (and I could not check them all), the authors explains why these are interesting and the theory flows quite well. - The experiments decently show the strength of the proposed method: three different problems are considered (both discrete and continuous ones) and several other classes of off-policy methods are considered.  - The proposed approach comes with theoretical guarantees. - To the best of my knowledge, this has not been done before and opens interesting research diretions.  Here are a few points that could be improved. - The experiments might be non-trivial to reproduce. There are several theorems that provide various methods to estimate the weight of the proposed approach. Making available the code of the experiments would greatly help. So would providing some guidelines to choose between the kernel based approach and the neural network one. What motivated this choice in the experiments? - In Figure 4c, how are the different policies selected? What happens for policies closer to the target than policy 4? The current plot suggests that the proposed method might have worse performance than some baselines. It would be interesting to know whether the proposed method might not be the best choice when the two policies are too similar. - only toy problems - It could be useful to include comparison to more state of the art IS methods.  ----------------  Thank your for answering my questions.