To the authors: This is an additional review that I was asked to perform after the rebuttal was submitted by the authors. At this stage, I have not seen the other reviews, the rebuttal or any discussions among reviewers.  The paper is concerned with time-series classification on resource-constrained devices. The guiding principle is that for some data modalities it is only necessary to see short time windows in order to make a fairly certain classification. The paper then propose a mechanism for training a sequence classifier that only consider shorter windows; this is then treated as a form of multi-instance learning. Reported results show improved classification performance at notable better speeds.  All in all, the paper seem sensible enough to this reviewer, though I have some reservations:  *) For the considered data, the problem seem to be that only very large time-windows are labelled, while the actual time-window containing events of interest are short. To me, it seems like the obvious solution would have been to partition that data in smaller time windows ad re-label the data. For many tasks this should be doable, and doing so would have been a reasonable baseline for the experiments. I would strongly encourage the authors to consider this for at least one of their datasets.  *) I do not understand the theoretical contribution of the paper. The theorem is not self-contained, e.g. the 'k' is never defined and this seem rather important to see if the results are actually empirically useful. Furthermore, the theorem consider linearly separable data (highly unrealistic) and a loss function that does not match that of the experiments. I understand that theory and practice are often not as well-aligned as one would like, but still I am left to wonder if the theory is useful.  *) I found that the first 2.5 pages of the paper could easily be trimmed significantly. The is very little actual content in this part of the paper, with the main focus being on summarizing the contributions. I do not mind such summarizing text (in fact, I like it), but here it's just too much for this reviewer. I strongly encourage the authors to trim this part of the paper.  These points aside, the paper seem to provide a reasonable solution to a relevant problem and results appear good. Hence, I lean towards acceptance.  After rebuttal (authors can ignore this): NIPS require all reviews to state that the rebuttal was read. In this particular case, the rebuttal was written before the present review, so there is nothing for me to comment on.