The authors augment an RNN with skip connections in time, that are sparsely gated by learnable attention. This allows to reap the benefits of full BPTT while effectively using only truncated BPTT.  While other forms of attention-gated skip connections in time have been suggested before, to which the authors compare, here the authors looked at sparse (still differentiable) retrieval where only a few top memory entries are selected, enabling the benefits of backpropagating over only a few selected earlier states.  Overall, I think this work is very significant, both for enabling faster implementations of BPTT when considering long time horizons, but also for suggesting future directions for how the brain might perform credit assignment and for pointing out further brain strategies / biases to employ in machine learning. With some clarifications / changes as below, I recommend the acceptance of this article for NIPS.  1. In lines 58-60, the authors say that BPTT would require "playing back these events". However, it is not so simple. The error must be backpropagated using the same recurrent weights, and combined with the activities and derivatives at previous time points to modify the weights. The authors should highlight this, else BPTT in the brain seems a simple matter of replaying past memories which is still bio-plausible, even though requires long time scales, whereas BPTT is far less bio-plausible, from perspectives of architecture and electro-physiology.  2. In lines 176 to 181, the authors show how a hard attention mechanism is implemented retrieving only the k_{top} memories. The authors should clarify how this memory access is differentiable, as the usage of soft-attention by other memory-augmented implementations was partly to enable differentiable access allowing backprop to pass through, and would allow the learning of what to attend to in the past given current hidden state \hat{h}. It is not clear here how the authors maintain differentiability while keeping hard attention.  Minor: l 156: "computationsl" l 223" "pixel-by-pixle" 