-- Summary  This paper describes a probabilistic model of competing risks and two algorithms for estimating its parameters: an MCMC algorithm and a scalable MAP estimation algorithm. The model has two appealing characteristics. First, it allows predictors to affect the hazard function non-linearly. Second, the non-linearity is formulated using latent "sub-events" that compete to determine when an observable event of interest will occur. This arguably makes the non-linearity more interpretable than approaches like random forests or multilayer perceptrons. Moreover, the number of sub-events is specified using a nonparameteric Bayesian model and so model complexity can adapt to the problem.  -- Comments  Competing risk models are often important in practice because events of interest rarely occur in isolation, and so I think the topic of this paper is important and will be interesting to the community. The model itself is clever, and introduces non-linearity through an intuitively appealing collection of latent sub-events.  The experimental results show how posteriors over these latent variables can help to uncover subgroups of individuals who may have experienced the same event for different reasons. The number of sub-events affects the complexity of the model, and the authors propose an adaptive approach using Bayesian nonparametric priors to determine this piece of the model. The synthetic data results in Figure 1 do a nice job of showing how this prior adjusts the model complexity to the problem. It is also nice that the authors describe both an MCMC algorithm for inference and a MAP estimation algorithm as a scalable alternative.  There are several ways that the paper could be strengthened.  First, the concordance index is not necessarily a good indicator of predictive performance of event times. This is discussed, for example, in Section 3.4 of [1]. One alternative is the Brier score, which can measure the model's predictive ability as a function of time. Comparing the proposed model to baselines using something like the Brier score could provide more information about relative performance than the C-index.  Second, it would be useful to understand whether the performance degrades when using the MCMC vs MAP estimation algorithms. This can be studied on smaller data sets where it's feasible to run the Gibbs sampler.  Finally, there has been a lot of recent work on recurring event models (e.g. [2] and [3]). Although the competing risks problem is different, it may be helpful for readers to point out and discuss any connections to these recurring event models.  -- Response to author feedback  Thanks for including the new results using the Brier score. LDR appears to be competitive with the baselines. When there is more room, it would be useful to show the Brier score over time for each method rather than the average. It is also interesting that LDR slightly outperforms RF using C-index, but they switch when using Brier score. It would be useful to understand why this is happening, and what that says about the relative strengths and weaknesses of the models.  -- References  [1] Dynamic Prediction in Clinical Survival Analysis, Houwelingen and Putter  [2] Isotonic Hawkes processes, Wang et al., 2016  [3] The neural Hawkes process, Mei and Eisner, 2017