Overall I enjoyed reading this paper, and it is of pretty high quality, and moderately original. Even for a non-specialist of hypothesis testing problems (which are classical questions in statistics) the paper is accessible. It is well written, concise and yet clear (if one trusts the proofs, that are in appendix). The hypothesis testing problem studied seems not knew (I'm not a specialist of this literature), but the application to the SBM is. This is not too much "incremental", as theoretical analysis of the SBM is a notoriously difficult problem. The paper provides rigorous bounds, and convincing numerical experiments. My main concern is related to the interest by the ML audience: I wonder how much of a concern is the problem to a pure ML audience, and if that paper would fit better in a good statistics conference. This is not necessary the case.   Some detailed comments:  _My main concern: There is something that I do not understand and that the authors should clarify (it is actually a crucial point): It is claimed, in particular at line 46, 47 that the case of sparse graphs with bounded degree (bounded in average) is considered, which in the notations of the paper means to me (and in general in the SBM literature) a,b=O(1). But later in the definittio of the SBM it is written Kline 134 that a,b=O(ln n). So they diverge. So formally, even if ln n grows slowly, the graph is not sparse (and for non-sparse case the analysis is much more easy in general). Do I miss something? Even if yes, this point is misleading and should be clarified. _please define the acronyms FA and MD(x) in eq (1) _I think the definition of R_{TST} in (2) is wrong: as you restrict the sup over x,y s.t. d(x,y) >= s, there is an error when the test is different than 1, while you put an indicator 1(x = y), which is 0 all the time as you consider  x,y s.t. d(x,y) >= s.  _line 179: please specify that you allow sel edges (which is unusual), otherwise the second Bin(n^2/4, a/n) is not correct _lines 183, 184 are very mysterious, please clarify what you mean here _lnie 308: "and" is reputed twice