Review update:  Thanks for your responses. I still think it's a good paper. Nice work! Just one piece of feedback on the rebuttal: You promise to run more analyses and include them in the paper. I wish you would have indicated some of the results of these analyses in the rebuttal. That would have made it stronger.    Summary  The paper compares the effect of various variables such as image number, neuron number, and image resolution on comparisons of representational similarity between different mouse brain regions and deep network layers. After concluding that the data from Allen brain observatory meet the criteria for a robust comparison, they perform the analysis on that data and conclude that there is little evidence for a hierarchy in mouse visual cortex.   Strengths and weaknesses   The paper adds to a series of comparisons of representational similarity and complexity using neuronal recodings and task trained deep networks. The paper is well written, an extensive set of analyses are performed. I am very sympathetic from this line of research and my experience with similar data aligns with their conclusions. Since we still know very little about visual representations in mouse visual cortices, the work is interesting and relevant.   My only concern with the paper is that all the robustness comparisons were performed on deep networks and not neuronal data. The problem with that is that neuronal data is much less reliable than deterministic activities from deep networks. In addition mouse neuronal data suffers from non-visual non-stationarities caused by running activity or different states of alertness. Finally, 2-photon data is usually deconvolved (is that the case here?). Deconvolution is unable to identify scaling in the data. While this does not affect the SSM score, I wonder how this affects the SVCCA.   In conclusion, the analysis would be more convincing if the authors could investigate how the above factors affect the robustness of the analysis.   Minor comments  - "Thus the metrics are robust to different choices of stimuli set,  presumably including the image set used in the Allen Brain Observatory." Why not use exactly those stimuli? - How many images where used to compare the neuronal subsampling curves? - Can you provide a few more number on the experimental conditions under which the data was recorded (i.e. presentation time; scan rate; calcium indicator; how many animals is the data from, etc.) 