--- after author response ---  I thank the authors for the clarifications, and for the promise to improve the organization.  --- original review ---  The paper paints a clear high-level picture of differentiating through (disciplined) convex programs. DCP is a very useful tool in prototyping but also in practical applications, so it is in my opinion a good building block for generic differentiable convex optimization layers.  Originality: 5/5  The paper relies on already-studied building blocks: the DCP formalism, and the residual approach to differentiation through a cone solver. However, combining these approaches to build a general-purpose differentiable convex optimization method is original and a valuable innovation.  The ASA formalism, an extension of DCP which represents parameters via affine mappings, is novel and helpful for efficiency reasons.  - Quality: 5/5  The paper is well supported. The two application examples illustrate very well the wide range of powerful things enabled by differentiable convex optimization. The code samples are a nice touch, showcasing how simple such tasks become using the proposed framework.  Minor mistakes/typos:  -  at line 316, some (all?) of the cited work unroll *gradient descent*, not **stochastic** gradient  -  The variational form of softmax in supplementary material should also have a non-negativity constraint (it is there in the equations but not in the code)   - Clarity: 4.5/5  At a high level the paper is very well written and smooth to read, very clear about its contributions.  Some of the deeper, more technical constructions should be explained a bit clearer:    - the ASA form (sec 4.1) should be clearly given constructively, rather than the vague phrasing "our rule has one important exception..."   - related to above, I would suggest expanding the rigorous definition of DCP and the theorem at line 100 to get more emphasis.   - The sparse canonicalization map: the example at lines 182-189 are pretty confusing. What are S, T, \psi and how to they relate with the desired Q & R? As it is, the example confused me more than it clarified my understanding.   - Figure 1 lacks some explanation, what is the color of the markers? Consider using x/o instead of colors.  Significance: 5/5 I believe overall this work is very significant. It is rather technical & engineering-based, but i believe it can have a high impact. DCP libraries like CVXPY are very useful in prototyping. A lot of recent work involves differentiating through optimization problems, and while for specific applications it is likely that specialized algorithms perform better, the proposed general approach will be very useful at least to kickstart research projects. The neural architectures one can build with convex optimization hidden layers are powerful and promising.  Question:    At line 209 you claim batching is done using a parallel loop. Are there settings where faster batching might be possible?