This work investigates an open problem in action recognition, namely the strong correlation between action and scene. Such a correlation can lead to an overfitting to scene features over action-specific features, which in turn can lead to reduced generalization and recognition out of context. The proposed method makes sense, the link between actions and scenes is fairly investigated, and the approach is evaluated on multiple tasks, both to show the generalization of the method to any setting and to investigate the scene bias in multiple settings.  The work does have a number of limitations:  The experiments are not thoroughly convincing. The introduction, method, and figures highlight the importance of recuding scene bias. The method is however still evaluated on well-known action datasets, all with a known high scene bias. As a result, the experiments paint a picture that scene debiasing is far from important. While there is some gain for HMDB51, there is hardly any gain on UCF-101 and THUMOS-14 (temporal detection), while there is no direct gain on UCF-24 (spatio-temporal detection).  The low impact of the proposed approach invariably leads to the conclusion that scene debiasing is not warranted. Figure 4 shows that the focus is now more on the actors, but the results are not really gaining from this focus. Why did the experiments focus on UCF-101, THUMOS-14, UCF-24, and HMDB51? Why not investigate a dataset with static backgrounds or with fixed scenes? There big gains are possible, because the only way to recognize the action is to look at the actor. With the current set of experiments, the only conclusion that the reader can make is that scene debiasing is intuitive but not important.  Lastly a few smaller points: - Why only show results for HMDB51 in Tables 1 and 2? Is that because UCF-101 does not show good improvements? - What is the reason for not including L_{ENT} for spatio-temporal detection? - Why is scene debiasing important for (spatio-)temporal detection compared to classification? - Throughout the text, there are a number of typos and awkward sentences, e.g. lines 27 and 163.