Major comments:  Throughout the paper k is used to refer to the maximum number of edges in a graph, but I'm unclear if that means that the proofs hold for some k = max(k_1,k_2) where k_1 is the number of edges in G_1, etc, and k_1 and k_2 are allowed to be different. If it doesn't allow each graph to have a different value for k this should be made clear. If it does allow that, then it's unclear what ranges of k the proofs hold for (presumably min(k_1,k_2) is lower bounded by \gamma k). Allowing each graph to have a different k implies that there could be different recovery rates for each graph, but the error metric is over the full joint space (rather than the subgraph or independently in the two graphs).  Is it possible to make statements about the error metric just in the shared subgraph? As this is the (unknown) region where there is extra information about the graph structure then it would make sense that it's simpler to recover the shared structure, but I don't think any of the supplied results make specific statements about the joint subgraph recovery.  Figure 2 is unclear. I believe that the solid line is the ML decoder's sample complexity and the dashed line is the theoretical bound, but the caption and surrounding text could do with clarification. If that's incorrect then I think it could do with more extensive clarification.  The experimental evaluations use random graphs with a single specific structure pattern. It would be useful to see more random structures to show how it holds across a wider range of more realistic graphs.  Minor comments:  The description for figure three says that when the error metric punishes smaller deviations then it's harder to score well on the error metric, which seems tautological. As the error measure changes as d changes this could do with a little more explanation, as otherwise it might lead the reader to think that increasing d to relax the computation allowed the ML decoder to better recover the exact graph (with d = 0).   There are several small notational issues, e.g. definition 2 spells out gamma instead of using \gamma in the last line, eq 31 is missing a close paren.  The second appendix doesn't use the NeurIPS style file, and isn't folded into the first appendix. Is this intended to be part of the submission?