This paper proposed to compute the distribution over all possible clusterings of a given set of samples. First, a cluster trellis was defined, where 1) each vertex represented one element from the power set of all samples and 2) vertex A was the parent of vertex B if A can be constructed as the union of A and one sample. Second, the partition function w.t.t. all possible clusterings can be computed recursively, resulting in exponential time complexity. Similarly, the clustering associated with the maximal energy can also be computed in a recursively manner. The time complexity was still exponential.  In order to reduce the exponential complexity of the naive implementation of cluster trellis, the sparse trellis was introduced by removing most vertices from the trellis. One example of sparse trellis is that introduced by hierarchical clustering.  Experimental results on a TCGA dataset consisting of 11 samples and 3000 features were presented. The exact pairwise marginals were compared against the approximate marginals.  The idea of computing the exact distribution over all possible clusterings of the sample set seemed to be a novel idea. The introduction of cluster trellis and the recursive algorithms to compute the partition function and the optimal cluster were also novel.  However, I'm not sure about the practicality of the proposed algorithm. First, the full cluster trellis has exponential complexity. For the sparse trellis, the complexity is determined by the number of vertices in the trellis. However, it's not clear how to determine the sparsity of the sparse trellis.   Second, since this work emphasized the importance of computing the exact distribution over all possible clusterings, the introduction of the sparse trellis would inevitably compromise this objective because the remaining clusterings had to be determined by some heuristic methods, such as hierarchical clustering.   Third, the experimental evaluation seemed limited because only one dataset was used and there were only 11 samples. More extensive evaluations on the synthetic and benchmark datasets, such as those datasets from the UCI repository, are needed.