The main motivation of this work is to provide a general treatment of the privacy amplification properties of post-processing mechanisms. Three unrelated types of such postprocessing mechanisms are considered. 1. One step mixing. Translate closeness properties for postprocessing of individual inputs into amplification. Unfortunately, the authors do not give any examples of how these results could lead to a better analysis. On a technical level these results are fairly standard calculations.  2. The coupling technique. They give a somewhat more general formulation of the technique from [Feldman et al 2018].  It is then shown that the technique can be applied with Laplace noise and also gives better bounds in the smooth and strongly convex case. In this case the iteration is strictly contractive. As far as I can tell both of these applications do not require the more general statement and are straightforward applications of the technique from [Feldman et al, 2018]. The results are stated in the abstract and the intro in a way that suggests that these are applications of the techniques introduced in this work. I find this misleading. 3. Diffusion-based mechanisms. I found the presentation of this section to be unfriendly to those not familiar the relevant concepts from statistical physics. In particular, I could not find a way to convert the description given in this work into actual algorithms. I think it would need significant rewriting to be readable by most privacy researchers. As applications they rederive Gaussian mechanism and another mechanism (referred to as Ornstein-Uhlenbeck) that is not  described explicitly. The verbal description of its properties are easy to achieve by postprocessing the Gaussian mechanism. Slight shrinkage is known to reduce l_2 error in high dimensions (Stein's phenomenon) and over bounded domain it is safe to do l_2 projection to the domain (which ensures boundedness of the error).  Overall while the work has some nice observations and some of the formalism might end up being useful, the work does not provide any evidence that their results might lead to useful and new privacy analyses.