This paper presents a dynamic Poisson factorisation model for recommendation system, which incorporates meta information of users and items. Specifically, meta information of users and items is incorporated in the gamma scale parameter of the static portions of users and items, respectively; the dynamics are modelled by a Markov chain where the dynamic portions are conditioned on the portions of the previous step. The inference of the model is done by stochastic variational inference. The experiments show that the model has better prediction performance than several previous models on dynamical data.  Quality:  In general, this paper is in good quality.   (1) The motivations for using meta information in recommendation systems are quite intuitive.   (2) The related work and background have been properly covered.  (3) The experiments are relatively strong. The datasets are well selected, the results look promising, and the analysis is comprehensive. To me, this is where the credits come from.  (4) The main issue of the paper is the novelty of the model and the inference. The model structure of using gamma parameters to incorporate meta information has been explored in several previous works and this paper didn't provide a structure with much differences to the previous ones. The same thing happens to the model structure of modelling dynamical data, which is similar to the one in DCPF. The contribution of this paper is combining the two structures into one model with a summation. However, the idea of summation has also been proposed, as in “Content-based recommendations with Poisson factorization”. Using SVI for inference can hardly be counted as the contribution of this paper.   (5) One minor issue is that, to me, the proposed GDMF (the one without meta info) is similar to DCPF, in terms of model structure. But GDMF is reported to have better performance than DCPF. Can the authors clearly point out the differences between GDMF and DCPF, as well as analyse where the performance gain come from?  Clarity:  The paper is easy to follow.   Originality and significance:  As I've discussed, the originality is the main issue. The novelty of the model structure and the inference is limited. But the experiments and results look strong. Therefore, to me, the main significance of the paper is on the empirical results.   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Thanks for the authors' response, which addresses my concern about the differences between GDMF and DCPF. I hope the this explanation can be added in the revision of the paper.