I agree that the problem is very important and I like the line of thinking on this.  I am ultimately lukewarm overall because of questions I have about how to characterize the idea and whether/how it is really better:  I'm concerned about the point I already alluded to.  The algorithm is really just to perform zeroth order optimization over policies (eq 4) using weighted importance sampling to evaluate (eq 5).  The "hyperparameter tuning" is only an artifact of the method used to generate candidates for that optimization.  The main contribution of the algorithm is that it does the optimization using eqs 4/5 in a way that (claims to) introduce no hyperparameters that require substantial tuning.  That is useful if its true, but it begs the question: are there other ways to optimize eq 4? Maybe you can use gradient descent on it directly?  If you do, does it start to look like other methods?  It thus seems like the key point is somewhere in lines 141-172.  There are new hps introduced in place of the ones that are replaced but the argument is that the new ones tend not to need tuning.  There are many reasons why this could be the case but its unclear to me whether/why it really is. Maybe its just that zeroth order optimization over a small number of candidate policies is less prone to overfitting the high-variance weighted importance sampling evaluation than a method that would more thoroughly optimize it.  The caption in figure 1 implies that the curves for the competing algorithms need to be shifted by 36X.  Is this true?  If so, perhaps they should be plotted this way.  It seems the range of epsilons in table 1 should be larger, perhaps on a log scale.  The fact that even the 1st derivatives of the results across each row are not monotonic suggests that the results are dominated by noise.  Lines 291-294.  You compared to baseline TRPO but not the tuned version.  I understand it takes many many more samples to tune TRPOs parameters but it seems possible that having done that, TRPO would still beat HOOF-TNPG with those many many more samples.  Smaller points:  I think you never actually defined g.  Its relatively obvious from its appearance in eq 2 but should still be defined.  Figure 1 is too small to read.   