The authors develop new algorithms for instrumental variables based on the orthogonal ML technique. The paper considers the IV problem in terms of moment conditions and derive conditions where the target quantity of interest has a good rate of estimation. Then the evaluation is done on a number of experimental settings on semi-synthetic and real data.  The theoretical contributions could be better explained instead of purely linking it away to existing literature; please consider adding full consistency proof for completeness. It would also serve the reader if a larger discussion the original double ML work and neyman-orthogonality was included.  The experimental results look promising but I think it is premature to judge them without too many benchmarks and baselines. could the authors explain the width of large width of the confidence intervals? Is it a data artefact or something practitioners should keep in mind?  My main issue is that interaction between a few elements of the theorem like the functions g, delta haven't been explored in the semi-synthetic experiments. To add to the validity of the proposed methods, more functionals relationships between the covariates and the outcome should be explored and the improvement of the method over other flexible IV methods should be demonstrated.  Overall this work I think addresses an important gap in the literature of observational causal estimation where IVs are leveraged.   ---- POST REBUTTAL ----  The authors addressed the issues raised.  I now have more faith in the presented experimental results and the discussion around it. As the authors point out, weak IVs do present significant problems. They will add more experiments to provide a full context for DMLIV's performance.  Please consider adding a quick discussion about the orthogonality conditions to the appendix. Maybe discuss how they allow practitioners to trade-off interpretability and performance by specifying certain parts of the model; like the partially linear model, for example.  I've raised the score accordingly.