This paper is generally well written and clear, albeit targeting readers with formal backgrounds. The quality of the paper seems high in terms of its formal claims. The proposed mechanism is remarkable simple, making this an attractive approach. I really like the idea behind not making learning explicit (as opposed to rule induction for example).  I have three main concerns about this paper:  - In general it is very close to Juba's 2012 work [1]. In that work, a propositional variant is proposed. The work here extends the approach. This is a sensible idea, and well executed as far as I can tell, but the delta is still relatively small and the change feels relatively mechanic. That's not a problem per se, but means that in terms of originality this paper isn't as convincing. The authors make it worse by using verbatim copies of some of the text in [1], such as the first paragraph of section 3.   - It's not clear what the significance of this result is. The authors do go beyond propositional logic, but make little effort to motivate the specific fragment and tell us what we can now do we couldn't before. For example, could this be contrasted with explicit rule learning and could we empirically see when and how it improves over that. While I understand this a primarily theoretical contribution, I think for a venue like NeuRIPS the authors need to do a better job in positioning and motivating their work in the broader statistical relational learning context.   - I found it difficult to get an intuition how "implicit learning" really operates. For example, if I see a bunch of examples where human(x) => mortal(x), but I don't have any such formula my background, how is this formula implicitly learnt? I think I understand the algorithm but I have no intuition how it achieves this. Good running examples could help.   [1] https://arxiv.org/pdf/1209.0056.pdf (the authors do cite this paper and attribute it appropriately)  Update: after author response and reviewer discussion I increased my score from 4 to 6. I do think this is an important and novel theoretical contribution. I would still encourage the authors to make paper more accessible in terms of exposition and contextualisation for the non PL/Logic folks in the community. I would also *strongly* encourage them to not copy and paste whole paragraphs from Juba 2012.   