This paper is a, quite technical, theoretical paper that addresses a variant of a tough and old combinatoric problem : the (exact) recovery of a ground state from a noisy planted spin-glass model recast here as a structured prediction inference problem. It comes as a follow-up from two papers : "How hard is inference for structured prediction" by (Globerson et al. 2015), and "Inference in Sparse Graphs with Pairwise Measurements and Side Information" by (Foster et al. 2018). The key contribution of this paper is to answer an open problem stated in (Globerson et al. 2015) by providing a characterisation of the graphs where the exact recovery is tractable. The authors define the hardness of the exact recovery in term of a probability bound : the probability of recovering the exact ground state in polynomial time is higher when the graph is a good expander (i.e. when its Cheeger constant is high) and lower when its nodes have high degrees. They provide examples of graph families like the "d-regular expanders" that fulfil this requirement. As a by-product they provide an extension of Cheeger inequality to signed Laplacians.  I found the paper reasonably clear but not as well written as (Globerson et al. 2015) for instance. It lacks a proper justification, a few explaining figures and concrete examples to guide the reader before she/he dives into the (painful) technical aspects of the proofs. The state of the art is really minimalistic: see "Related Work" section in (Globerson et al. 2015). It's not mandatory but it would make sense to move at last one of the proofs in the appendix (keeping only a sketch in the main paper) and use the freed space to fix these issues.  I only deeply checked the proof of Theorem 1, but the rest of the maths (mainly the proof of Theorem 2) seems solid.  Minor remarks/questions: - The edges noise model as defined on line 105 is a noisy observation of edges from correct spins, would it be easier for instance if we considered a generative model where all the edges would be derived from the same noisy observation of the ground node spins ? How would it impact the error bounds ? - It's only a factor 2 but please make it clear what kind of node degree you use in the Laplacian (oriented or non-oriented) POST REBUTTAL: If the degree of the D matrix is the non-oriented degree i.e. the number of edges connected, then the Laplacian should be L=2D-A otherwise x^T L x is not as stated in Definition 5. 