** Update after author response**  I'd like to thank the authors for their very detailed response to my and other referees' comments. In particular, I welcome the comparison to BCF and find it quite interesting that it performs better on the semi-synthetic data but not the synthetic! On re-reading the paper and supplement, as well as the response, I do think the way you have incorporated the propensity score is quite clever. I'm quite happy to revise my score up to 7.  ----- The authors consider the important problem of heterogeneous treatment effect estimation. They specifically propose a non-parametric Bayesian procedure, placing a Gaussian process prior on the potential outcome function m(x,r). They note that the natural approach (i.e. placing a "vanilla" GP prior, e.g., on this function) can result in substantial bias in the estimate. The authors propose re-parametrizing m(x,r) to include an estimate of the propensity score and note that such a correction yields better performance than state-of-the-art methods.  While I generally liked the approach of the paper, I cannot help but draw parallels to earlier work by Hahn and colleagues, which the authors have referenced. Indeed, Figure 1 displays a type of "regularization-induced confounding" described by this group in the context of linear models (reference 15 in the present manuscript) and tree-based methods (reference 16 in this paper). Moreover, the modified prior bears some similarity to the parametrization of m(x,r) used in reference 16, in that both decompose m into a term depending on an estimated propensity score and a term that does not include a propensity score estimate. I would note, however, that the proposed modification is arguably somewhat more principled than the one in reference 16 and I think some discussion comparing and contrasting these approaches is necessary.  In a similar vein, I think a direct comparison with the Bayesian causal forest (bcf) method from reference 16 is warranted. Adding such a comparison should be straightforward, as the method is currently implemented in the "bcf" package available on CRAN.  This comparison is perhaps more fair than simply running BART with the propensity score included as a covariate.   Beyond this, I have a few additional concerns:  - Estimation of F: I understand that to provide inference for a population average treatment effect, one needs to accurately model the distribution of X. As the authors note in passing, this can be quite difficult, especially when the covariates are high-dimensional and include both continuous and discrete outcomes.  In general, posterior inference about the population ATE proceeds by repeatedly (i) drawing F* ~ F | D, a posterior sample of the distribution of X, (ii) X* ~ F*, a new set of covariates, (iii) computing m(X*,1) - m(X*,0). The authors propose using a Dirichlet Process prior on F with base measure equal to the empirical distribution of the observed covariates. The resulting posterior distribution of F places all of its probability mass on distributions that are supported only on the covariates observed in the sample. As a result, all inference about the population ATE is based on evaluating the potential outcome function on covariates already observed in the sample. This seems like a "population effect" only in the narrowest sense: it implicitly assumes that within the sample, one has observed all possible sets of covariates.  -- Originality & Quality: To the best of my knowledge, the proposed representation of the function m(x,r) is new and I rather liked the motivation for it (provided in the supplement). It is especially promising that the proposed methods yields performance similar to the state-of-the-art. However, the general phenomenon described and overall approach bears striking similarity to existing work, which must be acknowledged.  Clarity: The paper is well-written  Significance: I do think the results are important and this paper opens up the possibility for better Bayesian non-parametric estimation of heterogeneous treatment effects. 