The paper is on teaching models, a topic in computational learning theory. One of the recurring issues is how to formulate a model which avoids collusion, i.e., ``cheating'', where the teacher communicates the target to the learner using some encoding of its description into the teaching examples. The standard approach to teaching is through a set of examples uniquely defining the target; thus in this case the learner's task is to find a consistent hypothesis. More recent approaches, such as the recursive teaching dimension and the model of [CSMA+18], assume more sophisticated learners.  In this paper an even more sophisticated class of learners is defined. Here learning is done in a sequential process, and in each step the learner finds a most preferred hypothesis, based on an evaluation of the current version space and the last hypothesis. This model is closely related to [CSMA+18], except here the version space is an additional parameter in the preference function.  The results of the paper are interesting in themselves, and they also provide an interesting picture for the relative power of the various teaching models. The second half of Theorem 3 is an example of the former: it shows that in the most general model there is already a preference function which is proportional to the VC-dimension (whether this holds for RTD is a major open problem). This result is based on an interesting combinatorial lemma (Lemma 4). The latter is summarized in Figure 1 (where the relationships to previous models are given in Table 1).   Comments  The paper emphasizes the critical role of the appropriate definition of collusion-freeness for sequential models. The corresponding part of the proof of Theorem 3, however, is relegated to the Appendix. Some discussion of this should be given in the main text.  Also, the concluding section mentions defining (other?) notions of collusion-freeness in sequential models. Here it should be clarified what are the issues with the current definition.   