After reading the Author Summary:  The authors have clarified some of my doubts and addressed my concerns. Also, I find the discussion about signatures of internal representation quite interesting and I recommend to include it in the revised paper. Overall, I confirm my original judgment that this is an important contribution to NeurIPS and theoretical neuroscience.  Summary:  In this paper, the authors extend the theory of distributed distributional codes (DDC) to address the issue of how the brain might implement online filtering and postdiction. They provide three example applications (an auditory continuity illusion, the flash-lag effect, tracking under noise and occlusions) that qualitatively reproduce findings from behavioral studies.  Originality: High. There is relatively little work on building dynamical Bayesian inference models that account for *postdiction* effects; and this is a novel extension and application of the recently proposed distributed distributional codes  Quality: High. This is a thoughtful, well-researched paper which provides an interesting theoretical contribution and well-designed simulations. Clarity: The paper is well-written and well-structured and the images provide useful information. Significance: This is an interesting contribution both for the attention it brings to the phenomena of postdiction and for an application of the DDC.  Major comments:  This is a solid, interesting paper and a pleasure to read, and I congratulate the authors for making their code entirely available (although as a good practice I recommend to comment the code more, even in production).  The main point of DDC is to provide a means to represent complex probability distributions, learn, and compute with them in a simple, biologically plausible way (namely, using only linear operations or the delta rule); and this paper shows how the DDC framework can be extended to deal with online filtering (and postdiction of the entire stimulus history).  One question I have is with respect to the tuning functions \gamma. First, it might help to clarify in Section 2 that the tuning functions \gamma are given (and not learnt) in the DDC setup. Could they be learnt as well?  Second, the current work uses tanh nonlinearities after random linear projections (as explained in the Supplementary Material; but I recommend to specify it as well in the main text, perhaps in Section 4). I gather that the results are relatively robust to changes in the set of \gamma (as long as it constitutes a "good" basis set), and did the authors check sensitivity of their results to different randomized basis sets?  Another point about DDC is that they are not easily amenable to computations besides the calculation of expectations (the authors need to use a bunch of additional methods to compute the marginals and in particular the joint posteriors, as explained in the Supplementary Material) as opposed, e.g., to a popular "sampling" proposal. The fact that DDC provide "implicit" representations might be an advantage in explaining why humans are good at implicit computations of uncertainty but not necessarily at reporting them explicitly.  Can the authors elaborate briefly on consequences/signatures of their model that would allow it to be distinguished from competing proposals for internal representations?   Minor comments:  line 153-154: "Given that there exists a minimum in (8), the minimum of (9) also exists for most well-behaved distributions on x1:t-1, and is attained if W minimizes (8) on all possible x1:t-1." Can the authors expand a bit on this? Clearly if W minimizes (8) on all possible paths (which seems a fairly strong assumption) then it also satisfies (9); but what matters is that a solution satisfying (9) does not necessarily imply (8), unless there is some additional property. (This is partially addressed in Section B of the Supplementary Material.)  Figure 2A: I recommend to re-draw panel A based on the data in the original paper, because the current panel is unreadable.  Typos:  line 44: percpets --> percepts line 57: it is a challenge for the brain learns to perform inference --> unclear phrasing (if "for" is meant as "because", the subject is hanging - what is a challenge? otherwise, there must be a typo) line 61: analyitical --> analytical line 63: can be approximated the optimal solutions --> can approximate the optimal solutions line 66: that address --> that addresses line 83: easy to samples --> easy to sample (from) line 85: a full stop or semicolon is missing at the end of the line line 141: "time steps" missing at the end? (and full stop) line 150: recogntion --> recognition line 156: h_W^bil --> W should be italicized line 169: for each experiments --> for each experiment line 179: the internal model is described by Eq. 15 in the appendix? (not Eq. 19) Fig 1 caption: "showing decoded marginal distribution for perceived over tone level"? (probably perceived --> posterior) Fig 1 caption: marked form A to F --> marked from A to F Fig 2 caption: posdition --> postdiction line 245: bimodalality --> bimodality References: Please double-check (e.g., reference [37] is missing the authors). Fig 3 caption: estiamted --> estimated  Supplementary Material: line 382: used to be approximated the conditional -> used to approximate the conditional line 384: one interpret --> one interprets line 386: Approximation solution --> Approximated solution line 418: the middle band of reflects... --> ? line 423: something is wrong at the end of the line line 433: one can decoding --> one can decode line 450: new observation --> the new observation 