Quality:   The paper is technically sound. Claims are supported by experimental results.  The experimental study tests the proposed method on three standard datasets with correct methodologies and evaluations. Model capacity comparisons are covered in the supplementary material. I believe those comparisons are important, and it is better if authors can include them in the main paper.   The paper tries to show that handcrafted features, separation of information sources, or any other specialized computation are not necessary for the video prediction task. However, the experimental results are only comparing the performance of simple networks with various capacities. This only shows that more capacity results in better results but It is not clear how other SOTA methods are compared to the simple architectures.   Varying the capacity of SOTA networks, or simply reporting their performance can better evaluate the claim.    Clarity: The paper is generally well-written and structured clearly.  Originality: To my knowledge, there is no other paper providing a large scale study of networks capacity on the task of video prediction.  The literature review seems to be complete.     Significance: The results of this paper are important for research in processing videos.  It is somewhat expected (from observing the same phenomena in other tasks) that higher capacity results in better performances, but this expectation has never been proved before.  This paper is a useful contribution to the literature and has high practical impact. The paper may be better suited for publication in CVPR or ICLR conferences or perhaps can be published as an application paper at NIPS.    Update:  I think this paper is a good contribution to the field and might be helpful for other video processing tasks as well.  That being said, I do believe comparing to the performance of SOTA networks is important.   The author response mentions that a SOTA network has been only evaluated on simpler datasets.  I  do encourage the authors to compare to SOTA on the main datasets of the paper, but if the computation and hyperparameter tuning is really impractical, it is essential to at least have a comparison and report the performance of standard networks with different capacities on the datasets that SOTA is already evaluated on. 