computationally intractable" -- What is the argument or reference to support the proposed logical implication?   Section 2, 3rd line: the Fisher information matrix itself may be rank deficient, hence only positive semidefinite rather than definite. Is the statement here that, once restricted to the tangent space, it is always positive definite?   Eq. (6): perhaps recall what \hat \Sigma is here.   Footnote 2: "the circle ... has positive sectional curvature": This isn't correct. The circle is a one-dimensional manifold, and as such it has zero (intrinsic) curvature. The footnote can be adapted if we make it to be a statement about the unit sphere S^2 in R^3. More globally, it is a bit tricky to make this statement about geodesic convexity of subsets of a compact manifold, when Definition 2.3 is specifically crafted for Hadamard manifolds (as indicated by the comment that precedes it). Depending on how exactly one adapts Def. 2.3, certains subsets of the sphere may or may not be deemed geodesically convex (and that may or may not be useful).    Line 173: "closed form ... highly efficient": There are still a number of non-trivial computations involved, namely, matrix exponentials and logarithms. I expect a number of readers may find that this isn't "highly efficient", since such operations cost O(n^3) flops. In fact, you say as much on line 212.   Line 181: There -> The   Lines 190++, "An important difference is that [41, Theorem 9] requires the objective function to be Lipschitz continuous. Unfortunately, it seems difficult to establish whether L() satisfies this condition. We managed to circumvent the Lipschitz condition by proving that the Riemannian gradient of L() is bounded uniformly" -- I would expect that if the gradient is bounded (which is necessarily the case by compactness of the domain and continuity of the gradient), then the cost function is Lipschitz. Is that not the case here? What happens if we take X, Y two points in the set, and (since it is geodesically convex), we consider the unique geodesic connecting them, still in that set: let me call it c(t), with c(0) = X and c(1) = Y. Then, t -> f(c(t)) is a smooth function from R to R, hence we can apply the mean value theorem and claim there exists some t in (0, 1) such that  f(Y) = f(X) + (f o c)'(t) = f(X) + <grad f(c(t)), c'(t)>.  The gradient norm is bounded by G in the whole set, and c'(t) has norm equal to dist(X, Y) for all t since c is a geodesic, hence, by Cauchy-Schwarz:  f(Y) - f(X) <= G dist(X, Y).  Repeat with the roles of X and Y swapped, and we have found that f is Lipschitz continuous. Did I miss something? 