Overall the paper is well-written and easy to understand. I actually like the paper a lot.  The logics are also clear: Discovering the limitation of the previous methods using both theoretical analysis and toy example. Then, proposed the solution (in a simple way) that works better. The only concern is about the empirical experiments which are done only in the simple dataset. If the authors provide the results in more complex datasets (such as Imagenet and CIFAR-100), it would improve the quality of this paper  1. Self-supervised signal - The proposed model and the previous models usually use the rotation as the self-supervised signal.  - Are there any other signals that can be used for the self-supervised signal?  - Because the rotation can be only used for image dataset and cannot be extended to the other domains such as time-series or tabular data.  2. Figure 3 - Line 167 - 180: The author claims that the previous method has the possibility to mode collapse for generating the samples whose rotations are easily captured by the classifier. - It would be good if the author also shows the results of the proposed model and claims that the proposed method has a small mode collapse problem. - The point is that the author can use the toy example not only showing the limitation of the previous method, but also show the superiority of the proposed method. Currently, I can understand that there is a problem in the previous method; however, it is not clear whether the proposed method can solve this problem in the same setting.   3. Section 5 - It seems like the additional losses can be interpreted as another discriminator that distinguish the rotated fake image and the rotated real image. - In that case, why the authors put this in the classifier? Can we make another discriminator to distinguish the real rotated image and fake rotated image separately? In this case, the separate discriminator has higher flexibility.  - In the theoretical analysis, the author also mentioned that this minimizes the KL between rotated real and fake images. - It would be good to show the results of this as well in order to support the proposed method in comparison to other possible models.    4. Datasets - The author provided the results on fairly small and less complex datasets (CIFAR-10 and STL-10 datasets). - If the authors provide the results on more complex datasets (with more labels (means diverse)) such as CIFAR-100 and Imagenet, it will improve the quality of the paper.