The highlighted phenomenon (the convergence of a short-run MCMC while training EBMs) seems to be novel and very interesting. The conventional wisdom is that a simple MCMC algorithm like Langevin dynamics would take a long time to converge close to the stationary distribution of the EBM when initialized far from it. The paper argues that in fact if the EBM is trained by generating negative samples from a short-run MCMC, then the short-run MCMC chain would in fact converge close to the data distribution (the authors argue that the "closeness" is related to moment matching). The theoretical argument for explaining this phenomenon seems suggestive, but ultimately didn't convince the reviewer (even convergence of the algorithm seems to be not explained, and section 4.2 seems particularly weak - it's not clear what the "generalized moment matching objective" is trying to achieve). However the empirical evidence for the convergence of short-run MCMC in EBMs seems very compelling - the training procedure for the model is significantly simpler than other procedures used to train EBMs, yet produces highly competitive results on several image datasets. There is some evidence for coverage of the distribution, which is a concern for models not trained with the MLE objective (the evidence is the reconstructions of held-out data points). It would be great to see actual log-likelihood estimates under the short-run MCMC model (not the EBM, the directed model that is K steps of Langevin dynamics) by training a recognition network and computing a lower bound on the likelihood similar to "Accurate and Conservative Estimates of MRF Log-likelihood using Reverse Annealing, Burda et al, 2014". The submission is written very clearly, and the code is provided and easy to read. The reviewer believes the work is significant, as it highlights a new phenomenon in training energy-based models not yet explored in the relevant literature. While the theoretical explanation didn't convince the reviewer, I believe that future work will attempt to explain the phenomenon of short-run MCMC convergence more rigorously.