Summary ======= This paper proposes a formulation of lossy compression in which the goal is to minimize distortion subject to the constraint that the reconstructed data follows the data distribution (and subject to a fixed rate). As in Agustsson et al. (2018), a stochastic decoder is used to achieve this goal, but trained for a combination of WGAN/WAE instead of LS-GAN. The encoder is trained separately by minimizing MMD. The authors furthermore provide a theorem which provides bounds on the achievable distortion for a given bit rate.  Good ==== The proposed formulation is a slightly different take on lossy compression, which has the potential to inspire novel solutions. Constraining the reconstruction distribution – although difficult in practice – would ensure that reconstructions are always of high perceptual quality.  Bad === The empirical evaluation is quite limited. In particular, the comparison is limited to toy datasets (CelebA, LSUN). It would have been nice to see how the proposed approach performs compared to other published approaches or standardized codecs on more realistic datasets (e.g., Kodak). Furthermore, why were qualitative comparisons with Agustsson et al. (2018) omitted in Figure 1 when they were clearly available (Figure 2)?  Despite being a more complicated approach than Agustsson et al. (2018), it does not seem to perform better (Figure 2). The only demonstrated difference is an increase in conditional variance, which in itself may not be a desirable property for a practical compression system nor does it provide strong evidence that the reconstruction follows the target distribution more closely.  The paper seems to lack important details. For example, how is the rate limitation of the encoder achieved? How is the output of the encoder quantized? In Figure 2, how are the quantized outputs encoded into bits?  I find it quite difficult to follow the train of thought on page 4. Please provide more detail on why joint optimization of G and F is worse than optimizing G first and subsequently optimizing F (L128-L137), in particular elaborate the claim that "constraining F implies that one only optimizes over a subset of couplings." This constraint still seems in place in the two-step optimization (Equation 8), so why is it not an issue then?  The role and implications of Theorem 1 could be explained more clearly. The authors claim that "Theorem 1 states that the distortion incurred by the proposed procedure is equal to W(P_X, P_G*) [...]". However, this assumes that we solve Equation 8 exactly, which may be as difficult as solving the compression problem itself, so the bound isn't very practical. It seems to me the main purpose is therefore to show that the achievable distortion is limited by the Wasserstein distance of G*, which justifies minimizing the Wasserstein distance of G* via WGAN/WAE. Correct me if I missed something.  Minor ===== Constraining the perceptual quality to be perfect limits the achievable distortion (Blau & Michaeli, 2017). In some applications it may be desirable to trade off perceptual quality for lower distortion, which is not possible with the proposed formulation.