The paper is well structured and well written and by and large reproducible. The main contribution is the proposal to replace message passing based algorithms like belief propagation (which are operating on the unknown marginals as independent variables) by parametrised graph neural networks encoding the marginals. This is to my knowledge novel. The authors show in their experiments, that their approach has better estimation capabilities than belief propagation. On the other hand, it is known how to solve the Bethe free energy optimisation problem by double loop algorithms. I would have expected a comparison with such methods in terms of estimation accuracy. Moreover, the approximation itself is known to be inherently weak in estimating pairwise and higher order marginals of an MRF, because they are estimated by the corresponding edge (hyper-edge) factors of the model up to unary multiplicands. This ignores the correlation of variables induced via other paths connecting the nodes in the graph.  Even after reading the supplementary material, I am missing details about the inference networks an especially an explanation of what is meant by "the are run once ... over the symbolic representation of the graph ..."  The experiments have in my view a preliminary character and, some details of them are missing: - Ising model: The interactions strength used for the experiments with the Ising MRFs remains unclear (pairwise potentials "sampled from a spherical Gaussian"). It is to expect that the estimation quality will degrade with the (average) interaction strength. Also, comparing the method to mean field approximation is meaningless for pairwise marginals(?) because the latter estimates unary marginals only. As already mentioned above, I would have expected comparison with known double loop algorithms for solving the Bethe free energy optimisation task. It would be valuable to show that the proposed method, being faster then double loop algorithms, gives similar approximation quality.  - Higher order HMMs: The details given in the supplementary material are essential for understanding these experiments. The text given in the paper (paragraph starting from l. 253) is completely obscure.  Summarising, while the proposal to amortize the marginals in terms of graph neural networks when solving the Bethe free energy approximation embedded in MLE learning of MRFs, is indeed interesting. The validation of this method, however, remains in my view preliminary only.  Post-rebuttal comments: The authors addressed and answered almost all issues raised in my review. I will raise my positive mark.