Originality: The paper is fairly original in that it proposes a new tree-splitting criterion that seems to work very well when the leaves are linear models rather than constants. It also provides a novel application of several pieces of previous work, including LASSO and random forests. There are adequate citations of related work. Quality: I did not carefully check the math or read the proofs in the supplemental material, but I did not observe any technical mistakes. There is not much discussion of the limitations of their approach. Clarity: The paper is written very clearly; I could understand everything without difficulty. Significance: This paper does seem to advance the state of the art in learning with tree-based models. Unless their experimental section is misleading, I expect this work to be generally useful to researchers and practitioners of tree-based modeling.  Detailed notes: * You mention that the SLRT algorithm is consistent; does this property hold only in cases where the response variable is truly a piecewise-linear function of the regressors, with axis-aligned rectangular subspaces? I would expect the majority of real-world data not to conform to this particular shape. What can be said about SLRT in such cases? * Line 38: What is meant by "prevailing" in this sentence? You mention theoretical analysis, so I would assume you have some precise definition in mind, but I don't know what it would be. * Line 46: This sentence seems ungrammatical. Did you mean "Futhermore, by implanting SLRT as the base predictor..."? * Line 76: Typo: "method" should be "methods". * Line 305: Typo: "SIsson" should be "Sisson". * In Equations (2) and (4), you include examples that are equal to the split level in the Left child, but in Line 8 of Algorithm 1, you include them in the Right child. Is this a mistake? * How do you determine whether to use Algorithm 1 or Algorithm 2? Do you use some threshold for the sample correlations between pairs of regressors? * Line 193: Did you mean "subset or equal to" instead of "strict subset"? * Line 202: You don't want to "minimize the average predictive accuracy", so maybe replace "minimize" with "optimize". * Line 203: Typo, replace "optimially" with "optimal". * Line 232: I think the \sigma_i in the numerator should be \sigma_b.