This study deals with pricing mechanisms against a no-regret buyer in prior-independent setting and in prior-free one. In the setup, a single seller interacts with a single buyer. The authors investigate the case of contextual auctions as well.  The paper is well written and well structured. The submission is technically sound. However, there are weaknesses as follows:  1. Not clear positioning with respect to related work.  The authors write in Lines 49-52: “This opens a wealth of questions of how to robustly design dynamic mechanisms that perform well in the worst-case against some class of learning agents. In this paper, we explore this question for one of the simplest problems in dynamic mechanism design: repeatedly selling a single item to a single buyer for T rounds.” But, there is a large body of studies devoted to worst-case scenario in repeated auctions between a single seller and a single buyer in ML venues: (Amin et al, NIPS’2013), (Mohri&Medina, NIPS’2014), (Drutsa, ICML’2018), (Huang et al, NeurIPS’2018), etc. None of the above has been cited by the authors. [after author feedback: OK, the answer is clear for me. Please, put it in the next version of your paper. The main reason of ambiguity here consists in the following: past few years a very large variety of papers on dynamic auctions/mechanisms has been published. I would suggest authors to highlight the key parameters of a setup in the field of dynamic auctions/mechanisms (make a scheme), e.g.: - single buyer or multiple; - myopic buyer/ strategic one / learning buyer/ etc;  - prior-free, prior-[in]dependend,  - etc. For instance, it would be great to use a table if space permits. Then, you put related work in this scheme and put your study here.]  2. Why the no-regret buyer is modeled via Bandits algorithm? [after author feedback: I did not get an answer for this; and I do not understand it still. I confirm that Nekipelov et al. argue that the setting is realistic. However, the question was: why a no-regret algorithm is exactly a Bandit algorithm? For instance, the series of works (Amin et al, NIPS’2013), (Mohri&Medina, NIPS’2014), (Drutsa, ICML’2018) consider no-regret algorithms, but they are not Bandit ones.]   Do the results hold for a buyer from the study [Heidari et al, ICML’2016]? [after author feedback: OK, the answer is clear for me. Please, put it in the next version of your paper.]  3. Most proofs of theoretical statements are moved to Supplementary Materials. I think, some of the key statements should be supported by at least a sketch proof in the main test. [after author feedback: OK, but I believe that key/central statements should be supplied by key intuitions behind their proofs even in a hard space limit. If the work is so large that it cannot match this, it may be a signal that the paper is better suited for other venue with larger format.]  4. Unclear text in Lines 68-70: “If the option-complexity of the mechanism begins to scale with the number of rounds T, this may even nullify any sort of low-regret or mean-based guarantee the learning algorithm has (it may not even be possible to explore all potential options).” [after author feedback: OK, I get it.] 