To summarize, the authors present a model to discriminate physically plausible from implausible scenes in occlusion based intuitive physics setups. Images form the input to a visual derenderer the decomposes the scene into objects with physical and deliberately coarse visual attributes to facilitate generalization. The inferred physical object states are fed into a non-learned physics engine (Bullet) which predicts future physical object states. Multiple future beliefs are generated by repeatedly perturbing the input and rerunning the physics engine. A particle filter is then used to combine, track and update beliefs about future object states. Finally the beliefs are compared against actual observations to generate a measure of surprise of the system. Experiments on expectation violation setups based on classical developmental psychology experiments show that the model is reliably able to distinguish physically plausible from implausible scenes and that its predictions align with human predictions about physical plausibility.   Originality: Visual object-centric derenderers, particle filters and expectation violation datasets have been proposed before. Those pieces have been put together in a nice way though.  Quality: Very well written, clearly organized paper with nicely executed experiments and convincing results.  Clarity: Overall the paper is clear and well written. However, all limitations and failure cases have been put into the supplement which is deceiving to the reader and those should be moved to the main paper.   Significance: The results are significant to the cognitive science community, but the significance of this methods in a more general sense for other tasks is questionable as several architectural pieces have been optimized to only work on the presented setup.  In its current state, this paper is a borderline weak reject for me, but I would like to accept this paper if my concerns are addressed (see improvements section).  Detailed comment: (116-117) How important is this distinction and why do occluders need to be modeled separately from other objects? What happens if you don’t do this?  EDIT - After reading the author's response, most of my concerns have been addressed and I am changing my rating from weak reject (score of 5) to a weak accept (score of 6). 