[originality] The approaches to probabilistic inference described in the paper, such as the LMH, RMH and inference compilation IS, originate from previous work that is referred to clearly. The main contributions of this work are pulling these ideas together into a practical framework that works on a real large-scale simulator. The original challenges that are addressed include: how to apply PPL to an existing code base? how to generate diverse samples from the prior so that unlikely events can also be simulated? and how to design a protocol for the execution of probabilistic programs?  [quality] It is exciting to read a paper that addresses an ambitious problem and I believe this work will inspire further research in the use of PPLs in large scale simulations in physics and elsewhere. The other strength of the paper is the sheer depth of related work that is considered and explained, while being smooth to read at the same time. Ideally, we would have had more detail on the specific contributions of this paper, particularly on the "prior inflation" scheme and the protocol.  [clarity] The authors do a good job of describing how the various elements of the framework fit together. The limitations of the writing come mainly from needing further explanation and discussion for why various ideas are being used, e.g., why do you consider LMH, RMH, IC? why would you "like to employ deep neural networks" in this context? There are many methods on the shelf for probabilistic inference, why focus on these in particular? In addition, as mentioned above, more detail and space could have been given to the specific contributions of the new framework.  Some further comments: + Figure 2 and the figures in the appendix are much too small to read, suggest making much larger, split across multiple figures if necessary + figures in the appendix show "interpretable graphs" but it is not clear what to interpret from these figures: how do they help a practitioner? It is hard for a non-expert to know what the value is of these graphs + "joint q(x | y)" under Eq. 3: should that read "approximate posterior" instead? + "during the simulator's execution in such a way that makes the desired outcome likely" --> suggest explaining what the "desired outcome" is + "MCMC... constitute the gold standard for obtaining samples" --> suggest explaining why it's a gold standard and whether there any limitations at all to MCMC + "via a re-routing of the random number generator" --> what do you mean by "re-routing"? + comment about variational inference not directly applicable when likelihood of data generating process is unknown --> suggest referencing the hierarchical implicit models paper (Tran et al. 2017) + a nice definition of PPL in terms of sampling and conditioning is given in Section 4.1 --> suggest moving that to where PPLs are introduced back in Section 3.1  [significance] The proposed framework can be used in future work to run inference large-scale simulations in a more-or-less plug 'n play way and the approach described can inspire other PPL methods along similar lines.