Edit: Thanks to the authors for addressing my comments and running additional experiments. I have consequently increased my score.  The paper proposes to decompose the parameters into L distinct parameter blocks. Each of these blocks is seen as solving a "pseudo-task", learning a linear map from inputs to outputs. The parameters of these blocks are generated by K hypermodules (small hypernetworks) that condition on a context vector for each pseudo-task based. The alignment of hypermodules to pseudo-tasks is governed by a softmax function and learned during training similar to mixture-of-experts. By sampling hypermodules proportional to their usage, more general modules are used more often.   The approach is evaluated on a synthetic dataset (modeling linear regression tasks) and on a setting that involves three cross-modal tasks: object recognition on CIFAR-10, language modeling on WikiText-2, and CRISPR binding prediction.  The approach combines hypernetworks and mixture-of-experts in an interesting way to learn to capture information that can be shared across different tasks. It is interesting to see that some hyper-modules become general and are used many pseudo-tasks.  My main concerns about this submission regard its evaluation and lack of analysis of model components. The main experiment of the paper is the evaluation on cross-modal multi-task learning using a vision, a text, and a DNA task. However, based on the provided scores, the actual performance of the model remains unclear as the results are a) not competitive and b) not compared to any multi-task learning baselines. a) is most apparent for language modelling (which I am most familiar with), where the state-of-the-art on WikiText-2 is around 39 perplexity (lower is better) and reasonably tuned models from 2017 (https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.02182) achieve around 65 perplexity—compared to 128 reported here. For CIFAR-10, there is a (albeit smaller) gap to the results from the WideResNet or Hypernetworks papers that the method uses. State-of-the-art performance importantly is not necessary, but in order to make a statement about any gains from the new model, the proposed method should at least be competitive with results from the literature. Re b), I am missing a comparison against other multi-task learning models. Even if these are found not to be feasible in the cross-modal setting, a comparison would still be useful to demonstrate how challenging the benchmark is. In addition, the proposed model should be compared to other cross-modal MTL models such as the MultiModel (https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05137).   Alternatively, to get more confidence in the performance of the model, I would have appreciated seeing a comparison on a standard MTL benchmark of a single modality.  Finally, as the model involves many subjective choices regarding the number of pseudo-tasks, the number of hyper-modules, the initialization and sampling strategies, etc. I would have liked to see an ablation analysis that studies and identifies the most impactful components of the model.   Overall, even though I like the proposed approach, I do not think it is ready for acceptance at this point and think that it could be significantly improved through more careful experiments and comparison to prior work.