This paper ultimately describes a black box adversarial attack on the wake-word portion of the Amazon Echo, whereby playing a particular melody on a plucked string model can interfere with the Echo's ability to detect the wake-word "Alexa".  Real guitar music played at the same dB SPL level hardly interferes at all.  In order to achieve this, the attack was developed on an implementation of the Alexa wake-word detector described in the literature.  Reverberation was simulated in this attack as well.  It was then transferred to the real Echo system in the real world.  Experiments were carried out using 100 recordings from 10 talkers in various configurations relative to the device and the jammer signal, showing that the detection F1 score was reduced from 92.5% to 11.0%.  Originality: the paper does an excellent job of describing the related literature and enumerating its contributions that go beyond that literature.  While previous work has performed adversarial attacks against ASR systems and incorporated robustness to reverberation into it, this appears to be the first to work against a commercial system over the air.  Quality and clarity: the paper is well written and clearly describes the necessary pieces and tools used to create the system and test it.  The experiments are thorough, testing the attack digitally and physically on the emulated system and physically on the Echo.  The attack was also tested with different relative positioning to the Echo (distance of the attacker, the talkers, and angular separation between the two).  One aspect that is not clear is the duration of the melody and its temporal relationship to the speech.  How many notes long is it?  Does it just loop after that?  Does it matter when it occurs relative to "Alexa"?    It is rather surprising that such a relatively simple attack could work so well.  While recorded guitar music played at the same volume is a good baseline for comparison, a better baseline would be using the same Karplus-Strong synthesis with different frequencies and intensities showing that they do not interfere.  Perhaps an optimization in the opposite direction (maximize intensity while minimizing detection disruption) would show how much contrast is achievable, i.e., how much of the attack comes from some sound being played while the person is speaking vs this particular sound being played.  Significance: the significance of this work is high.  It appears to be the first adversarial attack against a commercial ASR system and it works over the air.  As such, it is likely to be cited by many researchers going forward.  One aspect that diminishes the significance of the work is that its effect is only to prevent wake-word detection and not to enable it falsely or convert one utterance into another.  Thus its potential for actual attacks is relatively small, but it does present a methodology that could be used in more serious attacks going forward.   General comments: Since the attack is basically only controlling the frequency and intensity of notes in a melody, it would be interesting to know how crucial the Karplus-Strong algorithm is here. Could a MIDI synthesizer be used instead with the same parameters and a pluck-like patch? What about other instruments?  Experiments using this same method to activate the wake-word detection instead of deactivating it would be very interesting.   Minor comments ---------------------- Lines 33 and 42: "It is revealed that..." who or what has revealed these pieces of information about the Echo? If a paper, please cite it.  Line 52 and 253: "varying volume, tempo, and speed" of utterances. What is the difference between tempo and speed? They seem to be redundant here. Perhaps something else is meant? Rhythm?  Line 168: frequency of a note is not the key of a piece. If "key" is meant as in key of a piano, this is confusing. Please remove "(key)".  Line 198: 'compress the loose-less file format "wav" to the loosely file format "mp3"' These should be "lossless" and "lossy".  Line 208: the square bracket is not used in (3), perhaps another symbol was meant?  Table 2: This would be clearer if results were reported as decimal values with N=10 in the caption.   Author feedback --------------------- I have read the author feedback and appreciate the additional experiment using the karplus-strong algorithm to generate comparable non-adversarial examples that do not provide any ability to disrupt wake-word recognition.  These will further strengthen the paper, as will experiments on the synchronization of the wake word with the music.