This paper investigates the evaluation of multiagent strategies in the incomplete information and general-sum setting. The primary algorithm to be analyzed is alpha-rank, which is a ranking algorithm based on the stationary distribution of a markov chain with states defined over all strategy profiles. Since payoff tables M are typically estimated empirically, the authors provide sample complexity bounds on the number of (uniformly distributed) observations of each strategy profile to be observed for the resultant stationary distribution to be close to the true stationary distribution. The authors propose an adaptive sampling strategy based on confidence intervals over each pair of strategy profiles and analyze its sample complexity. The paper also shows how to propagate uncertainties in M to uncertainty in the ranking weights that alpha-rank yield. Lastly, the authors empirically evaluate their sample complexity bounds (in both adaptive and non-adaptive setting), and the performance of ResponseGraphUCB on 3 different problem domains.   Clarity: The paper is generally well written and relatively easy to follow. The problem is well motivated and most key ideas are sufficiently well explained in the main text, with the bulk of proofs being deferred to the appendix. I do have a few minor criticisms.  (1) Figure 6.2 should be presented better. Currently, there are 16 plots per graph and it is extremely difficult to make sense of each plot, not to mention confidence bounds. Since not all of these 16 plots are considered at any time, consider reporting only results which yield interesting insights in the main paper, while leaving the rest of the plots to the appendix. (2) Section 5 may be too heavy in content for readers unfamiliar with CSSPs, Markov chain theory, or “standard control problems”. In my opinion, it may be more effective to provide a high level idea of the technique used and leave precise mathematical details to the appendix.  Quality: Experiments are conducted on reasonable domains and are fairly extensive. I did not verify all the derivations in the appendix, but the ideas presented in section 4 appear sound.  Significance: This paper tackles the problem of estimating payoff values (and ranking weights) from empirical simulations and provides sample complexity bounds. This is a good theoretical contribution to an area which is rapidly gaining popularity, and should be of interest to researchers in many communities.   Other comments: (3) Is Theorem 4.1 agnostic to the chosen sampling scheme? Empirically, how do the different sampling strategies compare with each other? (4) With regard to Figure 6.3, the authors mention that errors are positively correlated with error tolerances. This appears to be the case for the poker meta-game, and delta has virtually no visible effect on the soccer meta-game.  (5) Again with regard to Figure 6.3: In both meta-games, payoff errors decreased gracefully with increasing samples, which is expected. However, ranking errors were significantly more variable in poker as compared to soccer. Could the authors provide some insight as to why this was so? (6) For Bernoulli games, it was stated that payoffs were constrained such that they would not be too close to 0.5. Is this related to theorems 3.1, 3.2, and 4.2? If this is so, would it not be a good opportunity to empirically evaluate the tightness of bounds in 4.2?  ============================= Post-rebuttal. The authors have addressed my concerns satisfactorily. I maintain that the paper is a good submission given some minor edits and the addition of some of the responses in the authors' rebuttal. 