Summary: Overall the paper is strong in originality, quality, clarity, and significance. It seems like a strong accept. Maybe the weakest area is significance, because while a clear improvement over existing methods, the tasks are still fairly restricted (i.e. rigid body dense flow, correspondence within a collection of similar shapes), and the results are essentially incremental. All comments raised by other reviewers and responses were similarly minor, so there is no change in the review between the pre- and post-rebuttal phases.  Originality: -The paper has some similarities to Zhang et al. '19 [45]. But overall it seems like there is easily sufficient novelty compared to existing work because of both theoretical and experimental justification for cycle-consistent bases compared to path-invariant bases.   Quality: The experimental results section is thorough with good metrics and convincing results. It could have been better with some figures containing more detailed qualitative results. This could aid in making the experimental setups easier to understand and would improve result interpretability. -A limitations section would have been nice. Understanding the cases that are hardest for method could be useful for future research.  Clarity: This paper is exceptionally well written. It sets up a clear problem statement, motivates it, and explains the challenges and key idea, all in an easy to parse way. It also does an excellent job at keeping the main paper clean and relatively reasonable to get through. It does so in part by hiding most of the proof complexity in the supplemental and using informal versions of those theorems in the main paper. Please note that the formal proofs in pages 12-21 of the supplemental are quite complex and extensive-- they were referenced while reviewing the paper but not validated. -The ~ operator on edges is never defined. Presumably it means path concatenation. The notation is also a bit loose with the distinction between paths and cycles. For instance, Remark 3 seems a bit premature since the paper hasn't actually defined the notion of a path invariance basis. Reading [45] is currently necessary to understand parts of this paper. -Minor grammatical error on line 219 (stand-alone dependent clause).   Significance: -It would be nice to show this form of cycle-consistency optimization enables novel capabilities, rather than just improved quantitative results over existing methods.  -"We always assume f_{ij} is an isomorphism between D_i and D_j and f_{ji} = f^{-1}_{ij}" Is this really an okay assumption in practice? Is anything given up by this assumption? Most parametric maps will not be injective. 