This paper studies discrimination against minority workers in a two-sided market where an online platform matches employers and workers (e.g. ride-sharing). The proposed fairness goal is to equalize the expected 'welfare' of minority group workers with majority group workers. To model this two-sided market, they make the following assumptions: - There are two worker groups: the "minority" and the "majority." (Minority does not imply numerical minority, see comment in Improvements.) Both groups have the same percentage of "highly skilled" workers. - There are two employer groups: "discriminating" and "non-disciminating". The discriminating employers have a too-low prior about the probability that a minority worker is highly skilled. - The platform matches workers and employers in sequence with discrete timesteps. At each timestep, employers decide whether or not to hire the matched worker based on their estimate of the probability that the worker is highly skilled. This model does not allow employers to compare multiple workers before making the hiring decision in a given timestep. - To estimate the probability that a worker is highly skilled, the employers weigh their prior against the cumulative number of reviews that the worker receives, where a review is more likely to be poghedfgsfg6sitive if the worker is revealed to be highly skilled. Whether or not an employer is "discriminating" only affects their initial hiring decision and not their review.  Originality: This paper's modeling isn't significantly more descriptive than what has been done in related work (e.g. Johari et al). The main difference from Johari et al. appears to be the modeling of employer history to determine whether or not an employer is discriminatory. This allows them to propose the "Direct Matching" intervention which would not have been possible under Johari et al.'s framework alone.   Quality: Their theoretical results are straightforward and generally appear correct (with some minor issues in notation and Lemma 1, see Improvements). However, given that the theoretical results aren't particularly new or practically applicable, I think this paper could benefit from some empirical results (see Improvements).  Clarity: The paper is well written overall, and the ideas presented are clear and well organized. The assumptions made by the model are outlined very clearly. My main concern is in the notation -- the notation is not always precise in its treatment of random variables vs. the values those random variables take (for example, Equation (3), see Improvements).   Significance: The model of discrimination in a two-sided market is especially salient with the gig economy becoming more and more economically relevant. However, their model falls short of applying to real-world review based platforms in a few major ways, including assuming that discrimination only affects the hiring decision and not the reviews (see Improvements), and assuming that employers do not compare multiple workers before making their hiring decision at a given timestep, which happens on many review-based hiring platforms.   