The integration of convnets with the conditional random fields to model the structural dependencies of facial landmarks during face alignment is nice contribution. Previously proposed methods in this direction were hybrid systems (eg. OpenFace versions) and not fully integrated.   The authors evaluate on multiple datasets (300W, 300W-Video, Menpo & COFW-68) and compare results with other methods. Both inter- and cross-dataset performance are provided.   Writing is good, easy to follow.   Couple of concerns, mainly about the evaluation protocol:  1) The authors compare to methods with available code, and they re-ran the codes on the benchmark datasets. The reported results (in Table 1) in some cases are lower than the ones reported in the original papers (see results in FAN[5]). This leaves the reader wondering on what is the source of this discrepancy? Were different parameters used during the reproduction? This need more discussion and  would be important to state the original performance scores.  2) The evaluation metric was taken from [5], which is a modification of the original 300W benchmark metric. The original metric from 300W dataset normalizes landmark errors to the inter-ocular distance and widely accepted and used in the computational face community.  The study of [5] modified the normalization the the bounding box size, and was adopted only in a few papers. The two normalization is not compatible and the scores are not comparable to the methods that use the original protocol. See for example (Dong et al, 2018) for a list of recent SotA methods. Without reporting scores using the original metric is difficult to judge how the proposed technique compares to the state-of-the-art.  Also, among the compared methods there is only one recent study from 2017, the others are 4-5 years old techniques.   Dong, Xuanyi, et al. "Style aggregated network for facial landmark detection." Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2018.  3) It's not clear where is the 3D model (that was used in the study) coming from. Eq. 4 refers to a linear 3D subspace (\Phi) that provides the the rigid (S,R) and non-rigid (q) parameters. Was this subspace learned from a different 3D dataset or inferred from 2D using structure from motion? 