This paper is about a conversational (movie) recommendation system. The model is a neural network encoder-decoder style for next response generation, but with additional components which identify the 'recommendation seeker's' sentiment and select the movie to talk about accordingly. The paper also releases a dataset of 10,000 recommendation conversations in the domain.   The previously good models for dialog generation are based on hierarchical encoder-decoder frameworks and is the base models used in this work. The ideas here involve tracking sentiment towards suggestions to pick out next suggestions and for generating the text.   I found the model interesting and the work is a reasonable approach to the problem. The focus on tracking entities and entity sentiment on the movies is very likely to improve generation performance. The weakness of the paper is that the evaluation is a bit disappointing and lacking in discussion. The paper presents confusion matrices for sentiment prediction, a human study for quality of next utterance, and a rmse for movie recommendations (the last one is a bit unclear). I assume the last is about whether the right movies were spoken about.  The use of ratings then is not clear, the paper must clarify what is being predicted and the evaluation metric.   Anyway, the results do not confirm a definite improvement over previous approaches, both the human evaluation and recommendations. The paper does not provide any discussion of the results obtained and what could be improved. Morever, the generation capabilities are not tested, the fluency of the utterances etc. In addition, the conversation as a whole must be evaluated possibly with humans, the paper only has a utterance level comparison. Moreover, it is unusual to use real dialogues by replacing recommender utterances, the context of the dialog so far, could have resulted in different paths for the model leading to equally good but different conversations. Why not evaluate with users inputing to the conversation or sample the seeker utterances but evaluate the complete dialog?  The main problem with the paper is inconclusive evaluation.   After author response: I thank the reviewers for their response. It would be important to update the paper based on questions/comments of all reviewers and also add more discussion. It is an interesting paper overall. 