The paper addresses a special case of few-shot object detection, subject to the following restrictions: 1. Only one unseen category is sought for in a target image at each time; 2. At least one object of the sought unseen category is assumed present in the target image; 3. Only one example of the unseen category can be used at each time.  In my opinion, these conditions limit the facility of the stated task (and, therefore, the proposed method). There are (few) existing prior works addressing the more general problem of receiving any number of examples (down to one) of any number of unseen categories, and performing detection without assumption that the objects of specific categories are present in the target images. Examples of prior works include [20,21,23] (in the paper's bibliography)  The description of the proposed model in the paper is not sufficiently clear. The diagram in Figure 1 contains only standard computation blocks (e.g. ResNet backbone, RPN, ROI align) and the data blobs, while the novel proposed computation layers are not drawn for some reason (except the elementwise addition and multiplication). Therefore, it is difficult to follow the description in the text, as the notation for these layers is missing from the diagram (e.g., the funcitons \psi, SCE).  The second step - squeeze and co-exitation - based on the work [26]. Here its textual description contradicts the diagram: the vector of weights depends on both F(p) and F(I) in the text and only on F(p) in the diagram. Moreover, it is stated that the reweighed feature vector \tilde{F}(I) is the input to RPN, but in the diagram RPN receives the initial F(I) vector. I recommend the authors to synchronize their graphical description to the text and fill in the missing blocks and notation.  The margin-based ranking loss is a standard one for binary classifier, and its presence makes sense. However, I am not sure its usage can be claimed as a significant contribution.  The experimental section details on the (two existing) benchmarks on which the algorithm is tested. The reported performance is non-negligibly higher than the SOA, which points to the effectiveness of the proposed attention mechanism.  The ablation study is satisfactory and exhibits the effectiveness of the proposed non-local RPN module. The literature review is accurate and is satisfactory.  To summarize, I recon the proposed idea has a moderate importance for the template matching style algorithms in DNN era (e.g., conditional object detection).