#After after the author's rebuttal: Thank you for your feedback. I agree the standard error can be misleading due to the correlations induced by the datasets while the standard error of the ranks is more informative. After the discussion with other reviewers, I think adding the motivation (or derivation) for Equation 9 will definitely make the paper stronger and I encourage the authors to do so in their final version.   This paper proposes a novel RKHS parameterization of decoupled GPs that admits efficient natural gradient computation. Specifically, they decompose the mean parameterization into a part that shares the basis with the covariances, and an orthogonal part that models the residues that the standard decoupled GP (Chen and Boots, 2017)  fails to capture. This construction allows for a straightforward natural gradient update rule. They show this algorithm demonstrates significantly faster convergence in multiple experiments. Although the computational time is larger than the Chen and Boot’s approach, they show that the additional computation is worthwhile for the substantial performance improvement.   Clarity: This paper is well-written.   Originality: The decomposition of orthogonally decoupled basis and residual of the mean and covariance parameterization is entirely novel to my knowledge.   Significant: This orthogonally decoupled approach is highly significant in advancing the field of scalable GP inference. The algorithm is extensively tested against benchmark datasets (both regression and classification) and demonstrated the orthogonally decoupled basis is superior to the coupled basis.    Other comments/suggestions:  - In the abstract session, the word “coupled” is kind of confusing since the proposed method along with the standard approach are both called “decoupled” (line 7 and 12). I notice the word “coupled” appears later in the text (line 69)   - In the experiment session, when comparing the wall-clock for different algorithms, maybe the authors should provide the standard errors of the different measurements over all the testing data, so that we can see whether the log likelihood are significantly from each other and whether the ORTHNAT  significantly outperforms others. Also for Figure 2, “EXACTCOUPLED” and “EXACTDECOUPLED” is not specified in the texts. It might also be better to change the descriptions of the three panels to be in the (a), (b) and (c) order, or change the order of the panels.  - line 285: “Table 6” -> “Table 6 (Appendix)” since Table 6 is in the supplementary materials  Typos:  - line 106: “to searching” -> “to search”  - line 277: “The the” -> “The” 