This paper studies the BCAVI variational method on the simplest blockmodel (2 classes occuring equally likely, and 2 parameters for within & between class densities). The main results seem to be:  1) The first main result is that if the density parameters are known, then the stationary points of the population BCAVI updates are derived. Note that the population BCAVI updates are not the same as the updates given noisy data, so there is a gap between the result and what BCAVI would actually do in practice. This is unusual for this type of work. The authors seem to suggest that the shortfall is merely trivial and that they didn't prove it because they weren't interested in that direction, but then it seems bad judgement not to prove it in the supplement, since it is of practical importance. To me, it is better to say nothing than to make an unsubstantiated claim (while of course a clearly stated conjecture is fine), so I am penalizing the paper somewhat for this. The authors also discuss how the result gives the volume of the basins of attraction -- but this seems again to be done informally, and without any concrete statements such as "the volume of the basin of attraction of such and such local optimum goes to X under such and such conditions". As a result, I think it will be hard for many readers (including me) to gauge some of the author's claims.    2) The second main result does deal with the actual BCAVI updates on noisy data (as opposed to the population updates), and removes the assumption that the density parameters are known. They show that if the class labels are initialized randomly then BCAVI converges to a noninformative local minimum. I believe this result is new. Previous results like [1] require a better initialization than random to show convergence, which complements this result in the paper.  3) A third result is that if the class labels are initialized to be correlated with the truth, then BCAVI recovers the true classes. It was unclear to me whether this result differs significantly from the result of [1], which also requires the initialization to be correlated with the truth.   The paper is not as clearly written as [1], perhaps owing to the 8 page limit. The strength of the results is also less clear, particularly the 1st and 3rd results which may have shortfalls that were discussed above. With additional work to clarify and strengthen the results, the paper might be greatly improved.  [1] Zhang A., Zhou, H. "Theoretical and Computational Guarantees of Mean Field Variational Inference For Community Detection"  EDIT: while MC simulation is still unsatisfying to me, I acknowledge now that the basins of attraction (of the population iterates, not the actual ones) are characterized in a way that gives more insight into their nature. Readers would benefit if the discussion of differences from [1] was added to the paper, otherwise they may have trouble differentiating this results -- yours results deserve better discussion. Score has been raised from 6 to 7.    