This submission tries to study the sequential adaptive hypothesis test for the lowest mean among a finite set of distribution to propose Murphy sampling, compared with LCB and TS with different stopping rules Agg, Box, GLRT, the experiments were conducted in a really small scale and on the artificial data only.  Remarks: 1. consider this is a purely theoretical work, it's unclear what's the new proof techniques or strategies you contributed rather than the similar martingale ones 2. do not point to any figures that are not in the main text, put the key things you want to show in the main body. 3. section 7 is not really a discussion, and the conclusion is missing, it also reflects this work is inconclusive. 4. the authors are unable to provide any real experiments evidence to match the claims, you only play with tiny toy data which is clearly not enough for a high-quality ML paper. 5. line 297 you stated 'large-scale', but you merely reported results in 500 repetitions, you need to spend more time to study how to execute the useful experiments. 6. there is a huge distance between the asymptotic analysis and real applications, in order to mitigate this gap there is a significant amount of work need to be done in order to roll it on board 7. this manuscript is not well written, in the introduction, it seems more like part of an abstract, through the whole draft, you want to position and rectify the whole draft systematically 8. last but not least, there are quite a number of typos and grammar errors irritating during the read, please carefully fix them as well  To conclude, this draft did not make significant contributions to this field, neither in theory nor practice.   %updated comments after rebuttal They have not used the author response style file, but I read their rebuttal, and as they admitted that there can be no serious problem of computational complexity due to a too high rejection probability, which needs further evidence to support their claim. Some actions that will lead to a certain reward, this simpler case makes less sense to identify which one it is, their unnatural setting limits the applicability. Nevertheless, I believe the theoretical contribution is okay to this field, though clearly the empirical contribution has more space to improve.