This paper considers an online Q-learning method using nearest neighbor regression for continuous state space reinforcement learning. The method performs discretization using finite number of center points, and the state-action value function q is online updated using nearest neighbor averaging (regression), followed by the batch update after all states are visited at least once. The authors provide a PAC bound for the estimation of correct value function in this setting.  The topic of this paper is fundamental and important for providing a theoretical guarantee of estimating the true value function with a polynomial time complexity. The idea of using nearest neighbor regression is not new (e.g. kernel-based reinforcement learning [3]), but the proposed method uses an online setting which makes this work novel compared with previous methods.  Though this work presents an interesting algorithm and its theory, the assumptions for designing the algorithm is strong for real-world applications. The authors increase steps from t to t+1 once all states are visited at least once, but often some states are never reached depending on the starting point. In many systems, people consider the controllability claiming the existence of states that are never reached by any action. In this manner, the derived sufficient number of steps T (between lines 264 and 265) is too big even though it is polynomial on model parameters. (In fact, it is near polynomial in terms of \epsilon) The authors have partly explained these limitations in several places, but the information for practitioners has to clearly appear in the main contents.  The authors are recommended to present a simple synthetic and real-world example showing the relationship between the number of steps T and the quality of the learned q function. In particular, the proposed algorithm will be difficult to succeed learning with states in a high dimensional space. Please try to show the algorithm works with high-dimensional states for a simple problem.  In terms of the presentation, the authors have to include the algorithm part of the Appendix into the main text.   The explanation of the theorem can be improved for the qualitative analysis of the effect of h, \epsilon, and N_h. The authors need to provide the sketch of the proof from the perspective how those parameters are related each other in the proof. 