This paper contains several contributions. The authors propose a polynomial form of a tree ensemble. A tree is expressed as a sum (over leaf) of a weight (associated to the leaf) and a product of conditions. The authors provide some theoretical results linking trees and this representation. Based on this representation, they propose methods to compress tree ensembles, to prune them and to measure feature importance. They also provide some experimental results.   Imho, this paper is rather original. While trees and ensembles have already been studied as a sum of weights over leafs, I do not think the methods derived by the authors have been considered before.   Following the authors clarification, I think the paper is relatively clear and, with the modification the authors promised in the rebuttal, of a quality fit for publication. The authors make several contributions and back them with experimental results.I believe the details they make available about their experiments would make it reasonably easy to reproduce them.  On the negative side, they do not compare their methods to baselines for the pruning experiment, they do not provide any code. In my opinion the paper would also benefit from additional proof-reading.   My main concern was that the paper was often unclear.   Here are the main points that bothered me initially, but the authored cleared them up in the rebuttal, promising to correct mistakes and pointed out some understanding mistake I made. I'm sorry for that. A) l74: I do not understand condition 2. A leaf can be bounded from the left and the right, so can't a feature be present twice? B) Theorem 1: Wouldn't it be possible to construct an ensemble H' from an ensemble H by splitting one leaf l and assigning the weigh of the old leaf in the new leaves in H'? Hence the ensemble would have the same value for all points but different set of conditions. C) equation 2 seems wrong with respect to right and left splits and the definition of c(x) equation 3: M does not seem to have been defined before. D) l 85: d does not seem to have been defined before.  l105: In this section we (...) set up a task of tree shape change in ensemble. We represent a tree ensemble as a sum of trees of fixed shape. ---> unclear to me whether the shape is changed or not.  Nevertheless, I believe the methods proposed to be interesting. The lack of comparison to existing approaches make it hard to assess the impact they can have on practitioners. However, the fact the authors derive various methods from the representation they study leads me to believe this impact could be high.  some typos: 56: there are fixed number of rules 82: the stronger condition devours weaker 112: but proof will be longer 149: we took model  --------------- I would like to thank the authors for pointing out misunderstandings on my side. The rebuttal was also very nice to understand the paper. I have updated my review above to take the rebuttal into account. I would like to stress again that I now think the paper to be worth publishing though there is still some room for improvement. I will update my score accordingly.  I would encourage the authors to include the example included in l8-10 of the rebuttal in the paper. On a related note, I think there may be a mistake in these lines. Shouldn't the first equality on line 9 be "I(x > 0)(1 − I(x > 1)) = I( x >0 ) − I(x>0)I(x>1)" ?  I also suggest improving the illustrative Figure 1 by including an additional step: the transformation of the sum into an expression containing only right split indicator functions.  If the authors implement this and the changes they suggested in their answer, I think my complains would no longer be relevant. 