 The paper addresses the issue of exploiting correlation structures in Markov Decision Processes with discrete state spaces. The authors identify a gap that currently makes working with discrete state spaces problematic - that there is no principled method for modelling the state correlations that is flexible enough to accommodate all the ways in which these correlations could be exploited. The paper presents a hierarchical Bayesian model and proposes a variational inference method to find solutions.  The model and procedure presented in the paper are an original application of variational inference, and represent a more general method for dealing with correlation structures than anything I have encountered before. The authors have done a great job of demonstrating this by employing three vastly different problem domains. It is unusual to see Imitation Learning, System Identification and Reinforcement Learning all being tested under a new model in one paper. All of these domains gain an advantage from modelling the correlations and from the inference procedure presented.  The paper is very well written and easy to follow. It is unavoidable that some of the derivations are hard to read, and there were some portions that I had to take on faith but this is more a weakness in my prior knowledge than any weakness in the presentation.  There is a significant weak point in the paper, and that is the baselines used in the experiments. I think the choice of DP as the general baseline makes sense to the authors as they are demonstrating that explicitly modelling the correlations yields an improvement in the observed performance. However, I think the conclusion is then much weaker as it is only able to show that modelling correlations explicitly is better than not modelling correlations at all. However, many existing methods implicity model these correlations. For instance, in the imitation learning setting, the DP model can only imitate the demonstrator in states that appear in the demonstrations. However, this is not generally a limitation in imitation learning, with methods like IRL being capable of learning behaviour in unobserved states.  Similarly, in the System Identification portion, the DP model may be unrealistically naive. I think it would be interesting to see a comparison to a factored classifier, like the model learning portion of Texplore (RL-DT), which uses decision forests to generalise from observed dynamics. It could be argued that these comparisons are unfair as these methods are specific to their domain rather than being a general method for modelling correlations, but to people considering using the model, it is important to know whether the approach is superior to practical alternatives.  Overall, I think this is paper was one that I was glad to spend time on and as such I think it would be of interest to the RL community in general.  ----- Post rebuttal comments: thank you for your response. I'd really urge you to try make these changes, as I think it will greatly strengthen the paper, but I still think it is an interesting read.