The problem of computing the permanent of a non-negative matrix is probably the best known example of a #P complete problem, in addition to being a useful tool in graph theory, statistics,  and increasingly in quantum computation with respect to boson sampling.  The main theoretical contribution of this paper lies in replacing the original workflow of Huber and Law for exact partition sampling - which required an proof in advance that a  particular upper bound satisfied the nesting property - with an adaptive method that works for any upper bound. This is a significant result given the difficulty of applying the original work and the accompanying implementation is likely to become widely used.  The paper is well written and the explanation of the problem setting (existing FPRAS method  that no one actually implements) reflects the current state of the field.  The new ideas presented in Section 3 are intuitive and well motivated. The derivation choices for the specific case of the permanent seem natural, although a comparison of the results using different bounds would be interesting, since the dependence of the run time on choice of bounds is not explored.  The experiments are reasonably comprehensive - larger matrices without the block diagonal structure could have been constructed by taking sequences of combinatorial graphs for which the number of cycle covers is known. While the block diagonal matrices are sparse in the formal sense, it isn't clear that they are representative of non-dense matrices more generally.  Overall, this paper  presents an important new idea and provides more than sufficient validation of its practical implications.   *Smaller Notes  In the introduction, it is the bi-adjacency matrix (where the rows and columns are separately indexed by the partite sets) whose permanent counts perfect matchings.   I found the informal description of the nesting property in the contributions section  a little confusing although the formal definitions are clear.   It would be nice to see Figure 5 from the supplement in the main text but page restrictions may make that difficult.    (very) small note, but many places with multiple references they are out of (numerical) order.   I appreciate the authors responses and understand the computational difficulties involved in actually applying the other types of bounds. In my mind this does not detract from the strength of the paper. 