This is a novel combination of existing techniques that appears well-formulated with intriguing experimental results. In particular, this work leverages the strengths stochastic gradient MCMC methods with stochastic approximation to form an adaptive empirical Bayesian approach to learning the parameters and hyperparameters of a Bayesian neural network (BNN). My best understanding is that by optimizing the hyperparameters (rather than sampling them), this new method improves upon existing approaches, speeding up inference without sacrificing quality (especially in the model compression domain). Other areas of BNN literature could be cited, but I think the authors were prudent not to distract the reader from the particular area of focus.  This work demonstrates considerable theoretical analysis and is supported by intriguing experimental evidence. In particular, applying the method to a simpler problem (Bayesian linear regression with p << n) shows posteriors matching the data generating distributions, appropriately shrinks irrelevant variables, and attains better predictive performance than similar methods without the contributions of this paper. Similar predictive performance seems to hold for MNIST and FMNIST compared to SGHMC (considered by some to be a “gold standard” in learning BNN parameters), and in a compression setting on CIFAR10. My only complaint about the experimental section would be wanting to see more datasets (perhaps even some regression datasets other than the toy example [that was by no means trivial]), but I think the paper is sufficient as-is.  The authors go to considerable lengths to demonstrate the theory of their contribution without distracting the reader from the main results, appropriately deferring lengthy proofs to supplemental material. I think that, coupled with the supplemental material, an expert would be able to reproduce the results in this paper, especially someone already familiar with SGLD/SGHMC methods. Sections 3.2-3.3 are a bit dense to read through, but considering the complexity of the approach and the desire for work to be reproducible, I think this is appropriate.   I think the results on compression in MNIST and the uncertainty in the posterior for the toy example are important. They show the strength of this method (even in a neural network setting) and its ability to prune extraneous model parameters, which has positive implications for embedded devices and other lower-memory applications. I think future researchers could indeed apply this method as-is to certain models, although some hyperparameter guidance (e.g., \tau, the temperature) would be nice for practitioners. Especially because of the theoretical guarantees of the method, I think the results make it a more compelling alternative than SGLD/SGHMC for Bayesian inference, especially where sparsity is concerned.  **post-author feedback** I appreciate the authors' response, especially regarding having some additional results on UCI regression datasets, showing an improvement over SGHMC (in particular). And I appreciate the authors' response to the other reviewers with regard to a clear problem statement and possible extensions of the work (larger networks, more structure to the sparsity).