This paper investigates the links between regularization and causality from different perspectives. Based on novel theoretical results regarding this link, an algorithm is proposed that yields confounder-corrected (regularized) regression vectors. The algorithm is applied to both simulated and real data. Finally, learning theory is used to provide further insights and bounds on the difference between expected and interventional loss.  Strengths: - The paper is very well-written and well-structured. - It investigates a very interesting question and provides novel theoretical results, a practical algorithm to use the insights for practise, and supports the theoretical results by empirical applications.  - I couldn’t find any problems in the theoretical derivations and proofs. - Finally, the paper nicely puts the results into perspective and cautions which interpretations cannot be drawn from the results.  Major comment: - From the descriptions in the paper, it is hard to understand all the details what is shown in Figures 2 and 3. For example, what is the unregularized RSE in Figure 2? What does each point represent in Figure 3 (and how many points are there)?  Minor comments: - The abstract could be improved to better capture the interesting concepts and contributions of the paper. - While some references are cited that discuss the link between regularization and causal inference, there is a larger body of literature on this topic of which a few other studies should be cited and briefly discussed.  - One half-sentence could be added in lines 93-98 to ease the understanding of the mathematical derivations. - There are a few minor typos, e.g. in lines 54/55: OLS not LOS - I would choose a different formulation in line 71 of “… is responsible for the failure of OLS regression”. - A slightly longer discussion of the finite-sample case would be interesting. - I suggest choosing different colors in Figure 2 (not red/green). - Figure 2 is barely readable, figure 3 requires strong zooming-in (not readable in print), and the legends as well as axes labels could be improved.  AFTER AUTHORS’ RESPONSE:  I have read the authors’ response, and stay with my initial assessment. For me, the main priority would continue to be the improvement of the description of the empirical results. The explanations in the authors’ response are helpful, and I think that it would be nice to have a brief comment on why combining finite sample with confounding is challenging. Regarding related work, regarding the space constraints, it would be sufficient in my opinion to limit the insertion and discussion of additional references to one sentence. 