(Originality):  The paper proposes a new elementwise transformation for use in coupling & autoregressive transforms. There have been multiple papers proposing such transformations recently. Notably, [Muller et al, 2018] proposes invertible transformations based on linear and quadratic splines. In an earlier iteration of this work, the authors proposed an extension of this in the form of cubic splines. This work extends on these by 1) allowing unconstrained inputs/outputs by letting the transformation be linear outside a range (improving numerical stability) and 2) using rational-quadratic splines instead of linear/quadratic/cubic splines (improving flexibility). This is clearly explained in the paper and related work is cited.  (Quality):  The paper is well executed. The paper proposes a new flexible elementwise transformation which can be used a replacement for the typical additive/affine transformations in coupling/autoregressive transformations, increasing their overall flexibility. This is demonstrated in the experiments where the authors show that by exchanging the additive/affine transformations in IAF/MAF/Glow by rational-quadratic transformations, they can 1) for some tabular datasets obtain state-of-the-art results, 2) show small but consistent improvements when used as a prior and variational distribution in a VAE and 3) obtain comparable results to Glow for images using 1/10th of the parameters. In the experiments on tabular data, the baselines are updated to be more similar to the proposed method. That is, MAF is updated to use ResMADE and invertible linear layers instead of permutations, while the quadratic spline flows of [Muller, 2018] are updated to have linear tails. This allows for a more fair comparison by isolating factors of improvement.  (Clarity): The paper is generally well written and organized. The proposed method is clearly explained and supported by illustrative figures.  While rational-quadratic splines were explained in detail in the appendix, I would have liked to see equations for the forward/inverse transformation and/or Jacobian determinant for the rational-quadratic transformation in the main text as this is a central point of the paper.  Experimental details are given in the appendix, facilitating reproducibility of the results. Some comments/questions: - Was the coupling layer which transforms all variables used in all your experiments? And does this yield significant improvements over a standard coupling layer? - I would prefer to have boldface highlighting the top results within the C/AR part of the tables.  (Significance): The proposed elementwise transformation adds a useful new module to the toolbox. As demonstrated in the experiments, this module can improve the flexibility of coupling and autoregressive transforms, in some cases leading to state-of-the-art results. 