Update:  I appreciate the authors' response. Besides other reviewers' concerns, the current response is still not very substantial to me, especially on the experimental results. E.g., in the response, the authors claim that "when they fit the model to two random subsets of the 58 trials of the same odor A, the latent trajectories are much more intertwined". Comparing with the results in the paper showing two different odors, I feel that it is a very tricky claim that the intertwined pair of trajectories indicates homogeneity more than the other pair does. More experiments can improve the results and I believe that another round of reviewing is encouraged to improve the quality.  ------------------------------------ Originality: The paper is well motivated and organized, and of great significance to brain functional connectivity research. However, there are some clarity issues and technical details that might need improvement. Here is a list of my concerns: 1. On pg 1, “The model 21 produces strong statistical evidence for DFC…” I am confused about what is the specific statistical evidence. Since the experimental results in the paper haven’t provided significant statistical evidence, I would suggest the authors’ statement be more concrete.  2. On pg 2, “\Lambda a p\times r matrix of factor loadings” should be “r \times p”. 3. On pg 3, in eq (5), p_2 and p_3 are not defined. 4. On pg 4, it would be better to explain more insight of Th 1. What does weakly stationary property imply except “The covariance of the log-covariance process Y (t) depends only on the static loading matrix and the factor covariance kernels”. 5. The authors claim that “the model posterior allows us to perform Bayesian inference for scientific hypotheses, for instance, whether the LFP time series is non-stationary, and if characteristics of DFC differ across experimental conditions”. It is not very clear to me how the authors justify these statements via their experimental results presented in the paper. 6. I would expect the authors illustrate more details of the process, by which they chose the specific 6 channels. Fig 5 show correlation between 2 of the 6 channels. Could the authors tell how they choose the specific 2 out of the 6?  7. Fig. 5 shows two median GP factors visualized as trajectories in latent space can be separated based on the odor. Since there is a lack of analysis on the statistical significance, it would be highly recommended to replicate the experiments on other odors to validate the separation between two distinct odors and similarity between two similar odors.  8. I would expect that the author shows that the problem of factorizing Y_i(t) into F_i(t)*B is well-defined. It means that F_i(t) could be in a so over-complicated space that the factorization result of B and F_i(t) becomes very unstable and sensitive to the initialization. 