I think the claim that the proposed definition of qW is new is not true: - This definition was considered before by the team of Golse and collaborators [1], and is recently reviewed in [2]. These authors consider an apparently related but different cost function C and in particular introduce an epsilon parameter that should goes epsilon->0 to obtain a definite positive semi-distance, but my feeling is that it is because these work consider possibly infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces (see below about why I think this is important). - The same idea of using partial trace constraints was also considered in [3]. This work also considers an extra spatial dimension, but for a space with a single point, this gives the same type of problem. - The idea of using quantum entropic regularization is considered in [4]. This is for a slightly different problem, where partial trace constraints are replaced by quantum-KL discrepancy ("unbalanced qOT"), but this leads to the same expm Gibbs factorization of the solution.  Regarding the importance of using qW with respect to simpler losses. The authors claim that "the discontinuity of ... the trace distance", but I think this is not true, the trace distance is continuous. So, to me, since the paper only considers finite dimensional settings, it is not clear how to support the narrative that qW is better than alternative distances (just as with classical OT, where one has to goes to continuous spaces to see the difference in term of induced topology between TV and W). So, the work of Golse and collaborators is very relevant here, since they do provide a quantitative comparison between qW and W applied to Husimi transforms of the states. The present paper lacks this type of control to justify the use of the qW loss.  Related to this, it is a pity that, despite not having theoretical results regarding their qW loss, they did neither provide numerical results supporting the superiority when training GANs. The nuclear norm and the Bures metric (as review in the supplementary section "Distance measure") are both convex functionals, so one could also dualize and develop a GAN, just as vanilla GAN does for the JS divergence. It is important to realize that by modifying the dual problem and using a neural network actually stabilize the primal divergence, and in practice, vanilla GAN is still the mostly used method, and the superiority of the WGAN is only very marginal (or even not true).  Also, and this is related to these issues, I think the statement that the qW loss is differentiable is wrong (just as W is not differentiable). To have differentiability, the solution of the dual problem must be unique (up to an additive constant). This is in general not true, just as for classical OT. This is why adding entropic regularization is important, to obtain a smooth loss function. It is a shame that the authors of the paper did not insist on this (in my mind) important contribution, since smoothing the W distance is a very important topic, especially when dealing with high dimensional problem where OT is known to perform very badly (curse of dimensionality).  Lastly, my overall feeling is that the paper does a poor job at actually presenting the method and the take home message. Most of the interesting part is actually in the appendix, in particular: - the precise definition of the cost C is super important, and should be given in the main text *before* stating the theory. One should not have to read the supplementary to be able to understand the statement of the theorem (of course it is fine with me to have the *proofs* in the supplementary, but not the hypotheses). - all the narrative and intuitive explanation about why qW is better than other norms is super important. Currently, this material is spread in the supplementary, and is explained in a quite fuzzy way. In particular, the paragraph "Classical examples of simple sequence ..." is very important, but there is no equation and no precise statement (in particular in light of my previous remark about the fact that the nuclear norm is continuous just as qW).  To summarize, I have mixed feeling about this paper, but I would still support acceptance under the conditions that: - The authors give a proper credit to previous works on static Kantorovitch-type formulations for qOT, and in particular put in context their main contribution with respect to the previous work of Golse and collaborators (the critical part being to understand the differences/similarities between the cost functions, and understand this in the context where the dimension -> +infty). - Does some "mass transport" between the supplementary and the main text so that the paper becomes self-contained and explains more clearly the advantage of the proposed metric.   ---- References ---  [1] On the Mean-Field and Classical Limits of Quantum, F. Golse, C. Mouhot, T. Paul, Mechanics, Commun. Math. Phys. 343 (2016), 165–205.  [2] Quantum optimal transport is cheaper Emanuele Caglioti, François Golse, Thierry Paul https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.01829v1  [3] Matrix-valued Monge-Kantorovich Optimal Mass Transport Lipeng Ning, Tryphon T. Georgiou, Allen Tannenbaum, https://arxiv.org/abs/1304.3931  [4] Quantum Optimal Transport for Tensor Field Processing Gabriel Peyré, Lenaïc Chizat, François-Xavier Vialard, Justin Solomon, https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08731