The biggest hole I can find here is a detailed, clear comparison with Pilanci/Wainwright 2015 work on subsampled / sketched Newton, where they give convergence rates for both the sketch size > rank and sketch size < rank regime. As far as I can see, this work is not particularly novel when compared with the Pilanci/Wainwright work, although I can believe that it rose independently (it does not seem exactly the same). Therefore a clear discussion of the comparison would help rate originality and significance.   Quality: The convergence rate looks more similar to that of a first-order method than a second-order method, and I believe if the sketch size goes to 1, then the method should reduce to gradient descent. (Newton should be q-quadratic) Therefore the rates themselves are not super impressive. However, the math is clean and the few lemmas I checked, the proof looks sound.  Clarity: I think the mathematical contributions are very clearly explained and intuitive, which is the paper's main strength. In particular, the interpretation of the sketched step as a randomized projection, followed by simple linear algebra consequences, is a very clean way of analyzing the convergence behavior.  Comments after rebuttal:  - Upon reading the rebuttal and rereading the main paper, I do think I misunderstood some key parts of their algorithm, and the comment they made that gradient descent may not even descend in this framework is true. Hopefully the authors can find a way to emphasize this more when proposing the method? (Maybe with an example with all dimensions labeled?)   - The point about the square root Newton in P/W work makes sense, and it does seem that they are mostly focused on local convergence rates, whereas the authors here are focused on global convergence rates. With the promised included discussion, I think the novelty is clearer.     - I do feel that the exact line search (which is not terribly computationally burdensome but is somewhat unconventional) should be discussed more in the main text rather than the appendix.   I have increased the overall score. 