Summary: The authors analyse the energy landscape associated with the training of deep neural networks and introduce the concept of Asymmetric Valleys (AV), local minima that cannot be classified as sharp or flat local minima. AV are characterized by the presence of asymmetric directions along which the loss increases abruptly on one side and is almost flat on the other. The presence of AV in commonly used architectures is proven empirically by showing that asymmetric directions can be found with `decent probability'. The authors explain why SGD, with averaged updates, behaves well (in terms of the generalization properties of the trained model) in the proximity of AV.  Strengths: The study of neural networks' energy landscape is a recent important topic. Existing analysis are often based on the flat-sharp classification of local minima and showing the presence of stationary points that escape such basic distinction is an important contribution. Moreover, the paper explains clearly and justify theoretically how the flatness and sharpness of minima affect the generalization properties of the trained model. The introduction contains a nice and accessible review of recent works on the topic.  Weaknesses: It is hard to assess what is the contribution of the paper from a practical point of view as SGD automatically avoids possible training problems related to AV. On the theoretical side, the paper does not investigate deeply the relationship between AV and usual flat or sharp minima. For example, how are AV connected to each others and which properties of sharp/flat minima generalize to AV?  Questions: - Under what conditions (on the network architecture) do AV appear? Is there an intuitive interpretation of why they can be found in the loss function associated with many `modern' neural networks? - Is the presence of AV restricted to the over-parameterized case? If yes, what happens in the under-parameterized situation? Which of the given theoretical properties extend to that case (as local minima cannot be expected to be equivalent in the under-parameterized case).  - Do the structure of AV depend on the type of objective function used for training? What happens if a L-2 penalty term on the weights is added to the loss function? - Would it be possible to built a 2-dimensional analytical example of AV?  - The averaged SGD performs well also in the case of convex loss. Is its good behaviour around a AV related to this? - In Section 3.2, it is claimed that AV can be found with `decent probability'. What is the order of magnitude of such probability?  Does it depend on the complexity of the model? Does this mean that most of the minima are AV?   