This paper is far from my area of expertise. Since in big conferences like NIPS it makes very little sense to avoid submitting a review in such circumstances, and especially that we are a few days before the review deadline, I am doing my best to provide a review here. Unfortunately, my review here is based on my general expertise in ML and NNs, but I am far from being an expert to the particular details of the problem here.  Problem definition: the paper address the problem of designing NNs (particularly CNNs) that are equivariant with respect to a known symmetry, in this case these are SE(3)-equivariant networks. As the authors argue, this problem is far from trivial due to the mathematical properties of this symmetry group. The motivation for this problem is that in many natural sciences setups (such as those explored in the experimental setup of this paper) such properties are known to hold and if a machine learning model respects them, it is likely to better model the data. Importantly, the method proposed by the authors has modest run-time demands: it only needs to parameterize its filter kernels as a linear combination of pre-computed steerable basis kernels. This way "the 3D Steerable CNN incorporates equivariance to symmetry transformations  without deviating far from current engineering best practices." The experimental setup is thorough and interesting and it provides strong indications that the ideas of the authors reflect a significant progress and can facilitate further meaningful research on the problem.  Strength:  I admire the scientific motivation of the authors and the fact that they address such a worthy problem, even if it is challenging and technically complex. The proposed method has appealing properties that make it feasible for computation and implementation. The experimental results are also thorough, interesting and at some points challenging.  My intuition is that I wold have given this paper a higher score (at least 8) had I been more knowledgeable of its research problem and modeling techniques.  I feel that with my current knowledge I cannot stand behind a higher score.  After reading the response: I would like to thank the authors for their response. Most of the response does not refer to my review but it did help me understand the paper.