I have read the author response and am strengthening my confidence (since after the response and seeing other reviews, I believe I have understood everything correctly). I loved the analysis of the "concentration of mass at the extrema" between the CB and beta that the authors provided in their response. It is exactly this kind of careful study and how it relates to what you saw in your experiments with MNIST (and why it matters specifically for the particular characteristics of the dataset) that make me love a paper like this. I hope that the authors add that analysis to the supplementary material at least. It almost sounds like your supplement could even be a mini paper on such a study that's interesting in its own right (though please don't write another paper on it).  ***  The paper is very classy and very well written. I find the paper very inspiring. I will fight for the paper to be accepted if needed.  I do believe in the significance/impact of the paper as a demonstration of how to carefully study your modeling choices, and possible negative repercussions of some choices, from a technical perspective. I loved things like studying the shape of the normalising constant (as a function of the parameter). I would like researchers to more often mimic such studies in their own work. However, I don't think the paper is necessarily "seminal" as I can't see many people opting to use this new continuous Bernoulli distribution instead of rather nicer distributions on the unit interval, namely, the beta distribution.  With that said, why did Kingma and Welling not just use the beta distribution as the likelihood in the first place (in the same way you defined in your experiments section)? It looks like empirical performance wise they have comparable/mixed performance, and qualitatively (the samples of the digits) of the CB is more satisfying. Is that correct? I see that this is reviewed but I wish it were emphasised more in other parts of the paper, like in the introduction. I don't think it will weaken the paper.  I think the CB distribution could be interesting in its own right. But again it's rather ugly compared to the beta distribution. I think the way to go would be a study of the qualities/differences between the beta and CB, for example, comparing the shapes of their normalising constants. Or the metrics of wanting to directly model a the single parameter of the CB (and its interpretations). But I understand this is beyond the scope/needs of the paper.  Can't say I found anything lacking in the paper.