This paper studies learning over-parametrized single hidden layer ReLU neural networks for multi-class classification via SGD and the corresponding generalization error. They consider a mixture data distribution where each class has well-separated and compact support. The authors show SGD applied on the considered learning model achieves good prediction error with high probability under suitable assumptions. As a result even in severely over-parametrized models, SGD can generalize well although the network has enough capacity to fit arbitrary labels. The main insight in the theoretical analysis appears to be the observation that in the over-parametrized case, many ReLU neurons don't change their activation pattern when initialized randomly. Although the claimed result is interesting, there are some issues in clarity, presentation and notation which needs to be addressed. I have some doubts on Lemma 5.1 (please see below). The numerical evidence presented is weak and not clearly explained. Please find below a detailed list of comments and suggestions. I hope that the authors can clarify these points in the revision.     1. page 5 line 170. It's not clear why p_{a,b} appears in the expression for L(w). Is this a population level quantity ? Please refrain from overloading notation (L(w)).  2. In lemma 5.1 it appears that \tau needs to be small to have a large fraction of indices to match the pseudo ReLu network. Is tau = O(1) or tau*k*l = O(1)?   3. If you combine all l distributions in each class to a single distribution, isn't the separability assumption still valid ? But the sample complexities depend on l, which becomes smaller when merging distributions. Can you please clarify ?  4. In the numerical experiments, it is claimed that over-parametrization helps in optimization. However this is not immediately evident from the figures. In Figure 2 the test accuracy vs iteration plots appear to be overlapping and Figure 1 is hard to read.  5. page 3 line 101. Can you add a reference citing which previous works consider l=1 in this setting ?  6. page 3 line 115. Can you clearly define L(x_i,w) ? If possible, please use different notation for L(x_i,w) since L(w) is defined and refrain from overloading.  7. page 5 line 181. Typo 'randomness'    