In this paper, the authors studied the problem of multitask reinforcement learning (MTRL), and propose several optimization techniques to alleviate the scalability issues observed in other methods, especially when the number of tasks or trajectories is large. Specifically, they rely on consensus algorithms to scale up MTRL algorithms and avoid the issues that exist in centralized solution methods. Furthermore, they show how MTRL algorithms can be improved over state-of-the-art benchmarks by considering the problem from a variational inference perspective, and then propose a novel distributed solver for MTRL with quadratic convergence guarantees.  In general, this work is tackling some important problems in the increasingly popular domain of multi-task RL. Using the variational perspective of RL, the problem of MTRL can be cast as a variational inference problem, and policy search can be done through the minimization of the ELBO loss. To alternate the updates on variational parameters and the policy parameters, the authors also propose using EM based approaches, which is very reasonable. Furthermore, by imposing the policy parameterization (as a combination of shared weights and separate weights) that is intuitive for multi-task learning, they showed that the policy search algorithm can be solved in a distributed way, and proposed using Laplacian consensus algorithm (instead of ADMM) to improve convergence  In general, I found this paper well-written and the concepts are clearly described. I also find the derivations and the convergence analysis of the consensus algorithms rigorous. I also appreciate the detailed comparison between the proposed method and other state-of-the-art Newton-based method.  My only question here is the necessity of using the variational formulation. It seems that the paper is built based on two separate parts, one part on deriving the ELBO loss, and the second part on developing consensus algorithms for MTRL. It seems that with the above parameterization one can still derive consensus algorithms for original MDP objective functions and argue using policy gradient type arguments. In this case is calculating Hessian going to be more difficult? It would be great to understand (or state in the paper) why is it necessary to use the variational formulation.  Another minor comment: I believe the Chebyshev polynomial is only used in the parameterization of the Hessian H(\lambda), can the authors define these notations just before section 4.2? 