Overall this is a really interesting idea incorporating concrete visual concepts and more abstract metaconcepts in a joint space and using the learning of one to guide the other. There are some issues below, mostly details about training implementation, that could clear up my questions.  1. Why not use pretrained word embeddings for the GRU model? The issue here is that the object proposal generator was trained on ImageNet, meaning it almost definitely had access to visual information about the held out concepts in Ctest. The GRU baseline, even signficantly less training data, outperforms for instance-of. Would the same be true of synonym metaconcept if it had been trained on data like Common Crawl or Wikipedia? The authors should either pretrain the vision model with access only to the training concepts or train word embeddings with more data for a more fair comparison. 2. In Section 4.3.2, how do the authors know instance-of metaconcept is the reason the model outperforms the others on CLEVR? Also, all the models essentially have the same performance on GQA. 3. In Table 4, high performance on synonym makes sense because the concepts are visually similar and visual features are computed from a model pretrained on ImageNet. For the instance-of metaconcept, which likely relies more on linguistic information than synonym, the GRU with word embeddings trained on a small amount of data outperforms the pretrained semantic parser. There’s a huge performance gap between the metaconcepts, the largest being for this model, that should be explored more in-depth. This also ties into the comment above. 4. Did authors consider using existing zero-shot compositional visual reasoning datasets (e.g. [1]) instead of manually generating questions and answers?  Clarity: - Well-written paper with clear, easy-to-follow sections. A small change on Fig 3 could be to add more space between the lines coming from the meta-verify parse. - Was the GRU portion of GRU-CNN also pretrained only on the questions? - Number of metaconcepts used isn’t clear until the final section before the conclusion (except brief mention in Table 1). Perhaps add an additional line in dataset section. - How was the semantic parser trained? If it wasn’t on just training questions, in the same way the GRU was trained, then this isn’t a fair comparison with the GRU and GRU-CNN baselines. - Table 4 only includes results for GQA but also mentions results for CLEVR in the text.  Notes: -line 110: “In Figure 2, We illustrate..” -> “In Figure 2, we illustrate” -line 119: “we first runs..” -> “we first run” -line 181: “we assume the access to” -> “we assume access to: -line 247: “it fails the outperform” -> “it fails to outperform” -line 260- “to indicate the models” -> “to indicate to the models”  References: [1] C-VQA: A Compositional Split of the Visual Question Answering (VQA) v1.0 Dataset. Agrawl et.al. 2017.