In the manuscript entitled, "Mutually Regressive Point Processes", the authors present a hierarchical model and associated Gibbs sampler for a modification of the mutually-excitatory Hawkes process to allow suppressive behaviour as well.  The presentation is clear and both the proposed model and sampling scheme appear correct.  The application of the model to a neural spike dataset is both topical (for the conference name! but really as a topic of current work) and interesting (since one must imagine the true model is not exactly of the class assumed: i.e., application with [presumably] a typical degree of misspecification).  I think this model has the potential to be applied to a number of scientific problems in addition to the neural model: for instance, in studies of disease where new cases spread and generate others, but each can also increase the likelihood of a community receiving prophylaxis in response.  Given the level of detail in the current manuscript, the examination of both well-specified and misspecified (real world) data, and the supplementary material of the code, I would consider this paper already completely sufficient to warrant acceptance.  That said, I would encourage the authors to think about some issues for future work / if planning to release the code through (e.g.) an R package.  One is obviously scalability and approximate posterior representation as the authors themselves allude to.  The other is prior choice.  These deep hierarchical models can often be difficult to choose good priors for on a case by case basis, yet very broad 'non-informative' priors can nevertheless pull the model away from the data-preferred regions of parameter space in surprising/unwanted ways.  Ideally the authors could come up with a set of summary statistics or visualisations that would be appropriate to help new users choose appropriate hyper-parameters for their priors and/or diagnose prior-sensitivity. (The latter might be indicable from posterior re-weighting; if Radon-Nikodym derivatives for the collapsed processes can be calculated a la Ghosh et al. 2006 for the Dirichlet Process).   