 * Update after author response*  My main request for improving the comparison with state of the art models has been done and turned out favorable for the authors‘ model. Therefore I think the paper makes a good contribution despite a number of smaller issues, most of which I hope the authors will fix in the final version.   I can’t quite follow R2‘s criticism, as the authors‘ GRU baseline does essentially what they describe as a 2D GRU.    *Original review*  Summary: The authors introduce a novel neural network architecture called the horizontal gated recurrent unit (hGRU), which they show excels at a visual task that requires detecting related features over long spatial ranges. This task – the Pathfinder Challenge – has been used in the neuroscience literature and requires deciding whether two dots in an image are connected by a path made of short line segments. They show that a single layer of hGRU can solve this task almost perfectly, while CNNs need to be quite deep to achieve comparable performance and require orders of magnitude more parameters.  Strengths: + The paper is well motivated and conceptually very clear. + The Pathfinder challenge uses simple images to generate a non-trivial and interesting task. + The paper shows a limitation of CNNs and proposes an effective solution using a gated recurrent model. + The result that a one-layer recurrent model can solve the task is quite remarkable. + Ablation studies and comparisons with other models show that the proposed hGRU model maximizes the ratio of performance to the number of parameters.  Weaknesses: - The hGRU architecture seems pretty ad-hoc and not very well motivated. - The comparison with state-of-the-art deep architectures may not be entirely fair. - Given the actual implementation, the link to biology and the interpretation in terms of excitatory and inhibitory connections seem a bit overstated.  Conclusion: Overall, I think this is a really good paper. While some parts could be done a bit more principled and perhaps simpler, I think the paper makes a good contribution as it stands and may inspire a lot of interesting future work. My main concern is the comparison with state-of-the-art deep architectures, where I would like the authors to perform a better control (see below), the results of which may undermine their main claim to some extent.   Details:  - The comparison with state-of-the-art deep architectures seems a bit unfair. These architectures are designed for dealing with natural images and therefore have an order of magnitude more feature maps per layer, which are probably not necessary for the simple image statistics in the Pathfinder challenge. However, this difference alone increases the number of parameters by two orders of magnitude compared with hGRU or smaller CNNs. I suspect that using the same architectures with smaller number of feature maps per layer would bring the number of parameters much closer to the hGRU model without sacrificing performance on the Pathfinder task. In the author response, I would like to see the numbers for this control at least on the ResNet-152 or one of the image-to-image models.   The hGRU architecture seems very ad-hoc. - It is not quite clear to me what is the feature that makes the difference between GRU and hGRU. Is it the two steps, the sharing of the weights W, the additional constants that are introduced everywhere and in each iteration (eta_t). I would have hoped for a more systematic exploration of these features. - Why are the gain and mix where they are? E.g. why is there no gain going from H^(1) to \tilde H^(2)? - I would have expected Eqs. (7) and (10) to be analogous, but instead one uses X and the other one H^(1). Why is that? - Why are both H^(1) and C^(2) multiplied by kappa in Eq. (10)?   - Are alpha, mu, beta, kappa, omega constrained to be positive? Otherwise the minus and plus signs in Eqs. (7) and (10) are arbitrary, since some of these parameters could be negative and invert the sign.   - The interpretation of excitatory and inhibitory horizontal connections is a bit odd. The same kernel (W) is applied twice (but on different hidden states). Once the result is subtracted and once it's added (but see the question above whether this interpretation even makes sense). Can the authors explain the logic behind this approach? Wouldn't it be much cleaner and make more sense to learn both an excitatory and an inhibitory kernel and enforce positive and negative weights, respectively?   - The claim that the non-linear horizontal interactions are necessary does not appear to be supported by the experimental results: the nonlinear lesion performs only marginally worse than the full model.   - I do not understand what insights the eigenconnectivity analysis provides. It shows a different model (trained on BSDS500 rather than Pathfinder) for which we have no clue how it performs on the task and the authors do not comment on what's the interpretation of the model trained on Pathfinder not showing these same patterns. Also, it's not clear to me where the authors see the "association field, with collinear excitation and orthogonal suppression." For that, we would have to know the preferred orientation of a feature and then look at its incoming horizontal weights. If that is what Fig. 4a shows, it needs to be explained better. 