Overview: This paper builds on and adapts the explicit randomized integrators developed by Conrad et al. (2016) and Teymur et al. (2016) and proposes a alternative sequential procedure that directly incorporates information from the ODE at the next time step to produce an implicit probabilistic integrator (equation (6)). They give rigorous description of its theoretical properties and extend the method to multi-dimensional case. They also provide some preliminary experimental results on a two-dimensional non-linear dynamic system with three parameters. The results show their proposed method showed a clear de-biasing effect, which is not discovered by Conrad et al. (2016).  Quality: I’m not quite sure if the paper is technically sound (I don’t see how the equation (5) together with higher order implicit linear multistep methods of Adams-Moulton leads to equation (6)). I did not thoroughly check all the equations (especially the ones in the supplementary materials) though.   Clarity: This paper is not very easy to follow probably due to the heavy notation in math symbols.  I also found some statements are confusing. For example, section 1 (line 28) the authors state that they focus on the initial value problems (IVPs)  Originality: The proposed method seems to be novel.   Significance: Although this paper provides an interesting direction in solving the ODE problems, the content of experiment section seems to be premature for NIPS publication. I suggest to condense the related work session and incorporate more results in the experiment session, and possibly explore the relationship between the scaling parameters and other method characteristics.   ------ Post rebuttal:  Thanks for the clarification for equation (5) and (6). It totally makes sense now. I do have a minor suggestion: In line 158, it says "r is a positive \eta-scaled discrepancy measure ...", however on line 169, it says "r(z) is the expression ... and g is in this case the transformation g: ...",  the expression of r(z) does not contain \eta and "g" on the other hand contains \eta. It'll make it easier to follow if the definition of r and g is consistent. How about changing g(r(z, \eta)) to  (g(r(z), \eta), and explicitly stating that r(z) = F_{i+1)(z) - f(z, \theta)?  I appreciate the details and clear description in the literature and agree that it provides a good context for the new work. Although I still think it should be shortened to leave space for more experiments, the novelty of the paper is still worth to be published. 