This paper describes an approach to person re-identification that uses a generative model to effectively disentangle feature representations into identity-related and identity-unrelated aspects. The proposed technique uses an Identity-shuffling GAN (IS-GAN) that learns to reconstruct person images from paired latent representations even when the identity-specific representation is shuffled and paired with identity-unrelated representation from a different person. Experimental results are given on the main datasets in use today: CUHK03, Market-1501, and DukeMTMC.  The paper is very well-written and the technical development is concise but clear. There are a *ton* of moving parts in the proposed approach, but I feel like the results would be reproducible with minimal head scratching from the written description.  A few critical points:   1. The FD-GAN [27] approach is indeed very similar to the technique proposed in this submission. So much so that it is surprising (to me) that the IS-GAN outperforms it so handily. Some more analysis as to why this is the case would be useful.   2. Related to this, MGN [12] is the only approach outperforming at times IS-GAN. Deeper analysis of this and a discussion of the different affordances IS-GAN and MGN might have would help interpretation of the quantitative comparison with the state-of-the-art.   3. A grid search over six continuous parameters seems expensive. What data is this performed on? How do you set aside validation data for model evaluation? This seems to be a critical point if independent training/validation dataset isn't used for this.   4. Back on the topic of FD-GAN, the results on CUHK03 reported in [27] are significantly higher than those reported here. These FD-GAN results are omitted from Table 1, and I assume this is due to differences in experimental protocol? Some mention of this is probably warranted given the similarity of the approaches.  POST REBUTTAL: The authors have addressed all of my main concerns and my decision remains to accept. I encourage the authors to include the rebuttal description of differences with FD-GAN, the hyperparameter search procedure, and the interpretation of the results with respect to WGN.