+ LDAM aims to put regularization on the margins (i.e. the minimum distance of data samples to the decision boundary) of minority classes in order to improve the generalizability of the model towards minority classes during the test time, in which the value of margin is set to be proportional to the number of samples for each class thus the LDAM is label-distribution-aware. DRW runs reweighting and LDAM with smaller learning rate in order to perform fine-tuning on the model after an initial stage of training. Although without any theoretical justification, its efficacy is successfully proven across various experiments. These ideas are novel and shown to provide better superior performance, even avoid overfitting for frequent classes, in comparison to naive re-weighting/re-sampling techniques and other baselines (e.g. Focal loss, CB [8]).   - There is no description on how to decide the hyperparameter C (which is used in equation.13 for adjusting the class-dependent margins). It is also required to have an analysis on the sensitivity of performance with respect to C. Additionally, as in both stages of Algorithm.1 LDAM is used, should there be different values of C?   - How is the LDAM-HG-DRS in Table.1 implemented? - While CB [8] is the main baseline used in this paper for comparison, it calls for a clearer explanation on the difference between CB [8] and the proposed method. To be detailed, although CB [8] is a concurrent work (published in CVPR-19) to this submission and it models the class-imbalance problem from a slightly different perspective, when we examine the equation.12 & equation.13 in this submission and have comparison w.r.t. CB+softmax, they seem to be quite similar thus here requires more insight to point out why and how the proposed LDAM brings superior benefits to the performance.   - As we can see from Table.2, it seems that the main boost of performance is stemmed from the DRW (deferred re-weighting) mechanism, together with the similarity between CB [8] and the proposed LDAM, we would need an additional baseline, i.e. CB+DRW, to clarify the contribution of LDAM.    ** after rebuttal ** My review comments and concerns are well addressed by the authors. Therefore I would stick to my positive opinion on this submission. However, I agree with other reviewers that currently the derivations of Equation. 5, 6, 7, 8 are simply based on the binary classification, there should be more justification on the case of multi-class. I change my rating from 7 to 6 accordingly.