For any objective functional of a probability measure, one can write down its Wasserstein gradient flow. When the objective functional is quadratic, the gradient flow is of particular interest and has been studied in the literature: 1. In the interacting particle system in physics, [Carrillo, McCann, Villani, 2006]. 2. In the case of neural networks [Mei, Montanari, and Nguyen, 2018], [Rotskoff and Vandan-Eijnden, 2018]. 3. In the case of KSD flow, [Mroueh, Sercu, and Raj, 2019].   One difficulty of Wasserstein flow of quadratic functional is to establish global convergence result under reasonable assumptions. The new results (which is the main contribution as the authors wrote in the introduction) in this paper are global convergence results in Proposition 7 and Theorem 6. However, these results are quite weak in the sense that it requires unverifiable assumptions on the trajectory. This makes the theory to be like, the gradient flow will converge to global optimal if you start near the global optimal, which is essentially local convergence. Therefore, this “global convergence theory” doesn’t sound satisfactory.   In the conclusion section, the authors claimed novelty of introducing the MMD flow. The authors recognized that MMD functional is a quadratic functional of the probability measure of interest, and recognized that existing results (the descending properties, entropy regularization, propagation of Chaos bound of discretizations) on Wasserstein flow of quadratic functional can be applied to MMD functional. Since there are works introducing KSD flow and SVGD relating generative modeling and Wasserstein gradient flow, whether recognizing this relationship is of enough contribution is questionable in reviewer’s point of view.   The good side of this paper is, it is well written and properly cited.   ---- After reading the response:   Thank the authors clarifying the connections and differences of the MMD flow and the results in the literatures. In terms of writings and reference, I think this paper did pretty well. After discussing with the other reviewer, I also believe this paper did a good job on adapting the proof of Wasserstein gradient flow to their settings. This is the reason that I decide to increase my score to 5.   My concern is still the trajectory dependent convergence results (Proposition 7, 8 and Theorem 6), which is the new ingredients of this paper. I agree with the author that it is unclear a priori what locality condition is best suited to characterize convergence of the MMD flow. Though, I am not very satisfied with the assumptions in line 218, 219, 268. I am not convinced that, these assumptions and results provide more insights than saying gradient descent will converge to global minimum if it doesn't stuck at bad local min. (Proposition 8 seems providing exponential convergence, but actually the condition \sum \beta_n^2 = \infty with beta_n satisfying Eq. (18) is trajectory dependent and cannot be easily checked. ) 