The paper studies the notion of policy-regret, introduced by Arora et al (2012), in the context of repeated 2-player games. Policy regret is an adaptation of the standard external regret that captures counterfactual interactions between the player and the adversary in an online learning setting, but so far has not been seriously studied in the natural setting of repeated interaction between two players/agents in a game, interested in maximizing their own utilities.  The paper addresses various different aspects of policy regret minimization in repeated games. Most notably, the authors give a precise characterization of the set of equilibria (termed “policy equilibria”) approached by two players in a repeated game when both follow policy-regret minimization algorithms, and show that this set strictly contains the set of all coarse-correlated equilibria (which are approached by classical external regret-minimizing algorithms).  The authors’ study of the topic is thorough and the paper feels complete. The questions considered are natural and compelling, and the results established are creative, elegant and non-trivial. The writing is perhaps a bit too verbose but overall excellent. The main text feels polished and the technical proofs are clear and detailed.   My only complaint (besides a couple of minor comments listed below) is that, as the precise definitions of “policy equilibria” and related concepts turn out to be quite complex, it would have been helpful to include few simple examples where these take a more explicit form and are easier to interpret. (This could be addressed in a future, longer version of the paper.)  Overall, an excellent paper that has been a pleasure to read. I strongly support acceptance.    Few minor comments:  * Some corrections/additions to related work: the MWU and Exp3 algorithms are mentioned without a proper citation; the tight policy-regret bound for switching costs adversaries was in fact proved by Dekel, Ding, Koren & Peres (STOC’14) (and was later extended to more general movement costs by Koren, Livni & Mansour (COLT’17, NIPS’17)); another paper perhaps worths mentioning is Even-Dar, Mansour & Nadav (STOC’09) that studies regret minimization dynamics in concave games.  * Theorem 3.2: the theorem statement is for m ≥ 2 but the proof (in the supplementary) seems to apply only for m ≥ 2 ...? Also, the quantifier “for any constant m ≥ 2” should be moved to the beginning of the theorem statement.   * Section 4: I couldn’t find the definition of the action set \mathcal{A}.  * For completeness, it would be worthwhile to include the definition of the Prokhorov metric and state Prokhorov’s theorem.