Originality:  To the best of my knowledge the model of general user retention dynamics and corresponding statements evidencing negative feedback loops are novel contributions to the literature in sequential fairness works. The contributions of the paper would be clearer if citations were provided for methods and models introduced in earlier works (for example, I suggest adding citations for the fairness criteria in lines 149-158, for user departure models in 197-208, and for the statement in lines 173-174, if applicable).   Since the full related work is deferred to the appendix, I see no need to cite [2, 3, 7, 10, 15, 16] without distinction between them. More context on what these works do and how they relate to your work is useful for readers to contextualize your contributions; please expand on the discussion of these papers.  Quality: The simple and unifying model of sequential decision making presented is very valuable in my opinion. The assumptions necessary for the technical results (lemmas and theorems) are stated clearly. The assumptions regarding monotonicity and group separation seem fairly restrictive, but are technically illuminating if not practical for real-data regimes.  The statement in lines 173-174 regrading strictly increasing function \phi_{C,t} either needs to be backed up mathematically with reference to a proof, or with a citation.  Clarity: I could not find forward links to any of the appendix proofs in the main text. Please provide references to the appendix where applicable so that the interested reader can find them easily. Additionally, since the paper is very notation heavy, it would be nice to provide a link to the notation table at the front of the appendix. The figures are highly informative, and add to the exposition and understanding, but are unfortunately not conducive to the page size (figures are too small to be read without significant zooming). Specifically:  - Figures 1, 2, and 3 are too small to be read in a printed version. Please either make the figure sizes bigger or make sure that the quality of the images is high-resolution and the text within figures is big enough that it can be read on a printed   - The color scale for figures 4 and 5 needs to be a sequential color scale. As it currently is, the plots are not intelligible in a black and white print out since the orange, green, and magenta all correspond to the same grey-scale.   I'm not sure that Table 1 is the most effective way to show the group representation disparity changes, as the expressions themselves are quite hard to parse. Perhaps there is a more interpretable way to summarize this set of results, for example by showing properties of the resulting functions, rather than the functions themselves, in the table. Parentheses in Table 1 should be bigger for the fractions, i.e. use \left( and \right)  Overall the prose is well written in the main text. I suggest you revise the appendix for grammar, particularly in the mathematically heavy sections (some sentences did not parse). Purely to aid in your revisions, here's a list of specific lines at which I found typos/grammatical mistakes/etc.: 18, 39, 118 (missing space), 167-168, 176, 367, 764.   Significance: While the assumptions are not necessarily indicative of real-data regimes, they are theoretically illuminating, and clearly stated. I believe that this is a good starting point for future work which could extend the results presented here to characterize regimes in which one could hope to say, incentivize decisions that in the long term equalize representation rates. The definition and analysis of simple models here is a valuable building block for the community. However, the presentation of these results is slightly hindered by the sheer amount of notation and technical results without major discussion. Figures are not readable at regular scale, and little to no intuition for proofs is given in the main text (while no forward links to the appendix are provided for proofs).   Lastly, little is said with regards to the feasibility and applicability of the proposed model in different real-world contexts. The paper, and I believe it's ultimate impact, would be strengthened by a discussion of what the proposed framework adds to scholarship on sequential decisions in the fairness literature, beyond the results presented here. Therefore, in addition to points raised above, I request the authors to address the following more open-ended questions in their response: - When aiming to promote stable group representations via the proportion of each group in the total population, what ensures that the absolute sizes of both groups are not driven to be very small (\beta_a, \beta_b), even if the ratios become more even? Is this a scenario that is considered bad in your framework? - Regarding the experimental results in Section 4, is the case of EqLos special, or do you believe that other dynamics models for group retention will correspond to the 'right' notion of fairness being an already defined fairness constraint?