* Update after reading Author Response * Thanks to the authors for addressing my concerns. After reading the other reviews and the author feedback, I believe the changes the authors propose to make will strengthen the paper. I believe the ideas in this paper have value and it is a positive step to establish some theoretical results in this space. I am still concerned with the clarity of the paper, especially for the broader community that might not be very familiar with the disentangled representation literature. With that in mind, I revise my score upward to 6.   * Original * Overall, while the paper attempts to tackle some interesting theoretical questions, it is held back by unclear proofs, limited and inconclusive experiments, and lack of novel insight. The work here on its own does not meet the standard for publication. Below are some more specific comments.  There seems to be a fundamental issue here, which is the notion that a symmetry is an action that the agent can take, rather  than a geometric property of the state space. It would be helpful to clarify exactly what notion of symmetry the group actions are supposed to capture.  The paragraph starting at line 112 is confusing. First, the examples of what the group action might be are a bit vague. Second, in line 117 it seems you require the group action to be the dynamics function? Why should the group action on the observation at time t be equal to the observation at time t+1? A symmetry encodes a geometric constraint or property  about the state space; it shouldn't be interpreted as an action applied by an agent.  The statement of Theorem 1 is confusing. From your notation, it appears that world states w_i are themselves sets? How are they to be interpreted? What does it mean "using a training set T of still images"? The detailed proof in the appendix is likewise confusing.  There appear to be mismatches in notation (cf line 17 in the appendix and line 122 in the main text -- are we considering the cardinality of  a world W_i or a world state w_i?). The reference to shuffling the order of states along an axis also doesn't make sense -- there seems to be some major missing details here. The entire proof is difficult to evaluate since it's not at all clear what is being argued.  Theorem 2: what is the significance of this result?   The experimental results seem inconclusive about which approach is better, since, as the authors note, the task is so simple.  