Originality:  - The paper is a novel combination of two known techniques - AlphaRank and UCB. It also casually adds in approaches from the PageRank literature, albeit they are not the central contributions.  - The most important parts are formulating the usage of UCB in computing the accurate rankings, running rigorous experiments across a variety of different schemes, and giving algorithmic bounds for the approach. It does each of these well, with the supplementary materials providing well-written proofs for each of the sections.  Quality: - This is clearly a complete work with the claims presented well and sufficiently addressed. - My main question comes in this section and accompanies what I think is the only fault of the paper; It doesn't address when or if UCB is actually the best approach to this problem. Yes, it's a good idea to use it because the formulation as a bandit problem makes a lot of sense. But is it actually the ideal in all circumstances? And when does that break down? For example, I could see collaborative filtering approaches working well in some settings, especially ones that are able to actively address which strategy pairing to query next. In what scenarios will the UCB approach be better than that one?   Clarity: - The paper is well written, albeit the supplementary material is absolutely necessary to make sense of it properly as key parts are relegated to that area. - I think the paper as written is mostly reproducible. I didn't understand how the reduction to CSSP works, likely because I am not familiar with that literature, and appreciated the further explanation in the appendix.  Significance: - These results are important. They build upon a recent paper that was also important as it reinvigorated a field and pushed it into the open. This paper then takes that one and shores up problems it had wrt noise in the evaluations. - I could see practitioners not using this as it adds a lot of complexity to alpha-rank, however it is definitely a line of work that will be explored further and this was/is one of the avenues of exploration. 