The paper presents a simple and clear algorithm of a divide-and-conquer scheme of distributed classification using the nearest neighbour framework. The general methods presented are not entirely new, but are accompanied by a crisp statistical analysis which proves tight convergence rates to the Bayes optimal classifier.  The novelty in this algorithm is the complete distributed nature of it - the fact that very little information must be transferred between different computing units as opposed to previous work algorithms which compelled more data transference between them. The claims are clear and understandable, and the theoretical part is very satisfactory, as well as a nice complementary empirical section showing improved speeds (in the denoised case) as well as improved regret.  On the other hand, I add a few points to explain the overall score I have given this submission: 1) The algorithm is rather similar to the denoising algorithm referred to in the paper. The denoising algorithm could be performed in a distributed manner as well since it performs calculations on different subsamples of the data. In addition, similar analysis to that of the submitted paper has been done in the denoising case. 2) In the extreme cases in which the subsamples are very small (the size of s is bounded from above but still may reach significantly large sizes) it seems there may be a possibility that k >1/|S|. I may be mistaken regarding this statement, but if it is true than a tighter higher bound is necessary. 3) The idea of distributing the data and thus speed up the process of classification seems somewhat inferior to compressing the data. the speedup occurs from multiprocessing rather than reduction of computations (There is still need to entirely search each subsample). The denoising variation of the algorithm presents actual reduction in computation time, which the original BigNN does not. Therefore, it seems to me that a fair amount of work presented here is due to the referenced papers.  Finally, I would like to state that the paper is well written and is very clean and understandable. The only downside in my eye is the fact a lot of its originality comes from previous papers. With further analysis answering the questions presented in the conclusions this could be a more novel and unique paper.  Best of luck