This paper considers the problem of teaching an active sequential *machine learner* (e.g., an active learning algorithm), with a teacher which can “fake” the labels/outcomes of training examples with the goal of steering the learner faster to the goal state. The authors refer to such teacher a “planning teacher”, as opposed to a “naive teacher” which is often considered in the classical machine teaching problems. This setting differs from conventional machine teaching settings, in that In classical machine teaching setting, the teacher can only choose among a given set of training examples that are consistent with the target concept, and is often not allowed to provide inconsistent examples. The majority of the existing work in machine teaching considers teaching a “passive learner”, with a few exceptions (see additional reference in the comments below).  The assumption that the teacher can choose the data-generation distribution makes it a very powerful teacher with a much richer action set than conventional teaching. This makes the problem considered in this paper an interesting scenario with useful applications. The formulation of the teaching problem as a planning problem over a teaching MDP is also interesting. However, the paper seems to lack strong theoretical support (e.g., to rigorously reason about the gain of the learner being aware of itself being taught), while the algorithmic contribution, including the experimental study, seems incremental.  ===  Post-rebuttal comments  The rebuttal to some extent strengthens the empirical results by including additional results on pool-based active learning. I'll be happy to revise my review to borderline score (4->5).  I would also suggest the authors revise the title to reflect the specific settings (e.g., “planning teacher”) of the machine teaching problem.  Overall I think the results could offer useful insights for practitioners working as it provides an interesting new direction in machine teaching. While I appreciate the existing empirical results demonstrating scenarios that a planning teacher would help, understanding why adding fake labels helps, and under what conditions it helps, seems an important question that remains undiscussed. 