Report for BMJ-2019-049361
This resubmitted, very large national registry study from Sweden compares the frequency
of prostate cancer diagnosis at 20 year follow up in men who have had a baby from
different forms of assisted conception, in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and Intracytoplasmic
sperm injection (ICSI) with that of men who conceived naturally. The baby identified was
only the first born child.
The study found that there was a significantly increased risk of prostate cancer in the two
groups with IVF and ICSI, the hazard/odds ratio being greater for ICSI. Androgen
deprivation therapy was used as a proxy for advanced or metastatic disease in an attempt
to see whether the cancer was more aggressive , but its use was not quite significantly
increased in the assisted conception groups.
The paper reads well and its internal inconsistencies have been removed. There are a few
points:
Page 4, line 69: Some conditions causing infertility are androgen related, but certainly not
all, so that the statement that infertility and prostate cancer are both androgen related
disorders is not true. This statement appears again on p. 5, l. 99-100.
l. 71: contradictory

l. 80: double risk of developing
p.8, l. 176 Cox
p. 9. l. 209: to these men being diagnosed
p.9, l. 210{ not being treated
p. 11, l. 246: significantly
p. 13, l. 324: data are
l. 330: but no elevated risk
p. 14, l. 362: bias to which
l. 363: seeking treatment
l. 364: with the level
p. 15, l. 373: ‘to be associated’ is better than ‘as related’
l. 375: and comprises easily….patients, which
Tables 1 and 2 have been substantially revised and are fine.
The references are satisfactory and up to date. Figure 1, the flowchart is fine, but Figs 2
and 3 need the word ‘spontaneous’ changed to natural, to be consistent with the changes
made in the text and the legends need to describe the 3 lines on the graph to identify the
different groups.
This is now a good paper, which merits attention for its being a large, national study. It
now concludes with an exhortation to ensure that men having assisted conception are
screened long term for prostate cancer.
The whole of that field is now undergoing a change (such as advocacy for early MRI), so
the recommendation to use PSA may not be appropriate on the longer term.
Nevertheless, the reproductive medicine community needs to include this information in
their counselling and pass on that information for secure long term follow up.