Dear Editor,
Thank you for the opportunity to review this very important manuscript by Chen, et
al. discussing the impact of various disease conditions on the HALE metric across the
globe. I found the investigation well-designed and elegantly conducted and I would
recommend it for publication in the BMJ. The authors provide a global analysis of
HALE changes in 187 countries in a 23 year period. They generate an analysis of a
single disease category contribution to the HALE, using an effective cross-country
comparison.
HALE represents a measure of population health that portrays morbidity and
mortality. The authors have to make sure they clarify that HALE also adjusts the
time spent in less than perfect health (A+fB) rather than just reflecting “full health”
(second paragraph). In that regard, they should also discuss the relative pitfall of
this metric in that it regards full health versus life with disability, yet does not allow
a more nuanced appreciation of the degree of disability (in the way QALY does for
health economists). In an age when many disease states become manageable
lifelong, almost chronic, conditions, individuals live longer periods of time with less
than full health, yet the degree of their suboptimal health status is certainly not the
same.
With regard to the authors’ finding that some countries had an absolute negative
change in HALE, I would like to have the authors speculate on why that is the case.
Also, if the authors could provide data about the contribution of certain potentially
preventable diseases to the country’s health (or globally), that would be very
powerful. I would suggest that they cluster all the potentially preventable conditions
(for which we have vaccinations, or proven screening strategies), and appreciate
how much of a contribution to HALE do those conditions provide as a group.
In addition, if the authors can offer some thoughts as to why some countries were
able to manifest better HALE associated contributions of NCD than others? Does it
have to do with the more inclusive health insurance policies used in some countries?
More homogenous, metabolically healthy population? Obesity being less prevalent? I
would like to hear some thoughts about that.
Lastly, the investigators should also address the potential pitfalls of strong
confounders that might have existed in their analysis. It is very challenging to make

cause-and-effect claims with the retrospective-based data, however powerful the
assumptions are.
Thank you