This study examines patient outcomes among first year internal medicine graduate who
trained under the 2003 ACGME duty hour restrictions and compared them to a similar
cohort that trained before duty hour restrictions. The study is very well done. Both the
data source and the statistical analysis are sound and the results seem solid based upon
this.
I have just a few suggests for making the manuscript stronger. None of these suggestion
relate the actual methodology. Rather, they relate the context of the findings.
It is worth noting that the implementation of duty hours was not a clear line, but a fuzzy
transition leading up to strict enforcement. Duty hour limitations were being encouraged
long before 2003. Some specialties had started moving in that direction at least one state
(New York) had already legislated change. The rule on went into “hard effect” in 2003.
(See Leach DC. Neurology. 2004 Jan 13;62(1):E1-2) The authors treat the change as
concrete date on the calendar. This is not how the change actually occurred.
This listed confounders and limitations of the study are good. For instance, the authors
point out that limiting training time has been of greatest concern for surgeons and

acknowledge that surgeons are not represented in this data. I think there are two other
potential confounders expand upon to put the finding into context.
The first and largest additional confounder that the authors should address is about the
actual impact of duty hour restrictions on resident fatigue. The authors allude to, but do
not explicitly mention, that the implementation of duty hour may not have resulted in less
fatigue among residents. They quote literature that suggests lessened fatigue, for
example p. 6. Lines 29-35. There is also research out there that suggests this might not
be the case. The overall data is mixed at best. (Arora et al. Arch Intern Med. 2007 Sep
10;167(16):1738-44; Reed et al. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Dec 21;153(12):829-42.) The
authors point out that the overall result of duty hour changes has been the implementing
of much more shift-work hours in residencies. This change comes with its own set of sleep
issues. Many medical educators are finding that learners are not much (or maybe not at
all) less fatigued in this environment. The authors should consider commenting on this.
Perhaps the duty hours have lessened hours but not lessened fatigue. That would
undermine some of the desired effects of the duty hours change.
The second potential confounder is the fact this study looks at a very narrow patient
population and clinical scenario: hospitalized patients age 65 and over. For internal
medicine residents, this is the absolute “bread and butter” of their training. If there is one
area that internal medicine programs would not allow to be compromised by decreased
teaching hours in the week, it would be the hospitalized elderly. This would be the last
training to be cut. Again, this does not detract from the finding of this study, but it makes
this reviewer wonder if these outcomes were the best place to look for evidence of a
decline in graduates’ skill. If the authors had looked at less intensively trained areas, they
might have found a difference. The authors might want to comment about this and
suggest that future research look at some less emphasized areas of the IM curriculum.
Dean A. Seehusen, MD, MPH