PLATELET-RICH PLASMA INJECTION FOR ACTURE ACHILLES TENDON RUPTURE
THE PATH-2 RANDOMISED, PLACEBO-CONTROLLED CLINICAL TRIAL
GENERAL
This is a very well done randomised and placebo-controlled study. The idea is to evaluate
whether PRP is better (or not) in patients who have sustained an acute Achilles tendon
rupture.
The idea is good and novel.
The hypothesis is correct and the research question si of interest, even great interest,
because the PRP has not been well evaluated in this context before.
The study cohort is large and the sample size calculation is adequate, the study cohorts are
large enough to be able to draw conclusions, without any major risk of type-II error.
Statistical calculations are correct and reasonable.
All this is fine, the writing is good, English is fine
The evaluation is done by using ATRS, a robust scale designed for this type of patients and
this research question. LSI and Heel-raise tests are also relevant and reliable outcome
measures. These are robust measures
The follow-up rate was good, 88-94%
The entire written material is more than 150 pages, so much needs to be online instead of
print
But, I have a few concerns
1. Treatment is not weel described. From the manuscript it looks like all patients are treated
non-surgically, like this is the ”golden standard”. Is it really so?
2. Complications should be reported in much more detail
3. Re-ruptures should be reported well
4. References; a study (published in Am J Sports Med) by Olsson et al. A few years ago
showed 0% rerupture rate, using a robust surgical technique. This is not mentioed, in the
manuscript and this (fundamantal) reference is also missing in the reference list.
5. Also, they should add references to (and discuss) the classic RCT studies that are found in
the literature, like Nistor, Möller, Nilsson-Helander, Olsson, etc, etc. There are more, like

Cetti for instance. There are approximately 10 RCTs in the literature. They also need to
make sure it is well understood what this study is needed.
6. If there is a technique with no (0%) reruptures, why should we then need anything else?
In otehr words, why should we need PRP, which is costly?
7. The authors should discuss and compare the difference in cost between the two groups.
This is important, as there wes no significant difference between the groups. Why should we
add PRP?
8. The authors’ conclusion is that PRP was not beneficial, but they should (at least, in my
opinion) be much stronger in their conclusion. PRP should (at least when it comes to the
treatment of acurte Achilles tendon ruptures) RIP.
9. In the Abstract, the authors fail to describe the results, i.e. healing rate, reruptures and
possible complications?
10. What did they do in case of rerupture?
Taken together, I am positive towards publication. But, revision is needed, see above
