This paper estimates the trend in concomitant benzodiazepine/opioid use over a thirteen year period and
assesses the relationship between concomitant use and the risk of opioid overdose.
There are some issues relating to the statistical analysis and the presentation of results that need to be
addressed by the authors.
1. My main concern relates to the statistical analysis of the risk of opioid overdose associated with
concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids. The patients included in the study were continuously
enrolled in private insurance plans over a thirteen year period. However, the primary analysis used is said
to be a multivariable logistic regression with each observation as a ‘person-year’. No reference is made to
the regression taking account of the repeated nature of the data (patients will contribute more than one
person year to the dataset). Either a random effects model should be used or a longitudinal regression
using general estimating equations which incorporates the correlated structure of the data.
2. The sensitivity analysis using patient ‘fixed effects’ does not seem appropriate as it restricts the analysis
to a ‘within patient’ comparison on a smaller (possibly biased) cohort.
3. Linear regression analysis for binary outcomes (ie. opioid utilisation) rather than logistic/probit
regression is not commonly used. It is unclear what “…computational difficulties….” were encountered to
lead to this decision. More details should be given. Was an identity or logit link used to ensure predicted
values were in the correct range? Were robust standard errors employed?
4. Table 1. Is the descriptive information for the overall sample necessary? The analyses all relate to opioid
users alone.
5. Fig 3. There seems to be a mistake in labelling the barcharts here. The penultimate set should be
labelled ‘Acute Users (+BZD)’ rather than ‘All Users (+BZD)’.
6. Figure 4. It would seem more appropriate to label these as Odds Ratios rather than Relative Risks
because they are derived from a multivariable logistic regression.