This large scale observational study spans over 20 years and examines changes in physical
activity (over 10 years) in relation to risk of mortality. Key strengths of the study include
detailed assessment of the exposure variable that is calibrated through objective data; an
extended mortality follow up period that provides sufficient numbers of events for the
proposed analysis; a generally well characterised sample. The key limitations, that apply to
any observational study including this, are residual confounding and the issue of reverse
causation.
Detailed comments:
1. The novelty of this study focuses on the estimation of change in physical activity over 10
years. I am not convinced about the biological relevance of 10 year change as exercise
training adaptations can be lost within 4 weeks. For example, I think the center piece
analysis of the paper (Figure 2) is largely being driven by PAEE at 10 years follow up. It
would be interesting to see if PAEE at 10 years follow up on its own is a more powerful
predictor of mortality than PAEE at baseline.
2. The decision to use 0.2KJ as the cut point to define the PAEE change categories seems
very arbitrary - can the authors expand on this.
3. Analyses presented in Table 2 include both baseline PAEE and PAEE change score within
the same model. Given that change score is partly conditioned upon baseline I am not
convinced this is entirely the best approach statistically.
4. on page 18 the first paragraph suggests results are independent of cardiometabolic risk
factors. If these risk factors are believed to be on the intermediate pathway between PA and
disease they should not theoretically be included as covariates (ie, this over adjustment). It

would be more appropriate to include them if the research question is designed to address
the extent to which these risk factors explain the PA-CVD association. Indeed, for CVD, the
point estimates are clearly modified when the risk factors are added in model 4. Thus I think
this needs more careful consideration.
5. Reverse causation remains a concern despite removal of deaths in the first year of follow
up. The issue could be further mitigated by removal of participants that developed clinical
disease over the first 10 years.
6. In fig 1 the paper presents fascinating data suggesting greater benefits in women. please
discuss this further, particularly the biological plausibility.
7. I did not find the "what this study adds" section particularly compelling and probably
under sells the study. Clinicians may read it and simply think it is just another physical
activity paper.
In summary, this study has huge potential to add to the extant literature and implications for
using physical activity in prevention of major disease.
