I thank the authors for their clear response, which I am generally happy with. I will take as read the
rationale for >2.5% being clinically important, as I am not best judge in this regard. It is good to see
95% confidence intervals additionally included. Minor comments remain:
1) Abstract: “Non-inferiority with a margin of 2.5% absolute difference in binomial proportions of 5-year
local recurrence rates, and long-term survival outcomes.” – I find the use of a % to define an absolute
difference confusing. It is a difference of 0.025, or a difference of 0.025*P, where P is the risk in the
control group? I think the former, but as it stands it is ambiguous.
2) The same issue occurs throughout the paper. E.g “it is well established that, a local recurrence
difference of less than 10% at 5 years does not worsen breast cancer survival”. Does this mean a risk
difference of 0.1. Or does it mean a risk difference of 0.1*P? Please go through the whole paper and
clarify this language.
3) The authors do not always revise the paper to address the comments raised. That is, the comments
in their reply are satisfactory, but the revision does not always reflect this. For example, there is no
mention of the examination of non-proportional hazards in the revision, but it is detailed in the
response. Also, in response to the sample size queries, they authors say “The interim analysis confirmed
the safety of TARGITIORT, but the follow up was relatively short. Therefore, the independent data
monitoring committee recommended that we should continue recruitment so as to increase the length of
follow up for the next planned analysis. In this way, the patients (50% of those eligible) would still have
access to TARGITIORT within the randomised trial.” However, this information is not in the revision.
Also, I asked them to display a forest plot of the country-specific results; this is provided in their
response (and is very useful for the reader) but not presented in the revision (NB the forest plot does
not label the names of the countries, which is needed also convert to HR scale).
In summary, I thank the authors again for their response and for dealing with these final comments.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
