Filardo et al have examined changes in representation of women among first authors in five high impact general medical
journals from 1994 to June 2014. The result is an interesting study, adding new information to the field. However, I am
not convinced that the study warrants a publication in the BMJ.
Originality:
The overall finding – that women’s representation among first authors in high impact medical journals have increased
during the last decades, is already well known, as the authors themselves also clearly state in the introduction. Two
previous papers have shown that the proportion of female first authors in similar journals have increased steadily from
1970, reaching 29,3% and 36,7% respectively in 2004 (1, 2). It is therefore no surprise that this proportion has
continued to rise in the subsequent 10 years.

However, no previous studies have compared the representation of women among first authors across general medical
journals. Therein lies the originality of the present study. These findings boil down to only one main observation: While
the proportion of female first authors steadily increases in the other four journals, it actually decreases in NEJM.
Importance to general readers:
Given that women constitute about half of all medical students in most western countries, it is reassuring that the
proportion of female first authors continue to rise even in the most prestigious general medical journals. However,
academic medicine lags behind in this development, as has been shown in numerous studies (e.g. 3). These facts should
be well known, and it should be of little surprise to the general medical reader that this also includes publications in the
most prestigious general medical journals.
The fact that the NEJM lags even more behind should worry the editors of NEJM, and could possibly amuse the editors of
the four other journals in question. But to the general medical reader it has little importance, in my opinion.
Scientific reliability:
The study is well designed and seems well conducted. The methods are relevant in answering the research question.
Since I recommend that the study is rejected because of its lack of general interest, I will not go into detail regarding the
methods.
However, the study would have been even more interesting if the authors had gone a bit more into detail regarding
possible explanations for their main finding. They do adjust for total number of listed authors and study type, intending
to account for the possibility that women might be less likely to lead a large research team, or to have been funded for
large randomized controlled clinical trials that some of these high impact journals might preferentially publish. I think,
however, that a correction for medical specialty also should have been done. It is well known that the proportion of
women is unevenly distributed among the different medical specialties. The authors themselves point to the fact that
women account for 60,4% of pediatricians, but only 4,6% of orthopedic surgeons, and, for residents and fellows 82,5%
in obstetrics/gynecology, but only 9,5% in interventional cardiology. The journals in question have a somewhat different
profile regarding number of articles from different specialties. For instance, one study of metaterms from published
articles showed that NEJM had 9,15% cardiology while JAMA had only 6,49%, NEJM had 0,55% addiction, while JAMA
had 1,76% etc (4). These disparities could possibly explain at least some of the shown differences. It would be feasible
to correct for this phenomenon, possible showing that the gender differences merely reflect different gender profile of
the specialties represented in the each of the journals.
References:
1. Jagsi R, Guancial EA, Worobey CC, Henault LE, Chang Y, Starr R, et al. The "gender gap" in authorship of academic
medical literature--a 35-year perspective. N Engl J Med 2006;355(3):281-7.
2. Sidhu R, Rajashekhar P, Lavin VL, Parry J, Attwood J, Holdcroft A, et al. The gender imbalance in academic medicine:
a study of female authorship in the United Kingdom. J R Soc Med 2009;102(8):337-42.
3. Eloy JA1, Svider PF, Cherla DV, Diaz L, Kovalerchik O, Mauro KM, Baredes S, Chandrasekhar SS. Gender disparities in
research productivity among 9952 academic physicians. Laryngoscope 2013;123(8):1865-75.
4. Gehanno JF1, Ladner J, Rollin L, Dahamna B, Darmoni SJ. How are the different specialties represented in the major
journals in general medicine? BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2011; 11:3. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-11-3.