
Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper that investigates a very important topic in
healthcare, "Food as medicine". This is a well-written paper that covers many of the complex,
intertwined issues.
General comments:
1. My major comment is that this article is particularly US focussed. As a reviewer outside of the US,
some of the solutions and discussions are not truly relevant. If the purpose of this article is to be for a
global audience, I would appreciate some consideration of other healthcare systems and how the
issues may impact in these settings. To this point, the authors have provided some very interesting
evidence as to the impact of food is medicine, but I don’t think the claim “Healthcare systems are
increasingly used as a funding mechanism…..for Food is Medicine” is correct on the international
stage. In many settings, hospitals try to provide meals to patients for as cheap as possible. And in
many settings, the nutrition content is not known at all. To change this requires a huge cultural shift
and commitment in many organisations. I would like to see this discussed in more detail and some
evidence as to what the “current state of play” is realistically, before providing evidence of what this
new model may provide.
2. One of the potential issues that may prevent the authors from achieving their ultimate aim for an
integrated healthcare and food system that promotes health, is the decreasing length of stays for
hospital in many settings and conditions. As nutrition is likely an intervention that is long-term,
consideration of how this may impact achieving the aim is important. I don’t see this covered in the
current version.
3. Poor education of healthcare professionals about nutrition is a key issue, but so is the amount of
mis-information that exists and the number of ‘nutrition experts’ that do not have proper training. I
think a couple of sentences acknowledging this is important, we can not ignore the impact that this is
having on the perception of nutrition in many areas.
Specific comments:
1. Table 1 is very detailed and this detail is also provided in the text. I suggest reducing the text
further and having the detail in the table only.
2. Section 1 page 6: Conducting high quality research in nutrition is difficult, for some of the reasons
outlined by the authors. Some of what is suggested in the paper is very difficult to overcome in
nutrition research. I would like to see the authors take their statement one step further by providing
some practical suggestions as to how they think bias can be reduced in nutrition research (other than
randomised designs). There have been several good papers in the past 12 months on this topic in
JAMA.
3. Section 2 page 7: Again this section is very US focussed but this is an international issue. I bring
the authors attention to the following paper in case they are not aware of it: Nutrition in medical
education: a systematic review
https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanplh/article/PIIS2542-5196(19)30171-8/fulltext
4. Third paragraph of the section: While it is absolutely true that nutrition knowledge for medical and
nursing professions is required, Dietitians are trained experts in the field. As well as improving
knowledge, I think clinicians need to understand the role the dietitian and collaborate with this
profession. I would like to see this stated in this section.
Thank you and congratulations to the authors for this piece of work. I really hope the issues are
overcome and we do see “food as medicine” in the healthcare system of the future.