This study addresses a very important topic, as the availability of obstetricians and neonatologists is
reduced on weekends.
Previous studies on this topic are not numerous and most of them were based on neonatal or perinatal
mortality while in this study the authors used other indicators of quality and safety.
The title and the objective show that the authors wished to study the role of days of delivery, but the
analysis and the discussion focus on the differences between weekdays and weekends. However, the
results show that there are differences between days and that the classification between weekdays and
weekends is not always appropriate. For example Figure 2 suggests that the differences in perinatal
mortality or injury to neonates by day of the week do not correspond to differences between weekdays

and weekends. Finally the classification between weekdays and weekends would be relevant only for
puerperal infections. Accordingly the authors should explain their strategy and the coherence between
this figure and the other parts of the analysis.
The choice of each indicator of quality or safety is explained in Table 2. Several indicators are based on
diagnoses but we do not know the quality of recording for each of them in this database. Non-differential
misclassifications may dilute the studied associations but differential misclassificationS may also exist.
Moreover it is known that there are wide variations in ascertainment and reporting of severe perineal
tears between midwives or between obstetricians, and the quality of recording (and the number of
diagnosed tears) may be higher when the midwifery and medical staffing is appropriate. Finally a high
proportion of in hospital perinatal deaths are found among very preterm newborns or newborns with
congenital anomalies, and some of these deaths occur after pregnancy terminations or withdrawing or
withholding treatments.
Other comments
It would be important to develop the objective and to explain that one part of the study was done on
consultant presence on the labour ward.
Please check the name of Alison Macfarlane
The WHO Bulletin refers to situations in developing countries and does not seem appropriate for this
paper.
Several tables are not necessary. Table 1 and Figure 1 can be summarized in Results.
In Methods, were the OR by day of the week adjusted for potential confounders?