Thank you for the opportunity to review this important manuscript that makes a strong
contribution to the literature on cancer in transgender populations. Below I provide
suggestions to improve the clarity of the manuscript.
Overall:
The manuscript would benefit from greater clarity and consistency in terminology.
Typically, one uses terms like female/male to refer to biological sex and women/men to
refer to gender. Since transgender people can also be men or women, the authors should
clarify that they are assuming cisgender (not transgender) when comparing transgender
participants to Dutch men/women. Similarly, "birth-assigned males" is used
interchangeably with trans women and vice versa for trans men. It may help the reader if
a clarifying definition is provided early in the manuscript stating that the authors are
defining birth-assigned male transgender people as trans women, etc.

The definition for gender dysphoria would benefit from replacing "suffering" (an
emotionally laden word) with words used by the APA, eg. discomfort and/or distress. A
citation should be included with the definition. Additionally, the assumption seems to be
made that gender dysphoria is the same as transgender; however, not all transgender
people have gender dysphoria. It may help to clarify that HT is used to treat gender
dysphoria that may be experienced by some transgender people.
I was surprised to see no mention of breast augmentation surgery among transwomen.
Given that the presence of breast implants may affect breast health and the efficacy of
breast cancer screening, information about breast augmentation is important to include.
Also, any data on screening behaviors would be informative, i.e. were cancers detected via
routine mammography, presence of a palpable mass on self-exam, clinical exam, etc.? This
information is important to contextualize the author's conclusions that no change in
screening recommendations should be made for transgender individuals.
Please review carefully for typos, sentence/verb agreement, and use of colloquial
language.
Introduction
If the use of progestins is standard for HT in trans women in the Netherlands, this should
be explicitly stated. At Line 101, make it explicit that cyproterone is a progestin. Also,
mention in Line 107 the class of medications for lynestrodol and triptorelin for unfamiliar
readers.
Line 99 – It is not clear until Line 121 why were individuals with no visits after 1991 were
excluded. Please add the reason for this exclusion criteria in the sentence on Line 99.
Methods
Lines 124-125 do not seem necessary for the manuscript text.
Discussion
Line 185: Could undiagnosed hormone sensitive cancer also be a possible reason for the
findings. Without further information on how the cancers were identified and their stage, it
is difficult to draw one conclusion for the unexpectedly higher rates seen.
It would be helpful to understand the implications for trans men of current
recommendations not to screen for breast cancer, given the higher incidence of breast
cancer compared with cisgender men.
