First, I would like to complement the authors with a well-written manuscript. They have investigated whether smoking
during pregnancy and in infants at 4 months of age are risk factors for incidence of caries in deciduous teeth at 19
month and 3 years. There are several cross sectional studies that found such an association but just limited cohortstudies. Therefore they have used existing longitudinal data of health check ups, which are provided to all children in
Kobe City, in Japan. There results confirm the relationship between the exposure to tobacco smoke and caries.
Nevertheless I have a several questions regarding the methods and results of this study.
In the introduction the authors describe how streptococcus mutans are related to a reduction of caries. I recommend
also describing the potential relationship between secondhand smoking and S. mutans. In particular the relationship
between secondhand smoking in the first months of age with the acquisition of S. mutans in the age period of 19 to 31
months needs some further introduction.
In the analyses section the authors write that the effects of secondhand smoke on the incidence of caries were
expressed as hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) estimated by Cox regression stratified to
quartiles of the propensity score. This suggests that they also performed the cox regression analyses separately for the
4 quartiles of the propensity score. These stratified analyses however are not described in the result section.
They mention the C statistic of the fitted logistic regression model. However, if I understood the results well there
should be C statistics for several models.
In the models looking at smoking during pregnancy, the authors categorize smoking in three groups: not exposed to
smoke during pregnancy or at 4 months, only exposed during pregnancy, and 4-month-old having family members
who smoked. The authors did not distinguish the group children who were exposed both during and after pregnancy
and the group children who were only exposed after pregnancy.. Without these two groups it is not possible to

conclude on the effects of smoking during pregnancy: it might well be that the combination of exposure to smoking
during and after pregnancy increases the likelihood of decayed teeth.
It seems that in time the smoking habits of parents change. The percentage of households with smoking decreased
with 25 to 30%. I wondered how this was taken into account in the analyses and do the authors have information
about smoking in front of the child at 9, 18 or 36 months. Did that change over time? And what effect does these
changes in smoking and secondhand smoking have on decayed teeth? Are the children with continued exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke more at risk?
Mathilde Crone