1. The authors succeed in collecting together most of the important studies in the literature. The reviewer agrees with
the main conclusions of the study that the studies are very heterogeneous, that this makes difficult to identify strong
patterns, and that larger and better studies are needed.
2. However, an important limitation of this review is that it does not approach the stated aim using a biological and
functional understanding, and only provides lists of parameters independently of their functional relationship. Important
aspects regarding this point are the following:
a. There is little attempt to discern between monocyte-derived responses vs lymphocyte-derived responses
b. The Th1 vs Th2, or pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokine responses are listed together, without trying to study and
discuss their relationships that may arise from the results.
c. It seems that the authors expect that all parameters should go in one direction in order to identify non-specific
immunological effects.
d. The non-stimulated cytokine responses in ex-vivo cultures are presented: they are not relevant, in case that they are
positive, they plainly mean contamination of the culture systems.
3. One example regarding the points listed above is the interpretation of the IFNgamma production capacity: in Figure
2c, the vast majority of the studies show increased non-specific IFNgamma production after BCG vaccination, and that is
with 6 different stimuli (as also mentioned by the authors). Only the non-stimulated samples show no effect (which is
good), and one very particular stimulus (HepBsAg) show lower production (see below). The numbers may be relatively
small from a populational point of view (around 50 individuals for each study), but from an immunological point of view
they are certainly significant. Why did the authors choose not to consider this pattern of increased IFNg production
relevant, and to compare and discuss accordingly the IFNgamma production?
4. In line with this, there is one single study that shows significantly reduced IFNgamma production after stimulation
with HepBsAg. This is intrinsically also very interestingly, as this may reveal very relevant biology. It is not necessary to
expect that all restimulations should behave identically.
5. Moreover, for example two independent studies show that after BCG vaccination, the Candida-induced IFNg
production is 5-fold higher in vaccinated children: is that not relevant? If reported in a separate study such a finding
would be interpreted as an independent validation and of being of exceptional importance. If one also adds this to the 3
independent studies showing that measles vaccination increased lymphoproliferative effects after Candida stimulation
(Fig. 3B), an interesting pattern seems to emerge (Candida/fungal stimulation of lymphocytes leads to both
lymphoproliferation and IFNg production, which thus are linked). A similar point can be made for stimulations with
tetanus antigens. This reviewer believes that there is merit in attempting to identify these biological phenomena behind
the various tables presented, and report them as such.
6. Even in Fig 3a it looks like the proinflammatory markers (TNF, sIL-2R, IL-6, IL-2, maybe less so IFNg) tend to be
increased after vaccination, while anti-inflammatory parameters (IL-10) is not. Putting them together in one graph is not
warranted from an immunological point of view, and it can mask important effects.
7. Therefore, while this reviewer agrees with the authors that the diversity of the studies makes very difficult the
identification of clear patterns, and all data should be interpreted with maximum caution, he/she also believes that in the
absence of a biological and functional interpretation of the immunological effects of vaccines, and only a dry listing of

studies, it would be almost impossible to discern immunological effects for particular non-specific stimuli. Should we
expect that all cytokines need to behave identically, that both IFNg and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-4 or IL10 would need to go up in order to demonstrate non-specific effects? Or should it be expected that all stimuli should
show similar effects for all vaccinations?
8. the identification of the areas in which future research is needed should be attempted to be described more
prominently
9. the discussion of the mechanisms that could be responsible for any non-specific immunological effects of vaccination
could be presented (as proposed in the immunological literature), even if in a condensed form.