A carefully done study of a topic of interest.
Suggestions.
1. Tighten/clarify the presentation. Some things I didn’t understand:
p. 11 “Taking antithrombotic treatment alone was associated with a lower risk of gastrointestinal bleeding than
when taking PPIs concurrently”
p. 12 “There was a decreased risk of bleeding associated with concurrent PPI plus specific NSAIDs”
Figure 2: The groups are unclear, particularly the difference between “PPI+NSAID” and “PPI on NSAID treatment”.
Figure 3: Numbers don’t always agree with those in text.
2. Discussion: tone down some of the “calls to action”, i.e. NSAIDs a public health problem, gastroprotective agents
can substantially reduce morbidity/mortality
3. Consider adding more covariates and time-dependent covariates that reflect bleeding risk.
More covariates. As I understand, these come from the supplementary diagnoses associated with the hospital
discharge leading to cohort entry. However, the history of encounters for a time preceding that hospitalization could
add further information, for example, a patient with a history of hospitalization for peptic ulcer disease.
Time-dependent covariates. As I understand, drug exposure is time-dependent, but covariates are not. That is
understandable, given the worry about factors on the causal pathway. However, given that much of the exposure of
interest starts well after cohort entry (see Figure 2), it is possible that baseline bleeding covariates do not reflect
status well at the time joint NSAID-PPI use begins. For example, warfarin might have been started or the patient
might have had an ulcer. An additional analysis with time-dependent covariates thus would be useful.
4. Recognize limitation of small proportion of person-time on the exposures of interest. Of the 3229 outcomes, only
387 occurred during NSAID use. Of these, 267 were non-users of PPIs and 60 PPI users (where did the other 60
outcomes go?). Thus, it is possible that channeling by unmeasured factors influenced results.