The manuscript by Liu et. al is interesting, engaging and highly relevant. Characteristics
of the Beijing hospital reform are well-described, and the reported outcomes are clearly
impactful. Findings from this analysis are extremely important in understanding the
changes and reforms in China and are relevant for many other healthcare jurisdictions,
in particular in low and middle income countries.
The manuscript should be accepted for publication. Several (relatively minor) corrections
should be made. It should also be reviewed by a proof reader.
The revised paper does not need to be sent out for review.
We have highlighted areas for correction divided by sections of the article, below:
Section 1
1) Paragraph 1: this is a strong introduction, but would merit from additional clarity.
Opening statements appear ambiguous to a reader unfamiliar with the Chinese healthcare
system. For example:
•
“Public hospitals were allowed to mark up approximately 15% profit on drug
sales”
o
They were allowed when? During what time frame? According to whom?
o
This sentence could also be re-written to be clearer (I assume the authors are
meaning that hospitals could charge 15% above cost of drug? Or are they saying that
15% of hospital profit can be derived from drug sales?).
o
Also, a reference would be helpful here.
•
“Medical services prices were officially set and distorted”
o
By whom? Who sets these service prices? How are they negotiated?
2) Paragraph 2: the authors use “public hospitals” but then switch to “tertiary public
hospitals” when discussing revenue – are these the same thing? If yes, keep language
consistent. If not, the difference (or, at minimum, the relevance of tertiary hospitals)
should be stated.

3) Paragraph 3: add citation to “public hospitals’ profit driven behaviors have not been
effectively reversed”.
Section 2
4) Paragraph 1: clarify the sentence “first, the 15% markup from drug sales was removed
in all public hospitals in order to reduce public hospitals reliance on drug sales” – is this
the same 15% as was referenced in Section 1? Moreover, what is really the effect of this?
Hospitals could only charge for drugs “at-cost”?
5) Paragraph 1: Table 1 is excellent and clear. One detail: the acronym NCD is used but is
written in full only further along in the paper
6) Paragraph 2: It would be helpful to know who initiated “The Beijing public hospital
reform.” Was this government-initiated? Was there a commission? Understanding the
origin or method of reform would help contextualize these changes.
7) Paragraph 2: this paragraph is difficult to follow. This paragraph should be re-written to
correct issues with verb tenses and clarity.

8) Paragraph 2: It should be clarified whether or not the processes explained are really
“policy implementation processes” or simply more general approaches to reform.
Section 3
9) 3.1: It is unclear what the authors mean by “rational” here. This should be clarified
(the word appears again in Section 4).
10) 3.1: Figure 1 is interesting and clear, but authors should acknowledge and explain
what appear to be two massive spikes and dips in the graph (which appear to be
December and January of each year?).
11) 3.2: The term “significantly” is confusing – are the authors referring to statistical
significance, or the colloquial synonym for “a lot”? Same issue in 3.3 (first paragraph).
12) 3.2: Overall, changes in expenditure and consumption are well justified. I especially
laud the authors for their speculation that, since sicker patients are still receiving
outpatient care at hospitals, the “expenditures per visit” metric is increasing.
13) 3.2: In this section, the authors reference “secondary hospitals”, which they do not
reference earlier in the study. Table 2 includes “secondary hospitals” in addition to the
“tertiary hospitals” which are referenced more consistently. Perhaps the introduction
would benefit from a short distinction of the difference between these hospitals in a
Chinese context, or in terms of how they were treated differently by the reform? If no
difference, why are they separated? This links to comment 2, above.
14) 3.3: the “variable cost/fixed cost” explanation is unclear. Authors should clarify.
15) 3.3: Figure 2 should specify which setting this is in (All public hospitals? Tertiary only?
Secondary?). Moreover, might another “reason” for an increased imaging utilization
post-reform be that, like with before, only sicker and more complex patients are now
receiving care at these facilities?
Section 4
16) No comments

In sum, we believe this paper is interesting and worthy of publication in the BMJ,
contingent on the authors clarifying and correcting the above-mentioned details. While we
have suggested several corrections, they are mostly minor and can be easily modified by
the authors without need for significant re-writing. In addition to the comments made
above, this article would benefit from a complete and thorough editing to resolve issues
with grammar and syntax.
We recommend that this manuscript be ACCEPTED WITH MINOR REVISIONS.
Howard Bergman
Matt Hacker Teper
