The paper aims to develop a conceptual framework reflecting the impact of investing in women's and
girls' health, summarizing evidence from many sources. Overall, the paper is very well written. My main
concern regarding the paper is that it is not clear whether it is a systematic literature review and what
was the methodology used to summarize the evidence. The paper lacks a section on the methods used which sources of information were included? Which terms were included in the search? How were the
papers selected for inclusion in this literature review? These kind of information should be very clear in
the manuscript to make its assessment more accurate. Also, it is not clear what is the gap in the
literature that this paper is filling - what is the justification for its publication? Many previous papers
have already proposed similar frameworks - what is the novelty in this study? Also, the paper does not
explain how the framework was constructed, and what is the theory behind it.
1. In the introduction I believe instead of saying that investing in women's education and health have
"disproportionate" impact/social returns you should be more clear saying that these returns are
generally higher. Below, you will find some other specific comments and suggestions:
2. The references should be reviewed. For example, (4,5) are correctly together, but (6)(7) are
separated. This is a mistake that frequently occurs when using a reference manager software.
3. In the sentence "That being said, the investment case for women’s health, beyond the direct health
benefits, is also compelling" it is not clear for me what do you mean - please revise for clarity.
4. In the sentence "women's biological and social roles make them central to intergenerational transfers
and demographic and development effects." it is not clear what are these intergenerational transfers?
And to which demographic and developmental effects are you referring?
5. "By only considering the health benefits of women’s health, a risk exists of undervaluing the broader
societal benefits and underinvesting." - societal benefits of what?
6. "Indeed, other things being equal, better female health tends to accelerate fertility decline and
concomitant economic gains, unlike better male health, which is often associated with an elevated
fertility rate and slower economic growth" - can you discuss further why healthier man would slow
economic growth? This is very counterintuitive. So the argument would be that governments should not
invest in men's health anymore? In more than one moment in the text the authors have arguments that
go to this side, which is not in line with the SDGs, that advocate that no one should be left behind. We
urge for the elimination of gender inequalities, but men should not be left behind.
7. Throughout the paper, the authors used the term gender inequality, however in the political
participation and stability section the term inequity was used. There are conceptual differences between
these two terms. I believe that most gender inequalities are indeed inequities, which mean they are
unfair differences. But it is not always the case. For example, boys are biologically more likely to die in
the first years of life than girls. Thus, having equality of mortality rates would mean an unfair situation
against girls. My point is that you should use the same term for consistency along the paper, and just
change it if you have a strong reason for that.
