Dear editor –
Thank you very much for the opportunity to review the manuscript from Dr. Jordan and colleagues
entitled “Short- and long-term prognosis of undiagnosed chest pain: a linked electronic health
record cohort study.”
In this article, the authors used a large, multi-faceted database of primary care patients in the
United Kingdom to assess outcomes up to 5.5 years after presentation in patients who presented
with chest pain and were initially classified into 1 of 3 groups: cardiac chest pain, non-cardiac chest
pain, or undifferentiated chest pain. They found that patients with a diagnosis of cardiac chest pain
carry the worst prognosis. Compared to patients with non-cardiac chest pain, those with an initial
undifferentiated diagnosis have higher rates of cardiovascular events and myocardial infarctions.
The article is well written. The analysis is comprehensive and thoroughly presented. The study
question is unique and important. I am not aware of similar large-scale studies that have been
published on this same topic.
My main concern about this manuscript is its clinical applicability. The authors acknowledge in the
limitations that they did not have access to diagnostic test results such as electrocardiography,
stress testing, and coronary angiography. They justify this limitation by stating that it is common in
other primary care studies to lack these data. From a clinical perspective, however, these missing
data are critically important. Without them, the results of this study become difficult to translate to
the clinic or bedside. For example, diagnostic testing exists for the fundamental purpose of
stratifying patients with uncertain diagnoses into lower or higher risk categories. In the case of
patients with unspecified chest pain, the clinical history and context is often sufficient to identify
patients at very high and low probability of having cardiac disease. However, the vast majority of
patients undergo additional testing for risk stratification. In the case of chest pain, testing usually
includes electrocardiography, stress testing, and occasionally coronary angiography. An abundance
of literature exists describing the diagnostic and prognostic utility of these tools. In clinical practice,
patients are ultimately diagnosed with non-cardiac chest pain only after testing has deemed them at
low risk of future cardiac events. Those with indeterminate findings on non-invasive testing are
often labeled as “undifferentiated” chest pain but do demonstrate a higher risk of cardiovascular
events than their “non-cardiac” chest pain brethren. It is entirely possible that the results of this
study are driven by findings of diagnostic testing. Without information regarding the application and
results of common cardiac diagnostic tests in this study group, it is becomes almost impossible to
generalize the results of this study to daily clinical work. Therefore, the ability of readers of a
general medical journal to translate findings of this study to their practice is extremely limited.

A few other more minor points deserve consideration.
1. The term and current definition of “deprivation” as an independent variable may not be clear to
readers outside of the United Kingdom. This should be clarified.
2. As a secondary outcome, the authors reported rates of prescriptions for lipid lowering drugs in the
study groups. However, the authors did not report similar findings for anti-hypertensive and antidiabetic medications. This information should either be reported or acknowledged, if it is
unavailable.
3. The authors included in the “cardiovascular events” development of peripheral arterial disease or
an abdominal aortic aneurysm. These conditions are certainly related to overall cardiovascular risk
but very rarely present as chest pain. They should probably not be included in the composite
outcome.
4. The authors should clarify the relevance of their analysis regarding trends in chest pain over time
(table 3 and figure 2). Did they expect to see a change over time? If so, why?
Ultimately, this is a well-written and comprehensive article that addresses an important and unique
question. However, the lack of sufficient information regarding the findings of diagnostic tests
significantly hinders its applicability and subsequent utility to readers of a general medical journal.