Overall, this is a novel manuscript, outlining an important and under-looked
association between preterm birth (PTB) and other complications of pregnancy. The
authors have considered a number of sensitivity analyses, and demonstrate that the
findings are robust. My major suggestions for the authors include: 1) adjusting for
probable confounders in the main analysis, 2) including a consideration of
interpregnancy interval, and 3) a reorganization of the introduction and discussion
sections of the manuscript. These, and several other suggestions / clarification
requests / questions, listed below.

A) Pg 3 - It may be helpful to refer to preterm delivery as PTB throughout. The
reviewer understands that this may be simply a convention / preference issue,
however.
B) Pg 3 – Abstract; Pg 6; Pg 7 – Is the main outcome for PTB delivery in a second
delivery specifically, or a delivery subsequent to a term delivery (but could be third,
or fourth, etc. delivery)? The methods on Pg 7 indicate that this is specifically
focused on first and second deliveries, not a term delivery and a subsequent
delivery, but this is not clear though-out.
C) Pg 4 – Abstract – Please clarify the conclusion. The risk of PTB following a term
complication is nearly as high as the risk of PTB following a PTB – is that correct?
What is the risk of a PTB following a PTB in this sample?
D) Pg 9. – Separate models were used for each term complications. What was
adjusted for? Was there an attempt to adjust for other complications, or did that
only occur in the joint model? What about number of complications as a unique
predictor?
E) Pg 11 – The main models appear to be unadjusted RRs. Age and smoking in
particular are potential confounders. The main model should be adjusted, not
unadjusted. I believe this is presented in eTable 4 – this seems like the main result
to me (and it’s a remarkable result – almost no change in the increased RR!).
F) Pg 11 – Is it possible to collect data on other potential confounders, such as race,
ethnicity, income, parity and gravidity, smoking, drinking, infertility?
G) Pg 11 – What about interpregnancy interval as a potential confounder? That
information can be calculated, and is likely important (although correlated with age,
which should be carefully considered in adjustment).
H) Pg 12 – The extreme categories of smoking seem problematic. Occasional
smokers were excluded? They should be included.
I) Pg 15 – How many second deliveries were PTB? Did PTB in the first delivery
predict PTB in the second delivery?
J) Pg 18-19 – In general, the discussion section includes background information
better suited to the introduction. The discussion should be reserved for a
consideration of how the results of the study agree with (or do not agree with) the
information from prior studies, discussed previously in the introduction. As such, the
first paragraph explaining the potential mechanism belongs in the introduction. The
authors include that the underlying causes of the term complications may also be
related to later cardiovascular risk. This information and citation should be in the
introduction. In fact, is it part of the mechanism? Finally, the literature review of
pre-e and stillbirth should be first discussed in the introduction, and the discussion
section can be used to point to how the results of this study do or do not agree with
those prior studies. As written, those sections read like non-support of the results.
K) Pg 18 – The authors discuss that stronger associations in the latest years
indicates that the shared causes are become more prominent as a cause. Numbers /
RRs would help illustrate this point. Further explanation of what other contributing
factors have receded would also be helpful. For example, is this section referring to
smoking? What medical interventions are being discussed?
