I thank the authors for considering my comments in detail and revising the article accordingly. I am
generally happy that the analysis methods are now clear, and the limitations / robustness of findings
more clearly detailed. They have clearly done a lot more work to address my views, and I think (and I
hope they agree) that the article is now more transparent, and I hope this improves the translation of
findings for the BMJ audience. With that in mind, I have a few final comments to improve clarity further
(without the need for additional analyses):
(1) The language needs to be refined throughout the paper to clarify that the key groups are those
babies DELIVERED or women ADMITTED at weekend versus those DELIVERED or ADMITTED during the
week.. At the moment it sometimes still sounds like the key groups are those who had an outcome at the
weekend itself or during the week (regardless of whether the delivery/admission was in the weekend or
not). Here are some examples
Abstract: ‘… was significantly worse at weekends’ – I think the authors must be more explicit and say ‘…
was significantly worse for babies delivered at weekend and mothers admitted at weekend’
Similar elsewhere: e.g. ‘…the perinatal mortality rate was 7.3 per 1,000 at weekends’; I think the
authors mean ‘…the perinatal mortality rate was 7.3 per 1,000 babies born at the weekend’
And ‘The results would suggest approximately 7750 perinatal deaths and 4750 maternal infections per
year above what might be expected at weekends if performance was consistent across days of the week’
Should be: ‘The results would suggest approximately 7750 perinatal deaths and 4750 maternal infections
per year above what might be expected FOR DELIVERIES/ADMISSIONS at weekends if performance was
consistent WITH BABY/MOTHER OUTCOMES OF DELIVERIES/ADMISSIONS across days of the week’
Please address everywhere in the article for clarity and to ensure correct interpretation
2) For added clarity, the abstract should say that: groups (e.g. weekday versus weekend) were defined
by day of admission (for maternal indicators) or birth (for neonatal records) rather than by day of
complication.
3) Methods: I do not follow this sentence ‘Where indicators cover National performance across the
measures was calculated, disaggregated by day of delivery’
4) Page 11 says ‘We estimated there are some 7750 perinatal deaths (95% CI 720 to 830) per year’ and
later 470 maternal infections above what would be expected if rates were as they are on Tuesday. But
WHEN? Weekend? All other days? Is this the total additional death/infections that relate to the weekend,
or the whole Wed-Mon period? It’s not clear, though the abstract is more specific in saying that it relates
to Weekends.
5) Page 12: ‘even through’ should be ‘even though’?
I hope this improves things further before acceptance