Dear editors and authors,
This analysis on future changes on drug pricing in California is of relevance to a public readership. The authors have an
interesting approach of looking at the topic and discussing potential implications. However, I believe that restructuring and
adding a couple of additional arguments would strengthen the article. I also have clarifying questions on the methods of how
the authors calculated the potential savings. Finally, in the below review I am also pointing to some suggestions on how to
include additional lines of thoughts.
My recommendation is a major revision.
I hope my comments are of help to the review process.
With kind regards,
Christine Leopold, PhD, MS
General comments
Tackling high drug prices in the US is among the prominent topics not only in media but also during this year’s presidential
election. Hence, an analysis of possible future implications of California’s proposal to tie drug pricing of publicly funded
programs to the lowest drug price of the Department of Veteran Affairs is very timely and will be of relevance for the medical
audience as well as for patients, policy makers and the broader public.
To increase readability for an audience that might not be as familiar with the US system and to clarify the methods of
calculating the potential savings, I am suggesting to restructure certain parts as well as to add a few more additional
explanations.
Introduction: mention in a brief sentence the unique reasons for why drug prices are so high in the US; such as lack of drug
price setting by a national body as well as fragmentation of health care system with many public and private payers.
Structure of main body of text: I suggest to first start by explaining the referendum on prescription drug costs and what
prompted it (second and third paragraph on page 3). Here, I am not sure if table 2 adds any additional value to the readers as
the most important information is already mentioned in the text.
This could then be follow by an explanation on the different public programs and its rebates and negotiation power (third and
fourth paragraph on page 2). Maybe choose a different title for this section. While table 1 is very helpful, I am not sure
whether figure 1 is really needed. The majority of information in figure 1 is already included in table 1. The authors could add
the additional information on rebates in the retail and commercial sector in the table 1.

The next section could then focus on the methods chosen by the authors to calculate potential savings (last paragraph on page
3 and first two paragraphs on page 4). While I understand that BMJ analysis should not exceed 2000 words leading to limited
space to explain methods, I still believe that it needs much more clarity on what the authors actual calculated. The following
points should be considered when re-writing the methods section:
Please provide a linking sentence between the section on the overview of public rebate programs and the methods section
(why is the explanation on rebate programs needed to understand the overall context and/or the methods?).
Figure 3 does not add any additional information to the manuscript as the selection of the top 200 selling Medi-Cal drugs is
self-explanatory. As indicated in figure 2, the top 200 selling drugs account for 63% of total spending; a graph is not needed.
What would be more important is additional explanation on which disease areas are included among the 200 drugs.
Figure 2 is an attempt to visualize how potential savings were calculated but important facts are left out:
1) how was the Medicaid net price calculated (AWP in 2014 * inflation?)
2) did the authors then apply the 50-55% rebate on the AWP to arrive at the net price?
3) did the authors look at the same 200 branded drugs (selected based on the top selling Medi-Cal products)?
4) is the VA negotiated price the same for the Federal Supply Schedule, Big 4 pricing and national contracts? If not, which
price did the authors then choose (the average…).
5) was the prime vendor rebate subtracted from the VA negotiated price?
6) does the VA best contracted price include the rebate of 35-40% of AWP?
7) as far as I understand the authors decided not to include any additional rebates (estimated at around 5-10%) in the final
calculation of the savings, hence it would be better to leave exclude it in figure 2.
8) please add an explanation on how to arrive from drug-by-drug differentials to the estimated savings
Surprising to me is that the authors describe their results in only a few sentences without any graphs to illustrate their
findings. Please add more information e.g. description of the diseases areas of the 65 drugs for which Medi-Cal prices were
higher than VA prices as well as an illustration of your findings.
The findings section can then be followed be the section that is now called “historical precedent”. However, I would suggest to
rename this section along the lines of “caveats of the calculated potential savings”. The last paragraph on page 4 can be
included in this section. In addition, I would suggest that authors mention that fact that it is difficult to estimated savings as
the VA operates an integrated health care system, which allows VA experts to estimate exact patient numbers and treatment
pathways leading to strong negotiation powers. In addition, the VA patient population is very unique in terms of age and other
characteristic of the population covered as well as operates a capped 5-year budget.
The section on lessons for future policy could start with the first paragraph on page 5 (limited evidence from the past that
savings could be achieved) and continue with an overall discussion on price setting. Tying drug prices to VA prices is one way
forward, but it would be interesting to mention alternative ways to regulate drug prices or reduce drug spending. The authors
mention joint procurement with the example from Europe, but I wonder if the Canadian experience of the pan-Canadian
Pharmaceutical Alliance would be of greater interest to the readers. Other policy options are currently discussed by the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services under the Medicare Part B Drugs Payment Model and could be mentioned here.
I appreciate the points made in the last two paragraphs on page 6 on assessing the value of new drugs by independent
agencies.
