The authors of this manuscript aimed to quantify the effects of media debate about statin side effects , for initiation and
cessation of statin therapy in UK primary care. They also investigated whether different patient groups affected in same
way from the media debate and finally they measured the public health impact of these controversies in media about
statins.
They used electronic data from UK primary care, the patients initiating and stopping statins for primary and secondary
prevention was calculated each month from January 2011 to March 2015. They used “Google ” to find out the intense
period about statins in media. The effects on public health was measured by using the number of patients stopped taking
statins.
The main outcome was the adjusted rations for stopping statins after a period of high media coverage.
In brief , patients more likely to stop taking statin both primary and secondary prevention after the high media coverage
period (OR=1·12, 1·05-1·18 and 1·12, 1·04-1·21 respectively). This effect was lasting for 6 months in this study. They

also stated that ; the controversy about statins on media resulted 218,971 patients stopping their statin therapy.
The authors concluded that media controversy over the statins was associated with a transient rise in the proportion of
people stopping statins.
Statins have been reported to reduce the incidence of cardiovascular events in a variety of populations. However in
recent years, statins were frequently criticized in all countries like UK and most of them were also presented in a
negative fashion in. I think present paper offer a real contribution to this issue. But there are some points to be
clarified.
1-The role of general practitioners in UK healthcare system should be clarified ; can a patient take him/her statin
prescription from only him/her GP ?
2-Did authors make google search globally or only for UK pages to monitor media coverage ?
3-Authors discussed a few studies about the effects of media on statin use but as authors mentioned them those studies
were searching for short term effects of specific programs. However we published a study (1) in 2015 in International
Journal of Cardiology which used nearly the same method with present paper. I think authors should discuss that paper
in discussion section .

1. Kocas C, Abaci O, Kocas BB, Cetinkal G, Arslan S, Yildiz A, Ersanli M. The role of media on statin adherence. Int J
Cardiol. 2015 Dec 15;201:139. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.07.095. Epub 2015 Jul 30.
