Review of BMJ.2015.027095 Trends in Utilization of FDA expedited Programs June 2015
The Title: The title raises a question. Since these expedited programs are assigned long after drug
development, in testing (during phase-II or phase-III trials) (see your Fig 2 in reference 38), they cannot
expedite drug development. The rhetoric of the industry and the FDA (which seems to share the
industry’s rhetoric) claim these programs expedite the development of new, vital, and effective drugs,
but how can that be the case?
In fact, how can FDA officers or anyone else obtain more information about the efficacy of a drugcandidate in order to grant it one or more expedited statuses in the middle of a II trial or a III trial? Do
they unblind them and look in at the data? Or some other way?
The title should not call them Approval Programs either, though it’s the revealing industry bias that
what’s going on is not a review to determine whether or not a “life-saving” special drug warrants
approval, but rather an expedited ritual of approval.
For these reasons, I would suggest the title:
“Trends in FDA Expedited Review Programs, 1987-2013.”
(See also 5/46 – “pre-approval studies” Characterizing pivotal trials to determine whether a new
medicine is safe and effective enough to approve as “pre-approval” makes these trials seem a waste of
time. So does the rest of the sentence. This bias of the industry and supported patient groups regards
testing drugs as a waste of time that deprives patients with serious conditions of getting untested drugs
right away! Is that the authors’ view too? Please edit.
3/41 This paper provides major, original data to show that the FDA is expanding the use of expedited
review programs to drugs that are not “innovative” or life-saving. Far from getting such great drugs to
patients faster to speed their recovery, this practice may put patients at risk for taking drugs not known
to be more effective and “at greater risk for later being found unsafe.”
5/9 Stating that the FDA “must confirm that the drug is safe…” troubles me, because a well-established
literature finds that trials are not designed to assure or measure safety, and many protocols do not
attend to adverse events, even kinds already known (like cardiovascular risk in the pivotal trials for
Vioxx). A standard technique allowed by the FDA is to run trials just long enough to pick up positive
responses but not long enough to pick up negative ones. I guess that phrase is legally accurate but not
clinically so. The whole sentence summarizes the legal requirements; but these are achieved in ways that
do not do what they appear to do. See esp Darrow’s articles on this.
Pg 5 Could be significantly shortened for a BMJ audience.
Pg 8-9 This is great data set the authors have assembled.
Pp 10-11 Methods are excellent.
The Figures: 99% of all printers print only black and white, even at rich institutions like Princeton
University. Thus colored lines and graphs all come out as shades of grey and cannot be read. This
practice also discriminates against colleagues and readers in less affluent countries and institutions.
Could the BMJ and the authors consider not using colors and instead use dashes, dots, Xs, circles, and
the like as was once commonly done? In my own reviewer’s printout, I cannot “read” these figures.
Figure titles. Another approach to titles is to summarize the main point(s). For example, the title of
Figure 2 might be “The number of expedited programs per drug has steadily increased.” And label the Y
axis more completely as “mean number of expedited programs”
I think this approach to titles helps readers.
Pg 12 It is hard to understand the two central paragraphs: the number of expedited programs peaked in
2005… or did it peak in 2011?… but an increase was observed only for non-innovative drugs… ?? Please
edit and rephrase.
It would be valuable to explain to readers why the FDA grants a 2nd or 3rd expedited program to a given
drug and what that really means on the ground. Does a second or third one shorten the review time even
more, from 6 months to 4 or less? (I gather not.) Or does it mean less substantial evidence is needed for
approval as well as a shorter review in 6 months? If so, what difference can a second or third disgnation
make since the trials were already designed with FDA-approved protocols before a second or third
designation is granted? –And which persons or bodies within CDER make the decisions to grant a second
or third program? I hope that the editors give the authors a paragraph of space to explain.

13/16 The authors should state (in my opinion) that these drugs approved on more limited data and
“provisional evidence” are not only “at greater risk for later being found unsafe” but also at greater risk
for being found not to benefit patients as well. They could cite as one example the recent BMJ article
“Why do cancer drugs get such an easy ride?”
Authors and editors should attend to the way the word “risk” is used that has an industry bias. The
prevailing habit is to talk about a medicine’s benefits (as if they are a sure thing) and then their “risks” of
adverse events. In fact, most drugs have a probability of benefit and benefit only a proportion of patients
taking it.
More balanced, accurate way would be to write about a drug’s “probability” of added clinical benefit
compared to its “probability” of serious adverse events or harm. That way the same word is used to
characterize both benefits and harm.
Or, one could write about the “risk” that a drug will not provide added clinical benefit compared to its risk
of harm. With our current use of English, no wonder most patients and the press think that any approved
drug MUST be clinically better, though it might have some “risk of unsafety.”
-And why do we follow the industry’s wish to use the doily, “unsafe” or “unsafety” rather than adverse
events and harm? Between “risk” and “unsafe”, medical harm becomes barely discernable. Yet
prescription drugs are a major source of hospitalizations and deaths. (See the JLME overview
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2282014 ,and Gøtzsche, Deadly Medicines and
Organized Crime.)
13/44-51 The characterization of the FDA review gives a misimpression, I think. Barely a majority of
cancer drugs (55%) were later found to be effective using surrogate end points, and their safety is not
discussed. Put the other way, doctors and patients might like to know that that nearly half (45%) of
cancer drugs approved in a rush turned out not to be effective, or safe.
13/52-14/10 I think one should write more sharply about this set-up, led by industry funding of the FDA
and Congress: accelerated reviews with a near-guarantee of approval, based on unclear evidence that
patients are likely to benefit or experience serious adverse events, plus regulations that allow companies
to delay for years or not complete their promised testing while they aggressively promote, high-priced
drugs that may not do patients much good. This is an example of what the Harvard Safra Center for
Ethics called institutional corruption. –Just my opinion.
Pg 14 Good points but could be tighter, more pithy.
14/56 When you write “Congress continues to authorize new ones,” it’s Congressmen inundated with
twice as many pharmaceutical lobbyists as are members of Congress, plying them with sponsored studies
and patient groups, and the threat of defunding CDER if they don’t authorize new ways to get more drugs
approved faster with less evidence that they benefit patients.
You might consider, “Under the threat of industry funding for the FDA not being renewed, Congress
continues to authorize new ones.”
15/10 While Breakthrough did not formally alter the approval standard, has it de facto softened or
relaxed that standard? Can you add a sentence about this?
15/49 There’s an industry bias in using the term “efficiency” when the probabilities of added benefit and
harm are not part of its use. For example, if nearly half of cancer drugs approved do not prove to be
effective and confirmatory evidence is often delayed by years or not completed, does that make the
accelerated process “efficient”?
SUMMARY: This is an original and important paper based on excellent data and methods that should be
published, but it would benefit from tighter, more pithy prose and replacing vaguer, biased terms with
more balanced, concrete terms. See other suggestions.
Donald W. Light