Thank you for the opportunity to review this clearly-written paper on an important topic.
The clinical importance of the potential interaction between tamoxifen and drugs that inhibit cyp2d6 is debated, as is the
clinical importance of genetic polymorphisms affecting cyp2d6 metabolism in women who take tamoxifen. Therefore, this
study addresses an important topic.
Given that tamoxifen's survival benefit is presumed only for women with a history of breast cancer, I think the study
question applies only to women with a history of breast cancer. Therefore, I would make this the primary rather than
secondary study population. Otherwise, the confidence intervals overstate the true precision of the results for the actual
study question / target population.
Page 4, line 28-31: It might be more helpful to report the combined *prevalent* population size rather than the size of
the population that was *ever* captured. If the authors prefer to report the "ever included" number, the paper should be
explicit about that.
The Intro notes that tamoxifen reduces breast cancer mortality by about a third. It would be even more helpful to note
the proportional reduction in all-cause mortality conferred by use of tamoxifen in women with breast cancer (by stage, if
known), as all-cause mortality is the outcome of the current paper.
The Intro notes that it "is not clear why concomitant exposure to tamoxifen and paroxetine would increase mortality but
not concomitant use of tamoxifen and fluoxetine." One reason to expect that paroxetine would have a bigger effect is
that paroxetine is a mechanism-based (i.e., irreversible) inhibitor, while fluoxetine's inhibition is reversible (Bertelsen
KM, Venkatakrishnan K, Von Moltke LL, Obach RS, Greenblatt DJ. Apparent mechanism-based inhibition of human
CYP2D6 in vitro by paroxetine: comparison with fluoxetine and quinidine. Drug Metabolism and Disposition. 2003 Mar
1;31(3):289-93.)
The "intention-to-treat" (or first exposure carried forward) is conservative in that it makes it hard to find a difference. In
a safety context this is actually anti-conservative, in that it makes it hard to find a difference. It would be helpful to note
this in the discussion, and to present for each cohort (tamoxifen-triggered vs. SSRI-triggered) and each exposure group
the proportion of follow-up time that was exposed to tamoxifen with SSRI; tamoxifen without SSRI; no tamoxifen with
SSRI; and no tamoxifen without SSRI. Further, the results should focus on the upper 95% confidence limit, as that is the
assurance it provides.
Page 6, lie 57: It would be helpful to report what is known about the completeness and validity of administrative codes
for breast cancer, stage, and site. This could be provided in the Appendix if there is not enough room in the paper.
Table 2 reports on the results of a sensitivity analysis rather than the results of the primary analysis. This is unusual and
disorienting. Please consider presenting the results of the primary analysis (which I would make the women with a
breast cancer history) in Table 2 in addition to (or instead of) those of the sensitivity analysis.
According to the results section, there were 1003 + 1024 = 2027 deaths. However, the bottom of Figure 1 says that
there were 2043 deaths. This apparent discrepancy should be resolved or explained.
It would be helpful to report in Table 2, for each cohort and each exposure group, the number of persons, person-years,
deaths, and death rate, along with HR and 95% CIs.
The first (and presumably most important) limitation listed in the Discussion section is potential confounding. For
reasons explained elsewhere, I don't believe that this is the primary limitation. Rather, I believe that the primary
limitation is limited ability to answer the question of whether taking potent cyp2d6 inhibiting SSRIs reduces the
effectiveness of tamoxifen. This ability is limited because the study outcome (all-cause death) is quite down-stream from
cancer recurrence (and includes many non-cancer deaths), which would thus dilute any real effect; because of the wide
CIs in the women with a history of breast cancer; and possibly because of a low proportion of person-time in the groups
exposed to the drug interaction (if that's the case). Granted, if women don't spend much time receiving the combo, then
the combo can't have much of a real-world clinical effect. But it seems that this study is seeking to make inference on
the biology of the potential interaction as well its clinical impact.
Sean Hennessy