1. Over 50 authors have contributed many person-hours to this network meta-analysis, surveying nearly
5000 titles, and have ended up with 18 papers and conclusions that can be stated in a few lines:
• remdesivir and lopinavir–ritonavir may shorten symptom duration;
• hydroxychloroquine may cause adverse reactions;
• nothing else does anything beneficial;
• the harms, and therefore the benefit to harm balance, of most of the surveyed interventions are
unknown.
These results are hardly surprising. The small beneficial effect of remdesivir has been known for some
time, from Beigel’s paper in NEJM (number 1 in the list here and the largest trial reviewed by far). So
have the adverse effects of hydroxychloroquine. The result with lopinavir–ritonavir is not surprising; the
paper by Cao et al in the NEJM showed a trend, and this analysis includes more participants. The
negative results with the other interventions is in no way reliable because of the quality of the available
data. These interventions might or might not bring small benefits, but we cannot know; larger studies,
contributing good-quality data will be necessary (i.e. the usual trite conclusion), and it is not clear at
present when such data will become available. The authors themselves say, on page 13 of 65, paragraph
(c), that the results dealing with adverse events that led to discontinuation are "almost completely
uninformative". When the word “certainty” occurs in the manuscript, the authors have collocated it with
“low” or “very low” in 15 places and with “moderate” in four. That in itself, the data speaking for
themselves, is a more critical observation than any I can provide.
2. There is a concern about the protocol for this study. The authors repeatedly refer in the body of their
text to a protocol, but do not give a reference to the place where the protocol is published, although
they do refer to a rival protocol by Bourton et al., published in Zenodo. From page 55 of 65 of their
manuscript to page 67 of 65 [sic] they include what appears to be a protocol, although it is only given a
title and not specifically labelled as a protocol. Where is the published protocol? We do not know, if the
protocol was not published in advance of the study, that the protocol appended to this manuscript is the
original protocol and that it has not been changed in any way. The protocol refers to the processes that
will be followed if changes are made, but only one change seems to be noted in the supplementary
material. If the protocol has been changed in carrying out the study one would have expected the

authors to have detailed the ways and justified them, and it seems likely that the protocol is as it always
was. However, the protocol should be published before the results. Even then, now that we have seen
both simultaneously, others, such as enthusiasts for hydroxychloroquine, will voice doubts—with high
certainty.
3. It is not unreasonable to propose a living network meta-analysis when rapid analyses are desirable in
order to inform clinical practice. However, this proposal is predicated on the expectation that good
quality data will be available, which is not the case. The trials that have been listed on registries such as
ClinicalTrials.gov, the Chinese and EU registries, and others from countries such as Iran, Australia, the
Netherlands, and countries in South America, have, from the start, and continually, while more and
more protocols have been registered, been of poor quality. A minority have been double-masked, few
have been placebo-controlled, and many have been open comparisons with standard care. This means
that neither benefits nor harms have been well studied; in most cases the benefit to harm balance
cannot be assessed to help clinicians make crucial therapeutic decisions that will on balance benefit
patients. Few have studied mortality and many different endpoints have been included. The 18 trials
that the authors have included bear all this out: only four involved placebo and seven involved standard
care. Furthermore, many of the registered trials have been very small, and that is also reflected in the
trials reported here—a mean sample size of about 150 (median 90, IQR 37–175).
4. It is therefore questionable whether meta-analysis of any sort is justified at this stage, whether of a
single technology in a traditional review, or of multiple technologies in a network meta-analysis, until
better data are available. [The results from lopinavir–ritonavir might perhaps merit a single technology
appraisal on their own.] Heterogeneity is likely to have been very high in these 18 studies, although not
reported here. But, as the authors point out in their protocol, “When networks are sparse,
between-study heterogeneity variances are often imprecisely estimated. That may generate implausibly
wide credible intervals from network estimates, even when the direct and indirect estimates are
coherent.”
5. Furthermore, they write that when this occurs, “we will conduct sensitivity analyses by using
empirically informative priors, and fixed effects models”, and “For all outcomes, we will first include both
peer-reviewed and non-peer reviewed data, and then perform a sensitivity analysis by restricting to
peer-reviewed publications.” But they appear to have carried out only one fixed-effects analysis, of
outcome time to symptoms resolution, and “Due to the lack of sufficient data, we did not conduct any of
the subgroup or sensitivity analyses specified in the protocol.” This again stresses the poverty of the
evidence presented here.
6. The authors seem to be in a rush to publish this analysis, since they have asked for it to be
fast-tracked. Their manuscript bears the hallmarks of having been produced hurriedly, as evidenced, for
example, by several typos and syntactical solecisms. The references in the large table of results do not
seem to be cross-referenced to the numbered items in the reference list, making it very difficult to see
what is going on. I am afraid that my review is therefore, perforce, also rushed, and I apologise in
advance if I have missed anything important or misunderstood anything.
7. If the data presented here were likely to make important differences to current clinical practice, there
would be justification in asking for them to be fast-tracked. However, I do not believe that these results
will in any way affect the quality of care that patients with covid-19 will expect to receive, compared
with the care that they are currently receiving. Nor will the healthcare professionals tasked with treating
them be better guided in their decisions about which medicines to use, when, and how. The results on
remdesivir and lopinavir–ritonavir may well be correct, but they show, as we already know, only minor
benefits and provide no reassurance about harms. The result on hydroxychloroquine is probably correct,
but it will not dim the enthusiasm of those who disagree, as skeptical responses to the preliminary
publication of the data from the RECOVERY trial show; trials of the 4-aminoquinolines in the acute
disease, and certainly in prophylaxis (of which at least 25 are currently registered to my knowledge), will
continue, and it will be some time before that controversy is settled. The results on the other
interventions may be right or wrong; we cannot tell. And the absence of data on adverse outcomes
makes it impossible to know what to do about those, except to continue to wait and watch.

8. The authors might consider taking a deep breath, stepping back, and considering how best to
proceed. My advice would be to publish the protocol and allow expert reviewers time to scrutinize it,
rather than asking for fast-track publication of protocol and results simultaneously. That would also give
them time to add the results from the RECOVERY trial, in which the numbers of patients randomized far
outstrips the total numbers of patients included in the combined 18 trials reviewed here.
Dexamethasone, which seems to give the most striking results so far, although we still await the
complete peer-reviewed publication of the results and possibly further analyses, needs to be included.
There will then be time for whoever reviews the resulting work to include more detailed comments than
I have the time to include here.