This is an interesting and challenging paper deserving of publication in the Analysis section of
the BMJ for wider debate.There is a huge global unmet demand for long-term dialysis for
ESRD, with millions dying each year for want of access to treatment. The cost and
practicalities of provision of and access to dialysis are particularly challenging for low- and
middle-income countries. The authors use experience in southeast Asia to demonstrate the
conundrum faced by LMIC from the demand for the provision of costly dialysis under universal
health coverage. The challenges include, but are not limited to, the huge continuing cost,
difficulty of access by dispersed rural populations, commercial and medical bias towards one
treatment option (haemodialysis, HD). The authors highlight the absence of comparative data
between HD and the available alternative (peritoneal dialysis, PD) and the mismatch in
research, investment and implementation of therapy between renal disease and cancer.
Data from the exemplar countries show three different policies for the provision of dialysis
under UHC and, although all are far from adequate, one appears to offer a partial solution to
achieve equitable and effective treatment with less severe impact on the health care budget.
In Indonesia HD is the primary dialysis modality but with very limited access to treatment

centres due to geographical problems; the Philippines provide a totally inadequate 'dose' of HD
(the shortfall to be made up by patient payment, which few can afford). In Thailand,
professionals are obliged to offer PD as the first choice and the authors show that this reduces
costs and increases patient access (PD is ambulatory, not centre-based) leading to better
outcomes. The authors do not comment on the observation that although the PD-first policy
has resulted in an uptake that is very high by international standards, nearly half of users are
dependent on HD. This reflects the problem of technique complications and failures with PD.
The Table contains a mass of essential and interesting data, making it large and rather 'busy'.
Lines 40-42 column 2 is unclear. Lines 44-47 columns 2 and 4 require correction or
clarification.
The paper poses a number of challenges for the global dialysis community, medical industries,
and national policy makers, all of which deserve wider international debate. The ethical and
financial problems of high cost life-sustaining therapies are a challenge for all health care
systems, most exs[ecially in low- and middle-income countries.