As I am greatly aligned with the sentiments of the authors, I write this review with the
greatest reluctance. While I think that everyone would agree that peritoneal dialysis should be
favored over in-center hemodialysis, the treatment of choice should be transplantation which
as a onetime cost is not only more cost efficient, but has significantly better survival than any
form of dialysis:
Adjusted all-cause mortality by treatment modality (a) overall, dialysis1
(See graph as separate file which could not be downloaded here)
Even though peritoneal dialysis is significantly better than hemodialysis:
Adjusted all-cause mortality by treatment modality (b) hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis
(See graph as separate file which could not be downloaded here)
Additionally, we would all agree that all around the world from Iran2 to Greece3 to Italy4 and
the United States of America5 the patients’ quality of life is vastly superior on peritoneal
dialysis when compared to in-center hemodialysis. And yet, in-center is vastly more popular.
Why? This is where the authors make their outrageous and improper accusations that are
totally unacceptable.
Their primary proposition is that “providers have an incentive to treat patients with HD as it
requires more visits to health professionals.(page 1 line 35)” In developed countries, “A
Monthly Capitation Payment (MCP) is a payment made to physicians for most dialysis-related
physician services furnished to Medicare End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients on a
monthly basis. The same monthly amount is paid to the physician for each patient supervised
regardless of whether the patient dialyzes at home or as an outpatient in an approved ESRD
facility.”6 Nevertheless, 87.3% of patients choose hemodialysis over peritoneal dialysis to
begin.7 The authors reference a study from the Philippines where a similar number of patients
choose hemodialysis over peritoneal dialysis. The article states that t a convention of dialysis
personnel there “Respondents consider overall cost and residual renal function preservation as
the most important factors in dialysis modality selection.”8 Indeed the most common answer
(which was about equal to the sum total of all the other responses was “they would not
recommend either modality and would allow the patient to choose.”8 There is no incentive
mentioned about providing “more visits to health professionals” The article that they cite notes
that the variable that was “Least important was physician reimbursement.”8 So why do the
patients choose in-center hemodialysis? The Philippine article suggests various factors
including: “Patient-related factors favoring HD were: poor personal hygiene, impaired vision
and manual dexterity; while favoring PD were: age <10 years, living far from HD unit, and the
availability of trainable family members.” Infection is the most common complication of
peritoneal dialysis and poor hygiene and poor eyesight to make the connection are both
variable that would lead to higher morbidity and mortality; however, the correct answer is far
more complicated. There are several reasons that patients choose in-center hemodialysis as
opposed to peritoneal is that the vast majority tend to be old and very sick. Indeed, it is the
fact that the younger and healthier patients choose peritoneal dialysis skews all morbidity,
mortality and quality of life data in favor of peritoneal dialysis. In patients over 75 years of

age, 82.5% choose hemodialysis while only 5.8% choose peritoneal dialysis and 11.7%
transplantation.7 Being older, sicker and with compromised eyesight they choose care
provided by others rather than elect to do self-care dialysis. Lower socioeconomic status9 and
the need for a helper10 are associated with peritonitis, worse outcomes and technique failure
with peritoneal dialysis. Obesity is another problem. Clearance with peritoneal dialysis is very
slow and therefore consequently is required continuously seven days a week. Conversely
hemodialysis clearance is rapid and can be done for 4 hours three times a week. The large
cellular mass of obese patients make it difficult to clear all of their waste. Therefore while
obese patients enjoy a survival advantage on hemodialysis, those on peritoneal do not fare as
well.11 Hypoalbuminemia is another important marker for mortality12 and quality of life13 in
ESRD, and peritoneal dialysis is known to result in the loss of about 5 gm albumin/day
compared to 1gm/three times a week on hemodialysis.14 Therefore patients with protein
malnutrition may not be the optimal candidates for peritoneal dialysis. Finally those who have
had abdominal surgery. While patients with ostomies can be treated with PD, those with
peritoneal scarring from peritonitis lose their membrane function and cannot establish
adequate clearance. Indeed even without infection, there appears to be a loss in clearance
over time with membrane failure which may be due to the dialysate itself, but we struggle to
understand.15
It is equally outrageous is to say “It is, in fact, in the realm of politics where the reasons for
the differences in access to treatment of ESRD and cancer patients emerge. Governments
across the world prioritize cancer treatment over renal dialysis.” In the USA, the number of
adults with diagnosed kidney disease is 5.1 million people and the ninth most common cause
of death. Unfortunately, the number of patients with cancer are more than quadruple the
number of kidney disease patients at 23.2 million while becoming the second leading cause of
death.16 It is only natural that the more common and more deadly disease receive more
attention; nevertheless, while the ESRD population is only 1% of the population, we are quite
fortunate that 7% of the healthcare budget is spent upon them.
As I began, I am quite sympathetic to a peritoneal dialysis first policy, however, the authors
must deal with the facts and problems as they truly are rather than invent imaginary enemies
that have nefariously created an unfair system. It is not helpful to disparage politicians,
providers and the funding allotted to those unfortunate to have cancer. We need all parties
working together towards improved health care delivery. While scholars such as I over the last
forty years have tried to find solutions to the peritoneal dialysis problems of infection and
membrane failure, 17-18 the answers required now are beyond biochemistry. The most rapidly
expanding group of the ESRD population is the over age 65 group. Deal with the facts of how
to best treat these older and sicker patients adequately at home using innovative programs
such as visiting nurses, government funded helpers for the elderly or telemedicine and you
might find a solution, but at present your outrage is misdirected and your rhetoric is empty.

1. USRDS. Volume 2, Chapter 2. Mortality.
https://www.usrds.org/2018/view/v2_05.aspx?zoom_highlight=mortality accessed 5/7/2019
2. Noshad H, Sadreddini S, Nezami N, Salekzamani Y, Ardalan MR. Comparison of outcome
and quality of life: haemodialysis versus peritoneal dialysis patients. Singapore Med J. 2009
Feb;50(2):185-92.
3. Paraskevi T, Quality of Life in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis or Peritoneal Dialysis
Treatment J Clin Med Res. 2011 Jun; 3(3): 132–138.
4. Zazzeroni L, Pasquinelli G, Nanni E, Cremonini V, Rubbi I. Comparison of Quality of Life in
Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis and Peritoneal Dialysis: a Systematic Review and
Meta-Analysis. Kidney Blood Press Res 2017;42:717–727
5. Lilia R. Lukowsky, Rajnish Mehrotra, Leeka Kheifets, Onyebuchi A. Arah, Allen R. Nissenson,
Kamyar Kalantar-Zadeh. Comparing Mortality of Peritoneal and Hemodialysis Patients in the
First 2 Years of Dialysis Therapy: A Marginal Structural Model Analysis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol.
2013 Apr 5; 8(4): 619–628.
6. Details for title: 0112-MCP (Monthly Capitation Payment) for ESRD (End Stage Renal
Disease)

7. USRDS. Volume 1, Chapter 1 Patient Characteristics.
https://www.usrds.org/2018/view/v2_05.aspx? accessed 5/7/2019
8. Cruz DN, Troidle L, Danguilan R, Padilla B, Frando L, Sebastian E, et al. Factors Influencing
Dialysis Modality for End-Stage Renal Disease in Developing Countries: A Survey of Filipino
Nephrologists. Blood Purification. 2011;32:117–23.
9. Tang W, Grace B, McDonald SP, Hawley CM, Badve SV, Boudville NC, Brown FG, Clayton PA,
Johnson DW. Socio-Economic Status and Peritonitis in Australian Non-Indigenous Peritoneal
Dialysis Patients. Perit Dial Int. 2015 Jul-Aug;35(4):450-9.
10. Rubin J, Kirchner K, Ray R, Bower JD. Demographic factors associated with dialysis
technique failures among patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Arch
Intern Med. 1985 Jun;145(6):1041-4.
11. Kalantar-Zadeh K, Kopple JD. Obesity paradox in patients on maintenance dialysis. Contrib
Nephrol. 2006;151:57-69
12. Diaz-Buxo JA, Lowrie EG, Lew NL, Zhang SM, Zhu X, Lazarus JM Associates of mortality
among peritoneal dialysis patients with special reference to peritoneal transport rates and
solute clearance. Am J Kidney Dis. 1999 Mar;33(3):523-34.
13. Lacson E Jr, Xu J, Lin SF, Dean SG, Lazarus JM, Hakim R. Association between
achievement of hemodialysis quality-of-care indicators and quality-of-life scores. Am J Kidney
Dis. 2009 Dec;54(6):1098-107
14. Rippe B, Öberg CM Albumin Turnover in Peritoneal and Hemodialysis. Semin Dial. 2016
Nov;29(6):458-462
15. Bajo MA, Del Peso G, Teitelbaum I. Peritoneal Membrane Preservation. Semin Nephrol.
2017 Jan;37(1):77-92
16. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/heart-disease.htm accessed 5/7/2019
17. Diskin, CJ, Coplon, NS, Feldman, C, Vosti, K. The antimicrobial activity of patients on
CAPD. Perit Dial Bull 1983; 3: 150– 4.
18. Diskin CJ. Lessons from single cell organisms: insights into the antimicrobial and toxic
effects of peritoneal dialysate bases. Ther Apher Dial. 2010 Apr;14(2):127-35
