In this paper the authors analyse the combined effect of birth weight and life style as predictors of
development of T2DM in three large cohorts. Both birth-weight and several of the risk factors studied are
individually associated with the risk of developing T2DM, but the authors try to answer the question
whether there is an interaction between intrauterine growth and the impact of later life styles.
Although the study of each individual risk factors are not novel, the combined analysis provides new
knowledge.
Study populations: All three cohorts are well established cohorts including health professionals. This
means they are not population based and cover a restricted socio-economic strata. This is unlikely to
impact the results, but probably still should be commented upon as a potential limitation of the study.
Exposure variables:
Birth Weight. Data are self reported and have been validated agains the correspunding information from
the mother i a subgroup (previously published). Was it also validated agains objectively recorded health
records?
"Unhealthy lifestyle" was used as a combined exposure variable graded based on the number of RF's
present in the indvididual. This seems relevent, if all factors are independently risk-factors for DM and if
the RF's are not causaly related to eachother. These assumptions may, however, not be fulfilled.
BMI: A well established risk factor for DM. It was partially self reported. Previous studies have found an
association beween low BW and risk of obesity, thus indicating that of intrauterine programming may
lead to adult overweight/obesity. If this is true then BW and BMI are not independent variables, and
should not be treated as such in the analysis without further discussion in the discussion section.
Smoking: Is inversly correlated with BM. This may also affect the final analysis. On the other hand - the
direct association between smoking and T2DM is not obvious based on existing literature, so smoking is
not a likely, independent RF for T2DM. In that case - why was it then included in the analysis
Diet: Relevant risk factor, but it should be noted, that the cut-point is defined by the distribution (top
40% for each cohort), and consequently the categorization of an individual is dependent on the cohortrelation and not only on the actual dietary pattern. Why was this model chosen??
Physical Activity: Relevant RF, identical definition for all cohort.
Alcohol Consumtion: As for physical activity, although the role of alcohol as an independent RF for T2DM
may well be questioned.
Statistical analysis: This section is generally clear and well desribed. This reviewer is, however, a bit
uncertain with respect to how individuals with changes in life style risk over time are assessed. Is the
analysis also done in timed intervals?. If not, then individuals with worsening risk profile by age will care
with them a number of years of survival that should be ascribed to lower risk-categories. This part of the
section may be clarified. In fig. 1 and i eTable 2 the group with very low birt weight and 4+ RF's is used
as reference. This is a very small group with a low total number of events. This will have an impact on
the CF-intervals for all other groups. If the group with the largest number of events was chosen as
reference, then several other 95% CI's would be more narrow (corresponding to what was done for
eTable 1.)
Results: Clear and well written. Supplements fig's and tables in a relevant way.
Discussion: In general, the discussion is well ballanced withconclusions reflecting the actual findings and
the existing literature. As already mentioned above, there are, however, a number of additional issues
that would also benefit from being critically discussead and assesed in this section.

Knut Borch-Johnsen
Medical Director, Professor
Holbaek Hospital
Denmark