Aaby et al write about a proposed shortening of the follow-up period for the Malaria Vaccine
Implementation programme that is assessing the safety of the RTS,S/AS01 malaria vaccine
that was associated with an increase in over mortality in its phase III trial, mainly in female
vaccinees. The authors argue that this change would provide an unacceptable risk that
some millions of children would be exposed to a vaccine that is associated with an
increased risk of mortality by accelerating its general licensure and WHO pre-qualification.
In summary, the point is clear, well-argued and important and I agree strongly with the
authors’ concerns.
The general background is relevant. RTS,S was made (by GSK) in 1987, entered clinical
development in the US in the early 1990s and partial efficacy in malaria challenge studies
reported in 1997. By 2001 there was evidence of some short term efficacy in Gambian
adults but the product was almost dropped because of its modest efficacy of limited
durability. With very substantial public and philanthropic funding (now amounting to over
0.5 billion dollars) supplementing GSK investments over the next decade trials in African
children were pursued, culminating in phase III data that showed about 35% efficacy in
children provided that they received 4 doses of vaccine, three of these outside existing
immunisation time points. Although health economic analysis (assuming a cost of $5 per
dose) was favourable for deployment the WHO SAGE committee questioned whether
operational aspects of deployment at the non-EPI time points were feasible. Then Aaby et
al., accessing publically available trial data, discovered that there was a striking safety
signal in the phase III data with female overall mortality increased (OR = 1.91, P =
0.0006), with a stronger negative signal observed in longer term follow up. This is not
scientifically implausible because of the use of a novel adjuvant (AS01) with high doses in
immunostimulants (MPL and QS21) in young children for the first time. This female
mortality safety signal emerged after a positive scientific opinion had been received by GSK
from the European Medicines Agency but in time for consideration by the SAGE committee,
leading to their requirement (before WHO pre-qualification) for what has become the
“Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme” dosing about 360,000 infants per year in
three African countries under a bespoke programme-specific license, primarily to evaluate
safety.
This approach has been controversial for a number of reasons. Firstly, the parents /
guardians of the vaccinated children are apparently not being informed of the increased risk
of death in the previous 16,000 subject phase III trial: this is not required because the
programme is structured as an “implementation” activity, and not a clinical trial, so that no
individual consent is required. Secondly, the programme is led by WHO staff (partnered
with PATH and GSK) leading to suggestions of a possible conflict of interest for WHO. WHO
endorsement for intervention studies carries great weight in African countries. Thirdly, the
lack of complete openness of GSK on the female mortality safety signal has been a concern
in the academic community with this not receiving the open disclosure and discussion that
many feel is warranted. One argument is that this was not a pre-defined trial endpoint
(which is correct) but it is a very important safety signal if real. Fourthly, the absence of
any commitment by GSK to provide the required amount of vaccine should they achieve
general licensure, along with progress to larger scale trials by other vaccine candidates with
partial efficacy, has led to concern that the risks of the implementation programme may be

even less justified: at least 120 million doses of a malaria vaccine are likely required for
African children alone annually, but GSK appear to be discussing manufacturing only a very
small fraction of that amount (using a proprietary adjuvant that is limited in availability).
Aaby et al. argue correctly that the proposed use of severe malaria rates by SAGE as a
surrogate for overall mortality rates in this context is not reasonable. The vaccine has some
efficacy against clinical and severe malaria: the concern is that there is a less well
understood negative effective on overall mortality, more marked in females, and this is
what the implementation programme is seeking to rule out.
Against this background Aaby, with some academic supporters, has been rowing against
the tide in pointing out the risk that RTS,S/AS01 may also produce the increased overall
mortality signal seen some years back with high dose measles vaccine. I have heard the
argument made that this risk should not be disclosed too widely because anti-vaxxers will
jump on it with negative consequences for vaccine deployment in African and ensuing
public health damage. I disagree and think the risks of not being totally open are greater.
In my view there is a small but non-negligible risk that the female mortality safety signal is
real and that it will therefore replicate in the ongoing implementation programme. If so
there will have been increased deaths in girls again and the complaints that the vaccinees’
parents were not adequately informed of this risk may resonate loudly, leading the an even
greater risk of loss of confidence in vaccination programmes.
I therefore believe that, on scientific grounds, this letter is useful and timely and the policy
implications are important. By deciding to vaccinate more widely before it is clear that
RTS,S/AS01 does not increase mortality in girls over time, an already difficult situation
could be exacerbated with major negative consequences.
