Thank you for inviting me to review this paper in which the authors use a large UK primary care database
to report rates of discontinuation and restarting in statin therapy and to identify the patient characteristics
associated with discontinuation and restarting. This is an important and topical question relevant to
clinicians, patients and policymakers. As the authors mention, there have been a number of studies
published around this topic, but most of these focus on discontinuation and the novelty of this study is the
assessment of both discontinuation and restarting.
My main comments relate to the organisation of the results and the conclusions.
1) In the present format the results section is rather long and the main findings are somewhat lost with
some groups of patients only identified in the discussion. I wonder if a table or tables listing the patient
factors associated with increased or decreased risk for discontinuation and restarting and those associated
with adherence, non-adherence or stopping would be a helpful way of summarising this?
2) It is also not clear in the present version what the authors are suggesting should change as a result of
the findings and I think the implications of the findings for researchers and clinicians could be
strengthened.
For example, as the authors discuss in the first paragraph of the discussion, one of the main findings is that
although 47% of patients discontinued statins at some point, 72% of those later restarted. This is an
important finding and has potential implications for the design of future studies investigating adherence to
statins and medications in general. Additionally, Figure 3 suggests that over half of these patients who
restart statins do so within the first year. Do the authors consider this is a ‘window of opportunity’ for
clinicians or is it more likely a reflection of the time between healthcare contacts or other factor(s)?
Do the authors have any other advice for clinicians? They mention that ‘Information on groups with high
levels of both discontinuation and restarting, such as patients from ethnic minority groups, may also
encourage better understanding by clinicians of the issues’. Perhaps they could expand on this.
I also have the following more specific comments.
3) The authors say in the discussion that “The data sources used have no information on physician
behaviour but, given the size and focus of our study, we believe that such issues are unlikely to have
significant effects when compared with differences arising from patient characteristics”. Did the authors
consider the number of contacts with healthcare as a possible explanation for some of the differences
between patient groups? It may be that patients who are more regularly reviewed in Primary Care are
more likely to have discussions about restarting statin therapy than those who are seen less frequently. For
example, this may in part explain the higher risks of restarting in patients with type 1 diabetes who are
likely to be reviewed at least every 6 months. As the authors describe, it is also possible that physician
behaviour explains some of the differences in restarting statins after abnormal liver function tests and in
patients with dementia. More explicit discussion of the interaction between patient factors and physician
behaviour would be helpful.
4) Page 7 line 3 – The authors mention here that ‘We categorised a patient as a switcher if they changed
between statin types before they discontinued or left the study’ but no further reference is made to
switchers within the manuscript and it is not clear if this was included in the multivariate analysis. It would
be of interest to know how many of the patients who restarted statins restarted on the same statin and
how many switched to an alternative drug.
Minor comments

5) Page 11 line 28 – I think the words ‘prevention group’ are missing from the end of this sentence
6) Page 13 line 30 – Should this read ‘increased risk of restarting’ rather than ‘increased risk of
discontinuation’
7) Page 33 line 57 – Should this be ‘Statin use at baseline’ as in the other tables?
Juliet Usher-Smith
University of Cambridge