I am not hugely convinced by this piece and the underlying mapping exercise. The essential
thesis is: there is lots of complexity; this must be bad; something should be done about it.
The sensationalist title “an unintended threat to patient safety” – is not borne out by the
content.
It is a common-place of the health policy scene that health regulation has doubtful benefits,
is politically driven, is fragmented, imposes a burden and opportunity costs, and needs to be

better coordinated. To that extent it is not clear what this article adds, other than an
eye-catching but possibly spurious number (127 bodies involved in regulation).
The health and care system is hugely complex and a major sector of the economy. The
comparisons with other sectors are too facile. Flying airplanes is more straightforward than
delivering care, where the safety issues span everything from surgical checklists to
safeguarding vulnerable adults in care homes. Health in the UK has not had a systemic
failure on the scale of the financial crash in 2008. Perhaps finance was under-regulated?
The main evidence base is a desk based mapping exercise that establishes that 127
organisations have a regulatory effect on provider organisations. The definition of
“regulatory effect” is drawn widely to include campaigning charities like AvMA (this is really
stretching a point) as well as watchdogs like Healthwatch England (not a “patient
organisation” but a statutory committee of the CQC). Many of these bodies have a wider
brief relating to quality and performance, not only safety. Not all these bodies necessarily
relate to every provider. Some of these nuances and limitations are acknowledged in the
mapping study but less so in the accompanying piece.
The authors claim that the plethora of bodies with a “regulatory effect” have unintended
consequences for the NHS, including duplication, fragmentation, regulatory burden and
compliance culture. This is likely to be the case. However, little evidence is adduced as to
the scale and severity of these unintended consequences, other than studies (eg Walshe)
which are several years old.
In particular, the authors mount no recent evidence about what is actually happening within
trusts to cope with regulatory demands, the decision making processes and trade-offs they
employ, and what actual impact this is having on safety. Indeed it is possible to mount a
counter-argument that in the face of regulatory pressure, trusts have prioritised safety at the
expense of other markers of quality (patient experience, waiting times etc) and that the real
risks to safety arise from chronic workforce shortages and under-funding.
The authors raise an important point about the difficulty for patients in navigating the
complex regulatory system. This is certainly the case when it comes to complaints.
However, this is a very separate set of issues, deserving of a separate study.
The recommendations are of doubtful practicality and it is not clear how they have been
developed. Were providers involved? Having conducted a mapping exercise, the authors call
for a bigger mapping exercise to more accurately identify the costs and impacts of
regulation. It is not clear what that would achieve. This reads as the classic researchers’
call for more research.
Harmonisation of regulatory activity would be good, but who is going to do this, and what
method should be used? For many years the PSA have lobbied for legislation to harmonize
the professional conduct regulators, officials in the Department worked on it, but
Parliamentary time has never been found for it.
A “theory of regulation” would be good – but again, who is going to do this and how?
The authors completely ignore the agency of leaders and managers in the NHS. How do they
currently cope with regulation? What can be learned from those who have found ways
through the thicket. “How can we equip the NHS to handle complexity better?” might be a
more practicable line of enquiry than “how can government simplify complexity?”
Finally, the authors could do with demonstrating a more up to date knowledge of the
regulatory system. For providers, NHS Improvement and CQC are more important
regulators than PHE (page 4).
Do two agencies interface with providers on the safety of medical products or is it only one,
MHRA? (page 4)
The Department of Health is now the Department of Health and Social Care.
NHS England and NHS Improvement are essentially merging at an organisational level,
pending confirmatory legislation.
The NHS Litigation Authority has been renamed NHS Resolution (not NHS Litigation
Resolution).
It is odd to see no reference to the Healthcare Safety Investigations Branch.
