Dear Simon,
This ms misinterprets the results of the presented trial and should not be published. The trial only demonstrates that DAFNE
education is inefficient with either MDI or CSII as after 2 years of this intense education only 25% of patients reach the study
target of HbA1c below 7.5%, and the mean HbA1c is above 8.5%. With this end result, DAFNE may be regarded a waste of
public resources.
The most surprising part is the conclusion where authors state that more patients with T1D should be offered the DAFNE
program. With achieving a mean HbA1c above 8.5%, which is more than 1.5 % above the recommended ADA/EASD/NICE
target, this statement seems to be a cynical reproach of UK and international guidelines and targets and may question the
attitude towards the quality of care of patients with T1D.
Modern diabetes technology is designed to empower people with T1D to achieve glucose control close to national/international
targets with patient-specific individualised training. Several recent reports from large T1D registries (T1D Exchange, DPV, The
Swedish national registry, …) demonstrate the long-term benefit of CSII, even beyond the HbA1c and hypoglycemia. Praising
DAFNE for achieving a mean HbA1c of 8.5% after 2 years (with only 0.5% improvement, mostly achieved in the initial 6
months) is therefore critically out of place.
Authors include the trial protocol to the ms submission. Interestingly, the protocol does not seem to be treat-to-target, as
would be standard for any similar drug or device trial. Careful reading of the protocol reveals that the study protocol was
masterminded to focus on rigid education rather than on possible benefits of CSII. The focus was on the DAFNE education
rather than on achieving near-normoglycaemia. The attitude towards CSII is nicely described in the discussion: “A common
reason given by patients for not wanting to participate in REPOSE was reluctance to use an insulin pump. “ The protocol states
that the most important issue related to the training was to exclude any bias. Despite its technical brilliance, one can only read
this protocol with dismay and apprehension. Every diabetologist routinely using CSII knows that if an insulin pump is used only
in a MDI manner it cannot work better than the MDI. Proper individualised education on how to use an insulin pump to achieve
near-normoglycemia cannot be considered as bias.
The only positive outcome – QOL – is labelled as marginal. For most people with diabetes, their quality of life is not marginal.
Publication of this ms would mislead and could hamper the endeavour of many diabetes centres in UK and elswhere to improve
glycaemic control of people with T1D and to enable them to reach UK/international glycaemic targets without debilitating
hypoglycaemia. However, the data from this study should be published in clear demonstration of the ineffectiveness of rigid
structured education like DAFNE (for either CSII or MDI) – in a proper context, that is.
Suggestion for a new ms based on the data from this trial:
- Initially, a UK ethics committee should be approached and asked weather it is OK to conduct a trial for 2 years where most of
the studied subject do not even remotely reach the routine clinical targets in metabolic control, particularly as the mean HbA1c
was considerably worse than in the intensive group of now 22 years old DCCT trial; it may be that the trial should have been
stopped after the first year as it became obvious that the intervention was ineffective.
- In the introduction, it must be clearly stated that the protocol was not a treat-to-target one and that the training for the use
of CSII did not include instructions on how to individually achieve and maintain near-normoglycaemia (e.g. capillary blood
glucose between 4 and 8 mM) with CSII (e.g. frequent correction boluses).
- The rate of hypoglycaemia was not changed because the mean glucose was unacceptably high – this must be clearly stated.

- Results must include a factor analysis to discern possible reasons for the failure of the intervention with DAFNE.
- Importantly, the discussion should include a comment on the obvious outcome that if one does not provide proper initial
training for the use of CSII (or any device) along with re-education when needed, this device cannot work. Also, proper
training for a device cannot be considered a bias.
Regards, Tadej
