This retrospective cohort study investigated whether haloperidol use was associated with an increased
risk of death in hospitalized patients with acute myocardial infarction compared to atypical antipsychotics
use. The large hospital administrative database guarantees sufficient power, but I have major concerns
about the relevance and validity of the results.
Major concerns
Earlier research investigated the association between conventional versus atypical antipsychotics and the
risk of mortality in elderly patients independent of the specific reason for hospital admission. The authors
now focus on patients with myocardial infarction. It is not clear why an analysis in this subgroup adds
additional information to the available evidence. The authors assume that the antipsychotics were given
for symptoms of delirium, which seems plausible and might give a new perspective. However, the data
are similar to that used in earlier publications by this and other groups (1). That is, delirium is often
missed and if it is diagnosed, it is often not reported in medical records. Data on severity of illness are
also lacking. As the data are similar to those of earlier publications, the results cannot be expected to be
different.
The main analysis is based on deaths within 7 days after start of an antipsychotic, and secondary
analyses on deaths within 2, 3, 5, and 30 days. Fig 1 shows that the survival curves diverge at these
points in time. However, the curves overlap at other points in time, i.e. at 13, 16, and 18 days. The
chosen endpoints might suggest an increased risk of mortality, even though other endpoints suggest
there is none. The overlapping curves violate the proportional hazard assumption of a Cox survival
analysis. The authors should have investigated this problem, and discussed this finding. Plotting the log
of negative log of the survival plot obscures this violation (fig S3).

The analyses are based on just 6,578 of 28,303 patients with myocardial infarction that used an
antipsychotic (fig S1). To avoid the inclusion of prevalent users, the authors excluded 17,434 patients
that used an antipsychotic on the first and second day of admission, and patients with bipolar disorder
and schizophrenia (but not patients with dementia?). In addition, they excluded patients with CABG. The
selections severely limit the generalizability of the results. The conclusion does not reflect the actual
(selected) patient population to which the results apply. (If CBAG increased the risk of delirium, related
antipsychotic use, and risk of death, this could have been adjusted for without excluding patients with
CBAG.)
Propensity scores were used to adjust for confounding. Many variables were used to calculate these
scores (table S2). In contrast to the claim of the authors, many variables do not predict choice of
antipsychotic drug AND death within 7 days. Discharge information is the most obvious one. Moreover,
severity of illness (terminal illness) is a likely and potentially strong confounder (1), but was not taken
into account.
In the introduction and discussion, the authors should quote the available observational evidence fairly
(not just work from their own group), and include meta-analyses of trials and other papers that refute
the association between conventional antipsychotics and an increased risk of mortality (1,2,3), and refer
to them adequately (not abstracts but full papers). The discussion does not provide an in-depth
evaluation of the study results either. For instance, the authors suggest that the results might be
confounded by terminal illness but do not explain why.
Minor concerns
The title does not say that the outcome is mortality risk. It mentions delirium even though delirium
diagnoses were not used to select the study population.
The flow-diagram is inconsistent. Patient with non-oral use are excluded from the group of patients with
oral use. Patients that had an in-hospital stay of less than three days are also patients that initiated
antipsychotic use on the first or second day.
H.J. Luijendijk
References
1 Luijendijk HJ, de Bruin NC, Hulshof TA, Koolman X. Terminal illness and the increased mortality risk of
conventional antipsychotics in observational studies: a systematic review. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf.
2016; 25(2): 113-22.
2 Jackson JW, VanderWeele TJ, Viswanathan A, Blacker D, Schneeweiss S. The explanatory role of
stroke as a mediator of the mortality risk difference between older adults who initiate first- versus
second-generation antipsychotic drugs. Am J Epidemiol. 2014; 180(8): 847-52.
3 Hulshof TA, Zuidema SU, Ostelo RW, Luijendijk HJ. The Mortality Risk of Conventional Antipsychotics in
Elderly Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trials. J Am
Med Dir Assoc. 2015; 16(10): 817-24.
