•
This article is well-written examining the non-linear dose-response associations
between objectively assessed total physical activity, different intensities of activity
(light-intensity physical activity (low light-intensity physical activity, high light-intensity
physical activity), moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity (MVPA), bouted MVPA)
with all-cause mortality from 8 studies via harmonized meta-analysis.
•
The article adds and supports the new physical activity recommendations for
Americans (2018 Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee. 2018 Physical Activity
Guidelines Advisory Committee Scientific Report. Washington, DC: US Department of
Health and Human Services; 2018.) to limit sedentary time and also MVPA do not have to
occur in 10 minutes bouts. Previously, there were no recommendations on sedentary time;
and MVPA were recommended to be in bouted MVPA. This helps readers to make better
decisions regarding modifying physical activity level.
•
The research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered through the
analyses.
•
Participants are adequately described (Supplementary Table 1) for the 8 studies
included in the analyses.
•
Methods are adequately described. Extensive sensitivity analyses were done to
examine if the relationships held.
•

Results are clearly stated.

•
Interpretation and conclusions are warranted from the results presented.
Strengths and limitations are described.
•

Questions/clarifications:

--Figure 3a-3f. Could you add “Figure 3a-3f” to methods on page 11 along with
Supplementary Table 8. Add that exposure reference was set as the median of the
medians in the reference group for the splines (only listed in Figure description).
--Supplementary Table 2. What does the * indicate? What does it mean if you have
two letters (e.g. A* B) under comparability? Does the coding system for case-control

studies (http://www.ohri.ca/programs/clinical_epidemiology/nos_manual.pdf) also apply to
the current study?
--Supplementary Table 3. Would it be helpful to include the range for the quartiles
for each physical activity measure on top of the medians?
---

Supplementary Figure 1. Could you add details on how to interpret funnel plots?
