Interesting and potentially impactful paper comparing first-line therapies for EGFR MT NSCLC
patients. The paper has a number of issues in its present form.
1. Grammatical errors throughout.
2. First sentence of the introduction: Authors need to note that the EGFR mutation rate
(>50%) that they state applies in Asia (or maybe China specifically). In Western populations
EGFR mutation rate is closer to 15%.
3. Description of Bayesian meta-analysis in 3rd paragraph of introduction has nothing to do
with "Bayesian". All of the description would equally apply to a frequentist network
meta-analysis. The Bayesian perspective enables you to make probability statements

regarding treatment rankings, etc., as well as perform exact (as opposed to asymptotic,
albeit model-based) inference in the presence of limited information, notably limited
information on study to study heterogeneity.
4. The rationale for the first exclusion criterion (trials reporting results from a sub-population
analysis) needs to be explained. In an RCT, the subpopulations are randomized too. Is there
a source of bias?
5. Exclusion criterion (3) has a confusing wording. Are you excluding original publications on
trials with more up-to-date reports?
6. The wording of the last sentence in the first paragraph of "Data extraction and risk of bias
assessment" is confusing. Please clarify how the control arm was handled in the FLAURA
trial.
7. The descriptions and interpretations of "Bayesian" concepts are incorrect in several
locations. In the first paragraph of "Data synthesis and statistical analysis": credible intervals
are NOT Bayesian equivalents of 95% confidence intervals. The credible interval contains a
proportion of the posterior probability distribution of the relevant parameter. Confidence
intervals are constructed by hypothesizing parameter values, then examining how extreme
the observed data is under that assumption. In the results, "statistical significance" is
mentioned, but you have not performed any Bayesian hypothesis testing. It is not
appropriate to simply interpret a 95% credible interval as a confidence interval, then invert
for a hypothesis test. Also, in several locations the imprecise term "possibility" is used.
Please use the correct term "posterior probability".
8. In the 4-6th lines of the 3rd paragraph of "Data synthesis and statistical analysis" the
description of MCMC convergence, discarding burn-in, and choice of priors is garbled. The
choice of priors is a separate issue from convergence and discarding MCMC draws before
convergence. Please clarify.
9. First paragraph of "NMAs in overall advanced EGFR-mutated patients": The description in
the middle sentence is unclear. How was the OS HR extracted? From where?
10. In the "Rank probabilities" section, lines 5-7: Description of rankings in terms of
unacceptable AEs seems inconsistent. First, it is stated that Gef+PbCT is best in terms of
AEs, then it is stated that icotinib is best. But the reported numbers suggest icotinib had
highest rate of AEs. What are the percentages reported? Please clarify this section.
