Dear authors,
Thanks for an interesting study on accreditation. The study is really appreciated in
the effort to illuminate the effectiveness of accreditation on patient outcomes
relevant to many readers around the world. However, this review have raised a
number of concerns that the authors profitably could address to strengthen the
presented study.
Introduction:
The introduction could benefit from a detailed summary of the existing literature
review on the results of studies on accreditation and patients’ outcome including a
description of methodological challenged in accreditation research performed so far.
Furthermore, the authors’ could profitably expand their focus to research on other

accreditation program with similar content and survey methodology than the TJC
and non-TJC.
The authors’ state that no contemporary accreditation data have shown better
outcomes and refer to a study from 2002. However, other more recent studies do
not support this argument:
Azagury D, and Morton JM2. “Bariatric Surgery Outcomes in US Accredited
vs Non-Accredited Centers: A Systematic Review.” J Am Coll Surg. 2016
Sep;223(3):469-77.
Gratwohl A,et al, Use of the quality management system "JACIE" and
outcome after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Haematologica. 2014
May;99(5):908-15.
Study question:
There is a discrepancy between the phrasing of the third question for patient
experience and the presented results. Thus, two analyses are performed with first
merging the accredited hospitals into one exposure group (AO’s) compared to state
surveys and secondary the TJC and non-TJC are assessed separately.
Methods:
A paper on accreditation requires to incorporate a detailed description of the
intervention under investigation in order for the readers to understand the potential
mechanisms on how and why accreditation may affect patient outcome. This
includes among others details on content of the standards and survey methodology
for both the TJC and the non-TJC’s frameworks. Furthermore, an accreditation
programme have several aims besides improving patient outcomes, thus a
clarification on what part of the programs that are most likely to affect patient
outcomes is needed.
It is an important area of concern that the information on accreditation status and
mortality and readmission were not collected within the same time period.
Accreditation status is collected between 2014 and 2017 and outcome data between
January 1, 2014 and November 30, 2014. The authors’ need to explain how
hospitals that undertake surveys in 2016 or 2017 are likely to perform better on
patient outcomes in 2014?
To my understanding, the identification of patients and data on mortality and
readmission are derived from Medicare inpatients. Because the study is relevant to
readers worldwide, please include a description of the characteristics of patients
eligible for Medicare and possible a reference for further description. In addition, it is
not clear, whether outcomes are restricted to in-hospital data or independent of
place of death and if readmission are to the hospital for the index admission or any
hospital.
A description of the collection of data on patient experience should be included in
the Methods section. As clarified in the statistical section, data are collected from
April 2015 to March 2016, but it unclear when data on patients’ experience are
gathered. Are “discharge patients” asked on the exact date of discharge or how is
this done in HCAPHS? The paper lacks information on the data collection including
methods for distributing the questionnaire (paper or electronic), whether the
procedure were standardized and therefore similar for all hospitals and finally, by
reporting patient response rates according to exposure groups.
The specific diagnostic codes included for each medical condition needs to be
outlined as the groupings are not exhaustive e.g. “Metabolic diseases” or
“respiratory diseases” the later do obviously not include COPD. Furthermore, their
relevance for 30-day mortality must be presented in more details too.
Finally, the Methods section would be strengthened by a section that clarifies why it
is appropriate to compare hospitals that are accredited with those that are not. In
particularly when Table 1 outlines major differences in size (resulting in huge
difference in numbers of hospitalization pr. hospitals; state survey average 171 vs
TCJ = 1253 and Non-TJC=1006), teaching status, urban, Critical assess hospital,

and numbers of intensive care units. The later may have a significant influence on
the patient’s chance of survive.
Statistical analysis:
The authors need to clarify the terms dual-eligibility, and CAH status – what is a
Critical Assess Hospital for those not familiar to the US hospital system).
Furthermore, it is unclear what population is included for the outcome of
readmission including how competing risk for death is handled in the analyses?
The study would be strengthen considerably by adding a number of stratified
analyses to explore the results for different exposure groups. This includes e.g.
stratification by calendar periods, level of compliance achieved by the hospitals
(accredited, accredited with excellence etc.) and how many cycles of accreditation
the hospitals have completed. Furthermore, it could be interesting to see the result
for a sensitivity analysis restricting to hospitals with ICU.
Results:
The results section would benefit from more elaboration on the absolute differences
in outcomes between exposure groups and the stratified analyses mentioned above.
Discussion:
Regarding line 14 page 15 “given that…” to my understanding, the results are
adjusted for age, sex and so forth. Please clarify, how patients’ age and economic
status adds into this argument? Furthermore, there is no evidence in the study to
that patients in the state survey hospitals are poorer – if this is the case, it must be
included in the multivariable models too. Furthermore, the claim regarding
cost-effectiveness of accreditation is not substantiated by data presented in the
manuscript. The authors should avoid making conclusions beyond presented data.
Line 31 page 15 “prior work..” the authors must provide a more nuanced
perspective on this matter, as other studies have shown that providing patients with
the relevant processes of care improves their outcomes, including 30-day mortality
– here are some of the work from Denmark in favor of processes on outcomes.
Kristensen PK et al, ”Are process performance measures associated with
clinical outcomes among patients with hip fractures? A population-based cohort
study.” Int J Qual Health Care. 2016 Dec 1;28(6):698-708
Ingeman A et al, “Quality of care and mortality among patients with stroke:
a nationwide follow-up study.” Med Care. 2008 Jan;46(1):63-9.
Line 56 page 15 “we assumed..” Please provide data or references to support the
argument that TJC-accredited hospitals are the most financially well-resourced and
in addition, that finances alone can contribute to improved patient outcomes.
Line 38 page 16 “our work..” this section need to include a discussion of how the
presented result can be compared to the referenced studies (reference 15 and 30).
A correction, reference 30 includes data from 31 hospitals. If reference 30 is
discussed it could be relevant to discuss another study on acute readmissions from
the same study group. In addition, the relevance of discussing papers on process
performances measures need to be explained (reference 31 and 22).
Line 17 page 17 second paragraph: the section would be stronger using fewer
assumptions and more facts including a clear discussion of the risk of selection and
information bias and confounding related to the study.
Conclusion:
Accreditation by TJC is perhaps the main choice but this does not automatic make it
a gold standard.
Please explain how the study results substantiates the last sentence.
