This is an interesting and relevant analysis. The authors state to review the most
important Dutch policy measures since the 2006 reforms and their impact on
general practice as well as health care costs. They point towards the expanding role
of primary care as well as the restriction of increases in healthcare costs.
I have several major and minor reservations on this analysis.
1. Why do the authors select these health policy decisions? For example, I miss the
creation of the diseasemanagement programs and the building of the GP
cooperatives.
2. Three specific policy reforms put the lens firmly on social care and long term care
(exceptions mental health and deductibles). However, the presented evidence on the
effects of these three reforms (in relation to primary care) seems very limited. The
positive undertone of the authors on these reforms seems not to be validated by
some recent reports, for example the evaluation of youth care. The authors do not
mention this, but cost containment was an exceptional strong component in
pursuing these reforms (5% - 20%) and it is hard to think of no adverse events
(See for example Maarse and Jeurissen, The policy and politics of the LTC reform in
the Netherlands in Health Policy, 2016). One adverse effect might be the recent stiff
increases of elderly in the emergency rooms.
On another note, although the community nurse has recently gained renewed
popularity and attention (p 5. l 42-45), the level of underspending on exactly these
budgets are at a historic height (300 million euro's in 2017). In other words,
insurance companies do not seem to contract them massively.
3. Many things have been changed in the reimbursement of GP practices from 2006
onwards that are not mentioned in a very systematic way. At the start in 2006, GP
reimbursement was not only a 'continuation' of the capitation system of the sickness
funds (as the authors seem to suggest), but also a functional compromise between
the reimbursement of both sickness funds (capitation) and fee-for-service (private
indemnity insurers).

From my perspective, if we look backwards a main difference with the 2006 situation
is that free rate negotiations have increased substantially for GPs (innovation
modules, disease management etc.). Capitation is still important and a major source
of income, but less so than in 2006.
4. To suggest that primary care is (partly) responsible for the decreasing cost trends
in figure 1 are still too speculative from my perspective. As figure 1 also indicates,
2012 seems to be some kind of cross roads in the costing trends. For curative care,
this is often is traced back to: 1. a negotiated voluntary budget of the government
with the different health care sectors (hospitals, primary care and mental health), 2.
the substantial increase of risk for both insurers and providers (before 2012 financial
risk was actually very limited) and 3. the increases of deductibles and out-of-pocket
expenses (the authors do mention the latter, but for example see also Ravestein et
al in JAMA psychiatry for the huge effects in mental health, 2017). To make their
analysis more convincing I think that the authors should make clear why their
assumptions seem to be more viable than these alternative suggestions.
Minor comments.
1. p 3, l 50. The sickness were not privatized, they were already private.
2. p 4 l 18-23. A recent evaluation by Lokkerbol et al showed positive results on the
so called basic mental health. (K van Mens et al - A cost effectiveness analysis to
evaluate a system change to mental health care in the Netherlands in Administration
and policy in mental health 2017).
3. P. 4, l 51-54. The Netherlands contains both regular emergency care and GP
out-of-office care. It is not very clear to the reader which care is meant by the
authors.
4. p. 5 l 27. Please be very specific. I believe this 27% avoidance of care refers in a
substantial amount towards pharmaceuticals that have been prescribed by a GP.
5. p 6, l 44. Maybe I misread, but primary and secondary care were already brought
together pre-2006. That is sickness funds or private insurers were responsible for
both in their contracting policies.
6. If the non-contracting of prevention by insurers is a problem (which I think it is),
then why (p. 5/6. l 54-1) do we witness such good trends in unhealthy life styles
etc.? Maybe the latter statements are a bit bold?
Patrick Jeurissen