Originality:
This is a large prospective study investigating the assciations between reported consumption of spicy
foods and cause-specific mortality in Chinese adults. Previous work in this area has been largely
experimental laboratory studies in animal models or cell lines, investigating various effects of capsaicin.
Small case-control studies of spicy foods and gastric cancer have also been carried out, but there is a
lack of prospective data from large cohorts. This is the first large prospective study with long follow-up to
publish on the association between reported spicy food consumption and cause-specific mortality.
Importance:
Previously, the only evidence on which to make a judgement about the likely health effects of spicy food
consumption came from mechanistic studies and small case-control studies.
Scientific reliability:
The research question is clear, the study is large, and well-designed. The participants are adequately
described. The assessment of spicy food consumption is described in the methods section. It might be
helpful to include the actual questions in supplementary material, so that we can see the exact
layout/format, particularly because spicy food consumption has not been routinely asked about in other
large cohorts. It was also not obvious in the abstract how spicy food consumption was assessed - if the
results were described as "men who reported eating spicy food consumption.." etc than it would be clear
that it was self-reported. The manuscript complies with the STROBE-statement. The main outcome
measures are clear. The study was given ethical approval, I have no ethical issues with the manuscript.
The results answer the research question.
I think there needs to be a careful re-think about which material should be shown in the main results,
and which can be shown in the supplementary tables. In the main results, Table 2 shows the associations
(age-adjusted and multivariate-adjusted) with cause-specific mortality in men, Table 3 shows the
associations in women. Supplementary Table 1 shows the results (age-adjusted, model 2, model 3,
model 4) for the whole cohort, but also for men and women. There is a fair bit of duplication here, as
supplementary Table 1 includes the age-adjusted, and multivariate results (model 3) for men and women
separately - these are already shown in the main results section in Tables 2 and 3. It might make more
sense to have three tables, one for men, one for women, and one for the whole cohort. All 4 models
could be included in each table. Also, I think the authors need to think about whether
they want to show the results for the whole cohort in the main results, because in the abstract the
authors state that inverse associations were observed for deaths due to cancer and ischaemic heart
disease. Significant inverse associations were not seen in men, however this statement is true for the
results of the whole cohort combined, but currently you have to go to the supplementary tables to see
this.
The references cited are relevant. The conclusion section of the manuscript, and the 'what this paper
adds' box reflects the results of the study.
Other comments:
Page 4, Introduction. In general, it is not clear in the introduction that the previous studies the authors
refer to a largely experimental studies. It seems as if it is already well-established that spices are
beneficial for human health, and that this is based on solid evidence. It is not clear until the end that
there is no data from prospective cohorts.

Page 5, Assessment of spicy food consumption. The authors report the reproducibility of spicy food
consumption on a sub-sample. This is important, particularly as the question is not typically asked in
cohort studies. The reproducibility was high, however the authors state that the Spearman's coefficient
was 0.71, indicating that spicy food consumption was reported accurately and consistently. I agree it was
reported consistently, but isn't it possible that is was reported inaccurately (but consistenly) at both time
points? I think this reproducibility study only gives a measure of agreement at different time points, but
you would need some other more objective measure of assesing spicy food consumption to know
whether the participants were accurately reporting their consumption of spicy food.
Page 15, Subgroup analyses. The authors state the associations with death due to cancer, IHD and
diabetes were stronger in those that consumed fresh chilli than in those that did not. What is the basis of
the judgement that the associations were stronger? Was this statistically tested?
Page 16, Discussion. Similarly to the introduction, when the authors talk about the 'anti-obeisty,
antioxidant, anti-hypertensive, anticancer, and anti-inflammatory' properties of chilli it seems as if there
is strong evidence of the proposed beneficial effects of spicy foods, whereas the previous studies that
support the beneficial roles of spices have largely been laboratory based.
Page 17, Discussion. Is there any evidence that excessive alcohol consumption increases energy intake?
I'm not sure that this would neccessarily be true, as those that chronically consume high amounts of
alcohol may reduce food consumption. In addition, could another explanation for the observed stronger
inverse association between spicy food consumption and mortailty in non-drinkers compared with
drinkers be because those that don't drink alcohol may be sick/unwell? They may not drink alcohol, and
may also not consume spicy foods, because of their undiagnosed illness, but also be more likely to die.
Did the authors consider this possibility?
Kathryn Bradbury
