The objective of this study is quite interesting and reasonably novel, although One of the
main limitations of this study is the small sample size which impacts on the reliability of
the findings. There were only 335 deaths in this analysis making the robustness of any
associations found questionable.
Abstract
In the objective it might be best to say "to evaluate the association between
ultra-processed foods and risk of mortality"
Could you please add in the mean number of servings of ultra-processed foods in the
cohort?
Introduction
There does not seem to be a clear rationale for conducting this analysis. While the
association between ultra-processed foods and risk of mortality may not have been
published before, there are many foods within the ultra-processed food category (e.g.
sugar sweetened beverages, processed meats) that have been examined in relation to
mortality and these have been published in recent systematic reviews. Perhaps the authors
could mention the findings from some of these studies in the introduction.
It would be good to provide more references to back-up some of the statements made in
the introduction.
Methods
The relative validity of the FFQ may have been tested and published before. However, it
would be useful to report in this paper what the relative validity of the intake of
ultra-processed foods from the FFQ is compared to intake from diet diaries?
Participants were followed up every two years but did they complete a FFQ every two
years? If so, then how was this additional dietary information incorporated into the
analyses? If diet was only assessed at one point in time then this should be mentioned and
discussed as a limitation.
For what proportion of the deaths was the cause known?
Results
Table 1 states that the cutpoint for the lowest quartile is less than two servings per day but
the mean intake for this category is 2.2. Is this because the quartile cut-points were
adjusted for energy?
In terms of the sensitivity analysis, it is important to examine whether there are
differences in the association of ultra-processed foods and risk of mortality between
various subgroups; however, the association has usually only been examined in one
subgroup. For instance, you want to examine whether the association differs between men
and women and so it would be useful to have a test for heterogeneity for sex. In terms of
the other sensitivity analyses it would be good to also see the association among
participants with hypertension at recruitment and so on.

In terms of the deaths occurring during the first two years of follow-up, usually this is done
excluding the first two years of follow-up not just the deaths occurring during the first two
years of follow-up. It might also be good to choose a slightly longer period of follow-up to
exclude as there were only 52 deaths that occurred during the first two years. Also you
may choose to examine the association between ultra-processed foods and risk of mortality
in the first three years of follow-up and see whether it differs from that for participants
with more than three years of follow-up.
It would also be useful to see subgroup analysis by smoking status (current smoker yes/no) and by BMI (less than vs. greater than or equalled to 25 kg/m2).
The figure showing the restricted cubic spline analysis is quite striking. What was the
maximum daily intake of ultra-processed foods in this cohort?
Some mention of residual confounding or confounding by unmeasured variables should be
mentioned as a limitation in the discussion.
While I appreciate that English is not the authors first language, there are many
grammatical errors in the manuscript and it could really do with another thorough going
through to improve the readability.
