Morten Lindbæk, professor in general practice, University of Oslo, Antibiotic centre for primary care.
This paper addresses an important question as reduction in antibiotic use for RTIs in primary care is one
of the major strategies for reduction in total antibiotic use on a national level. There is clear evidence
that this can contribute to reduction of antibiotic resistence. It is of great importance whether a reduction
in use can lead to more complications and more hospitalisations.
In general the study is well performed and the results give clear answers to most of the research
questions. The study is large with enough power to answer most of the research questions that are raised
in the study. Furthermore the cohort probably is representative of UK general practice.
I have some concerns that should be addressed before acceptance:
1. Can the reader be sure that all complications in the cohort have been registered? The authors state
that data are gathered from the electronic patient records. But I assume that a number of these
complications have been detected outside the practices, such as direct contact with the emergency
rooms, out of hours services or direct contact with the hospital. Are the authors sure that all these
contacts have been registered in the patient records? If so, are there any quality measurements that this
is fullfilled?
2. Why are not doctor factors included in the analysis, such as gender, age, years of practice, degree of
work load? Other studies like our own demonstrated that docor factors can be predictors for antibiotic
prescribing. We found that being a specialist and a busy doctor, were significant predictors (ref gjelstad x
2).
3. I miss a more comprehensive discussion on the choice of relevant complications? Why is not
necrotising fasciitis included in the complications? It is rare, but I assume still more frequent than
Lemierre’s syndrom. Furthermore meningitis as a result of otitis media, sinusitis, and orbital cellulitis as a
complication to sinusitis. Of course there may be a discussion about the relationship between an RTI and
a subsequent complication, but this will be the same as with cellulitis.

4. Is the cohort representative of UK general practice? Can the fact that these practices probably are
more academic run, lead to a different cohort of patients? What data are available to clarify this? What
about proportion of immigrants on the lists in addition to the deprivation scale?
5. Why did you have to draw a sample from each practice, what were the reasons from the ethical
committee. I assume that all data were anonymized or pseudonymized?
So to more specific questions from the editor:
* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the
published literature? Yes, it adds up to more comprehensive data on complications as compared to
previous papers
* Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to
clinicians, patients, teachers, or policymakers- Yes it is an important topic for all groups
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - yes, clearly answered.
Overall design of study - adequate - yes
Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions
defined? Yes, apart from my comment 1 – whether all complications are included, and why not doctor
factors are not included in the analysis
Methods - adequately described? Yes
Results - answer the research question? Yes, well presented.
Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently
derived from/focused on the data? Message clear? Yes, apart from my comments.
References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions? No, just that our study could be mentioned
as a reason for including GP factors
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - reflect
accurately what the paper says- Yes.
References:
Gjelstad S, Straand J, Dalen I et al. Do general practitioners’ consultation rates influence their prescribing
patterns of antibiotics for acute respiratory tract infections? J Antimicrob Chemother 2011; 66: 2425-33.
Gjelstad S, Høye S, Straand J et al. Improving antibiotic prescribing in acute respiratory tract infections:
cluster randomised trial from Norwegian general practice (prescription peer academic detailing (Rx-PAD)
study). BMJ: British Medical Journal 2013; 347.
