This paper presented the results of a systematic review of self-management interventions
for asthma and a comprehensive synthesis intending to allow for a better understanding of
the differential effectiveness of self-management models. The authors appear to have been
very successful in this undertaking and have extensively investigated the comparative
effectiveness of different models and potential factors that could explain heterogeneity. I
think it’s a really useful study that’s likely to be of substantial benefit. My
comments/queries are mainly around providing some more explanation around the set-up
of the review.
• The definition of self-management could potentially do with better articulation and
particularly outlining principles expected to be developed within self-management
interventions. Similarly the review includes adult and child interventions and it would be
useful to report on whether/how the principles of self-management differ between these
groups
• On page 3, the authors state: ‘It is possible to describe three broad models of SMI (what
we described as ‘minimally-supported self-management’, ‘regularly supported
self-management’ and ‘multi-disciplinary case management’), each reflecting an increasing
degree of support by regular review from health professionals.’ – How do these distinctions
sit in the broader literature? The models appear to describe implementation models of
self-management interventions but assume that the principles/components of
self-management are consistent across these – again it would be useful to clarify this in
the definition of self-management.
• Did the cut off of 2000 align with any particular change in or development of guidance?
• The healthcare utilisation reflected different aspects including attendance at an
emergency clinic through to hospitalisation – it would be useful to describe this with a little
more detail – did this include any unplanned healthcare utilisation (e.g. a GP visit)? Also
this outcome appears to encompass different events which are often treated separately by
triallists and reviewers in understanding the impact of interventions – was the impact of
this decision assessed? Where multiple effect sizes were available for different aspects of
healthcare utilisation from a single comparison in a study, what was the rationale for
selecting/calculating an effect size for that comparison?
• For both primary outcomes it might be useful to get a sense of when the data were
collected after the intervention.
• It wasn’t really clear what happened to the data for the secondary outcome and what was
expected to be done with these data in terms of synthesis. A short sentence early on may
help with this.
• The authors excluded studies that didn’t report on the primary outcomes - did this also
include where the primary data were collected/reported but not in a format that was
extractable?
• It would have been interesting to understand the impact of the covariates more, although
this may not be possible because of word count.
