Study by J Merino and colleagues:
1-In the introduction, the authors may cite previous papers published on the same
topic (e.g. Qi et al., AJCN 2009; Langenberg et al., PLOS Med 2014).
2-The authors report mean HRs > 1 for protective T2D factors and 95% CI < 1 (e.g.
HR of 1.08 (0.85 to 1)). This is very confusing. Please report HRs < 1 for T2D
protective factors.
3-Several leaders of opinion consider that the assessment of dietary intake via FFQs
is so poor that it is unacceptable for scientific research (Dhurandhar et al., IJO
2015). The authors mentioned that they used repeated FFFQ assessments when
possible to increase the reliability of FFQ. However, one may wonder if the lack of
interaction between the T2D gene score and diet on incident T2D risk is due to the
low quality of energy intake measurement. This must be clearly acknowledged in the

limitation section, and using more objective measurements of energy intake may be
considered as an interesting perspective.
4-The authors used P=0.05 as a significance threshold, but they tested the
association of 6 fat groups with incident T2D. Two claims of associations (MUFA and
omega-3 PUFA and incident T2D risk) do not pass the Bonferroni corrected P-value
threshold (Padjusted = 0.0083 (0.05/6)) and are likely to represent false positive
results. Please update the paper accordingly.
5-The authors did not study the association of total energy intake, % energy from
protein, % energy from carbohydrates, and % of energy from fat with incident risk
of T2D, and their interactions with the T2D gene score. I think these additional
analyses may also be very relevant.
6-The lack of interaction between the gene score and diet on incident T2D risk does
not preclude that individual SNP may display significant interactions (see Sonestedt
et al., JCEM 2012). The authors may add a supplementary table that summarizes
the interaction tests between individual SNP and dietary parameters on incident T2D
risk. They can present these data as post-hop exploratory analyses.
7-The authors focused the analyses on common SNPs but did not investigate the
interaction of recently discovered rare/low frequency oligogenic variants in PPARG,
SLC30A8, MTNR1B, G6PC2, CCND2 with dietary parameters on incident T2D risk.
This limitation must be clearly acknowledged in the discussion.
8-It is not clear if the authors compared incident T2D cases to 1) all other
non-diabetic participants at baseline and follow-up (NGT at baseline and follow-up,
NGT to IFG/IGT converters, IFG/IGT at baseline and follow-up), or to 2) NGT
participants at baseline and follow-up (super-control). More details may be added on
the definitions of cases and controls.
9-The authors built a weighted T2D gene score. The weights are based on
associations of SNPs (mostly) with prevalent T2D, but their associations with
incident T2D may provide different weights (Walford et al., Diabetologia 2012) and
as a result a bias may be introduced. Unweighted and weighted genotype scores for
complex traits usually have a comparable performance (Janssens et al., Genet Med
2007; Dudbridge PLOS Genet 2013). This is especially true if the differences in
genetic effects of SNPs are minor, which applies here (to the exception of TCF7L2).
The authors may briefly discuss these considerations in the limitation section.
10-I would remove the limitation statement on the absence of replication in this
study. The meta-analysis is well-powered and the results (after Bonferroni
correction) are mostly negative, so a replication is not needed.
