This is a novel and important paper that is in my opinion highly suitable for publication in the BMJ. The idea of
studying the link between competing screening tests and subsequent interval cancer rates is not original but few
groups have actually been able to execute such a study. This nationwide study from the Netherlands is perhaps unique
and highly informative.
I was however rather disappointed with the data analysis as I will explain below.
Firstly I think it is important to distinguish between what I might call incident interval cancers (i.e. ones that are
diagnosed before the next screen) and screen-detected interval cancers. There is some breakdown along these lines
but no discussion of the fact that for the screen-detected interval cancers one really needs to consider both the first
(negative) test and the second (positive) test. Theoretically the largest number of screen-detected interval cancers will
arise when the first screening test had poor sensitivity and the second very sensitive. I assume that most the screendetected interval cancers after a negative conventional smear were detected by LBC and that most of those after a
negative LBC were detected by the same type of LBC, but it would be good to provide some data along these lines.
My second concern is rather more important. It relates to over-dispersion or the problem that results in different
laboratories may vary more than by chance. The choice of screening test is made at the laboratory level not at the
individual level. Hence one should treat the laboratories as the separate units of analysis not the individual women.
This will affect the width of the confidence intervals and the question as to whether the difference reported are
statistically significant.
A related issue is whether one could improve on the analysis by using each laboratory as its own control. One could
think of the data as "matched pairs". I will assume that all laboratories used convention cytology in the first period and
that some continued to use conventional cytology, some switched to SurePath and some witched to ThinPrep (but the
same idea can be used to analyse the data even if the situation is more complex). The idea then would be to look at
the change in interval cancer rates from the first to the second period by the test used in the second period.
The bottom line is that I would expect these data to be analysed using a mixed effects generalised linear model that
takes into account both the clustering within laboratory and the time component of the results.
I very much hope that the authors are able to address these analysis issues and look forward to seeing the publication
of their revised manuscript.