This article provides an important and very valuable addition to the literature on pharmaceutical
industry funding of patient groups, as it is the first study to examine company reports of patient group
funding since the ABPI introduced this reporting requirement. The descriptive analysis of the extend
and distribution of funding is comprehensive and clear.
I had some questions in reading the draft on whether this would be best classified as a research or
analysis article, but this is a decision for the editor, and as it has come this far as an analysis article,
I think it makes sense to maintain this framing.
I found the box on the top 10 industry payments interesting, as it provided a sense of the types of
payments and also, in the case of the Abbvie example, serious deficiencies in information provision. It
would be helpful to include one or two examples of payments to groups representing a condition for
which the company has a recently launched high profile drug, (data permitting). This type of example
would help to highlight the links between company funding of patient groups and marketing priorities,
and help to support the 'analysis' framing of the presentation of results.
Some minor suggestions for changes:
Methods/ building a payment database:
- It wasn't clear what the set of companies was that you contacted - all ABPI member companies (if
so, which membership year?); also another list of companies? [as 15 of those included are non-ABPI
companies]
- the sentence beginning 'Considering the exclusions,..." on page 5 is unclear. It is hard to follow the
sequence and rationale for exclusion decisions.
- a flowchart would be very helpful
In the following paragraph, it is not 100% clear what inclusion/exclusion criteria were applied,
resulting in the exclusion of 585 payments to 385 organisations. Was there duplicate independent
screening for inclusion/exclusion?
- similarly, was duplicate coding used for the 444 patient organisations were classified using ICD-10?
and a brief note on why the remaining patient organisations were not coded would be helpful.
Results and discussion
- Box 1: the word 'payment' is missing from the header

- space permitting, a comment on the inconsistency of information for Abbvie (244,907 pounds of
non-financial support?) would be helpful and perhaps a note about how widespread such discrepancies
were or were not in the database.
- on page 8, lines 31-35, it is unclear whether there is an overlap in the funding provided to
organisations with members and with supporters or volunteers. It seems likely that many of the same
organisations had both.
- lines 37-43: it seems likely that multipurpose organisations were also larger in general than those
with a narrow focus. Was this the case? I realize this may be a circular argument as perhaps the
organisation attracting extensive industry funding also grows larger as a result.
-page 9, lines 7-11: It was hard to follow the logic in this paragraph on concentration of funding to
specific recipients. How was the average share of 65.6% of funding calculated per condition? Was this
at a specific ICD-10 coding level for condition? And I found it hard to understand the logic of excluding
16 condition areas with fewer than 10 patient organisations. My view is that this sentence should be
deleted, especially given that the set of patient organisations available for analysis is only those with
industry funding, not all UK patient organisations per condition.
Table 2: column headers
Condition areas based on ICD-10 (2016) chapters
- are these usually referred to as chapters?
Payments received by the top recipient as % of total value
- isn't this '% of total payment per condition' rather than '% of total value'
Page 11, lines 8-13
- I found the sentence beginning with "An even greater value of payments..." unclear as each of these
components equal less than the 24.6% on research. Perhaps if a total funding percent for all
awareness raising/ advocacy activities was stated first, then the subcategories, this would be clearer.
Table 3: the 'goal of funding unclear' is likely to be a hodge-podge. Is this truly one of the top 10
payment categories? If it is not a coherent whole, but rather a range of types of payments that did
not fit into your classification scheme, I would delete from the top 10 list and add a note to state the
amount of funding for which the goal was unclear (or put in text). Or if you prefer to keep it in the
table, please add an explanatory footnote with the most frequent types of listings in this category.
page 13: The first paragraph on the inadequacy of company-specific scattered reporting, is very
important. A key issue is that it is not possible for a member of the public to or perhaps a patient with
a specific condition to know from these transparency reports how much industry funding a specific
organisation obtains and from which companies.
On line 24, a word was missing in the sentence beginning 'The two-and-a-half (two and a a half fold?)
A point is made on line 27 that the increasing number of payments indicates the growing intensity of
these relationships. The implication is that this effect exists independently of the amount of funds
received per payment. Our experience with the industry payment reports in Australia is that
companies differ in how these are reported. Some combine many different activities into a single
payment 'event'; others tend to list these all separately. This is likely indication of growing intensity
but it's a very rough measure.
In summary, this is a very interesting paper, adding substantively to the literature on industry funding
of patient groups and on the recent initiative by the industry to introduce reporting of payments to
patient groups within self-regulatory frameworks for transparency reporting.