1.
The findings are interesting and could represent an important contribution to the literature in
this area.
2.
This is a nice use of high-quality population-based administrative data with complete
ascertainment of hospitalizations and deaths that avoids the biases associated with selective case
selection and incomplete outcome ascertainment.
3.
Stroke hospitalizations (with length of stay more than one day) were used as a proxy for stroke
events. It is not unusual for people with non-disabling stroke to have a short length of stay or not be
admitted all, and changes in admission thresholds for non-disabling stroke over time could explain some
of the observed changes in event rates and case fatality rates. Suggest addressing this more fully in the
limitations section.
4.
The observed 30-day stroke case fatality rates of over 40% in 2001 and over 26% in 2010 are
much higher than reported in other studies (typically ~20%). This suggests that more severe strokes
are over-represented in this study. Can the authors comment on why the case fatality rates were so
high, and how this might affect the interpretation and generalizability of their findings?
5.
The discussion around the decline in stroke case fatality rates could be placed more clearly in
the context of what is known about predictors of survival after stroke, e.g. stroke severity, intensive vs
palliative approaches to care, etc. The authors suggest that use of thrombolysis might account for some
of the decline in stroke case fatality, however, this seems unlikely as thrombolysis is not expected to
have any short-term mortality benefits. Stroke severity is the strongest predictor of case fatality.
Although this study does not have information on stroke severity or on stroke type (with greater severity
and case fatality with hemorrhagic than ischemic stroke), it is conceivable that there have been declines
in stroke severity over time, for example, through improved anticoagulation of atrial fibrillation.
6.
The statement in the concluding paragraph that “hospitals were instrumental in reducing the
rates of stroke mortality through improvements in survival” is speculative, as it is not clear that
hospital-based interventions accounted for the declines in stroke case fatality.
7.
Minor comment: ICD-10 code I62 represents subdural hematoma and is not usually included in
studies of stroke.
