Statistical Review
Risk of hypoglycaemia related to the addition of DPP-4 inhibitors to sulphonylureas: systematic review and metaanalysis
The authors have taken on board comments about the computations of numbers needed to treat in their revised
manuscript. I still have the following issues.
1) I previously pointed out that computation of an NNT requires stating an expected event rate, and as more events
accumulate the longer a group is followed, any computation of the NNT needs to be conditioned on a stated period of
follow-up. In their response, the authors agree with this, and identified estimates of expected event rates for different
durations. However, most of their NNT computations, including those in the abstract are for studies with mixed and
unstated follow-up, which continues their original error. Whilst it is always possible to put together a set of studies with
mixed follow-up to compute an expected event rate, the answer you obtain cannot be applied. I would request that any
NNT that is stated in the paper is specific to a stated follow-up period.
2) The authors have chosen to compute an expected event rate used for computation of NNTs using data from a
different meta-analysis, and not the data in their meta-analysis. I am not convinced of why they needed to do this – and
it is notable that the expected event rates in the chosen MA are around twice as high as in their data, leading to the
NNTs being twice as strong (e.g. the NNT is 10 rather than an NNT of 20). Given that this computation is now post hoc,
a very strong justification needs to be made as to why the studies in their meta-analysis are not suitable for making this
computations, whereas the ones included in someone else’s meta-analysis are preferable.
3) The statistical reporting in the abstract needs improvement, particularly the methods and results.
4) Page 9 (all page numbers refer to track changed word file) states “The study was performed in accordance with
PRISMA”. PRISMA is a reporting standard not a performance standard, so it could be reported in accordance with
PRISMA.
5) Page 9 – please check whether the abbreviation PBO is defined – I do not think it is now defined in the text.
6) Statistical methods – page 10 states that the subgroups were compared with Cochrane Q test and I2 index. First it is
Cochran, not Cochrane. Second the Cochran Q test measures the heterogeneity in a group, not a difference between
groups. Please refer to the Cochrane Handbook for the correct way to describe this test.
7) How did you judge that patient characteristics were imbalanced across groups? This is not included in the quality
assessment, and is usually a very subjective judgement.
8) In reporting the quality assessment, the only detail that is given is that three studies were judged to have a high risk
of reporting bias and one a high risk of detection bias. Could you please explain why you came to these judgements?
What was it about these studies which supports these judgements?
9) IN the discussion page 15 that the risk of bias assessment indicated that study quality was high which was confirmed

by the GRADE assessment. As GRADE is based (in part) on the quality assessment, it is rather a nonsense to imply that
GRADE confirms the quality assessment was correct? Clearer expression is needed. There are other points in the
discussion which need more careful wording – for example where the results of sensitivity analyses are interpreted as
saying there was no significant change – no assessment of the significance of differences is undertaken in a sensitivity
analysis.
