The Review is comprehensive in comparing regional and national burden of neck pain.
Globally, significant and increasing numbers, although important, may be more difficult for
patients and the public to find relevance in. Patients and carers may find country-specific
levels of burden of interest, particularly if prevalence is high and/or burden is increasing.
The authors suggest the burden of neck pain to be "remarkable" and state this has not
been previously reported in other studies (page 20 lines 21-24) and this may be of
particular import to patients, support groups and health care professionals. Changes over
time, however, appear somewhat limited due to different methods and the inclusion of
other data sets for 2017, compared with previous Reviews.
The challenge for patients in reporting the severity of neck pain and the burden to them
and their carers is in having a simple description and understanding, shared with health
care professionals. The Table S1 page 42 is very helpful and patients can easily relate to
this if asked to self-score.
In terms of prevention strategies, the findings from this study suggest that the highest
population incidence of burden is for females aged between 45-49 and that prevalence
peaks at 50-54 for females, whereas for males both factors are highest between the ages
of 45-49. This may be of significance in determining optimum life-stages at which to target
population at-risk groups for raising awareness, as authors provide compelling evidence of
the need to increase "awareness regarding neck pain" (page 20 lines 37-39) prevention.
There has been no patient or public involvement in this Review. I should have liked to have
seen lay involvement in decision-making early in the planning of this Review as the
implications for patients and carers lie not only in the quality of life for those experiencing
neck pain but also impact the years living with disability caused by neck pain. The influence
of the Discussion could also have been improved if ongoing involvement had allowed for
meaningful insights from patients and the public to have been included.