Review: Benzodiazepine use and risk of incident dementia or cognitive decline

This study focuses on the relationship between benzodiazepine use and the risk of dementia and benefits
from well-documented data for both dementia diagnosis and benzodiazepine exposure as well as from
quite a long follow-up. While the topic is not novel since several studies on this subject have already
been published, the study provides interesting findings and opens up new perspectives about the nature
of the relationship found by previous studies. The manuscript is quite well designed but should be altered
and clarified since some parts of the design could be confusing. Moreover, some methodological choices,
particularly those concerning the definition and measurement of exposure, require more precise
explanations and/or supplementary analyses, since they may have led to underestimating the
association. For example, the possibility of a depletion of susceptible bias should be discussed as well as
the fact that the long-term user group, as defined by the authors, could have included a significant
number of short-term users (see below). These points are crucial since the study concludes that there is
no association between benzodiazepines and dementia in chronic users (the 30% increase in risk being
explained by short-term users only), and therefore challenges the conclusions of the studies conducted
so far on the same topic. Since the potential impact on public health is major, the appropriateness of the
message delivered to prescribers is crucial. Indeed, some conclusions drawn from the study could go
against current international recommendations. For example, one could conclude that no excess risk is to
be feared with long-term treatments while short-term use is associated with a 30% increased risk.
Finally, the authors conclude that their results “may alleviate concerns raised by prior studies”, a claim
that should be mitigated given the level of proof of the results of what is an observational study, and the
high public health relevance of the topic.
MAIN COMMENTS
1. The study design should be clarified or more precisely explained. I assume the authors considered
cumulative benzodiazepine exposure in the 1-to-10-year period prior to enrolment in the ATC cohort.
However, several sentences in the manuscript are confusing and could suggest that the observation

period for ascertaining exposure started ten years before the event (and not before enrolment in the ATC
cohort; see abstract and Figure 2) or lasted after enrolment in the ATC cohort (see. the legend of Table
3). For example:
- Abstract (page 2, lines 34-39) “Benzodiazepine exposure was defined as the total standardized daily
doses dispensing in a rolling exposure window covering the prior 10 years…” It is unclear what “the prior
10 years” refers to: (1) the date of dementia (more evocative of a retrospective design) or (2) the date
of enrolment in the cohort (more appropriate for a prospective design).
- In order to avoid this ambiguity, Figure 2 could provide the mean and maximum follow-up time after
the observation period (during which the presence of dementia is investigated).
- Page 7, line 20 to 23: “... we summed the SDD for all benzodiazepine pharmacy fills during the
exposure period (described below)”. Again, in this part (“below”), the starting point for measuring
exposure (ten year before dementia or enrolment in the cohort) is unclear.
Even if I am not fully grasping what the authors really did, the methodological choices should be justified
more precisely.
2. Appropriateness of assessment period and definition of exposure. The 10-year event-free period used
by the authors for measuring exposure before the index date (i.e. date of enrolment in the cohort, or the
date of dementia) could be too conservative. Indeed, prevalent users, mostly those exposed at the
beginning of the observation period (i.e. 5 to 10 years before the enrolment in the cohort), may have
developed dementia before enrolment in the ACT cohort. This could result in a depletion of susceptible
bias when estimating the association between benzodiazepines and dementia. The “prevalent user
design” makes this bias more likely since it is likely that a significant proportion of users started their
treatment before this observation period. It would make more sence to shorten the observation period (5
years before enrolment could be satisfactory) and to introduce a “new initiator design”. This would partly
reduce the likelihood of this bias. Moreover, doing so would probably reduce both the proportion of
persons excluded for having fewer than 10 years before enrolment in the ACT cohort (N=674/4724) and
the risk of selection bias.
3. Definition of chronic users does not seem optimal. The cut-off chosen to define exposure might not
make it possible to highlight exposure profiles actually at risk of developing dementia. Indeed, the cut-off
chosen by the authors to define chronic use (i.e. >120 TSDD cumulative use during the 10-year
observation period) is likely to have mixed chronic users (supposed to be at risk) and sporadic users (not
supposed to be at risk). This cut-off was adequately chosen by Olfson et al.1 in their recent study to
define chronic use within a one-year observation period. However, keeping the same threshold for a 10year period is questionable since >120 TSDD may also correspond to occasional uses.
4. Time measurement of confounders may be questionable. The period for measuring putative
confounders should be more clearly mentioned in the text (this information seems only provided for age).
Since exposure measurement started 10 years before study entry, measuring confounders at this date or
one year before does not seem appropriate. The measurement should be made earlier, ideally at the
start of exposure.
5. Points related to the discussion section:
- Comments about the representativeness of the ACT cohort are lacking.
- The long-term group as defined by the authors could include heterogeneous exposure patterns, so the
ACT cohort might not make it possible to assess the risk of dementia in actual chronic users of
benzodiazepines. This putative limitation should be mentioned in the discussion section since it could
partly explain the absence of association found in the long-term group.
- Page 13 line 53-56: “This may alleviate concerns raised by prior studies for those people who have a
long history of benzodiazepine use”. As mentioned above, this sentence should be altered since the
design was apparently not optimal for assessing the association in chronic users of benzodiazepines.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
1. Abstract (Page 2, line 30). The sentence “The association between 10-year cumulative benzodiazepine
exposure” introduces a confusion about the duration of benzodiazepine use in the exposed group and
should be altered.
2. Introduction (Page 4, line 9-10). The authors should mention that the 9-12% benzodiazepine
prevalence refers to the US community-dwelling elderly population. Indeed, the prevalence could be
much higher in other developed countries.
3. Introduction (Page 5, line 6-11). The wording of the objective is somewhat confusing. One could
deduce that the authors assessed the effect of benzodiazepine use over the 10 subsequent years. In fact,
10 years was the period used for observing exposure, which is quite different.
4. Methods. The ACT cohort focuses on dementia and relies on a robust diagnosis for dementia cases,
which could be more emphasized in the text. For example, the authors should mention who actually
made the diagnosis (a GP, a clinician, a neuropsychiatrist, etc.) and provide the criteria used.

1. Olfson M, King M, Schoenbaum M. Benzodiazepine use in the United States. JAMA Psychiatry
2015;72(2):136-42.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Sophie Billioti de Gage
Job Title: PharmD, PhD
Institution: University of Bordeaux, France
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here:
Reviewer: 4
Recommendation:
