Overall Comments
This is a very good contribution to our knowledge about the risk of injuries associated with
commuting by bicycle/push bike. The analysis is great and the data support the overall
general hypothesis that the general public often articulates as a reason for not bicycling.
The study has many strengths including the large number of participants and national
database. The weakness of the study is that its specificity in the analytics is not matched in
the specificity of the conceptualization in the stated aims and stated hypotheses. As a
result, it is difficult to follow the various outcomes and the various independent variables.
This occurs in the discussion where ideas are mixed together and often paragraphs seem
redundant. The paper could use a good re-organization clarifying the hypotheses and the
limitations of the study including exposure misclassification.
Specific Comments
Abstract: The statement “Longer cycling commuting distances were associated with higher
injury risk than shorter distances.” Is not that surprising as the exposure to cycling is higher
in the longer commutes – that is if injury per kilometer cycled, longer distances would have
a higher prevalence of injury compared to the shorter distances. Most transportation related
injury and fatality rates are per distance traveled (airline travel, automobile, etc…). As such
this sentence begs the question if the rate of injury per km cycled is different between the
longer and shorter commutes. In the paper, there is a description of a dose-response
relationship, which is expected based on almost every other type of transportation accident
rate metric. Perhaps use the dose-response language here in the abstract – it will help
clarify that the data collected, it was difficult to get specific distance traveled. Please clarify.
Abstract: The conclusions state the risk of injury is small compared to the benefit; however,
the results in the abstract do not compare these two directly or it is at least difficult to
compare them objectively. As of yet it has not been determined if the risk of fatal injury
while cycling has been included. Suggest softening the langue or providing a better
objective comparison here in the abstract.
Abstract: Please provide Road-traffic caused injury HR for group that walks to work too.
Page 5 line 7: The data related to the secondary outcomes of cycle injuries and other injuries
is unclear. It is unclear how these data are linked to the base line data and the type of
commute data collection data.

While clear objectives are stated, it would be helpful for the reader to have clear statements
of the specific hypotheses tested in the statistical analyses. There are several different types
of outcomes the results that require different types of analysis; it’s a bit difficult to follow the
logic of these analyses, especially related to the secondary outcomes/analysis.
Page 10 Line 50 – another limitation is that the one case definition includes any type of
injury regardless of cause – so it may or many not be bike related. It is probably safe to
presume this is okay as the second case definition is related to transportation – both get
similar results giving some validity to the method of using any injury. This should be a bit
more explicitly stated in the discussion.
Furthermore, the non-active group actually combines a high injury risk group (those who
commute via car) and a low risk group (those that travel by public transport only). (e.g.
https://usa.streetsblog.org/2014/12/19/heres-how-much-safer-transit-is-compared-to-drivin
g/ and those who utilize PT often are healthier – from the same cohort study
https://www.thelancet.com/pdfs/journals/landia/PIIS2213-8587(16)00053-X.pdf) For both
outcomes, this grouping will most likely bias the results to the null as the auto has higher
risk of injury/accidents than public transportation. Since the study is trying to look at the
risk associated with biking to in a way validated the public’s concern that biking is dangerous
the risk could be a bit more difficult A sensitivity analysis of this definition would be useful
to better understand this potential exposure misclassification or again have explicit
discussion of this issue in the discussion.
Figure 1: Also, the walking longer distances does have a similar HR compared to biking the
same distances; however, the variability is so high that it is not significant – it would be
useful to get an idea of how many people walked more than 5 miles or longer. In addition
the text is a bit deceiving in that it says that there were no associations – granted but that
may be more a power issue here.
The discussion should be reorganized and rewritten to improve its readability. Currently
each paragraph has multiple ideas. As a result it is difficult to decipher the authors’
thoughts and what they recognized as strengths and weaknesses as well as the
interpretation of the results. The paragraph is the fundamental unit of writing. Each
paragraph should have a single idea. For example, As written the increased risk of injury
associated with biking spans numerous paragraphs. Instead there should be a single
paragraph that addresses a popular reason folks do not bike. In addition, the results should
be interpreted within the light of a single person deciding to bike or not. In addition,
specific limitations brought up above should be grouped into a couple paragraphs.
Furthermore, the discussion about improving infrastructure is great, but again it spans
several paragraphs – should be brought into a single paragraph and include an additional
reference by Lusk et al 2011. https://injuryprevention.bmj.com/content/17/2/131
With that said, the discussion about the infrastructure should related back to the results. For
example, what would the expected benefit be based on these data. It is unclear too how
many commuters do use bike infrastructure in their commutes. How what that affect the
results?
What this study adds: It would help the reader if these points help describe what a 47%
increase risk means for an individual bicyclists – that is if my current risk of injury is x per
1000 years by riding a bike it is now 1.47x per 1000 years. It gives the readers the cyclist a
better understanding of what this increase risk means.
