Scott et al. Cautionary tales in using genetic tests to predict risk of disease
I think there is much scope for a paper like this in a journal like the BMJ: The discourse around genetics
and genomics is largely a positive one and often adopts overly deterministic tones: we are promised that
Genomics will transform health care, discover new drugs, deliver personalised medicines etc etc, and

there is not much coverage of anything other than this very positive message. Those that try are often
dismissed as being “too cautious” or "old school". For that reason I would really like to see a paper like
this published in the BMJ, general practitioners and other health professionals need to know that direct
to consumer tests and polygenic risks scores do not necessarily live up to the hype surrounding them.
I thought this paper went a long way to addressing this angle, but might be improved by some attention
to detail in places. This would strengthen the overall message. I have listed rather detailed comments
below:
1. 3rd key message says there are 6 key questions that need to be answered to help define when
predictive genetic testing may benefit clinical decision making, but lists only five : 1. Validity, 2, clinical
utility, 3. Potential harms, 4. Cost effectiveness and 5 feasibility
2. 4th bullet point – please explain why the move from monogenic to polygenic ‘profiling’ a paradigm
shift? And is profiling the right word here? That conjures up use of DNA fingerprinting for me, not a
focussed look at a monogenic disorder because of a family history
3. Page 2 line 17: why might ancestry testing for individuals with a strong family history be appropriate?
Or why might ancestry testing be appropriate to determine disease risk at all?
4. Page 2: 2nd para – what do you mean by 75,000 available commercial tests? The sentence sounds
like you mean companies (not agencies?) but I presume you mean SNPs? In which case why only
75,000 there are many more than this, yet many fewer genetic conditions, so am unsure what this
figure means or where it comes from.
5. The end of that para suggests that SNPs from GWAS studies are fully characterised whilst variants
from exome or genome data not yet. This not true, and indeed you contradict yourselves in para 2 page
3. Not all SNPs have been fully characterised for different diseases and in particular their risk scores in
populations that are not mainly of norther European ancestry are often unknown. I agree with the
sentiment that WES and WGS adds to complexity of interpretation but the way it is written is confusing
6. You use the term predictive testing for healthy individuals in a general population. Although you
mention elsewhere that monogenic disorders are put aside, I think you need to repeat this, or exclude
monogenic predictive testing more explicitly. Predictive testing is not a term unique to polygenic testing
7. When is a genetic variant a reliable predictor of disease? This para starts by implying that a variant
needs to have a clinically meaningful effect in causing the disease. Few variants will do so in isolation
(aside from monogenic conditions) but in combination with many other factors may. It is also quite
possible to have a very good predictor of a disease without it having a ‘clinically meaningful genetic
effect in causing that disease’ cf old fashioned linkage
8. P3 para 4 Do you mean ‘modified’ here? Expressivity and penetrance usually used for monogenic
conditions, I don’t think they are useful concepts for SNPs or polygenic risk scores. Lifestyle factors etc
of course will also affect penetrance of monogenic disorders. I cant tell whether this section is also trying
to address this or whether it is limited to common variants
9. Page 4 Do Polygenic risks scores more accurately predict risk of disease? More accurately than what?
In the UK our secretary of state for health was very taken by PRS and thought them better than other
tests- he thought he had to alert his family of his increased risk of prostate cancer because they too
might have inherited his PRS, so there is much still to be learnt about PRS
10. Page 4 para 2- “In other instances… they provide no additional information” to what?
11. p 5 Line 2 What does this sentence mean?: “genetic testing is the only means for identifying high
risk individuals or its contribution to risk estimation substantially improves upon estimates calculated
using current clinical risk prediction rules”
12. Page 6 “does predictive genetic testing carry harms” starts with being informed of increased risk yet
is followed by result may be a false negative- this doesn’t make sense to me. I think this section could
focus more clearly on risks of false positives and false negatives. The latter is probably more widely
understood, though in the context of genetic testing being pitched as super accurate technology maybe
not, but the false positives will be less known. Recent data from UKBiobank shows that rare variants
(such as BRCA1 or 2 mutations) are called very badly by NP technology, and in fact 85-95% of these
results are wrong.
13. Later in that para there is some careless wording “knowing one has the APOE gene”- we all have
that gene, I think you mean the APOE4 variant. I’m not sure what “may simply cause impaired
psychosocial function” means here- a result of having the variant or of being told about it. Having just
one ApoE4 allele confers very minor increases in risk, especially if in combination with ApoE2, it is the
homozygous form that confers a ~60% lifetime risk, and arguably then falls into the monogenic
category. Disclosure of risks to employers may indeed cause inappropriate discrimination but that would

also be a breach of privacy and many countries have specific measure in place to ensure this does not
happen
14. P 7 para 2 “the preceding questions might serve” which preceding questions?
15. “Will next gen sequencing improve predictive testing?” this is unclear because sanger sequencing is
highly accurate in context of eg BRCA1/2 predictive testing (where familial mutation is known)- you
don’t need NGS to improve that. The 2nd sentence is also misleading a variant in <1% does not mean is
a VUS. A pathogenic variant rate of 3.5% is described as low, but in fact is likely to be artificially high.
Many ‘pathogenic mutations’ have a very different penetrance if detected in those without a family
history- because the familial factors elevating the penetrance are not present. This general point could
be made more clearly in this paper.
16. Box 2- On what basis is BRCA1/2 ‘near ideal’? Can “carriers” really be “obliged”? think better to pitch
this as a recommendation that would be made. The more usual term is risk reducing mastectomy rather
than prophylactic mastectomy, reflecting the fact that cancers can still arise. I’m not aware of any long
term data that demonstrate that life expectancy is improved by risk reducing surgery (estimates suggest
substantial benefit if done at 25 but much more modest benefits for later surgery. But these are
estimates)
17. In same box, as per earlier comment please be careful with language- it is not “the apoE4 gene” this
is an allele of the ApoE gene. The 30% increased risk is confusing when above in the box you talk about
absolute risks. ApoE4 risk is modified by which other is allele present so the recessive form is the really
high risk version. I’m not sure what “has attracted no reliable pre-test…” means
I hope these comments are helpful. I think the majority can be easily sorted by some careful editing so
that the message becomes clearer.

Anneke Lucassen