The authors are addressing a highly topical issue and their work has already attracted considerable
media attention. However, as much of the coverage was, inevitably, superficial, it will be very useful
to see the details in print in a peer-reviewed journal.
I’m not sure would agree that both parties in the TTIP negotiations sought to maintain secrecy. While
we would all like to see more information in the public domain, the EU side did do a great deal to
promote transparency. See, for example,
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/commissioners/2014-2019/malmstrom/blog/transparency-ttip_en
Indeed, in the current Brexit negotiations, the EU has continued to be as transparent as possible. It is
the United Kingdom that has tried to keep everything secret. However, I agree with the key point that
it is likely that the UK will seek to maintain maximum secrecy in any talks with the US. Unfortunately,
this is likely to include concealing essential information from Parliament.
Otherwise, the paper is a broadly accurate record of the objectives of the US pharmaceutical industry
in trade negotiations. This information has been in the public domain for some months now and some
of the issues have been discussed both in BMJ Opinion and a Lancet paper (Jarman et al. Lancet
2018;392:447-450). The description of the KORUS agreement is also accurate and, as the authors
note, should serve as a warning to the UK. The authors might also want to refer to the experience of
Australia, as outlined in a recent BMJ opinion piece.
The section on ISDS is also a reasonable representation, as far as it goes. However, it might be useful
to say something about how this mechanism differs very markedly from seeking redress under
European law, arbitrated by the Court of Justice of the European Union. In that case, the court is
required to rule on the basis of the treaties, including the provision to ensure a high level of human
health. This is missing in ISDS approaches. Indeed, this would seem to be one of the reasons why
supporters of Brexit are so keen to avoid the scrutiny of the court.
The section on intellectual property is also broadly accurate, although the authors might also mention
that the US is seeking additional protections at the beginning of a patent, where there are
administrative delays in issuing it. It is, however, not the case that once an agreement has been
signed it is in place forever. Most agreements have some form of excellent clause and, in the last few
years, we have seen how the US ended NAFTA.

I note that the authors have drawn back from their previous work where they attempted to estimate
the overall economic impact of a trade deal on pharmaceutical expenditure in the UK. There are just
too many variables to be taken into account. On balance, and while recognising that they will attract
criticism anyway, I think what they have done is reasonable in that it simply reports the differences in
prices without going much further than that.
Finally, there is at least an implicit assumption in the paper that some sort of a deal will actually
happen. This is where I would be particularly cautious. Obviously, none of us can know the future, but
it will be extremely difficult to achieve what the Prime Minister is seeking. After all, pharmaceuticals
will only be one element of any comprehensive trade deal and there are so many issues that would
have to be conceded to the US that it would be impossible to do any meaningful deal with the EU. I
don’t rule out the possibility that the current government might be so reckless that it would attempt
this, regardless of the damage to the British economy, but I suspect that it would be very difficult to
get it through the parliamentary process, even with a large majority.
Martin McKee
LSHTM
