I thank the editors and the authors for the opportunity to once again comment on the
submitted article on the equity of resource flows for RMNCH. I think the authors have
done a commendable job at trying to address all of the questions and concerns raised by
the editors and the reviewers. I continue to believe that the paper addresses an
important policy issue and is well written. However, I also continue to believe that the
paper is attempting to do too much and as a result the paper does not do one thing well
and thus does not make a very substantive contribution to the literature. It may fit better
as an opinion piece, as presented in the style of a research paper with a more limited
discussion of the data and methods, it lacks enough details to make any convincing
argument. My main concerns with this paper remain with regards to how the authors
define and interpret the meaning of equity in financing across countries, the limited
contribution of the case studies, and the evidence used to make their arguments. I
further elaborate on each below.
While I think the way in which the paper has been restructured and the much clearer
delineation between financing and funding has overall improved the paper, there remains
some major gaps in their definition and interpretation of equity. What is new and
potentially most novel about their paper is the idea that we can analyze the equity of

financing from a global perspective. However, as I don’t believe there is a real theory of
global equity in financing out there, their definitions need to be clearer and better
justified. The authors state that external resources are “equitable from a global
perspective as it redistributes resources from those better off to poorer populations”,
which I could believe as an argument. However, in order to make the kinds of conclusions
they draw (i.e. what is the level of overall financing at the global level and whether it is
increasing or not) one needs to be able to say which forms of financing are more equitable
than others or at least how one weights the various equity contributions of the various
forms of financing (i.e. are they equal?). For example, is it true that donor financing is
more equity enhancing than domestic revenues? The results and interpretation of the
Senegal case, for example, help to illustrate some of the challenges of interpreting the
relative fairness of the various forms of financing: government expenditures increased
from $28 to $48, a huge jump, whereas donor financing only fell by $9, a small decline.
At the same time, out-of-pocket spending also increased. The authors conclude that
overall financing is becoming less equitable, at statement which requires some
assumptions about the various contributions of each form of financing. Plus, as I have
argued before, the equity aspects of financing can only be made with some view of who is
actually paying for each financing source, data for which is lacking and thus I believe
needs to be addressed in their conceptualization of global equity. A more minor point on
financing, while the authors have distinguished between financing and funding, I find they
tend to still interchange the use of these terms throughout the paper that is not consistent
with the definition they used up front.
This type of logic also makes me wonder how one might want to integrate domestic
financing into the cross-country financing equity assessments. The authors argue that
countries of similar income and similar mortality continue to receive different amounts of
aid, and argue that this is horizontally inequitable. But what if a big part of the story is
how much domestic resources are currently being allocated to address these problems?
Can we therefore conclude that it is not equitable?
An important challenge I see with the case studies is that, due to a lack of data, they
present data on total health expenditures and total out-of-pocket health expenditure and
not RMNCH funding specifically, which is the focus of this paper. Therefore, I find it
problematic to use them as evidence about how the equity of RMNCH financing/funding is
changing over time. Also, in the appendix, data on reproductive health spending for
Nigeria is presented (which may or may not be the same as RMNCH funding?) and it does
not appear to becoming as inequitable as total health spending, which makes me wonder
how to interpret the actual equity related changes in that country. Similar data are not
presented in tabular form for the other countries.
The authors claim in their response to the reviewers that they “ use the three case study
countries to explore different factors that may increase reliance on out-of-pocket
financing, and illustrate the effects of this reliance on different population groups in
different contexts.” However, if I am not mistaken, the authors do not present data on
OOPs for the Syrian refugees, therefore I fail to see how this case study helps to illustrate
the point the authors are trying to make. The authors also state that “When (RMNCH
funding data) this was not the case we have used other data sources (such as DHS) to
highlight the inequities that may arise in RMNCH service use in settings that are highly
reliant on out-of-pocket financing.” I do not believe that a measurement of the equity of
service use is within the scope of this paper and thus is not relevant in this paper.
As a result, given the limitations they have in explaining why these cases were selected
and the sources of data, I still believe they do not contribute a lot to the paper and should
be dropped in favor of better development of the central ideas and main contributions of
this paper.

With regards to the revised tables and figures, I also had some comments. I did not
understand what the figure on page 21 was (figure 1?) exactly. The panels are all very
different and the title is not very descriptive. I also did not understand why these
countries were selected for inclusion in this figure and not others, as they are different
from those presented in the cases and do not appear to be representative of anything I
could ascertain. What are the sources of data for each of the section in this paper?
The figure on page 22 (figure 2?) is clearer and makes sense for inclusion in the paper.
The figure on page 23 (figure 3?) is also not well described, it says “are grouped
respectively by neonatal mortality rate, under-5 mortality rate and country income group
to illustrate within group horizontal inequity.” However, I don’t believe this to be the case.
Also, in this figure I see there are big clusters of countries in the same range and a few
outliers. Is this a sign that there is a high level of horizontal equity across countries or the
opposite conclusion? Is some variation not normal? How much is too much? The authors
also present the data over time, perhaps to make some statements about trends in
equity, but there is little or no discussion of these trends and thus I wonder why the data
are presented in this way.
The tables and figures selected for inclusion into the appendix appear haphazard. They
present detailed data on health spending for Nigeria, but not the other 2 countries.
Appendix Table 4 lacks enough information for to interpret it (what are the units?).
Appendix figure 1 discusses contraceptive measurement, which is not discussed anywhere
in the paper and thus is confusing. Appendix figure 3 discusses equity in access, which I
believe is beyond the scope of this paper.
More minor points:
On page 11, the authors further go on to argue that “need” should be defined to include
the poorest countries with the worst health outcomes, and those facing shocks, whether
financial – such as in Nigeria – or humanitarian – such as in Lebanon, yet this idea is not
presented upfront in their definition of equity of financing, nor operationalized in their
quantitative analysis.
The authors claim “Out-of-pocket contributions are considered the least equitable because
contributions are the same for all, regardless of ability to pay”. Many countries do base
out-of-pocket health spending based on ability to pay. In addition, out-of-pocket
spending is also a function of access and utilization, so we cannot just assume they are
not equitable. In fact, in many countries we see very strong pro-rich patterns of OOPs,
which might actually mean that they are relatively equity enhancing from a financing (but
not access to health services) perspective.