Blind spots in current vaccine pharmacovigilance methods revealed by the HPV
vaccine

" because as we know, there are known knowns; there are things we know we
know. We also know there are known unknowns; that is to say we know there are
some things we do not know. But there are also unknown unknowns – the ones we
don't know we don't know. … it is the latter category that tend to be the difficult
ones"
Donald Rumsfeld, Feb 12, 2002

This is an interesting read, and like all interesting papers, it evokes many thoughts
and comments:
The authors speak of blind spots as being unrecognized and disparate groups of
symptoms that can be described variously, with no clear homogeneity. These
symptoms are usually of themselves nondescript and would not raise any concern,
but their combination suggest a syndrome that is not easily recognized. It is the
repetition of similar cases (syndromic similarity) that causes an alert, which then
becomes obvious. The author seems to think that this is specific to vaccines, and
that these blind spots warrant changes in the way pharmacovigilance is thought of
for vaccines.
Vaccine vigilance is indeed a very special field: vaccines are administered to
generally healthy persons (like most preventive measures) and the benefit is
essentially invisible: it is impossible to know among women who received the HPV
vaccine and never developed cervix cancer, which are the ones who benefited and
would have otherwise developed the cancer had they not been vaccinated, and
which ones would never have had a cancer anyhow. Of course from the clinical trials
and epidemiology studies one knows how many there are who benefited, but not
exactly who, whereas the ones who did get the adverse reactions are immediately
identifiable, and often vocally so. This asymmetry of invisible benefits and visible
risk is what makes vaccine safety so crucial and so difficult. The same could be said
of all preventive medicines: a drug that prevents suicide but causes sudden death
will have major difficulties, even if the benefits vastly exceed the risks. Same thing if
the drug avoids repeat MI but causes muscle pain: those with the adverse reactions
are acutely aware of them, whereas the silent survivors don't even know they are.

The difficulty in attributing poorly defined symptoms to drug exposure is not specific
to vaccines: the major communication disaster of a new formulation of thyroxin in
France, which resulted in thousands of complaints (very many and very vocal but
only a minute proportion of all users), and the management of such issues is a
major headache for the medical profession and for the authorities (and
manufacturers), especially if there is no biomarker (or measurable indication) for the
complaints. Once their existence becomes public (especially if there are court cases
and possibly money involved), the risk is a deluge, a tsunami of unverifiable
complaints. In the case of vaccines, there are even more complex issues: causality
is very difficult to determine, since the vaccine once injected cannot be uninjected.
There can be no dechallenge, just a rechallenge, sometimes. In some cases, the
complaints occur years after the vaccine injection, making causality even more
difficult, such as chronic myalgia attributed to aluminum. In these cases, beyond the
existence of these very cases of major impairment, only proper
pharmacoepidemiology studies can confirm causality on a population basis.
Individual cases generally cannot be attributed, unless there is a biomarker, in the
proposed case autoantibodies to beta. The recurrence of the events upon successive
injections might also be a good indicator. The example given of GBS after tetanus
vaccine is somewhat spurious: it might be related to the vaccination, but GBS is
mostly, as far as I recall a reaction to an acute immunological stimulation, such as a
vaccine, or a bee sting: all vaccines can be associated with GBS, but GBS also
occurs spontaneously. In the same way vaccines are associated with demyelinating
disorders, in the short but not in the long term (see hepatitis B vaccine) It is but one
of many triggers for MS, and probably a person with MS triggered by vaccination in
a susceptible population (hepatitis or flu) would have has MS triggered by another
immunological challenge. In this the mechanism of action of vaccines is special
compared to most other drugs, and is associated of itself with a whole series of
diseases. The development of new immunotherapies may offer opportunities to
further refine the knowledge of such non-specific syndromes.
For HPV, like HepB, the difficulties also reside in the page of vaccination adolescence
and young adulthood is the age at which autoimmune diseases tend to appear: In
the newborn there is not much immunity (and not much myelin), which is why
vaccination of very young children is inherently safer. For HPV, the ony way to
dissociate what is really induced by vaccination and what is a naturally occurring
age-related phenomenon (or whether one triggered the other - after all, if POTS is
an autoimmune disease, it falls in the same general category as GBS or MS. This
may be an unexpected positive effect of the antivaxxers: intense vocalisation of
adverse events after vaccination may lead to the discovery of new unrelated
diseases. Was this syndrome previously called languor?

In any case, her premise that these things go undiscovered is obviously false: they
have been discovered, otherwise there would be no discussion. There is no thing as
a perfect crime, but only because perfect crimes are never identified. Might these be
the unknown unknowns Donald Rumsfeld spoke of?
Can the alert generation be faster? Can the unknown unknowns become known
knowns faster? This might be possible in the future, using artificial intelligence and
machine learning approaches to identify groups of nondescript symptoms which may
be more common in persons having received this or that drug, or vaccine in large
collections of data, such as spontaneous reports, or electronic health records for the
symptoms, in claims databases for the disorders resulting in hospital admissions,
and in social media (knowing the unfiltered nature of the latter). Semantic analysis
will bring terms together, and identify term clusters that may then be analyzed as
such (and given new names, confirming their reality...) This is what seems to have
ben done for HPV? This might be tested first for the known unknowns such as the

post HPV vaccine symptoms described here, or the new Levothyrox formulation
syndrome.
The issue is in no way specific to vaccines, but is does pave the way for future alert
generation and new directions in pharmacovigilance, beyond the mostly useless
administrative exercise of reporting known knowns.
PS: concerning this paper: the comment above is not really a review of the
proposed commentary, but contains most comments. It is acceptable as is, of
course, each is entitled to their views, and the questions are valid...
