We are considering this article as a research article and we would like your advice on its originality,
importance to general medical readers, and scientific reliability.
* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what
does it add? If not, please cite relevant references.
I think this article adds to previous knowledge, by showing that initiation of a prostate specific alpha
antagonist is associated with both increased risk of falling and increased risk of sustaining a fracture
in a single dataset suggesting a possible association. Several studies have shown an increased risk of
fracture (Lee et al and Jacobsen et al), but why this happens remains unclear and falls have been
postulated as one of the reasons for this. The authors also found increased risk of hospital admission
or er visit for hypotension or head trauma which is an interesting finding.
* Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
This work is important to general physician who is evaluating an elderly patient who sustained a fall.
This work suggests that one of the medications that should be considered for discontinuation is the

prostate specific alpha antagonist, despite being advertised being more prostate specific and less
likely to cause hypotension.
* Scientific reliability
Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
The research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered.
Overall design of study - adequate ?
I think the study design is adequate. Using big datasets to study rare outcomes such as falls and
fractures help in understanding the rare side effects of medications that are not picked up in RCTs.
Using propensity score matching the authors correct for confounding factors (although there is a
possibility for unmeasured confounding factors).
Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?
Yes, this is described in detail in eFigure1 and eTable 5.
Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard
Yes
Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
Yes. The research question is answered, and well presented.
Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data?
Message clear?
Do the authors have fracture data on each prostate specific alpha antagonists, as not all of the
specific prostate alpha antagonists may be associated with increased hypotension, falls and
fractures. 84% of the patients in their study were taking tamsulosin and the data seems to point to
the fact that tamsulosin may increase risk of falls and fracture (Bird et al, and Lee et al). Of note in
the paper published by Lee et al (PMID 1949155), alfuzosin was not associated with increased risk of
fracture. In the table 2, silodosin was not associated with increased risk for hospitalization or ER
room assessment for fall.
Therefore are the results generalizable to all prostate specific alpha antagonists?
Could the finding of this study be related to confounding by indication? ( ie men on prostate specific
alpha antagonist are more likely to fall).
References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
Yes, the references are uptodate. I do not see any glaring omissions except for the study by Lee et al
which is in Korean with abstract and table in English.
J Prev Med Public Health. 2009 May;42(3):165-70. doi: 10.3961/jpmph.2009.42.3.165.
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds – reflect accurately what the paper says?
Yes, I think the summary reflects what the paper says although I am not sure if the data can be
generalized to all prostate specific alpha blockers.