This is a timely and important paper on the labyrinthine arrangements that have evolved
over time for regulators of the NHS. This paper gives a lucid summary of findings in a
related paper and spells out the problems created for providers in the NHS by having to
respond to different bodies with overlapping remits asking for information at different times
and in different formats. What is invaluable about this paper is its aim to capture how a
provider experiences encounters with various regulators of safety. I have two suggestions for
developing that argument of this paper. I do not know how easy they would be to
incorporate in this paper or ought to be included in a follow up paper.
The first suggestion is about constraints on staffing that impinge on the safety of care
provided in the NHS but are not considered by the various regulators. There are, e.g.,
particular problems in recruiting and retaining nurses where their NHS pay is inadequate for
the high living costs. The elite teaching hospitals are likely to attract staff under these

circumstances, but other hospitals will find this to be a problem. Propper et al (2010)
examined this issue and argued that regulation of pay of NHS nurses resulted in high rates of
agency staff in areas with high labour costs, which they found worsened hospital quality (as
measured by hospital deaths for emergency heart attacks). The issue is that regulators may
attribute a Trust’s failure to meet safety standards to the management of the Trust, but that
failure may be caused by external pressures.
The second suggestion is based on an idea of Rudolf Klein, which is to fund a researcher to
spend a year based in a NHS acute trust to observe and describe its encounters with
regulators. I wonder if it might be easy for a Trust to a diary over a year showing the weeks
in which they were involved with responding to regulators. Ideally this would indicate when
contact was first made, duration of any visits, and when engagement with each regulator
was closed.
The two other points I would like the authors to consider are as follows.
The paper is about regulation in the English NHS: arrangements are different in each NHS of
the devolved countries (Bevan, 2014).
The paper has three observations on the costs of regulation (pp 6 & 7):
The impact of any intervention by one regulator, however important, is diluted because
Trusts are also attempting to respond to many other agencies who are making similar but
not identical requests. Almost inevitably, due to resource constraints, Trusts will fall back on
demonstrations of compliance rather than the more substantial long term improvements that
both regulators and Trusts would actually prefer.

More importantly still we need a full mapping and costing of all the time spent by Trusts in
responding to regulatory requests of all kinds and from all relevant organisations (p 6).
However, there are clearly many other occasions where regulatory activity diverts
organisational capacity from pressing problems and may inadvertently derail important
safety initiatives.
The relevant economic concept underlying each concern is that of the opportunity costs of
the incoherence from multiple regulators acting independently, which distracts Trusts from
the sustained effort entailed in making substantial long term improvements. It is, e.g.,
possible to estimate the costs of Brexit from applying rates of pay to time spent on this by
Ministers and officials; but the opportunity cost is much more troubling: the neglect of issues
other than Brexit. And at the core of the argument of this paper is that the way the
multiplicity of regulators impinge on the NHS makes it less safe. The paper develops a strong
argument to justify its case that ‘The regulatory system in its entirety needs to be rethought
and designed to be efficient and adaptable for both the regulators and the organisations they
oversee’ (p 7). This is part of a much bigger question of who regulates the regulators? And I
suggest the authors conclude their paper by recommending the review of regulatory
arrangements in England for which they have so convincingly argued.

References
Bevan, G. (2014). The impacts of asymmetric devolution on health care in the four countries
of the UK. London: Health Foundation.
https://www.health.org.uk/sites/default/files/TheImpactsOfAsymmetricDevolutionOnHealthC
areInFourCountriesUK.pdf

Propper, C., & Van Reenen, J. (2010). Can pay regulation kill? Panel data evidence on the
effect of labour markets on hospital performance. Journal of Political Economy, 118(2),
222-273.

Gwyn Bevan
Emeritus Professor of Policy Analysis
Department of Management
London School of Economics & Political Science
Email: R.G.Bevan@lse.ac.uk
