The authors have reviewed and critically appraised papers on diagnostic and prognostic
models based on data from the COVID-19 outbreak in China. Given the pandemic situation
this study should be expedited for publication as it contains very useful guidance on the
validity of existing prognostic models from China and indicates areas that require
improvement in the statistical analysis and reporting of any future models using data from
the COVID-19 outbreak.
The review is thorough in scope as the authors accessed the Living Systematic Review
hosted by the Institute of Social and Preventative Medicine in Bern which is updated in real
time. They also searched all the usual databases to cross check references, accessed papers
not yet peer reviewed but made available in pre-prints, and contacted authors to include
studies that were not yet available at the time of the search. Furthermore, the review has
been executed to the highest standards using the CHARMS protocol and assessing bias in 4
domains using the PROBAST tool.
The aim and scope of the review are clearly reported. The included studies are well described
and will be a useful resource for statisticians working in this area. The criticisms of the
models are fair and justified. This is a timely reminder that authors reporting prognostic
models should adhere to the TRIPOD checklist as suggested in this review. Major issues
identified included too small a sample size, overfitting to the dataset, unclear descriptions of
participants and inclusion criteria, poorly described statistical methods, incorrect statistical
methods, and lack of model validation and checking calibration. They also give a strong steer
towards making individual patient data from the COVID-19 pandemic available on a common
platform, for example, as encouraged by WHO, so that statisticians may have access to
larger datasets and can validate their models on independent data across geographical
regions.
Some points to consider:

Box 2. Prognostic models. The paper criticises the exclusion of participants who did not
develop the endpoint (ie in hospital and neither healed nor died) yielding a highly selected
sample. However, they go on to imply that study 13 is better because it used a Cox model
and therefore accounted for censoring. The real problem is that short term data on hospital
outcomes needs to be analysed in a competing risks framework (or using
multi-state-models). At the very least there are 3 states: dead, discharged, and remain in
hospital. It is wrong to censor the discharged (as study 13 does, for example, in the
Kaplan-Meier graph) because the assumption is that those who are censored are similar to
those who remain under observation and at risk of mortality. This is clearly not the case
because apart from administrative censoring at end of study, the participants censored have
recovered and therefore are not at risk of death from COVID-19. Perhaps the authors would
consider this point in their discussion?
The list of references needs checking. In particular:
Ref
Ref
Ref
Ref

15
16
19
25

is this now published under a different title?
published in Plos One
is it Gozes or Gozed? Inconsistent in reference list and tables.
Xie Hungerford – is it Xie Tong Guan? Inconsistent in reference list and tables.
