Manuscript ID: BMJ.2019.053490
Title: Infectious diseases in Chinese children and adolescents: an analysis of national
surveillance data from 2008 to 2017
Article Type: Research article
1) General comment
Providing large nationwide surveillance data about the trends in infectious diseases incidence
and mortality in children and adolescents, two populations susceptible to the burden of
infections, is key to understand the epidemiological transition, i.e., the replacement of
neonatal, maternal and infectious diseases related mortality by neurodegenerative diseases
related mortality, and redefine public health priorities. In this framework, Dong et al.
propose to the BMJ a research article presenting the distribution of infectious diseases in
mainland China in domestic students across age categories, gender, time and space. The
paper has been previously submitted to the Lancet and expertized by four reviewers. Though
the revised manuscript remains primarily descriptive in its approach, it is well-written and
gathers a considerable amount of data. Indeed, and even though notifiable infectious
diseases do not represent all communicable diseases and the classification used to
distinguish categories of infections may be questionable, this paper is the first to present
such an amount of data in a very large population of young people. Thereby, I have only few
comments on the substance that has not already been formulated by the Lancet reviewers.
These are presented along the few STROBE criteria that, to my mind, have not been fully
addressed while revisiting the manuscript for the BMJ.
2) Specific comments
Introduction
Background/rationale. Page 5, lines 132 to 133. There were two published microscale
outbreaks of chikungunya virus in Guangdong (2010) and Zhejiang provinces (2017). Add
dengue and chikungunya to the list.
Objectives
3#. Specify the underlying hypotheses.

Methods
4#. Study design and subjects. Specify in the Methods section that in China, school becomes
mandatory that from 6 years old (“the free nine-year compulsory education system”), which
will make more explicit the choice of the population of interest.
#7. Variables. Even though some diseases could have belonged in several of the seven
classes of disease categories, I strongly disagree with the classification of hepatitis E as a
sexually or blood transmitted disease (STBIDS). Hepatitis E in China is mainly due to HEV3
and HEV4 genotypes, that causes a primary zoonotic disease. Indeed, in eastern China, in
addition to the consumption of pig meat, it was shown that persons living in communities
downstream of pig farms have a 29% higher risk of infection than persons living in upstream
communities (Zheng Y et al, J Infect Dis 2006). Please, reanalyse the data according this
reclassification.
#11. Quantitative variables. There are no quantitative variables but the authors have
performed T-Tests for comparing gender or interregional differences. (Cf. Second author’s
responses to Lancet reviewer#1). These findings should be shown.
#12. Statistical methods.
The statistical analysis could be improved with basic comparisons. I agree with Lancet
reviewer#1. It would be useful to test the differences across regions and gender-age
subgroups to provide some confidences in the assertions. I also agree with Lancet
reviewer#4. I guess the readers are not very familiar with “jointpoint” regression models
and it would be useful to give a brief description of the usefulness of these models for
understanding the findings and provide references. It was replied to the reviewer that
references were added but I do not find these in the Methods section (Please don’t reply that
this was not done for lack of place. When a reviewer raises some issues, these should be
addressed appropriately).
Results
Participants
13 (a)#. Report numbers of individuals at each stage of study—e.g. numbers potentially
eligible, examined for eligibility, confirmed eligible, included in the study, completing
diagnosis confirmation in the laboratory, and analysed.
13 (b)#. Well done with a flow chart as Figure S1.
13 (c)#. The flow diagram could nevertheless provide information about the National
student population if possible.
Descriptive data
14 (a) #. If possible, give more basic characteristics (age, gender, region of residence) for
the non-student children population also recorded in the NNIDSS database to enable the
understanding of the direction of potential selection biases in view of gender-age-region
differences observed in the study population. I don’t think the NNIDSS is restricted to the
Chinese domestic student population.
Main results
16 (b) #. Table 1. Hepatitis E must be reclassified in the zoonotic infections category,
incidence and mortality recalculated for this group and the group for sexually transmitted
and blood transmitted infections.

Reviewers have raised the issue of too complex figures. As stated before, it would be more
useful to provide confidence in the findings with appropriate statistical comparisons than
providing unreadable figures.
The supplementary figures are also heavy loaded and very difficult to read. Simplify please.
Discussion
Key results
18#. Page 9, line 331. It is stated that the HIV/AIDS epidemics grows together with
gonorrhoea and syphilis, which suggests sexual transmission rather than intravenous drug
abuse, with male predominance for gonorrhoea and female predominance for syphilis.
However, the disproportion of adolescent males in HIV/AIDS epidemics in China should be
addressed more thoroughly and further explained more explicitly page 11, lines 385 to 409.
Limitations
19#. Discuss limitations of the study, taking account sources of potential bias or imprecision.
For routine surveillance data, underreporting (or underdiagnosis), selection bias, notification
(information) bias should be discussed extensively. Discussing bias is not only citing the
possibility but providing arguments to the readership to gauge the direction and magnitude
of the bias and their impact on the findings, as not done pages 12 to 13 lines 468 to 475.
Interpretation
20#. Give a cautious interpretation of results considering objectives, limitations, multiplicity
of analyses, results from similar studies, and other relevant evidence. Page 11 line 391, it is
written that male college students have high-risk sexual behaviours. Please, be more
explicit, if it is men having sex with men or attendance with female sex workers as a source
of emancipation. If it is not the case, there is a reasonable chance than HIV/AIDS epidemics
is underreported or underdiagnosed in Chinese domestic female students. These aspects
should be discussed.
Generalisability
21#. Discuss the recent paper by the Global Burden of Diseases Study in China (Lancet
09/2019) as well as the impact of the under-5 infectious diseases related mortality. Indeed,
the impact of health progress in China on epidemiologic transition and the reduction of the
burden of infectious diseases in Chinese domestic student population should be discussed in
line with the data of the mortality of under-five children, the true target population of
infectious diseases. Are there data like in India, suggesting the reduction of infectious
diseases related under-five mortality to the profit of prematurity and intrapartum
complications (Liu L et al, Lancet Global Health 2019) ? If yes, the reduction of infectious
diseases burden as a consequence of the rapid epidemiological transition is plausible, but it
can be concluded only under the light of more complete data.
3) Specific minor comments and suggestions
Page 6, line 201. Disease and not “desease”.
Page 10, line 358. Tuberculosis is the 11th leading cause of death according to the most
recent estimates from the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2017. Update reference 19.
