The paper uses data from DHS/MCIS to analyse the relative coverage of healthcare
and selected nutrition interventions for pregnant women and their infants and young
children, highlighting the opportunity gap, and how this varies by country, over time
and between rural and urban settings. The conclusion is that, while there is clearly a
long way to go to achieve universal health coverage, there are also examples of
countries that have made progress, which could be applied to other settings. The
manuscript is generally clear and easy to read, although I think that a few alterations
might improve readability especially for readers who are not familiar with this field and
terminology.
1. After reading the key messages at the beginning of the paper, I did not really have
a clear idea of the purpose and conclusions of the paper; these become apparent on
reading the text and conclusions. I wonder if the key messages could be improved
(and maybe shortened) - for example using or adapting the first paragraph of the
conclusion would help to set the scene as it explains the concept of comparing
coverage of health care and nutritional interventions, and the opportunity gap.
2. I think it would be worth emphasising in the text the fact that data on most of the
relevant nutritional interventions are not routinely being collected in the surveys, so
the current analyses are based on the minority of interventions for which some data
are available. I did not fully appreciate this issue until I got to Table 1. It is clearly a
very important point for the future if we are to understand trends in coverage.
3. I would also like to see a brief discussion about the quality and robustness of data
from the surveys. We would obviously like to have data on more of the interventions,
but it is also important for readers to understand the (inevitable) limitations of the
data that are collected and what impact that might have on the conclusions of the
analyses. Is there scope for improving data collection methods?
Minor points:
There are some typos and missing full stops throughout the text.
I could not follow the sentence on p6, lines 8-11 - ? rephrase.