Dear BMJ Editors,
The authors present the results of a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Their objective was to
evaluate the comparative efficacy of hand hygiene improvement interventions targeted at healthcare workers and
to quantitate the resources required for such interventions.
Studies were identified from 2 previous reviews and a literature search was conducted to identify additional
studies published since these prior reviews. Studies were included if they had an intervention targeting healthcare
worker hand hygiene in the hospital setting, measured hand hygiene via direct observation or a proxy (e.g.
product consumption, electronic or video monitoring) and used one of the following study designs: RCT or cluster
RCT, controlled clinical trial, interrupted time series analysis or controlled before-after study. Studies were
excluded if they were not peer reviewed or were not published in English. Additionally, studies that did not meet
EPOC quality inclusion criteria were excluded although these criteria were not explicitly stated.
All included studies were systematically reviewed and summarized but only 2 RCT were meta-analyzed and only a
subset of the interrupted time series studies were examined in network meta-analysis.
The key findings of the study are:
1) In a meta-analysis of 2 RCT, interventions that included all 5 components of the World Health Organizations
multimodal hand hygiene program (WHO-5) plus goal setting were superior to interventions using only WHO-5.
2) In a network meta-analysis, WHO-5 and WHO-5 plus (multimodal interventions that included WHO-5 elements
plus additional elements such as goal setting, incentives and accountability) were superior to standard of care /
no intervention.
3) All strategies demonstrated a trend towards improved hand hygiene compared with standard of care / no
intervention and all WHO plus (WHO-5 with additional interventions including goal setting, incentives or
accountability interventions) demonstrated a trend towards improved directly observed hand hygiene compliance
compared with WHO-5 though confidence intervals were wide and overlapping.
4) Insufficient data on costs were presented in the literature to allow meaningful conclusions but some
approximate ranges are presented
Assessment

Healthcare worker hand hygiene is a critical strategy to reduce the global burden of healthcare-associated
infection (HAI). Given that healthcare workers adherence to current hand hygiene guidelines remains suboptimal,
a comparative evaluation of interventions to improve hand hygiene compliance in healthcare is of vital
importance.
This manuscript should be highly relevant to policymakers, hospital administrators and infection prevention and
control programs that are actively pursuing quality improvement interventions to reduce HAI incidence and
enhance patient safety. While the optimal approaches to improving healthcare worker hand hygiene compliance is
of vital importance, it may be perceived as less relevant to front-line healthcare workers not directly involved in
developing quality improvement efforts in this area.
I believe that this article is original and I am not aware of other systematic reviews on this topic that used
network analysis. As the authors themselves highlight, there are other systematic reviews on this topic but some
are now dated due to the large volume of recent publication in this area while more recent reviews made different
methodological choices in terms of study selection and quality assessment and did not use network metaanalyses. For these reasons, I think this study makes an important and original contribution to the field.
The study is well written and is fairly clear although the amount of information conveyed is large and at times it is
challenging to follow. I believe some improvements to clarity could be made. The study question and study
design are appropriate, with the caveat that I have limited experience with network meta-analysis. The results
appear valid and the conclusions follow logically from the results. I do have suggestions for revisions, which
follow below.
Suggestions for Revisions
Abstract
The Design and Inclusion sections of the abstract do not adequately explain the methodology used by the study.
Given that the current abstract is brief (<350 words) and assuming that a longer abstract would be acceptable, I
believe more details could be provided to ensure that that abstract can be understood as a stand-alone
document. For example, it does not described the data sources used, the type of study designs included or the
designs and outcomes relevant to the network meta-analysis (e.g. the study included a variety of designs and
outcomes, but only interrupted time series that measured directly observed hand hygiene were included in the
network-meta-analysis). As such, the abstract lacks several elements suggested for inclusion in a ‘structured
abstract’ as described by the 2009 PRISMA checklist (http://www.prisma-statement.org/2.1.2%20%20PRISMA%202009%20Checklist.pdf).
Introduction
In the first paragraph, the references 1 and 2 supporting the statements on the burden of HAI are old. Newer
primary data on this topic are available (e.g. Magill et al, NEJM 2014).
Methods
Page 5, paragraph 1: It is stated that the PRISMA statement was used to guide reporting of the study however
several elements have been omitted (in addition to the structured abstract described above):
1) The objective is not stated explicitly in the introduction using the ‘PICOS’ format
2) A registration number for the protocol was not provided (nor a statement indicating that the protocol was not
registered)
3) A list of variables abstracted from all studies was not provided.
These elements should be added to the manuscript if possible.
Page 6, paragraph 2: The term retrospective is used but not defined. An explicit definition should be given as this
term is used variably.
Page 6, paragraph 3: It is stated that studies were excluded that failed to meet ‘minimal quality criteria specified
by the Cochrane Effectiveness Practice and Organisation of Care Group (EPOC). I was unable to find the reference
linked to this statement (ref 12) although I believe I did find the information online at the Cochrane website.
These criteria should be clearly outlined in the paper and a definition of what ‘minumum’ thresholds are should be
presented - as well an appropriate reference to either a published article or to a website that includes an accurate
URL should be added. In Appendix 5, the reasons for exclusion of these studies are given and are these
exclusions appear to be mainly on the basis of study design (e.g. study was an uncontrolled before-after study)
and I found this a bit confusing as this design did not meet the authors 3rd inclusion criteria on page 6 (study
design criteria) and should have been excluded at an earlier stage in the process (i.e. at the stage of full text
review at least)?
Results
Page 10, paragraph 5: A cost range is presented ($US 225 to $4669 per 1000 bed days). The study associated
with the highest cost included only the cost of one time video camera installation. That study involved video
footage outsourced to an external group that reviewed the video and estimated hand hygiene performance on
room entry and exit. The human resource costs associated with reviewing the video were likely substantial so I do
not think $4669 per 1000 bed days is a meaningful estimate of the costs for this intervention. I suspect there are
similar issues with the cost estimates for many of these studies and wonder whether the presentation of any
quantitative data here is useful at all? The authors themselves conclude that reporting of resource use is
inadequate in the literature and I think this is the only meaningful finding with respect to resource utilization.

Page 11, paragraph 1: It is stated that 2 RCT demonstrated improved compliance following implementation of
education, performance feedback and visual reminders (ref 34) or education alone (ref 32) but it is not explicitly
stated what occurred in the control arm. The answer is in table 3 but it would be easier for the reader if it were
stated here.
Page 11, paragraph 2 discusses the results of the included randomized controlled trials. This methodology is
stronger and less prone to bias than the controlled before-after or time series designs. I noted with interest that
the RCT included here tended to be associated with small absolute increases in compliance. Would it be possible
in your review to discuss the magnitude of improvement rather than just qualitatively whether hand hygiene
improved? Is there a correlation between study quality and a lower absolute improvement in hand hygiene? What
is a clinically significant increase in hand hygiene compliance given that these studies have large sample sizes
and can therefore detect small differences (e.g. the RCT by Fisher et al. observed 1,017,600 opportunities for
hand hygiene using an automated detection system while the cluster RCT by Mertz et al using direct human
observation still observed almost 8000 opportunities).
As stated above, I will point out that:
1. In the FIT trial (ref 31) the increase in hand hygiene associated with the intervention was only 7% to 9% and
in the intention to treat analysis was seen only in the ICU setting and not in the ward setting.
2. In the cluster RCT by Mertz et al. (ref 34) hand hygiene increased only 6% and there was no difference in their
infection outcome (hospital acquired MRSA colonization) suggesting either that hand hygiene is not effective in
reducing MRSA colonization, or that a larger improvement in hand hygiene is required to see a benefit.
3. In the RCT by Fisher (ref 30) the abstract described a 6.8% increase in hand hygiene compliance but this
result is not presented anywhere else in the paper. Much of the apparent benefit appeared to be due to a drop in
compliance in the control arm.
Page 11, paragraph 4: The authors note that in 11 of 19 comparisons among the time series analyses, hand
hygiene was falling prior to the intervention. Does this suggest a bias or regression to the mean phenomenon?
Was hand hygiene rising in the other 7 or was it stable? Does this suggest that the ‘control’ arm or ‘baseline’ arm
was not actively engaged in hand hygiene improvement and does that complicate your classification of the control
arm hand hygiene promotion strategy in that the strategy may no longer have been ‘active’?
Page 12, paragraph 2: It is stated that Mayer et al [ref 59] used an ‘appropriate’ analysis. This term is vague and
is not used consistently in the paper to describe other studies.
Page 13, paragraph 2: it is stated that “…all intervention strategies were associated with an improvement in hand
hygiene compliance compared with T1”. However, for interventions T2, T3 and T6 in the figure appear to have
confidence intervals that cross over with T1. Perhaps this statement should be softened to indicate that there was
a trend to benefit for all interventions? In the network meta-analytic framework, what is the criteria to define an
intervention ‘associated with’ improvement and can this be stated explicitly in the methods?
Page 13: A system of naming ITS interventions as T1 through T12 is introduced. Despite the table that explains
these terms, it is hard to keep track of the correlation between the name and the intervention. It would be better
to use abbreviations that captures the nature of the intervention itself (e.g. WHO-5+I could be used to indicate a
study using the 5 WHO interventions plus incentives).
Discussion
Page 15: The limitations of the study are well described. Two additional limitations that perhaps should be
discussed include:
1. Because the network analysis compares a new intervention with a baseline intervention is this a limitation
because more energy and attention may be directed to the new intervention while the control intervention is ‘old
news’? is the benefit seen with almost any intervention described here (compared to baseline) simply a reflection
that a new intervention will lead to a transient improvement in hand hygiene?
2. The limitations of direct observation as a means of recording hand hygiene are not discussed, particularly with
regards to observation bias (Hawthorne Effect) and how it might complicate the interpretation of this data.
Page 15, paragraph 2: It states that there is no asymmetry in the funnel plot. To my eye the plot does look
somewhat asymmetric. Is there a more objective measure that can be used to determine if asymmetry or
potential publication bias was present? A priori, one might expect that this is a field where publication bias is
quite likely to occur.
Conclusions
The conclusions are clear and follow logically from the results.
Figures and Tables
Figure 1 should provide the rationale for excluding studies to get from 136 to 36 studies (this is provided in
appendix 5 but could be easily summarized here as there were a limited number of reasons for exclusion).
Matthew P. Muller, MD, PhD, FRCPC
Medical Director, Infection Prevention and Control, St. Michael’s Hospital
Assistant Professor of Medicine, University of Toronto

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Matthew P. Muller
Job Title: Medical Director, Infection Prevention and Control
Institution: St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here:
Reviewer: 3
Recommendation:
