This study assesses the risk of opioid overdose from concurrent use of benzodiazepines. Analyzing
privately insured non-elderly adults in the United States over 2001-2013, the authors find that the rate of
concurrent use grew by nearly 30 percent over this period, and that the risk of an ER visit or inpatient
admission for opioid overdose was highly elevated with concurrent use of benzodiazepines, with an odds
ratio of 3.68 after adjusting for enrollee characteristics.
The topic is certainly an important and timely one, from the perspective of both clinical practice and public
policy. Case and Deaton (2015) recently determined that all-cause mortality has grown among mid-life
non-Hispanic whites in the U.S. due to increasing prevalence of drug poisoning and suicide. On August 31,
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced new drug labeling requirements warning of the risks of
concurrent use of opioids and benzodiazepines.
As the authors note, the current evidence is limited to specific populations, and external validity is a
significant concern. In general, the methods strike me as appropriate, and the findings, while strong, have
face validity. In these respects, the study makes a significant contribution to our understanding of an
important problem.
As the authors recognize, the main threat to validity here is that concurrent users could be systematically
different from, and at higher risk for opioid overdose than, non-concurrent users. The authors are careful
to adjust for a wide range of comorbidities, but the clear contrasts in comorbidity rates between concurrent
users and non-concurrent users in Table 1 raises a potential concern about unmeasured confounding.
Thus, my principal suggestion for strengthening the study is to perform a falsification analysis / placebo
test of the kind done in Romley et al. (2015). The appropriate form of this exercise would be informed by
clinical expertise which I do not possess.
On another matter, the current guidelines for opioid prescribing from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention reference a few additional studies on concurrent benzodiazepine use. The authors should
place their study in the context of this related literature. For example, the authors could note that Jones
and Dasgupta et al. (2016) is limited to a single U.S. state (North Carolina), while Gomes et al. (2011) is
limited to a single Canadian province. By contrast, this study uses a broad national sample. While the
Marketscan claims database is not perfectly representative of the U.S., my understanding is that it is
reasonably so, and the authors could address this point.
I do have some additional comments as follows:
 In terms of assessing the contribution of concurrent use to overdose is useful, the authors should
acknowledge that the elimination of all concurrent use of benzodiazepines could lead to other changes
relative to the overdose, perhaps intensity of opioid utilization. While the true counterfactual is unknown,
this is a general limitation of this kind of assessment, and the assessment performed by the authors is still
worthwhile.
 I did not understand why it is appropriate to use a linear probability model to determine the age-adjusted
rate of drug utilization, but a logistic model to analyze overdose. Overdose is rare, and a logistic model is
appropriate. But concurrent use was also rare for some populations in some years, and the concern about
dealing with indicator variables would have also included numerous indicator variables (indeed, more of
them, if I am not mistaken.)
 For the purpose of statistical inference, do the authors allow for serial correlation in each enrollees’
outcomes? I believe it would be appropriate to cluster standard errors at the enrollee level, or to
incorporate a random effect at the enrollee level.
 The authors sometime use the term “acute” to refer to non-chronic use of opioids, but the term
“intermittent” at other times. I believe it would be clearer to use one or the other.
 I did not follow the last sentence of the last complete paragraph on page 11.
 On page 12, the authors state that a sensitivity analysis followed enrollees until they exited the sample
(or the study end date arrived.) This language might suggest that a Cox analysis was done. I don’t
believe that was the case, or was necessary, but simply encourage the authors to clarify.
Sincerely,
John A. Romley