Elizabeth Loder, M.D., M.P.H.

Clinical Epidemiology Editor, BMJ
Email: eloder@bmj.com
May 12, 2019
Dear Dr. Loder,
Here is my report on the manuscript entitled "The effectiveness of routine third trimester
ultrasonography to reduce adverse perinatal outcome in low-risk pregnancy. The IRIS
study, a nationwide pragmatic multi-centre stepped wedge cluster randomised trial",
authored by Jens Henrichs et al (Ms. Ref: ID BMJ-2019-050455).
In my opinion, the contribution of this paper, in the present form, is too minor to be
publishable in BMJ. I believe that the manuscript’s topic is interesting and potentially useful
to the readers. My referee report gives some suggestions to the author on how to improve
the paper. I would recommend, in the case this paper is published in your journal, that an
accompanying commentary covering missing data on sudden intrauterine unexplained
death syndrome (SIUDS) also be published. My commentary would emphasize the
epidemiological findings related to pathology in sudden unexplained intrauterine and
neonatal death.
Please note that I would welcome the opportunity to join the editorial board of BMJ. I
believe that my research experience could benefit the continued growth and advancement
of BMJ.
Looking forward to hearing from you soon, I remain
Sincerely yours,
Giulia
Prof. Giulia Ottaviani, MD, PhD
Centro di Ricerca “Lino Rossi"
Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche, Chirurgiche ed Odontoiatriche
Università degli Studi di Milano
Via della Commenda, 19 - 20122 Milano, Italy
Emails: Giulia.Ottaviani@unimi.it
Tel.: +39-02-50320819; Fax: +39-02-50320823
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth)
McGovern Medical School
Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
6431 Fannin St.| MSB 2.276 (Prof. Buja’s office)
Houston, TX 77030 USA
Email: Giulia.M.Ottaviani@uth.tmc.edu
Tel.: +1-520-222-9707.
===============
Referee report on "The effectiveness of routine third trimester ultrasonography to reduce
adverse perinatal outcome in low-risk pregnancy. The IRIS study, a nationwide pragmatic
multi-centre stepped wedge cluster randomised trial"(Ms. Ref: ID BMJ-2019-050455)
The authors conduct a nationwide pragmatic randomized trial – the IUGR Risk Selection
(IRIS) study – to evaluate the effects of routine third trimester ultrasonography to all
low-risk pregnant women. The manuscript is generally interesting, but overall hard to read
with important missing data on sudden unexplained intrauterine death (SIUD) related by
analogical link to sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), whose risk factors include IUGR.
Several major concerns mar the paper's potential impact. These need to be addressed.

1. Wording is sometimes confusing and the manuscript is hard to read overall. For
example, in the title and throughout the manuscript, the authors describe their randomized
trial with the adjectives “stepped wedge cluster” without an explanation as to what such
terms mean. Abstract, page 2, Interventions, “a third of all practices were randomised to
the intervention strategy” …. “In both strategies the same multidisciplinary protocol for
detection and management of intrauterine growth restriction was used”. It is unclear which
intervention strategy and then the two intervention strategies the authors refer to.
2. Each manuscript section, such as Methods and Results, should start on a new page.
Authors subdivide the manuscript into sections or subsections, but their arrangement,
besides the Abstract, is confusing overall.
3. I suggest the authors avoid long sentences or paragraphs that don’t reach any points, to
make this paper more concise, reducing it by half its length, making every word count.
Abstract
4. It needs to be more factual.
5. Interventions: “All practices started with offering CAU, i.e. serial fundal height
measurements with clinically indicated ultrasonography”. How many practices do the
authors refer to?
6. Interventions, “a third of all practices were randomised to the intervention strategy” ….
“In both strategies the same multidisciplinary protocol for detection and management of
intrauterine growth restriction was used”. As stated above, it is unclear which intervention
strategy and then the two intervention strategies the authors refer to.
Introduction
7. More basic and updated background data on the definition, history, and epidemiology of
IUGR and its relationship with SIUD are missing. Reference 4 is out of date.
8. Authors state that SGA is used as a proxy for IUGR; why does this manuscript asses
IUGR and not SGA? It is unclear to the readers if IUGR and SGA are the same pathology or
not.
9. Page 4, lines 31-33. The abbreviation “CAU”, even if it is already defined the first time it
is used in the Abstract, should also be re-defined in its first use in the main text.
10. Page 4, lines 52-53: The sentence “…but lacked the evidence to make a decision” is
unclear. A decision about what?
11. Page 5, lines6-7: The sentence “would apply both strategies some of the time during
the study” does not make sense.
Methods
12. Page 5, Study design and participants, 1st paragraph. How is this study different from
the previously reported one (Ref. 18)?
13. Page 5, lines 41-42. The authors state that “Participating practices signed an
agreement to demonstrate their commitment to the study protocol”, but what about the
patients? Authors fail to clearly state if the ethical and institutional review board (IRB)
approvals were obtained for this research.
14. Page 6, lines 8-9. “pregnant women, who were eligible...”. What are the eligibility
criteria?
15. Page 6, lines 14-15. “a reliable first day of the last menstrual period”. Reliable based
on which criteria?
16. Page 6, lines 17-18. “All women participating provided written informed consent for
using and merging their data”. What about the informed consent for undergoing the
“intervention strategy”?
17. The statistical analysis should state that the values should be expressed as
mean±SEM.
18. Was this study double-blinded?
19. Page 9, lines 35-36. What do the authors mean with “SPSS”? It is unclear if this
abbreviation means “Sigma Stat Sigma Plot” or “Statistical Package for Social Science”,
among other possibilities.

Results
20. This section should start on a new page.
21. The follow-up details are not provided.
22. Page 10, lines14-15. What do the author mean with “Baseline characteristics”?
23. Values should be expressed as mean ± SEM values; ranges should also be provided.
24. Here and thorough the manuscript, a clear subdivision into two groups is missing.
Discussion
25. This section should be all rewritten for clarify, under the light of ameliorated revised
Introduction, Methods and Results sections.
26. The authors should quote to histopathological studies on the brainstem and cardiac
conduction system of SIUD and SIDS.
Conclusions
27. The authors should provide a flow diagram to summarize the main points of their
manuscript.
References
28. As mentioned above, more updated references on the definition, history and
epidemiology of IUGR and its relationship with SIUD are missing. Reference 4 is out of
date.
29. As previous stated, more references on pathological studies of the common findings in
SIUD and SIDS are needed.
Legends for Figures
30. This section is missing.
Figures
31. The two Figures are indeed a Table and a flow diagram, respectively.
32. A figure focusing on the ultrasound findings would add value to the manuscript.
Tables
33. Values should be expressed as mean ± SEM values; ranges should also be provided.