This study examines the association between sleep and breast cancer risk using Mendelian
randomization approach and two large independent samples. The sleep traits examined were
chronotype, insomnia and sleep duration. I have the following points:
1. Major: Sleep disturbances are considered a risk marker of multiple health problems,
including also diseases other than breast cancer. The present study focussed only on breast
cancer and thus it remains unclear whether the observed association is specific to breast
cancer or a reflection of more general increase in incidence of chronic diseases among those
reporting certain sleep traits. To address this, the author could consider adding ‘all-cause
mortality’ or ‘non-breast cancers combined’ as a secondary outcome and repeat the MR
analysis with that outcome.
2. The introduction motivates the study by describing previous mixed findings on shift work
and breast cancer. It is not entirely clear how this evidence is relevant to the present study.
What exactly the findings about self-reports of being a morning vs. evening person and
sleeping a certain number of hours in every 24 hours can tell about the carcinogenic effects
of shiftwork (which includes shifts in mornings and evenings). See also point 7.
3. Multivariable Cox regression analysis (p. 6): Did the authors check whether the
proportionality assumption was met? Many of the sleep-chronic disease associations may be
non-proportional due to reverse causation leading to stronger short-term than long-term
associations (ie effects start to dilute soon after the first years of follow-up, suggesting
non-proportionality).

4. p. 8: “If a SNP was unavailable in the breast cancer GWAS summary statistics, then proxy
SNPs were identified with a minimum linkage disequilibrium (LD) r2 = 0.8.” How many SNPs
were unavailable?
5. p. 8. Typo “…each make makes…”
6. Results: Have the authors confirmed that the genetic instruments were not associated
with the confounders? A table on these associations would be helpful.
Discussion:
7. The authors note that “Findings of an adverse effect of evening preference on breast
cancer risk in all analyses performed and support hypotheses around carcinogenic
light-at-night (4) and are therefore consistent with those studies identifying nightshift work
as a potential carcinogen(1).” I am not convinced with this reasoning. First, please see point
1. Second, despite current associations between sleep and breast cancer a previous analysis
using the same data as the authors (i.e. the UK Biobank) found no association between
shiftwork and breast cancer (Travis et al J Natl Cancer Inst. 2016 Oct 6;108(12). This null
finding was confirmed in two other independent large-scale studies, the One Million Women
study and the EPIC-Oxford. How the authors explain this discrepancy?
8. The association between long sleep and increased breast cancer risk in the Mendelian
randomization analysis seems surprising as the associations of long sleep with disease
endpoints are often thought to result from reverse causation. What mechanisms can explain
a causal association between long sleep and increased cancer risk. The light-at-night
explanation, for example, seems to not to valid for this association as there is no reason to
assume that those who sleep longer are more exposed to light at nigh.
9. The authors argue that the findings support the light-at-night hypothesis. It would be
good to see whether the associations of the genetic instruments with health outcomes other
than breast cancer – if similar associations are seen, then the interpretation of the data does
not specifically support the light-at-night hypothesis.
