The REPOSE study group investigated the impact of insulin pump therapy vs. multiple injections in patients with type 1
diabetes. Using a pragmatic, multicentre, open label, rct setting both treatment arms were provided with similar training
efforts to avoid inequalities of attention and to detect the actual effect of pump therapy. As compared to baseline HbA1c levels
a reduction of 0.5% was observed after a most relevant follow up period of two years with no significant difference (0.2%)
between the two treatment arms. Of note, only every forth patient had adequate gylcaemic control after 2 years as defined by
a HbA1c level <=7,5%. In addition, a reduction of severe hypoglycaemic episodes with no differences between treatment arms
was observed. A quite extensive evaluation of psychological outcome measures showed improvements for some domains in
favour of pump users. The results are of significant relevance and highlight the fact that the implementation of pump therapy
only is unlikely to overcome the barriers of inadequate diabetes control in the majority of suboptimal controlled patients. In the
manuscript presentation of data and interpretation of the results are well-balanced. I have some comments to the authors:
- Pre-existing treatment regime may have an impact on the outcome measures. The introduction of intensified insulin therapy
could lower HbA1c levels and hypoglycaemic rates. Thus, how many patients in the two groups were practising intensified
insulin therapy, twice daily regimes,.... before entering the trial? Did pre-existing treatments have an impact on outcome
variables?
- What was the definition of optimised MDI treatment (p 5, 23), the research protocol does not clarify this exclusion criterion.
- Insulin levels decreased slightly in the pump group, whereas the dose remained relatively unchanged in the multiple injection
group. Nevertheless, HbA1c reductions were observed in both groups underlining the effect of appropriate insulin
administration after structured education. However, shortage of insulin dose could be one reason for the documented ongoing
suboptimal control in a majority of patients (and the incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes). Please provide baseline insulin
dose to allow better interpretation of the results.
- On page 6 the authors emphasise the importance of achieving an adequate HbA1c level without experiencing severe
hypoglycaemic episodes. What was proportion of patients with HbA1c levels < 7,5 AND no recent severe hypoglycaemic
episode (12 month) at baseline and, in particular, during the interventional period for the both treatment groups,
respectively?
- Figure 4 does not include severe hypos. Did patients with anamnesis of severe hypoglycaemic episodes better (HbbA1c,
severe hypos), if randomised to pump therapy?
- The authors discuss the change of the NICE HbA1c recommendation from 7.5% to 6.5%. In my opinion it would be
worthwhile to present the number of patients, who actually achieved this “elusive” goal (HbA1 <6.5 with or without severe
hypoglycaemia) in the current investigation.
Johannes Plank
Medical University Graz, Austria