The paper deals with a very important topic on type 1 diabetes management: the comparison between continuous
subcutaneous insulin injection therapy and multiple daily insulin therapy. More precisely, it compares the effectiveness of
insulin pumps to multiple daily injections for adult patients with type 1 diabetes in terms of glycaemic control, hypoglycaemia
risk and quality of life, with both groups receiving equivalent training in flexible insulin therapy.
In fact, author’s hypothesis was that much of the benefits of insulin pump therapy is not determined by the mere technicality
of the pump therapy, but it is due to the improvement in the ability to manage the disease in patient’s everyday life.
Authors conclude that the structured training and education to diabetes management is the most important tool that lead to a
long lasting improvement in glycaemic control, rates of severe hypoglycaemia and psychological measures in type 1 diabetic
individuals and that, adding insulin pump therapy to structured training does not significantly enhance educational benefits.
We think that the trial design (pragmatic, multicentre, open label, cluster randomised controlled trial) is novel and original for
this topic. Moreover, the statistical methods used for the study appear to be elegant and appropriate as well. Finally, clinical
relevance of author’s findings is strong, being the number of randomized patients very high (especially when compared to
previous published studies on the topic), the duration of follow-up long (2 years) and the two studied groups very well
characterized.
That said, some points needs to be addressed by the authors:
Major revision
1) Authors should mention (in the text and/or within one of the tables) how many patients of the insulin pump group did use
continuous glucose monitoring systems. In fact, even if the study design takes into account only the insulin delivery systems
(MDI vs. CSII), we actually know that modern insulin pumps (like the “Medtronic Paradigm VEO” model used for the trial) are
equipped with sensors measuring glucose concentration from the interstitial fluid and that this combined approach (sensor
augmented insulin pump therapy - SAP) is till today considered the “gold standard” for type 1 diabetes treatment.
Authors should, therefore, mention how many patients did use sensors (either with the retrospective or with the Real-Time
approach) in the insulin pump group and eventually the percentage of time of sensor use. We believe that this point is crucial
because it could directly affect the primary endpoint of the study (change in HbA1c after 2 years).
2) The definition of moderate hypoglycaemia as an “episode which could be treated by the individual but where hypoglycaemia
caused significant interruption of current activity leading to impaired performance or embarrassment or being woken during
nocturnal sleep” and of severe hypoglycaemia as an “episode leading o cognitive impairment sufficient to cause either coma or
requiring the assistance of another person to recover”, although detailed, should be supported also by a cut-off value included
in the definition: for example plasma glucose <70 mg/dl for mild/moderate hypoglycaemia and <50 mg/dl for severe episodes.
In fact, most of the randomized trials assessing the rates and severity of hypoglycaemic episodes in type 1 diabetic patients
do consider at least one cut-off value to define this adverse event (hypoglycaemia needs to be proved “by definition” by a low
plasma glucose value measured at the time of the symptoms).
3) The time-log of the trial included four main visits (baseline and after 6-12-24 months) in which primary and secondary endpoints have been measured. We ask the authors if between the scheduled visit at 12 months and that one at 24 months there
have been other intermediate visits or contacts with the patients in which caregivers could have changed insulin dosages or
reinforce education on diabetes management. If not, we firmly believe that 1-year gap between two consecutive visits is too
much time for any type 1 diabetic patient. Could it be the explanation for the modest improvement of the patients (in terms of
HbA1c reduction) between the one-year and the two-years follow-up visit (Figure 2)?
4) The participants of the study were “adults with T1DM willing to undertake intensive insulin therapy, with no preference for
pumps or MDI”. Did the authors consider a minimum number of plasma glucose measures per day to be the patient included in
the trial? Did the two studied groups have similar baseline number of plasma glucose measures per day?
Please specify this data in the methods section. Patients with poorer compliance to self-monitoring of blood glucose (even if
well educated to the management of their insulin therapy) could, in fact, be less likely to get an advantage from insulin
pumps.
5) In Table 1 (baseline demographics), baseline characteristics of the participants have been reported. Beside the rates of
macrovascular complication, also the rates of microvascular complication should be reported in that table.
How the high rate of macrovascular complications (55.1%) in this relatively young cohort of patients (mean age 40.7 years)
could be explained? Could that population be considered at higher risk for cardio-vascular diseases? It is an important point
because patients having a higher cardiovascular risk profile (like those with previous myocardial infarction) should have a
different target range of HbA1c.
6) In the conclusion section of the abstract (page 2), the authors say, “adding insulin pump therapy to structured training in
flexible insulin therapy did not significantly enhance educational benefits on glycaemic control, hypoglycaemia or psychological
outcomes in adults with T1DM”. We think that the authors should “mitigate” this conclusion given that Tables 7-10 show an
improvement of several parameters of quality of life with CSII vs. MDI (for example the significantly improved treatment
satisfaction of patients on CSII vs. MDI detected by DTSQ, together with less restrictions in diet and daily hassles in the
DSQOL scale). We believe that these statistically significant data should be interpreted as a meaningful result achieved by the
insulin pump therapy group (not only as a “modest quality of life benefit”).

Minor revision
1) In the abstract section (on page 2, line 5) the abbreviation “ITT”, that appears for the first time, should be defined (like the
authors did for “MDI” and “T1DM” on page 1).
2) We believe that the “effectiveness of the intervention” tables, assessing the proportion of participants with HbA1c ≤7.5% at
6-12 month (Table 4) and at 24 months (Table 3), could be joined together.
3) Do the authors have data on the changes in glycaemic variability between the two studied groups at the end of the trial
(e.g. LBGI, HBGI and/or MAGE indices)?
4) Table 7, 8, 9 describe quantitative psychosocial outcomes in terms of mean difference in change from baseline at 6-12 and
24 months. Many data and numbers (either significant or not significant) are presented in those tables and the reader may find
them repetitive and hard to interpret. We advice the authors to summarize some of this results and/or underline statistically
significant differences (for example using bold characters).
