This study reports a massive research project investigating trend in IPDMA research.
The research question is: did the success rate in obtaining IPD change over time? A systematic review of published
IPD and an example from the epilepsy field are used to answer the question. Predictors of success/failure are
analyzed. The study is robust, and result might in principle inform willingness to contribute data and regulation to
make data access easier or more complex. Some of the limitations of the study are address in the paper, some
other are intrinsic in the voluntary nature of data sharing, in the many different economical and intellectual interests
at play, in the difficult line where the cost-benefit ratio lies.
No major changes are requested, but some observations are offered to authors consideration
Page 2, 10-11: the last sentence is not really supported by data, and it is more wishful thinking than drawn from
evidence. I would suggest rewriting
Page 2, 14: change of verb from singular to plural
Page 2, 20: sentence does not stand
Page 5, 15-17: “agreement was good” sound very approximate for a study of this level – also, one would expect
declaring the method used to measure agreement in the methods section (i.e. here) and the level of agreement
reported instead in the results section
Page 8. 19-20: the sentence is syntactically wrong
Page 11, line 16-18: alternative hypotheses could be that non-cochrane authors might be part in specific research
communities and therefore more likely to obtain participation – or non-Cochrane reviews being more commonly
funded – please discuss – also, I think it would be possible to substantiate your hypothesis by counting the
average/median number of trails/participants included in Cochrane vs non Cochrane trials – if your hypothesis is
true, Cochrane should be on average larger
Page 11, 23-28: on the issue of cost, I think it would be honest and worth tackling the issue of the many options for
funds “scamming” that are camouflaged under privacy and data protection – like in RCT conduct, the cost has
ramped up over the last few years for layers and layers of “quality control” that are more aiming at creating
revenue generating streams than objectively impacting privacy and quality - it would be a tough argument, but
much more valid than the current “superficial” approach – however, there might be political reasons not to touch
those strings…
Page 12, 1-9: this concept of shift of time requirements and typology of activities in IPDMA practice over time would
be worth mentioning in the highlights

IS there a reasons why the following paper (co-authored by the first author) is not cited?
Tudur-Smith C, Marcucci M, Nolan SJ, et al. Individual participant data meta-analyses compared with meta-analyses
based on aggregate data (Review). Cochrane Database Syst. Rev. (9), MR000007 (2016).
Figure 2 would gain by also showing the n of IPD as proportion of the total number of research articles/systematic
review published over the same time span – absolute numbers are just a part of the picture.