
I don't necessarily disagree with the premise of this commentary, but certain points need
to be taken into consideration. My comments have two main purposes: 1) to suggest
additional points in support of the importance of the question posed; 2) to challenge the
strength of certain of the authors' arguments.
Points in support of the importance of the question posed:
1. It is important to note that the currently-available tests for latent TB infection are
simply based on immunological memory and recall responses. Therefore, the
presently-available tests would not be expected to distinguish long-lived memory that
persists after elimination of the antigen source (that is, the bacteria) from responses of T
cells maintained by chronic infection and repeated antigen stimulation. Many infectious
diseases (and immunization with attenuated or subunit vaccines) generate memory
responses (antibody and/or T cell) that do not reflect pathogen persistence.
Perhaps the authors could compare the situation with TB, diagnosis of LTBI, and pathogen
persistence in TB with that of hepatitis C. Shortly after discovery of HCV and development
of diagnostic serology tests, it was thought that HCV infection was lifelong. Only after
development of tests that identify circulating viral nucleic acid sequences was it possible
to distinguish persistent from past/cleared HCV infection.
2. The exceptional challenge of detecting (probably) small numbers of tubercle bacilli,
(probably) located in tissues other than the blood, presents a special challenge to
development of diagnostic tests that distinguish persistent from cleared M. tuberculosis
infection.
3. The programmatic and economic importance of identifying the fraction of humans that
have persistent/latent TB infection and distinguishing them from those with immunological
memory responses after clearing the infection is huge. As a simple example, if mass
treatment were to be considered as a strategy for control of TB, a test that can distinguish
the 1-11% with persistent infection from those that have cleared infection could reduce
the cost (and morbidity) of mass treatment by 10 to 100-fold. Therefore I think the
commentary should make a strong point that developing the means to identify people that
are persistently infected is likely to be cost effective and potentially revolutionary.
Points related to the validity or strength of the authors' arguments:
1. Page 5: The comment, "Most healed tuberculous granulomas were found to be sterile,
showing that the tuberculous granuloma is indeed capable of eradicating infection (7, 9).
Supporting this conclusion, two autopsy studies from adults dying of TB revealed that in
most cases, there was a healed focus of infection that was distinct from the new active
site of disease (6, 11)." is accurate, but does not note additional literature (Loomis 1890,
Wang 1916, Opie 1927, Robertson 1933) that reported recovery of infectious M.
tuberculosis from pathologically-normal tissues from people with no evidence of active TB.
2. Page 7-8: The comment, " The alternative explanation for these findings would be that
antitubercular antibiotics reduce disease through a mechanism other than elimination of
infection. However, this idea would be unprecedented in clinical microbiology, and is made
yet more unlikely given that antitubercular drugs kill M. tuberculosis in vitro by, in most
cases, defined mechanisms" could be strengthened by noting the poor clinical and
microbiological outcomes when patients are treated with drugs to which their bacterial
isolate is resistant.
3. Page 9: The comment, " Because the majority of cases occurred early after initiation
of anti-TNF treatment (median time 3 months.....)" only applied to antibody-treated
patients, not to patients treated with soluble TNF receptor.

4. Page 9: The comment, "these data indicate that the great majority of TB reactive
individuals do not have quiescent bacteria that can be roused by TNF suppression" may be
an overstatement, and an oversimplification. The data from the TNF antagonism studies
cited are also consistent with the possibility that immune responses that control M.
tuberculosis in humans are heterogeneous (sometimes genetically determined) and TNF is
only essential for immunogical control of TB in a subset of humans. Data suggesting this
are provided by Professor Ramakrishnan's own published work.
5. Page 11: The arguments based on studies of TB in transplant patients, summarized in
the comment, ".... in multiple cohorts with undergoing different forms of
immunosuppression associated with an increased risk of TB, the percentage of TB reactive
individuals is remarkably low..." is the weakest argument in this commentary. The
patient groups described (especially hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients) are
heavily exposed to antibiotics post transplant, and the commonly-used antibiotic regimens
(fluoroquinolones, linezolid, carbapenems, beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitors, and
aminoglycosides) all have activity against M. tuberculosis. Therefore, unless there is
evidence from a sufficient number of transplant patients who somehow managed to avoid
antibiotic exposure during their transplants, this argument does not add convincing weight
to the contention that many people have eliminated M. tuberculosis through effective
immune responses.
To extend the above point, the authors might consider the impact of the widespread use
of broad-spectrum antimicrobials on the risk of being persistently infected with M.
tuberculosis. It seems plausible that between the era when the present paradigm (that M.
tuberculosis infection is forever) was established and the present era, widespread global
use of drugs like fluoroquinolones has changed the face of human infection with M.
tuberculosis, and fewer TB-reactive humans harbor persistent M. tuberculosis in 2019 than
in the prior era.