PEER REVIEW OF BMJ.2016.031638 SUBMISSION
Is cardiovascular screening the best option for reducing future cardiovascular disease burden? A
microsimulation study to quantify the policy options
1. OVERVIEW
The paper is a resubmission following reviewer’s comments. The content, style and clarity is good.
The reviewer comments have been satisfactorily addressed.
As such I am inclined to recommending the contributed manuscript for publication provided some
additional work is carried-out by the authors in a revised submission as I detail hereinafter.
2. GENERAL REMARKS
1. The time horizon is now 2030 rather than 2025. Why is this?
2. I agree with previous comments that NHS Health Check may not be well-known outside of the UK.
However, I think that the new scenario titles could be improved. Universal screening is really the
NHS Health Check for 40-74 years old so this is an age-targeted screening. Concentrated screening
is for the most deprived quintiles so is a deprivation-targeted screening, and population-wide
strategy is a specific life-style factor screening. It would be helpful to improve these.
3. SPECIFIC REMARKS
1. p.5 l.33 Why doesn’t the Population-wide intervention include exercise or drinking?
2. P5 l.12 Could you include a reference for F & V increasing.
3. e.g. p.6 l.52, p11 38 There are several places where there are extra incorrectly used commas.
4. p.7 l.24 What are the two primary scenarios?
5. p.6 l.7, p.8 l.7 The combined scenario says that the population-wise strategy is complemented
with concentrated screening. Then you say that both strategies is then followed by concentrated
alone. If this is the case can you make this clear on p.6. When do you decide to change from one to
the other?
6. p.8 Table 1 The interquartile range is the difference between the 1st and 3rd quartile and not the
values themselves as you’ve used it.
7. p.8 Table 1 Is the model output to the nearest 100 or 1000?

8. p.8 Table 2 Why doesn’t the Absolute equity slope index for say the Concentrated screening add
up to the QIMD 4 and 5 values?
9. p.12 l.14 This isn’t what I understand `proportionate universalism’ to be. The population-wide
approach does not appear to be proportionate to the level of disadvantage. That is, I don’t think
doing both a population-wide and targeted strategy is the same as a proportionate population-wide
strategy.