Overall: This manuscript represents an extensive and largely rigorous effort to examine the
association between egg consumption and cvd events in an updated analysis from the
NHS/HPFS and a systematic review/MA. The manuscript is generally well written except for a
couple of points that need clarification. There are a handful of questions related to details in
the methods that need to be clarified/updated so there is confidence the results will add to
the evidence base on the topic (for the NHS/HPFS analysis). Specific comments below.
Abstract:
Lines 20-21: The way this is written is not entirely clear for the reader. It is assumed that
the 8% higher risk of CVD is linked with unprocessed meat, and the 14% estimate is for
processed meat, however there could be other interpretations or perception of this referring
to a different outcome. Also, based upon the text this appears to refer to red meat but could
be conflated with any animal meat in general. Results and discussion suggest red meat.
Introduction:
Line 3: The inclusion of excess weight in the bin of “modifiable lifestyle factors” listed is
likely to draw the ire of a wide swath of clinicians and scientists. As this author group is well
aware, overweight and obesity are extremely complex conditions. The manuscript would be
improved for the reader if the language around this statement was modified – perhaps
lifestyle related factors.
Methods Individual studies:
The study population description would be improved if the N for each of the exclusion criteria
were reported so the reader can follow how each impacted the analytic population.
While these cohorts are well described and reported on in the literature, if space allows, it
would improve the paper to briefly describe/cite the assessment of the major
confounders/variables used in the statistical models beyond the exposure.

Follow-up time: It’s not clear to the reader how many participants were censored due to loss
to follow up and how this person time was recorded. Please incorporate this so the reader is
best able to assess the validity of the results.
Statistical models: A strength of the main NHS/HPFS is the repeated assessment of the main
dietary exposure and confounders. However, the models in the analysis only report updating
the dietary data and everything else appears to rely on baseline measures. Why not utilize
the rich data set and account for changes in other major confounders? Time-varying models?
Some form of G-methods? There’s a suggestion following the initial models description that
updated BMI was included but stratified on what? In the results this is suggested as BMI of
25 kg/m2. But the text generally suggests this is baseline. Related, and generally, the
reader is supposed to infer that the by accounting for change of diet this accounts for
changes in all the other confounders, however is this the most rigorous approach to answer
this question with the data on hand?
The details on the substitution models are nice and step forward in clarity for the reader
(usually disregarded/not reported in most studies that utilize this method). They could be
further improved by specifically noting the implied underlying assumption that goes into this
type of model since this is a particularly strong assumption.
No major points in the systematic review/MA- looks to be done by the book/best methods.
Results:
Suggestion to provide context for the author definition of “significant” since this appears to
be predicated on p values.
Discussion:
-point related to eggs in persons w/T2D – line 13: The use of the word “confirm” implies that
the couple aforementioned studies are the truth, and the sentence doesn’t actually point to
which of the studies. This sentence could be reworded for clarity and softening. Basically,
more evidence is needed.
-A strength of the study notes the use of repeated lifestyle variables, but the methods
sections and results tables are not entirely clear repeated or time-varying covariates have
been incorporated in any of the main models.
-As thoughtfully noted earlier in the section, the geographic location/different population
association in Asian cohorts is likely due to a confluence of socioeconomic related
confounding and different analytic approaches, largely confined to one large cohort. This
statement seems to contradict this earlier statement – which is it?
-The limits appropriately note the likelihood of non-differential dietary measurement error.
However, as the author group knows well, there is potential for some level of differential
measurement error in diet as well. Could/Should this also be noted and how it may influence
results?
-The authors could consider incorporating an E-value to inform the topic of
residual/unmeasured confounding.
-The conclusion in the discussion is largely fine except for the extra statement suggesting
that nuts and legumes should be considered in place of eggs. If the conclusion is being
based upon the data in this specific analysis and results, then the authors should also be
speculating about whole grains, cheese, and perhaps even poultry given the similar results
to nuts/legumes. The conclusion proffered in the abstract is a more rigorous interpretation of

the results. The addendum is potentially misleading to the reader based upon the study
results.
