Kristina Fister
kfister@bmj.com
Dear Kristina regarding
Manuscript ID BMJ.2016.035107 "Serum creatinine elevation following renin-angiotensin system blockade and long-term
cardiorenal risks"
I have detailed some comments below but on balance once these are addressed and the other reviewers of are of the same

opinion then this paper would be acceptable for publication in the BMJ:
Originality of Article.
The article from Schmidt and colleagues uses the powerful databases of CPRD and HES to carry out a population based cohort
study. As with all databases there are limitations in quality of the data entered and completeness but the authors are
experienced in this type of “big data” analysis. As mentioned only 60% of patients from the CPRD database had HES data
available.
The research question although not completely original does add to the literature. There have been several studies looking at
ACEi and ARB as in the opening statement of the discussion from the authors. Indeed the interest in this area arose in part
from series of published the large negative studies of dual blockade – On- Target, Nephron D, Alisterin and the previous
discredited COOPERATE study. These demonstrated adverse effects in a select population. Also in the cardiovascular field the
Atmosphere and Astronaut studies with Aliskerin have shown similar results and a safety signal was also evident. This
however may not apply to all populations.
The novelty of the current study is the link of ACEI/ARB use with a “significant” rise in serum creatinine on commencing
therapy and whether this is predictive of outcomes (renal, cardiac). In a separate paper in press they examine concordance of
medication and potassium levels.
It should be noted by the authors that there have been several studies demonstrating that patients with CKD are less likely to
be prescribed ACEI/ARB despite the potential benefit. These studies overlap a little with the current study although they do not
look at the same exact issue.
Chang T et al CJASN 2011; 6, 864-869.
Fox CS et al Circulation 2010; 121; 357-365.
A recent paper from Chang T et al also demonstrated that there was less use of ACEi/ARB during the transition from CKD to
dialysis therapy. (CJASN 2016; 11; 1401). This, I would assume, may apply to a percentage of the current cohort.
The results of the current study show an interesting finding that even smaller increases in serum creatinine after ACE/ARB
initiation still lead to potential adverse outcomes, even when stratified for baseline renal function. This is somewhat
unexpected and is in contrast to published dogma, which suggests that a rise in creatinine with introduction of ACEi/ARB is
predictive of renal benefit. However the one major flaw in this paper is the lack of data on proteinuria and whether this group
behaved the same.
Importance of work to general readers
This article spans medicine in that ACE and ARB therapy is one of the commonest mediations used in several specialities and in
Primary care. Therefore a general journal is appropriate. One of the most important messages from this paper and their
pending article on adherence and monitoring reinforces the important of patient follow-up and monitoring long term and
consideration of cardiovascular risk factors. This is therefore an important step for clinicians to pause and educate patients.
Scientific reliability.
The research question as stated is clearly defined and in the main text appropriately answered. However as mentioned above
one key omission is the impact of proteinuria. Some comment should be given to this which I have mentioned again later
The overall design of study seems adequate but this should be assessed by a trialist and reviewer experienced in big data
analysis.
There is limited data of the participants studied as this depends on the information submitted to the database but the main
confounders are included
The methods section is detailed and the protocol provided I did not see a CONSORT for randomised trials but ethical approval
was granted.
The authors define ESRD as including those with an AV fistula but do not include those with a CVC line. Again it is well
recognised that a significant proportion of patients with AV fistula do not progress to dialysis. Also to add transplant to this
group seems surprising as this group will have much improved renal function and their outcomes are vastly different from
those on dialysis or nearing dialysis. In addition studies in dialysis suggesting little benefit of ACE inhibitors. Finally a
proportion of PD and HD patients will have residual renal function and the use of ACEI may either preserve or lead to a loss of
this or effects on potassium. This has shown to affect mortality.
Garthwaite E and Bhandari S. The effects of Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors on potassium homeostasis in dialysis
patients. Artificial Organs 2009, 33 (8), 641-647
Brener ZZ,KotankoP,ThijssenS,etal. Clinical benefit of preserving residual
renalfunctionindialysispatients:anupdateforclinicians.AmJ Med Sci2010;339:453–6.
Moist LM,PortFK,OrzolSM,etal. Predictors of loss of residual renal function among new dialysis patients.
JAmSocNephrol2000;11:556–64.
Results

The results are briefly described but do detail the main findings and are well presented in this reviewers opinion. If one was to
be pedantic the results from the table are repeated in the text but only the most important.
The interpretation and conclusions are well presented but the authors should consider the following:
From table 1 there was the relatively high percentage of arrhythmias in the >30% group related to dose of ACE/ARB and
outcome from hyperkalaemia as this group also had a fourfold greater use of potassium sparing diuretics.
The reference to the “dose response” (Figures 2 and 3 and text at several points) maybe confusing to the general reader who
may consider this in relation to drug dosing rather than the effect of creatinine rise. It maybe indeed related to the drug dose
as part of the effect but this was not examined. Could the authors choose a different phrase to express this perhaps
“magnitude of effect” or something more reflective. Please change throughout the text.
A recent paper has eloquently teased out the vagaries of drug dosing in patient with CKD and use of ACEi and ARB; and the
lack of dose adjustment for ACEi which are mainly renal excreted as opposed to ARBs which are in the main hepatically
metabolised. Perhaps the authors could comment on this finding in their article.
Martin Chaumont, Aline Pourcelet,Marc van Nuffelen, Judith. Acute Kidney Injury in Elderly Patients With Chronic Kidney
Disease: Do Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Carry a Risk? The Journal of Clinical Hypertension 18; 6;| June 2016
Two omissions worthy of at least consideration is the effect of ACEi inhibition on anaemia. The mechanism is unclear –
probable erythropoietin related but this may have had an influence on cardiovascular events and heart failure. It is unlikely
that this data will be available.
Albitar S, GeninR, Fen-ChongM, et al. High dose enalapril impairs the response to erythropoietin treatment in haemodialysis
patients. Nephrol Dial Transplant1998;13:1206–10.
The other omission is the important consideration of proteinuria which is a strong biomarker of all the outcomes studied. The
authors will be aware of the wealth of published data in this area and the extensive CKD consortium findings.
CKD Prognosis Consortium Lancet Matsushsita et al 2010; 375: 2073–2081

Discussion
The generalizability of this real world study is one of the key strengths for the general physician with a patient in front of them
and the data from Figure 2 is a useful summary of risk that can be given to a patient to allow a more informed decision.
Page 12. Line49: The authors mention heart failure trails but It is interesting to note the EMPHASIS-HR (Circulation HF 2014
and the Val-HEFT (Circulation HF 2013) of dual blockade showed that despite an early decline in creatinine was no increase
rate of adverse outcomes at 3 years.
For the general reader it would be important to stress that only 1.7% of so patients had a creatinine increase of >30%. This
authors due state that only minor changes in renal function occur in the majority but it should be further emphasised.
References
A few suggested references to consider are detailed below.
Cheng, J., et al., Effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin ii receptor blockers on all-cause mortality,
cardiovascular deaths, and cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes mellitus: A meta-analysis. JAMA Internal Medicine,
2014. 174(5): p. 773-785.
Hsu, T.W., et al., Renoprotective effect of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockade in patients with predialysis advanced
chronic kidney disease, hypertension, and anemia. JAMA Internal Medicine, 2014. 174(3): p. 347-54.
Ahmed A, Jorna T, Bhandari S. Should We STOP Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers in
Advanced Kidney Disease? Nephron 2016
DOI: 10.1159/000447068
Evans M, Carrero JJ, Szummer K, Åkerblom A, Edfors R, Spaak J, Jacobson SH, Andell P, Lindhagen L, Jernberg T. AngiotensinConverting Enzyme Inhibitors and Angiotensin Receptor Blockers in Myocardial Infarction Patients With Renal Dysfunction. J
Am Coll Cardiol. 2016 Apr 12;67(14):1687-97. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2016.01.050.
Jun Cheng, Wen Zhang, Xiaohui Zhang, Fei Han, Xiayu Li, Xuelin He, Qun Li, Jianghua Chen, Effect of Angiotensin-Converting
Enzyme Inhibitors and Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers on All-Cause Mortality, Cardiovascular Deaths, and Cardiovascular
Events in Patients With Diabetes Mellitus A Meta-analysis. JAMA Intern Med. 2014;174(5):773-785.
Catalá-López F, Macías Saint-Gerons D, González-Bermejo D, Rosano GM, Davis BR, Ridao M, Zaragoza A, Montero-Corominas
D, Tobías A, de la Fuente-Honrubia C, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Hutton B. Cardiovascular and Renal Outcomes of ReninAngiotensin System Blockade in Adult Patients with Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review with Network Meta-Analyses. PLoS
Med. 2016 Mar 8;13(3):e1001971. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001971.
Minor Points
Page 9; line 11 – CKD 3b or above – is the better or worse CKD

Page 11 – as the authors suggest adverse outcomes is difficult to assess as those not monitoring may be well, hence reducing
adverse outcomes; they may be worse or have a cough hence also reducing adverse outcomes as the are no longer on the
drug.
As indicated the measure of concordance or discontinuation is prescription based and subject to error.
From the author pending paper on potassium and adherence it is concerning that less than 50% (indeed less than10%) of
participants had appropriate guideline based monitoring and in those with a rise in potassium or elevated potassium of
>6mmol/l no apparent “documented” change in medication was made. With this in mind can the authors elaborate on how this
affects the findings in the current analysis, especially in relation to adverse cardiac outcomes.
Page 4; line 26: In the introduction the authors state that renal impairment is uncommon in clinical trials – the authors I am
sure are aware of more recently trials to the contrary. More importantly I do not believe that this influences the monitoring of
treatment based on guidelines in primary care. Whether it is via a lack of understanding and education is unknown. For
example a rise in serum creatinine from71 to 100 microl/L is equates to a 33% increase, but the values remain in the “normal
range” and may influence the actions of clinicians and GPs but as is more critical this equates to a 42ml/min reduction in eGFR
and progression through the stages. Perhaps one should revise the guidelines but this will not solve actual adherence to them.
Interestingly it is well recognised that doctors are less likely to follow guidelines in comparison to nurses.
Page 7; line 20: The authors mention patient “stock piling” of medication – please provide a reference or is this simply opinion
from clinical experience.
The statistics is complex but in line with this type of analysis but I would suggest that the editor seek the advice of a
statistician to review this element.
Table 1: age of those with >30% rise adds to 100.1%. Also was the relatively high percentage of arrhythmias in the >30%
group related to dose of ACE/ARB and outcome from hyperkalaemia as this group also had a fourfold greater use of potassium
sparing diuretics.
