This version is much improved and much better suited to a general medical journal. The introduction is
more compelling and the presentation of the examples (many of which I was not aware of) was
balanced. The practical focus and reduced focus on theory and sociology is entirely appropriate. I have a
few minor suggestions in terms of emphasis.
However, I would like to see a clearer description of the benefit of reverse innovation, which for me is a
source of new ideas that might be relevant. I think that radical cost-reduction is not a typical focus of

innovation in HIC and so we may generate viable options faster by sourcing from LMIC in addition to
looking at the small number of cost-saving innovations generated by HIC.
The other nuance which merits another sentence or so are the tradeoffs between cost and quality. The
sentence on line 35 states: “The resulting technologies, techniques or models tend to deliver care at a
comparable level to best practice in high-income settings but at a fraction of the cost”. While there are a
few examples of this, I would suggest that this is not true of most current or future reverse innovations.
Some may be 90% as good and 50% of the cost, but others will be 50% as good at 20% of the cost and
3 times the reach. There will be instances where quality of care for a given individual actually declines
compared to the best practice, but many more people receive it resulting in higher overall impact. So
the sourcing of reverse innovations will necessarily involve some discussion of tradeoffs, because if you
only choose RI that are about 95% as good as best practice, very few will ever be considered.
Once you have a promising idea, assessing relevance and effectiveness that is well covered in the
article. However, the cost-savings merits a little more exploration. The authors cover the outcomes of
Opportunity NYC extensively, but don't mention the cost piece. In my recollection, it's not that it doesn't
work (the authors list several positive outcomes), the problem was that it was deemed fairly expensive
for the benefits it showed. The challeng is that the cost savings may be hard to reproduce since the cost
structure of HIC is different than the LMIC where the innovation originated. The leads of Health City
Cayman Island have mentioned that Cayman Island is an expensive place to operate and they were
unclear on how much cheaper the model they implement there will be (not sure if this has been
rigorously evaluated since).
