Professor David Ellwood
In opening let me thank you for allowing me to review your very interesting manuscript.
This is a vitally important topic for two main reasons. Firstly, reducing adverse outcomes of
pregnancy remains a challenge for all countries, and although developed countries now
have extremely good pregnancy outcomes, there are still a significant proportion which
end in mortality or major morbidity. Reducing these rates of adverse outcome further is a
duty of all who work in maternity services. Secondly, interventions (or management
options) to try to reduce adverse outcomes of pregnancy have the potential to cause harm
in a variety of ways, not least of which is to over-diagnose problems and lead to
unnecessary early delivery. It is therefore essential that properly-conducted clinical trials
address important questions, and the place of routine ultrasound in low-risk pregnancy
management has long been a vexed question. This trial has been extremely well-conducted
with a well-chosen methodology (the stepped wedge, cluster RCT design is ideal), excellent
recruitment and retention were achieved, and it certainly goes some way towards
answering the question, but unfortunately there are several additional limitations which
need to be acknowledged.
I have four main concerns that I feel need to be addressed in any revision of the
manuscript.
1. It has been long argued by some of the experts in this field that all previous trials have
been underpowered, and estimates of the size of trial required vary but have been said to
require up to many hundred of thousands of low-risk cases to show a reduction in stillbirth.
Using a composite adverse outcome as in this trial is a way of trying to reduce the required
sample size to make the trial more feasible but the authors really need to better justify
how they expected this approach of two basic biometry scans to reduce the expected rate
of their composite primary outcome from 1.54% to 1%. This is a very large reduction for

low-risk pregnancies, especially in a population that has already reduced their rate of
stillbirth very significantly over the last decade. Although they almost achieved their
recruitment target of 15,000 women the impact on the rate of adverse outcomes was very
small (1.8% in the CAU group to 1.7% with the intervention strategy) and not-statistically
significant. The question is whether or not this degree of reduction, which is admittedly of
clinically significance and therefore important, was ever going to be achievable? How was
this estimate of reduction derived?
2. The second question relates to the choice of ultrasound examinations used (simple
biometry). In the Introduction the authors discuss the differences between SGA and
growth-restricted babies (IUGR), and later in the Discussion mention the alternative ways
of screening for placental dysfunction using either Doppler ultrasound, biomarkers or both,
but have apparently chosen to use only simple biometry for this trial. The lack of use of
amniotic fluid volume and umbilical artery Doppler may well have caused the interventions
for either SGA or slowing of growth to target a much higher proportion of small but healthy
fetuses, rather than those who may have true fetal growth restriction as may be better
demonstrated using a more comprehensive examination. Whilst the approach of using two
scans is ideal to show reduction in growth velocity, the second scan being done at 34-36
weeks may also have missed some cases of later onset growth restriction and given that
this was a very low-risk cohort it may have been better to do the second scan at 36-37
weeks. Do you have data on when the scans were actually done? Was the mean GA closer
to 34 or 36 weeks?
3. The setting of the trial in a large number of midwifery practices is unique in my
experience for this type of study (and is a good way of trying to keep the cohort
reasonably homogenous as a low-risk group) but one of the important issues for this type
of 'diagnosis and treatment' trial is to ensure that the response to an abnormal result is
appropriate and consistent. It is not clear if the obstetric clinics to which women were
referred followed the standard protocol when a woman was referred with abnormal
ultrasound findings, or if there was considerable variation in responses from clinicians?
There is reference to a Delphi-derived protocol but did this still give clinicians a range of
options for management, and do you know to what extent individual clinicians actually
followed the protocol? Many of the interventions to reduce stillbirth appear to fail (e.g.
monitoring of, or raising awareness of decreased fetal movements, not because they fail to
improve the diagnosis of the potentially vulnerable fetus (as actually happened in this trial
with improved rates of detection using the two-scan approach), but because the treatment
response is inadequate or inappropriate. I would like to see some response from the
authors as to what protocols were followed, and how consistent was the management of
the women who were referred because of abnormal ultrasound findings?
4. My final area of concern relates to the skill of the sonographers involved in the
intervention, and if there were differences in experience, qualifications and skill level, and
the type of scan performed, between those who performed the routine scans, and those to
whom women were referred with abnormal clinical findings such as reduced fundal height
measurements? Although there was improved detection of SGA using the intervention, it is
possible that additional information was obtained from the referred scans based on clinical
findings, and this could have led to changes in management and improved outcomes.
Against this argument is the fact that the overall rate of the composite adverse outcomes
in both groups was actually higher than the original estimate obtained from routine
perinatal data (1.7% v 1.54%), which does not suggest that either group had improved
management and outcomes.
Other questions which I have, which are not really criticisms but raised out of interest are;
i You do not report on changes in caesarean section rates or the rates of preterm birth. The
recent AFFIRM trial in the UK has produce a lot of debate due to the apparent increase in
untoward consequences of raising awareness about decreased fetal movements and the

same can be said for improving the detection of SGA or reduced fetal growth. I presume
these data are easily available and I would have liked to see these also reported.
ii The cost of ultrasound is often raised as one of the negative aspects of this type of
routine surveillance in low-risk pregnancy. Have you done an economic analysis and if so
what does this show?
iii Do you have any information on how women responded to being included in the trial? It
appears that recruitment and retention were both very good but I was wondering if any
surveys were done involving women and the midwives to see how they felt about being
involved in this type of study.
Finally, I would like to congratulate you on completing this important trial. Having worked
in this area myself (and done a similar trial of routine ultrasound in late pregnancy many
years ago) I completely understand the difficulties involved in trying to answer this vitally
important question. Please accept my comments as constructive observations which may
help to improve the manuscript.