Comments to Editor:
Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript by Pasternak, et al., reporting on
their analysis of serious adverse renal events comparing new-users of SGLT2 inhibitors vs.
DPP4 inhibitors. Briefly, they observe substantially lower risk of adverse renal events with
SGLT2 inhibitors, consistent across a number of subgroup, sensitivity, and exploratory
analyses. The manuscript is well-written, and for the most part, appears to me to be
methodologically rigorous. I am generally enthusiastic about this report, although I do
have a number of suggestions, as detailed in my comments to the authors. I would be
happy to review the manuscript again, should the authors be invited to resubmit.

Comments to Authors:
Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript by Pasternak, et al. re: SGLT2
inhibitors and risk of renal events in Scandinavians. Briefly, the authors conduct a
PS-matched cohort study comparing incident use of SGLT2 inhibitors and DPP4 inhibitors,
analyzed via fixed-exposure (ITT) on risk of serious renal adverse events in 3 Scandinavian
real world cohorts. They observe that SGLT2 inhibitors are associated with substantially
reduced risk of renal events (but not death) and that these associations were generally
robust to adjustment for clinical metrics in the cohorts in which they were available.
The work seeks to address an important question – namely, whether results from clinical
trials can be extrapolated to real world populations in which these drugs are likely to be
used, which are not well-reflected in clinical trials, most of which have included a
highly-selected, high-CV risk populations. The active comparator seems reasonable--DPP-4
inhibitors have been shown to have relatively modest beneficial effects on albuminuria
progression, although there’s little evidence they reduce ESRD, etc..
Overall, the manuscript is very well-written and the study well-described, with appropriate
Tables, Figures, and Supplemental Materials. I am generally enthusiastic about the study,
but I do have a few comments, which I hope the authors will find useful in revising their
manuscript.

Major comments:
1. Methods, study population:
a. Was a minimum look-back period (with evidence of existence in the registries) required
prior to cohort entry? The authors report using look-back periods of various lengths to
assess baseline factors and prior exposures, but it’s not clear patients were required to
have been in the datasets for these periods of time in order for these factors to be
captured adequately. This would seem to be important particularly for the ~15-18% of
persons not originally from Scandinavia (I’m assuming those from Scandinavia are
expected to be included).
b. Relatedly, patients who previously filled prescriptions for study drugs were excluded –
please clarify over what time frame this was assessed? Ever? Year prior to index date? It
seems likely that SGLT2 users are, in fact, new-users since these drugs entered the market
in mid-2013, but it’s not clear to me that a new-user design has been faithfully
implemented for DPP-4 inhibitors, which were on the Scandinavian market prior to April
2013 (I think).
c. Prior to matching, there are some interesting signals suggesting underlying differences
in these populations: a much higher proportion of DPP-4 users are excluded for
hospitalization in the prior 30 days (something close to 2/3 of DPP4 user exclusions are for
this reason vs. 11% of SGLT2 new-users); among those left, advanced diabetes treatments
are much more prevalent in the SGLT2 group (e.g., insulin use, GLP1 agonist use), and the
time since first diabetes drug appears to be, on average, considerably longer in the SGLT2
group. Is it possible that the DPP4 initiation is simply a proxy for a sicker, less-optimally
treated group? I recognize that the PS-matching balances the cohorts on measured factors,
but does not address unmeasured factors, including, for example, health behaviors of
patients. Or reasons physician motivations for being an early vs. late adopter of SGLT2
inhibitors.
2. Methods/Suppl Tables- The authors should clarify the suitability of their ICD-10-based
algorithms, particularly for renal outcomes and death from renal causes, and whether
these measures have been validated previously. Likewise, for CKD used in matching, which
probably has quite low sensitivity. The authors mention lack of validation briefly in the
discussion, but it’s not clear whether they mean lack of validation specifically in these
particular datasets, or lack of validation for the codes more broadly. If validation studies
are available outside of the particular Scandinavian datasets, these should be noted
up-front in the Methods.

3. Methods, matching strategy: given the likely presence of time-trends in prescribing of
SGLT2 use in particular, did the authors consider matching on, or including in the PS
estimation, some metric of cohort entry timing (eg year)? Or perhaps time-conditional
propensity scores. High-profile reports of potential renal benefits w/ SGLT2 inhibitors
emerged during the study period (as did reports of CV benefits, etc..), and it seems likely
to me that prescriber practices may have changed over time with regard to who was
preferentially treated with SGLT2 inhibitors.
4. The authors report also performing ‘as-treated’ analyses (time-varying exposure) – it
would be informative to characterize the extent to which the fixed-exposure (in the primary
analysis) is misclassified relative to the time-varying exposure over time, and whether
these misclassification patterns are differential between groups. These may be relevant to
the proportional hazards violation in the primary analysis, which is not present in the
as-treated analysis.
5. Can the authors expound on the differences in follow-up time between groups? Figure 1
indicates a much higher proportion of censoring over time in the SGLT2 group – what are
the reasons for this? I presume some of it is entry into the cohort in later years for SGLT2s
vs DPP4s, and thus simply less time to accrue follow-up, but that’s not clear.
6. Have the authors considered the possibility of time- varying confounding in their
‘as-treated’ analyses? This should at least be addressed in the discussion as a possible
limitation.
7. The authors should include some discussion of why SGLT2s would cause such a
substantial reduction in adverse renal outcomes. This is very briefly touched on in the
introduction, but a fuller discussion of biologically-plausible mechanisms would be helpful
for readers not intimately familiar with the other literature in this area.
Minor comments:
1. Suppl Table 7 – please clarify timing of these measures
