I read this paper with interest, as the Swedish databases present us with interesting opportunities to help
answer some important and complex questions, especially in the field of migrant mental health. This cohort

study is a useful and important contribution to the field. It looks at the risk of non-affective psychosis in the
Swedish refugee population compared to two groups: non-refugee migrants from the same 'region' as well
as native-born Swedish individuals. The hazard ratios are calculated for developing non-affective psychoses
and as would be expected the rates are highest in the refugee population, although of interest, there is not
a significant difference between Sub-Saharan born refugees and non-refugees.
I have a few points to raise about the study:
1. How to confidently attribute the findings to the refugee effect:
The main point I would like to raise is the need to better explore our non-refugee comparative group and to
expand on the limitations of this sample. I think it would be important to think how there might be pretty
significant differences with for example, some non-Refugee Russian or Egyptian (pre-revolution) migrants
compared to refugee Moldovan or Iraqi Kurd migrants. Therefore the pre-existing differences between the
two groups need to be further explored and understood. This could potentially also help to explain why
these differences are not observed in the Sub-Saharan African populations, where there might be
significant socio-economic differences but potentially not as pronounced in the populations from the other
regions. The authors postulate that the Sub-Saharan population might have similar experiences of
potentially traumatic events, but they might also have greater experience of chronic adversity that is not
necessarily traumatic?
Furthermore, it would be important to expand on the potentially similar post-migration differences for the
Sub-Saharan non-refugee & refugee populations and how they might have different experiences of stigma,
discrimination and community acceptance than groups coming from other regions.
2. Other migration questions
For clarification, could the authors also possibly mention what the estimated numbers of refugee and nonrefugee migrant populations were in Sweden during this time? The authors also mention the role of ‘trauma
in psychosis’ and this needs more information, explanation and clarification.
Finally, there is some data on increased rates of compulsory admissions for refugee populations (Tolmac
2004, although I am sure there is more recent data on this, for example Oram 2015- on trafficked
populations though) and might be worth mentioning. And we look forward to learning about one further
group from this sample: the Swedish-born to non-Swedish born parents- they were not included but could
highlight further important areas to study.
