In this paper the author investigates 3 possible mechanisms that may explain what appears to be a curse
on the wearer of the rainbow jersey. Figure 1 nicely shows the hypothesised mechanisms. This is
potentially a good application on which to illustrate the phenomenon of regression to the mean. I have
several comments however that do need to be addressed regarding the analyses and presentation:
1. According to the introduction there is far more to this supposed curse than a lack of cycling success,
which in fact compared to other ails may be relatively minor. It should perhaps be noted that this paper
considers just that one aspect that has been attributed to curse.
2. Why was a non-parametric test (Wilcoxon) selected for comparing race wins between years within rider
but parametric (t-test) for between race comparisons? If the distribution in race wins between riders is
non-normal (thus suggesting the use of non-parametrics appropriate), then this is likely more of an issue
with the unpaired rather than paired differences. (Results of t-tests between races do not seem to be given
in the results anyway.)
3. Poisson models are used to evaluate the hypotheses. An offset with the number of races undertaken
should be included. If no account is taken of the number of races, how do we know that any reduction in
wins is not merely attributable to the cyclist perhaps having a quieter season after working hard to achieve

the championship in the previous year?
4. Negative binomial models could have been used to model the over-dispersion. Why are these models not
presented? How was over-dispersion ascertained?
5. In the models, ‘i’ should be defined. The hierarchical models do in general need more explanation and
probably also modification. A random effect of rider is given to account for their repeats over time in a
given tournament. Several won both tournaments and/or the same tournament two or more times and it is
unclear whether this structure is adequately modelled. The multilevel models do need to capture the true
hierarchy of some riders being involved in both tournaments and also across time.
6. A pictorial representation of model 4 as defined on page 6 should be given in figure 1 (marked man plus
regression to the mean).
7. The saturated model should be given more explanation. What random effects are included here?
8. The methods used only allow for formal comparison of nested models, which does not apply to model 2
(marked man) versus model 3 (regression to the mean). The author should use a more flexible approach
(AIC or BIC) to allow for this.
9. Adding the 2 winners from 2013 seems unnecessary since they cannot contribute a full dataset, it may
be preferable to exclude them.
10. The distribution of the number of wins per year (table 1) is clearly skew and so mean(sd) are not useful
summaries. Line plots of individual patterns should be given and the median (IQR) for each year within
championship.
11. When comparing between years (table 1), differences and confidence intervals should be given rather
than simply p-values.
12. Some measures of within rider variation from the hierarchical models should also be given.
13. The author only considers winners and individuals enter the dataset at a winning point. It would help to
put the variation and apparent fall in year 1 in context perhaps if there were some assessment of within
rider variation between years, including all participants and not just the winners.
14. The conclusion is written in a way that implies a causal effect of regression to the mean, instead it
should be termed as an explanation for the patterns seen.