The authors need to be congratulated on a well planned, detailed, methodologically
rigorous and thorough systematic review and network meta-analysis looking at association
of various antithrombotic regimens with SVG graft failure at 1 year.The authors have
detailed a reasonable hypothesis, prospectively registered the study and published the
protocol-and now appear to have successfully performed the study which shows that DAPT
with ASA and clopidogrel/ ticagrelor had best graft patency rates, while ASA+clopidogrel
had best safety profile in terms of major bleeding.There were some suggestions of the
efficacy of ASA+rivaroxaban as an emerging therapeutic option.The limited quality of the
included surgical trials as seen with risk of bias assessment, especially for the more
ancient ones are in stark contrast to the rigorous phase III trials of recent percutaneous
therapies including revascularization strategies-and may serve as a cautionary note for
outcomes researchers and trialists in cardiac surgery.This is a well done and valid analysis
in my assessment, and may help direct future recommendations and further research in
this field.Just a few minor issues to deliberate1. In spite of the authors having performed a meta-regression showing no effect on
publication year with the primary outcome, there is a wealth of literature that has shown
surgical outcomes to have improved over years. It would be interesting to see outcomes,
specifically the DAPT results stratified by recent trials (maybe before and after 2000?).
2. Some typographical errors mar an otherwise excellent manuscript-ie, 'week' instead of
'weak' in Discussions section.
3.The authors have used a relatively novel methodology to avoid 'clustering'/sample size
error by calculating effective sample size (ESS) for a clustered design. While this is a
statistically validated concept, more details should be made available to the interested
reader, and the intracluster correlation coefficient, or p (rho) should be reported in the
manuscript.

4.The authors themselves indicate specific limitations of not being able to perform
analyses by indications of ACS/non-ACS-which appears to be a significant weakness.
Similarly lack of sub-group analyses of urgent vs non-urgent CABG is a big detriment.
5. While the authors briefly mention outcomes with different dosing of ASA, a more
detailed discussion of outcomes by dosages of clopidogrel or lack thereof will help
strengthen the manuscript, and direct future research. Similarly, the combination of ASA+
rivaroxaban at various dosages may merit further elaboration-especially in view of the
recent findings from the COMPASS trial.
