The authors have responded very positively to the reviewer comments, in particular
shifting the time of matching to the time of receiving fenofibrate, and restricting the PS
analysis to data at the same time. However there remain a few points that need
addressing.
1. It's useful to understand why the fenofibrate group mortality appeared to be zero in the
first three months. I'm not sure though that starting the mortality clock at 3 months, i.e.
moving the KM curve back 3 months solves the problem. Would it not be better to start the
fenofibrate clock when treatment started, and the benefit of fenofibrate would then
gradually appear during the 3 months? The statistical methods do not mention excluding
outcome events in the first 3 months.

2. The results show a significant effect of fenofibrate on the composite coronary events
outcome. In Figure 3 this difference is tested in no fewer than 12 subgroup analyses, which
are not described in the statistical methods so it is unclear if the analyses were
prespecified. The conclusion is that high TG and/or low HDL-C patients particularly benefit
from fenofibrate. However Figure 3 also includes p-values for interaction, and none of them
are significant, particularly for the constructed TG/HDL-C comparison where p = 0.2. So
there are no grounds for claiming that fenofibrate benefits one patient group over another
(the Discussion acknowledges the non-significant interaction p-value). These claims in the
abstract and results cannot be justified and should be removed.
3. Previously I said "The HR axis in Figure 3 should be on a log scale, so that for example
0.5 and 2 are equally distant from 1." Unfortunately the authors have taken this to mean
presenting the log HR, which few readers will understand. Please give the HR in HR units
(not log), but use a log scale for the axis so that 0.5 and 2 are equally distant from 1.
4. Some smaller points of presentation. The abstract states that patients were "matched
up to 1:5". This is unclear, and I suggest instead something like "patients on combined
therapy were matched with up to 5 patients on monotherapy".
5. It's not clear why the abstract quotes the non-significant hazard ratios for CHD and IS,
as they are not the primary outcome. And as already stated, the last sentence of the
abstract results should be omitted. The same applies to the second item under What this
study adds.
6. The results section of Risk of major cardiovascular events could be rearranged to
advantage. The first paragraph could cite Table 2 instead of repeating the relevant
numbers in the text, and then point out that none of the three components of the
composite score are significant. Then the second paragraph can say the composite score is
significant, without needing to mention the separate components. Line 9 on page 12 can
also be omitted, abut the insignificance and small numbers.
7. The last sentence of the Results describes a slight but not significant difference in the
proportion of patients with high creatinine. If it's not significant I'm unclear why it is worth
highlighting.
8. The Discussion first sentence suggests that the benefit of fenofibrate was achieved
mainly by preventing CHD. This is true in the sense that the numbers of events in the two
groups were most different for CHD. However the HR for CHD was larger than for IS or
mortality, so actually its impact was less. I suggest omitting that phrase.
9. The p-values would be better presented to one significant digit, see
https://adc.bmj.com/content/100/7/608. And the percentages in the tables would be
easier to read given in the format % (n) with the percentage as a whole number.