This study of device innovation has an interesting design and two main conclusions -- first that about half of published
'first in human' devices end up ultimately reaching the market and second that it seems that industry-originated
devices have a better record of translation.
The first conclusion seems solid, and it includes the very interesting nugget that some of these reached the market
before publication of the first human studies. This conclusion is limited by the small number of devices studied,
relating to publications from over a decade ago. The authors justify this based on the time it takes to commercialize a
product, but this is undercut by the authors' recognition that many devices are not studied extensively and their own
conclusion that many of these devices are marketed before the publication of a first in human study. It's also worth
considering the wide variation in device types that the authors evaluate, and whether it is fair to analyze an
'instrument' lumped together with an 'imaging' device. On the other hand, if the authors get too granular, then their
relatively small N may lead to difficulties in making even qualitative comparisons.
I had more trouble with the second conclusion because I wondered whether it was more likely that an industry actor,
driven by a profit-seeking motive, would publish an article about a successful device, and would not invest the time
and energy in publishing an article about an unsuccessful device. By contrast, an academic investigator may be driven
by norms to publish more extensively. I was therefore skeptical about the apparently significant comparisons the
authors made. I'm not sure how to account for such potential bias in the analytic approach.
Specific comments:
-- I was confused a bit in the intro paragraphs, as the authors tried to contrast drugs and devices. Initially it seemed
like there was a contrast between drugs and devices, but then in paragraph 3, the authors appear to claim that there
are reasonable similarities.
-- Line 91 wouldn't say "report on"
-- Methods: Are kappa scores available?
-- Discussion: The FDA does not consider devices that reach the market through the 510K process to be 'approved.'
The correct regulatory terminology in those cases is 'cleared.'
-- When is introduction of a product "regulated, structured, and not variable"? There's regulation around its
approval/clearance process, but after that point the FDA's regulatory authority recedes.
-- Later in the discussion you should be careful about overstating the differences between drugs and devices; high risk
devices at least are supposed to be tested in human clinical trials before approval.
-- A comprehensive online supplement of device names and studies would be useful.