In this article, authors explore how healthcare organizations are influenced or stimulated by their
external environment to improve quality, as well as how they support quality through their functions
and processes. In addition, the authors also identify factors that may support healthcare organizations
seeking to improve performance.
The piece is a well-conceived, well-written and novel contribution, synthesizing a substantial scope of
theory and empirical evidence from a variety of disciplines in an attempt to shine a light on the
particular role of healthcare organizations in QI efforts. The authors quite appropriately begin by
placing healthcare organizations in a larger ecological context, moving next to modes of governance
(noting there may be multiple modes), and drawing on established models and adapting them for
relevance to QI. A specific illustration of how organizational processes contribute to QI, drawn from
the empirical literature, brings concreteness to what can often be rather obtuse concepts. Finally, they
propose a new taxonomy to classify factors that support organizational-level efforts to support to QI.
Of the many valuable insights offered, the appeal for regulators to provide organizations the freedom
to innovate and experiment is among the most pressing (e.g., see the culture change movement in
US nursing homes for an excellent case of how CMS regulators are working with providers to create a
regulatory climate that allows for experimentation and person-centered care). The use of interrelated
frameworks and generally accessible writing style makes the manuscript of likely appeal to a general
readership. There are a number of catalysts to spark debate and discussion among readers from
diverse perspectives (at all levels of organizational hierarchy, across health and social care sectors,
across regulatory boundaries).

Nevertheless, in the spirit of strengthening the accessibility of the paper for BMJ readership beyond
those versed in QI, several core concepts that would benefit from greater precision and clarity, as
detailed below. Given rapidly changing configurations of health and social care delivery systems,
terminology such as “healthcare organization”, “organization” “healthcare environment” “organizations
providing healthcare” “system-wide intervention” may be interpreted differently by readers from
different backgrounds and expertise.
Introduction:
1. A brief concise definition of ‘organizations providing health care’ would be useful, as there are many
diverse type of organizations, some of which might not be amenable to the proposed framework (e.g.,
private physician groups, emergency/urgent care chains). Does this refer to acute trusts/hospitals?
2. For readers not versed in QI, a few sentences on QI, differentiating process from outcomes, would
be helpful. In general, throughout the paper it would be helpful to note where appropriate the
intended meaning of QI as it relates to process and outcomes. Are the models primarily focused on
patient outcomes vs. care processes (or both)? Do elements or principles vary depending on outcome
v process?
Main text:
1. Page 3 Line 11: Please clarify ‘system-wide intervention’. In the current US and UK health/social
care landscape, ‘systems’ are being redefined to cross sectoral and other boundaries as they relate to
health of the population.
2. Page 3 Line 26: Second paragraph and throughout. It seems preferable to focus on the outcomes of
QI (rather than enhancing QI activity per se?).
3. Page 3 Line 48: apologies for redundancy but here too, a bit more specificity as to the concept of
‘organizations’ is needed; who are the actors? (e.g., organizations take a key role in shaping the care
delivered at the front line).
4. Page 4 Lines 13-14: organizations and the people working in them are not mutually exclusive, it is
not clear what dynamic is being described in terms of how they relate to each other?
5. Page 7 Line 51. Can you provide an example of how focus on assurance to external parties can be
at the expense of QI?
6. Page 7 Line 55. Given current efforts to integrate across sectors, the list of stakeholders is
necessarily broader than managers, clinicians and service users (unless this refers to
cross-organizations and sectors?) Please clarify.
7. Page 9 Lines 17-18. This sentence is difficult to interpret. Organizations need to be outward facing,
but also engage with the wider healthcare environment – how are these distinct?
8. Page 9 Lines 23. Is there a grammatical error here? Alongside challenge from independent voices?
(and please clarify independent voices).

Consider integrating seminal literature on organizational learning literature (see Tucker, Edmondson
from Harvard) as germane to the concept of being outward facing. See for example Nembhard et al.
Deliberate Learning in Health Care: The Effect of Importing Best Practices and Creative Problem
Solving on Hospital Performance Improvement Med Care Res Rev 2014 Oct 71(5):450-471.
Minor suggestions:
In the standfirst:

Authors acknowledge an increasingly complex healthcare environment; this is perhaps rather narrow
given current emphasis on integration of health and social care, as well as a focus on population
health and wellbeing. Consider expanding the frame. For instance, social care organizations may make
important contributions to quality improvement (e.g., post hospital discharge to supportive housing
might prevent readmission rates).
In key messages:
Second bullet – please add a noun. Organizations are highly influential on what?
Third bullet – please rephrase or clarify the meaning of the ‘wider healthcare environment’
In main paper:
Box 3 Title should be ‘features’ rather than ‘factors’ (to connote they are mutable and dynamic
qualities of the organizational environment).
Page 9 Lines 23. Is there a grammatical error here? Alongside challenge from independent voices?
(and please clarify independent voices).
