My most substantial criticisms of this paper are that it fails to convey an appropriate sense of urgency
and that it is blind to the numerous conceptual flaws in the SDGs (eg Hickel, J. The contradiction of
the sustainable development goals: Growth versus ecology on a finite planet. Sustainable
Development 2019.) Like the framers of SDG 3, the authors are too biomedical; they give insufficient
attention to the social determinants of health.
The paper, appropriately, discusses climate change and migration, but omits any discussion of climate
change and conflict.
P13 Table 1. There is no mention that those engaged in the health system, nor advocates for
improved health, can and lobby for an accelerated energy transition, as well as for other determinants
of long term health, with improved ecological and social determinants.

Minor issues: The paper mentions both malnutrition and undernutrition, without clarifying the
difference between them; they are not synonymous.
Page 3 line 28. It states that the "United Nations agreed to achieve UHC by 2030"; do the authors
mean the UN, or the nations that constitute the UN? In any case, the paper does not convey any
skepticism about the sincerity of this pledge.
Page 3 line 54. The paper suggests that food and water-borne diseases are "direct" effects of climate
change; this is contrary to most classifications of the health effect of climate change.
Page 6 line 41. No need to qualify Chad as a country.
Page 6 line 18. The authors state: "Resource scarcities caused by a changing climate, like lower
agricultural yields and water shortages, may also force people to establish new livelihoods elsewhere."
But this glosses over any difficulty that they might have. For example, refugees from Central America,
which is experiencing a crisis in part related to drought and hence climate change (as well as high
fertility, misogyny and corruption) are being denied entry to the US, and face persecution. There are
many other examples.
Page 6 line 27. The discussion of displaced persons should mention mental health and the possibility
of having been tortured or traumatized from other causes.
Page 7 line 14. The article has a sentence which states "if poverty increases, governments will have to
provide greater financial assistance for their population’s health care." However, this is plausible only
if governments sincerely try to provide universal health care and only if they have funds; consider
Venezuela as a counter-example.
Page 8 line 13. Please don't attribute the effects solely to climate change. For example, the power
shortage was also due to poor governance and inadequate relief from the US mainland.
Page 8 line 34. It is arguably true that climate change has contributed to the flooding of the
Brahmaputra River, and the authors are correct to observe that it is not the sole cause. However, they
miss a chance to mention other obvious co-factors, including deforestation, high human population
density and high fertility; factors which lead to the building of homes in locations vulnerable to
flooding .
Page 8 line 46. The problems in Bangladesh are only not climate related, but climate change related.
Page 9 line 8: please comment not only on the shortage but the maldistribution of health care
workers.
Page 9 line 25. While health care workers may experience impaired cognition due to heat, this is likely
to be a far greater problem in the population served; but how does heat compare to nutritional,
parasitic and educational causes for sub-cognition in such settings? (It is probably minor.)
The authors here mention non air conditioned settings; the point should also be made, both for the
population and health workers, that in many settings air conditioning is temporarily or permanently
unavailable, for example from blackouts and poverty. In some places water is unavailable or limited,
not only for drinking but even for cooling.
