General:
This important analysis examines the prevalence of female first authorship at 5 high impact general medical journals
from 1994-2014. Assignment of gender was comprehensively done, with only 2.1% unidentified after web-based
searches and additional methods for sex indeterminant names. Prevalence of female first authorship rose over the period
for 4 of 5 journals. There were large differences in the increases in female first authorship for non-experimental studies
than for experimental ones, and differences in gains in first authorship by study type as well by journal. These results
are important to have known to the medical community. Understanding the reasons for differences between journals and
for different study types may identify practices and strategies that improve female first authorship and allow women to
achieve greater academic success and promotion.
Specific comments:
Introduction, page 4, para 1, line 10-12:
The discrepancies in entry into different fields by gender is interesting, but perhaps not directly relevant to the current
paper (differences in interventional cardiology vs. OB). Additional discussion of the % of women engaged in research
compared with men (%MD PhD, % K awards, % R01 etc) would be helpful, as these are the direct mechanisms that
tend to lead to publication, particularly in high impact venues.
Page 4, para 2, line 38. The syntax is confusing- I couldn’t decipher the referent for “respectively”. Please clarify.
Page 5, para 3, line47. Please be more specific in how “experimental” and “nonexperimental” were defined. Was
experimental limited to randomized trials and biologic/ basic studies? What about translational studies? Were GWAS,
epidemiology, meta-analysis, systemic reviews all included in nonexperimental? What about position statements or

consensus statements? Given the wide differences in female authorship by these categories, more detail is needed.
Sensitivity analysis removing Archives (with a high percentage of non-experimental studies and large contribution to the
overall numberss) would be helpful.
Table 4. Testing the association of journal impact factor with female first authorship prevalence would be interesting. I
would also like to see the results unadjusted by number of authors, since I am not sure how this is affecting the odds
ratios presented.
Page 7, para 2, lines 21-27. I am surprised that RCT were not designated separately since it appears that the
“experimental” designation may capture other kinds of studies as well, and this is usually clear from the abstract and
keywords.
Page 7, para 2, line 58. Increases in authorship did occur “across all study types and 4 of 5 journals”—but this obscures
the much larger increase in nonexperimental than experimental female first authorship. This point deserves further
emphasis as well as discussion (and perhaps direct comparison of rates of first authorship in each journal by this strata,
which appears would be significant for most journals.
In three of five journals (Annals, JAMA, NEJM), women had higher % of first authorship for non-experimental studies.
Notably, rates of first authorship in experimental studies more than doubled for Archives and JAMA over the 20 year
study period, although improvements in non-experimental studies in these journals had a more modest.
The “Total number and %” of female first author papers do not need to be bolded in Table 3 (far right), as the change
over time is perhaps more important and relevant to the paper. Reporting the absolute (or relative) increase in percent
female first authorship from baseline period to final period in this table, or p for trend, would be more pertinent.
For example, JAMA saw a 4-fold rise in female fist authorship from the earliest to the final period (10% to 41.7%)starting as one of the lowest and ending as the second highest. A similar pattern was seen for JAMA’s internal medicine
specialty journal, Archives of Internal Medicine (now JAMA-Archives). Differences in editorial leadership and strategies
may have been at play, and it is tempting to note that the first female editor-in-chief (Catherine DeAnglis )was at the
helm of JAMA/Archives from 2000-2011.
Understanding the forces behind these differences in publication type will be important. I think that this point needs to
be emphasized in the conclusions as well (page 10, last paragraph). Despite the parity in medical school matriculation,
stark differences in the % of women in research (basic, clinical and translational) persist. Women have a higher
prevalence of choosing solely clinical/medical education roles that are not associated with the same academic journal
productivity.