There is now a growing literature on gambling as a substantial public health problem. This
paper properly draws attention to the magnitude of the problems, the need for attention
and action by (among others) public health practitioners and policy-makers, and a “public
health approach”, with “suggestions for how policy and practice should be reframed to
implement effective measures to prevent harm”.
While the intent is laudable, and the paper includes some interesting material, there are
some significant omissions.
References cited to support the thesis that academics, policy-makers and some regulators
recognise gambling as a public health issue include a position paper from the UK Faculty of
Public Health and a Labour Party review, but there is little discussion in the paper of some
key concerns and proposals raised in these documents (or indeed in the Gambling
Commission strategy document which is also cited).
There is little discussion of specific public policy issues and options in relation to gambling.
While the paper’s title indicates that it seeks to address “challenges for improving policy
and practice”, there is also little discussion about specific challenges beyond noting a need
to recognise the extent of the problem, and that responses must go beyond the
individual/treatment arena.
There is little mention of the gambling industry, other than in passing. This is in very
marked contrast to the approach taken by the Faculty of Public Health whose section on “A
Public Health Approach to Gambling” starts with the words, “Commercial gambling is a
global corporate industry”, and also to that taken by both the (governmental) Gambling
Commission Strategy and the Labour Party Review. This is a strange omission, given the
increasing focus of recent years in terms of both the academic literature and public policy
debate nationally and internationally on the role of the industry and issues such as the
development and promotion of new forms of gambling, the impacts of industry gambling
promotion on children, young people and vulnerable groups, the influence of the gambling
industry through lobbying and related processes on public policy, the industry’s CSR
approaches (including its role in research and education – e.g. in the UK the
industry-funded GambleAware organisation), the industry’s efforts to be part of policy
development processes, and debate on measures that may be appropriate to address the
industry’s promotional and other activities. Given the paper’s claim to be “drawing on
Britain as a case study”, these issues should have been addressed both in general terms
and in the context of the UK specifically.
Beyond this, the discussion on policy approaches and challenges appears limited, and
perhaps somewhat naïve. As noted above, there is little more than noting a need for
“effective preventative action”, “the formulation of universal measures…” and “well-funded
prevention strategies”, but no consideration of what these might entail – although they are
indeed well summarised in the Faculty of Public Health position statement, as elsewhere.
There is a very brief reference to cognate areas such as tobacco, obesity and alcohol, but
no discussion of lessons to be learned from them. These are well set out in many papers
and reports. (The 2013 Moodie et al Lancet Profits and Pandemics paper would be a good
starting point.) There is also no discussion of the role of advocacy, or the challenges faced
by those engaged in public health advocacy on gambling. While the “socio-ecological
model”, which is cited as a “promising approach”, may be of theoretical interest, the

assertion here, as in the “Framework” report, that it “has been widely used in other public
health areas” is overdone (and the references cited for this assertion are limited).
The authors are right to identify the need for a focus on prevention, and it would be good
to see a major paper on gambling as a public health problem, but this would need to be
much more comprehensive, and to take account of the broader contexts.
Some of the text requires editing or clearer referencing.
Page 1 line 15. Clarify reference. Text says “speech”; reference appears to be to a report?
Page 2 line 20 – typo – should be coroners’
Page 2 line 43. My reading is that the reference cited does not make this estimate for the
burden of disease but rather for the “total burden of harms”. This is an important
distinction. (The evidence on gambling harms is strong enough – but the case is weakened
by assertions that can be readily challenged. The same applies to Page 5, lines 3 – 5,
where the wording would need to be more carefully phrased.)
Page 3 line 22. “…..jurisdictions such as Australia, New Zealand and Canada….”. To the
best of my knowledge, true for New Zealand, but not for the Australian or Canadian
governments.
Page 3, line 52. Typo – should be “with regard”.
Page 4, line 51. Typo - should be “affected”.
Page 7, line 22 – “In public health contexts, prevention is better than cure; a feature
recognised by some state jurisdictions in Australia, Canada and New Zealand” – needs
references (not clear what it means, and to which jurisdictions it refers).
