In this review, Bellou et al. have systemically summarised statistical models designed to
predict COPD-related prognostic outcomes up to mid-September 2016, following a
systematic review performed six years prior. The authors have appropriately defined
prediction models as per the TRIPOD statement and have followed the CHARMS checklist to
guide extraction of data from individual studies in this systematic review of prediction
models. In particular, they have methodically specified the patient population, defined
clinically important outcomes, outlined candidate predictors, assessed methodological model
characteristics, summarised the proportion that were adequately validated, as well as
illustrated the risk of bias. The results have been clearly presented with tables and figures.
Of the 129 original prediction models, it is notable that only 19% were externally validated
and in selected populations, so their generalisability is limited. The authors make
recommendations including a focus on external validating existing COPD prediction models
especially as the internationally recognised GOLD guidelines endorse models containing
multiple COPD-related prognostic predictors.
Major comment
1. While the risk assessment for bias across the 6 domains was comprehensive, the study
cases which were labelled “unclear” when missing data was not specified by the authors
(page 9 line 33), may well reflect a reporting issue and may not necessarily be subject to a
true “high risk of bias”. For example, the extent of missingness (eg. total participant
numbers – numbers in the statistical analysis) could be calculated for those studies relying
on complete cases analysis, as a low fraction of missing information may have suggested
this approach was appropriate. This is also relevant to the nominated high-risk criterion of
“patients with missing data and an imputation was not performed (Table 2)”. Similarly, the
type of imputation method could have been specified, as more recent multiple imputation
methods are superior to single imputation methodology. As the standardised data extraction
form was predetermined by the authors, these concepts could be raised in the discussion
and the potential for overestimating the risk of bias in the missing data domain
acknowledged.

2. The domain of sample size in CHARMS has not been included in tables 4 and S1. This
domain outlines the number of participants/outcomes/events as well as the number of
events per variable. If not feasible to calculate for all studies, this could be done for the 17
(9%) original studies identified to have been externally validated with a low risk of bias, as
these as likely to be the most generalisable and relevant to clinical practice.
Minor comment
3. It is stated that “we excluded cross-sectional studies, …” on page 8 line 25, however, 3
cross-sectional studies have been included based on external validation in cohort studies
(page 10 line 42). Suggest including the rationale in the methods, rather than in the results
4. Regarding Figure 3, it could be interpreted that FEV1 as a predictor was especially
common in OPD settings, and PaCO2 and serum albumin in inpatient-ED hospital settings.
Similarly, some further interpretation to contrast models from non-ICU and ICU hospitalised
inpatients would add to the paper
5. Regarding the end date of the search in the limitation section, it could be mentioned that
studies from Sept 2016 will most likely increasingly employ multiple imputation methods for
dealing with missing data, or at least on reporting of missing information, as this is
becoming more routine in epidemiological practice
6. Abbreviations for NR, NO and NA in all relevant tables would be useful
