COMMENTS 12/04/2020
Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what does it
add? If not, please cite relevant references.
Yes. The study adds knowledge about the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treating COVID19.
This is a multicentre, open-label RCT
• Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
Yes. The pandemic for the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 is of interest worldwide.
• Scientific reliability
There are some points that should be clarified for the reliability of the information referred to inclusion
criteria and results (see below).
• Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
The research question is not well defined due to the changes in the protocol and not to adapt to the
manuscript adequately these changes. Initially, the research question about the efficacy of HCQ for the
treatment of COVID19 was in mild and moderate pneumonia, but finally, severe patients were included.
But this inclusion criterion is not in the manuscript and neither in the summary of changes to the
protocol in Appendices.
• Overall design of study - adequate?
Yes, the design was a multicenter, open-label, parallel RCT that compared HCQ plus standard treatment
with standard treatment alone.
The random was generated correctly and the assignment to interventions concealed. The limitation was
that the RCT was not double-blinded.
• Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?
The random sequence was stratified by the severity of the disease in mild-moderate and severe. The
inclusion criteria are not enough specific in the manuscript, the authors must describe better them. It is
not clear if it was mandatory that all patients had signs of pneumonia by CT. Patients received
co-interventions that were not enough specified in the manuscript, especially the use of antiviral drugs.
It is necessary to know how many patients received these drugs and if they were balanced by group of
interventions. These factors can influence the interpretation of the results.
• Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT for
randomised trials? Ethical?
The inclusion criteria must be more explicit.
Important changes in methods after trial commencement such as eligibility criteria or sample size or the
interruption of the study with reasons are not specified in the manuscript. They are in annexed
materials. Better to include them in methods.
It seems that for a difficulty in recruitment the RCT has been stopped (commented in discussion), but it
is convenient to mention in methods.
• Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
Co-treatment with antiviral drugs should be specified by groups (N patients and name of antiviral) in
descriptive results for interpreting better the efficacy of HCQ. And discussion should include an
interpretation of the influence of antiviral drugs in the results of the RCT.
• Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data?
Message clear?

The co-treatment with antiviral drugs should be specified by groups for interpreting better the results.
• References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
References are corrects
• Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - reflect accurately what the paper says?
Yes
Other comments
It is necessary to revise the English language; in some sections of methods the future is used: Line 33
and 36
In results, line 39 there are missing words: whereas 2 patients reported serious adverse events in the
HCQ plus SOC group…
