The study is a comparative cohort study comparing the outcomes of arthroscopic partial meniscectomy (APM) in those
with traumatic meniscus tears to those with degenerative meniscus tears (TT vs DT). The question is an important one
because APM surgery is common and because although many previous studies have compared APM for DT to
alternative treatments, there have been no such trials for TT.
A potential problem with this study is the poor definition of the type of tear (TT vs DT). The authors address this by
providing several sensitivity analyses using different definitions, however this still requires some clarification (see
below). The comments below mainly concern clarity of definitions as I found this somewhat confusing at times. I have
no major issues with the methodology.
1. The definition of TT vs DT is unclear, and possibly varies from the published study protocol. The protocol states that
all patients aged 18-34 and those aged 35-55 with ‘violent’ tears are TT – the rest being DT. The definition used in the
study is not clear. The authors provide the definition (TT is defined as “Participants aged 18-34 years and replying that
symptoms evolved as a result of a ‘specific incident’ or ‘violent incident’ AND participants aged 35-55 years replying
symptoms evolving as a result of a ‘violent incident’”) but then state that it was changed “to include all participants
aged between 18-55”. All patients aged 18-55 were always included in all definitions, it is how they were divided into
TT and DT that needs clarification. Was the definition changed prior to analysis (as stated)? Please provide a clear
definition of the definition used in the analysis.
2. The authors provide several sensitivity analyses based on the definition of TT vs DT, which strengthens the study.
However, I would have expected one of those definitions to be the definition used in the original published protocol in
order to better address bias due to selective outcome analysis.
3. There is inconsistency between the power analysis and the primary outcome. The power analysis is based on a
difference of 8 points in KOOS but the threshold for clinical importance chosen was a difference of 10 points.
4. For the sensitivity analysis using “null responder imputation” (which used baseline value carried forward, I cannot
see how this was done “in addition to” the imputation methods used in the main analysis. Surely, it can only be one or
the other. I also question the validity of using last observation carried forward using baseline observations. This may
require input from a statistician.
5. Terminology around KOOS vs KOOS4 vs KOOS subscales vs KOOS4 subscales is confusing. If KOOS4 was used,
then please define it once and use the term “KOOS4” throughout the results.
6. In table 3, the term “NTT” (a term used in the protocol for non traumatic tears) is used instead of “DT” (used
throughout this manuscript)
7. The protocol lists many other outcomes, such as SF36, global perceived effect and adverse events. Are these to be
reported in separate publications? This information would be helpful.