Thanks for the opportunity to review this manuscript on this important and timely
topic.
The first half of the article provides a very good overview of how commercial food
actors —particularly transnational corporations—produce, distribute and market ‘less
healthy’ processed foods, and the various strategies and tactics used to do so. The
focus is on the production of profitable, cheap, palatable packaged and take away
foods and beverages. This includes the ways trans-national food corporations use
their market and economic power to engage in corporate political activities, such as
through lobbying, sponsorships, funding research, etc. A picture is painted of a very
powerful corporate sector that has employed market and political strategies to
increase and maintain sales of poor quality foods. All of this material is well
summarised and is based on a substantial body of literature that is referenced on
these strategies and activities.
I find the use of the term ‘commercial food systems’ throughout the article rather
confusing. The article begins by defining it very broadly so as to include any and
every business or organisation involved in the production and distribution and
preparation of agricultural and processed foods (48-50). This is followed by the
statement that the “output (of the commercial sector) is heavily skewed towards
highly profitable ultra-processed foods” (59), but this is only true if referring to the
outputs of large manufacturing and food service companies. The authors then state
they will focus only on the food manufacturing, service, retail and marketing sectors
(70-73). Yet even such a slightly narrower definition doesn’t distinguish between
different types or sizes of companies within these sectors, nor the types of foods
produced, and their relative power. In practice it becomes clear the article is mainly
discussing large trans-national food corporations, as if this was synonymous with the
commercial food sector – so why not just define it in this way, or just refer to food
corporations throughout?
Regarding the use of the concept of ‘complex adaptive systems’ (108-109), I’m
sceptical of what this framing concept adds to the description or analysis of the
commercial food sector, especially if we understand the latter to refer to
trans-national food corproations. When used in the banal sense that the commercial
food sector (ie. corporations) is ‘constantly changing, adapting and reacting’, this is
in some ways obvious and doesn’t require a ‘complex system’ concept to
understand. On the contrary, this concept appears to conceal and obfuscate some
important structural characteristics of this commercial food sector (ie. food
corporations), and the ways different actors and entities are changing and reacting.
For example, to say that the commercial food sector has ‘adapted’ to prevailing
social circumstances (110-111), or that ‘continual growth’ is an ‘emergent property’
of the system, tends to conceal or naturalise the fact that specific powerful actors
(eg corporations) and specific policy settings (eg. neoliberal economic policies,
corporate governance frameworks, shareholder interests) have been instrumental in
constituting these trends in particular periods and geographical settings. The authors
later acknowledge the power of these corporations to shape these processes, but
that just seems to undermine the systems metaphor. As with the definition of
commercial food sector discussed above, the notion that there is just one,
essentially unified, adaptive system seems to obscure the role of specific social
actors, even of different corporations, and of different types of policies and
production systems.
The term ‘unhealthy processed foods’ hasn’t been defined, other than occasional
references to these foods being high is sugar, salt and saturated fat. There is one
reference to the term ‘ultra-processed foods’ (60) – a term which does have a
specific definition - but this is not defined in the article either. Giving a sense of

these definitions is important if an argument is being made – as it is in the last
section - that the industry is already producing ‘healthier processed foods’ (but
which similarly have not been defined or identified). Does that just mean foods with
reduced salt, sugar, fat? If so, some experts are critical of such reformulation
initiatives, which may produce less harmful foods, but not necessarily nutritious
foods. But there are no examples to illustrate the claim that food companies are
now moving towards selling ‘healthy’ processed foods.
Having identified the enormous power of food corporations to produce tasty and
desirable products, to market and distribute their products, and to influence the
scientific and political process, the last section dealing with how the commercial food
sector (ie these large corporations) can create healthier food systems seems to me
to be less convincing and not well supported by evidence or analysis.
At the start of the article it is noted that ‘shifting the balance of the harm and good
caused by the food industry will require major system change’ (101-102), and for
the need to ‘limit the influence of these corporations on health policy’. Yet the article
goes on to argue that food corporations not only could, but are already moving
towards healthier foods, largely through their own market-driven initiatives. There
are no suggestions for addressing the market power of these corporations. On the
contrary, the article endorses the current and growing size of these corporations,
including their current strategy of buying out smaller start-up companies that
produce ‘healthier’ products through the use of financial instruments (205).
The claim that healthier options are emerging (191-201), that they can be more
profitable, and are being embraced by consumers, is not supported by evidence, nor
are any examples of healthy processed foods provided (this also relates to the lack
of a definition mentioned earlier). Instead references are made to increasing fresh
food sales and farmers markets, neither of which relate to the types of prepared
foods produced by these food corporations. Healthier take away outlets are also
mentioned without examples. Food companies do have diverse portfolios of both
relatively good quality and poor-quality foods, and there is growing demand for
better quality, premium and often more expensive prepared foods that food
corporations are responding to. Small start-up companies are leading the way with
this trend, as the article acknowledges. But these trends are occurring alongside the
continued – and in some cases growing – consumption of poor quality foods and
beverages. This is particularly the case in low and middle-income countries, where
consumption of ultra-processed foods is rapidly rising and continuing to displace
traditional wholefood eating patterns. It should be acknowledged that the vast
majority of foods produced by these companies are little more than junk food (see
for example the ATNI 2018 report product analysis). The relationship between these
contrary market trends and dynamics is not explored. For example, is Big Food
simply appropriating these new trends as another line in its product and market
diversification strategies? Is the minor reformulation of existing products and the
production of fortified and functional foods being used to legitimise and prevent the
further regulation of the products and practices of these corporations? The article
acknowledges the ‘health washing’ arguments of critics (185) but does little to allay
those concerns. The article also begins by stating that the analysis presented is
equally applicable to high, medium and low-income countries (73-75), yet the very
different issues and stages of these dietary transitions faced by LMICs are not
acknowledged or addressed.
In terms of what kinds of policies are required, while ‘voluntary pledges’ are
acknowledged as having been ineffective, ‘industry-led initiatives’ (213) are said to
hold promise, with the only example offered being that UK supermarkets have
removed confectionary from checkouts. It is claimed (without evidence) that
government regulation and self-regulation alone won’t work, so the solution – at

least those favoured by industry - is ‘thoughtful regulation that does not impinge’ on
companies or ‘over-manage’ the process, , with an acknowledgement that
corporations would prefer ‘not too onerous’ government regulations. The UK
graduated soft drinks levy is cited as an example of such policies, though as a
mandatory government tax on all sugar sweetened beverages, it is unclear why this
fits the description. There is otherwise no mention of the range of government
policies or regulations that are currently being implemented around the world, or
any explanation as to why they are inadequate. We are arguably at the very early
stages of seeing governments finally begin to implement mandatory regulation of
the practices and products of these corporations, so it seems premature to write off
this approach.
The article also calls for the ‘closer alignment between seemingly disparate
paradigms’ of business and public health (242). Alignment sounds nice, but there is
no explanation as to what this would look like, or who really needs to compromise.
The authors state that ‘humility and willingness to change’ are required by both
‘public health and commercial stakeholders alike’, yet while the problems with the
commercial stakeholders have been clearly identified, no limitations of the public
health sector’s approach have been identified with respect to their approach to these
issues – so why and how do they need to change?
One small point. The statement that it is because “people overeat” (63) — overeat
what? — that is a primary cause of NCDs is questionable, or at least very simplistic,
in terms of what we know of the dietary causes of NCDs.
