General comments
In this paper, the authors found no association between fluoroquinolones and serious arrhythmia in a
Danish-Swedish cohort. The authors underline the limitation of previous studies related to confounding
by indication. This paper is interesting and tried to shed lights on the complex relationship between
fluoroquinolones-related cardiac arrhythmias. However, there are several aspects, which need
clarifications and/or extension.
Background
With this statement:
“However, it cannot be ruled out that the observed increased risk was attributable to either factors
associated with the acute infection itself or confounding due to poorer baseline health of the
fluoroquinolone users in these studies.”
the authors underline the relevance of confounding by indication as the main shortcoming affecting
previous studies. I partly agree with this statement. In any case, the paragraph should be extended to
describe how prior studies did not exhaustively consider this bias. Indeed, some fluroquinolones showed
more than 2-fold increased risk of arrhythmia, and it is hard to imagine that confounding by indication is
able to explain this effect size in full.
Methods
Methodology is not easy to follow, and it should be clarified for the readers. My understanding is that
antibiotic courses (a patient could be therefore split in different records and exposed to penicillin V and
fluoroquinolones as well) are the exposure categories. Then, the follow-up is divided in three timewindows. Given that the event is very acute, why the authors did not limit the follow-up to a short-time
period (e.g. a month)? In addition, cases of arrhythmia are not incident cases. Why the authors did not
exclude previous event of arrhythmia? This approach should reduce selection bias and underestimation
towards the null (see Ray et al., AJE 2003). Some additional analysis should be performed for incident
cases only.
Concerning the outcome definition, which kind of arrhythmia is under study? It is not clear whether
ventricular or atrial fibrillations have been included or not. Did the authors include both of them?
In addition, given the known difference in risk across molecules, I would suggest to stress the limitation
concerning the fact that these results might be referred to ciprofloxacin only.
My understanding is that the incidence rate of arrhythmia for fluoroquinolones and penicillin V was
computed from the first prescription (index date) of penicillin V or fluoroquinolones. Given that a patient
could be exposed to both of them, did the author adopted a time-dependent approach for the statistical
analysis? I did not understand how GEE models have been estimated here. Furthermore, the matching
procedures adopted for PS should be described more in depth.
Discussion
The discussion should be rewritten after addressing the aforementioned methodological concerns.