This is a large and statistically complex analysis of the impact of the Feed The Future
program on the nutritional status of children from 33 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. I
have comments on the study design, analysis, presentation and interpretation.
1. The presentation involves two alternative formulae describing the regression models
fitted, followed by the numerical results of many such models. The reader may or may not
be comfortable with formulae, but no attempt is made to demonstrate the models visually.
The nearest the paper comes to illustrating the model is eFigure 1, which shows the
regression lines for FTF and control up to 2011, i.e. before the intervention. But no
corresponding lines are shown for post-2011. So the reader has to imagine the pattern of
regression lines pre- and post-FTF to understand the model.
It is important to show both the data and the superimposed regression lines for one or
more of the regression models, to visualise the analysis and test the face validity of the fit.
The raw mean country-year data are usefully shown as a series of country facets in
eFigures 2-4, but the figures are hidden away and I missed them on first reading - they
need to be in the main paper. But in addition they need to be seen in a way that allows the
model to be tested. This could be done by combining the data in each of eFigures 2-4 as
two plots, superimposing the FTF countries in one plot and the controls in another. This
would allow the reader to look for an inflection in the FTF countries plot around 2011.
The fitted regression lines for each country need to be shown superimposed on the country
facets, to test the fit. In addition they could be shown combined in a single figure (without
the data), providing a visual summary of the fitted model. It would also be plausible to
provide more than one such combined figure, e.g. to contrast the impact of different
assumptions on the fitted lines.
2. The model in equations 1 and 2 assumes a step change in malnutrition following the
intervention, i.e. parallel regression lines with different intercepts before and after. But it is
unrealistic to think that the impact of the intervention will be visible on day 1, and a more
realistic model would allow the effect to build over time. This model is tested in eTable 8,
but it needs to be introduced earlier on as a realistic alternative to the simpler model.
3. The study design is multilevel, actually four levels, with data from country, year within
country, household within year and child within household, yet the data are analysed with
robust standard errors at a single level. It would be useful to explain why separate errors
at the different levels are not estimated, with the intervention effect tested using the
appropriate level error. In addition the cluster level at which the standard error is

estimated varies from model to model, when surely the study design defines which level is
appropriate.
4. The data are weighted by survey design and by country population, but it’s important to
recognise that weighting may not be relevant if the study aim is purely to show the
statistical impact of the intervention. Using weightings ensures that the estimated effect
sizes apply to the underlying population, but it inevitably affects the significance of the
findings. The key issue is how to interpret the study aim “To evaluate the impact of the
Feed the Future program”. Is the impact to be measured in the effect size or the
significance of the effect size? For me the significance is what counts, and in this case
weighting is not appropriate. So the impact of weighting on the significance levels needs to
be demonstrated for one or more of the models.
5. Some more minor comments. Implausible observations were excluded based on WHO
criteria (page 7), but more detail should be given.
6. The Statistical Approaches section (page 8) refers to the probability of stunting, waisting
and underweight, but “probability” would be better replaced by “proportion”.
7. In equation 2 the main effect terms for FTF and post are deliberately omitted due to
collinearity. It is a fundamental principle when fitting interactions to include the main
effects as well, so this is unconvincing. A better and simpler solution would be to centre
(i.e. subtract the mean) of the FTF and post variables prior to analysis, which would
obviate the need to include the main effects.
8. The results at the top of page 13 speak of a “decrease” in prevalence associated with
FTF, implying that FTF caused it. But as an observational study this assumption is not
warranted, and the wording should be more nuanced. The next paragraph estimates the
numbers of children “prevented” from being stunted due to FTF, and here the causal
assumption needs to be explicitly stated.
9. Table 3 gives results for eight different models, showing how the FTF effect size varies
according to the degree of covariate adjustment. However the models are not directly
comparable, with fewer data for models 5-8. It would be better to use the smaller sample
sizes for all eight models, allowing direct comparisons between them, and the loss of power
would be small. Also the lines in the table giving N could be omitted.
A focus on levels of significance is now depracated, and the standard errors and asterisks
in Table 3 would be better replaced by confidence intervals. It would work better giving the
values to one decimal place rather than two, as the extra precision is unwarranted (see
https://adc.bmj.com/content/100/7/608). The standard errors are typically 0.8 or greater,
so the confidence interval widths exceed 3. On this basis the second decimal place is
uninformative, and the same applies to the eTables.
That said, the Appendix includes results for 59 models (excluding the
leave-one-country-out models), and it is hard to judge them against each other. Presenting
them all graphically (including those of Table 3) in something like a forest plot would be
useful, and this would emphasise the message of the paper that the conclusions are
broadly robust to model perturbations.
10. The final paragraph of the Results explores to what extent the FTF and control
countries were similar at baseline, as the DID analysis assumes. It would make better
sense to start with this, discussing it in the context of Table 2, rather than coming to it as
an afterthought. This might also be a better way to present the underlying model, by first
describing it pre-FTF and then expanding it to include the intervention.

11. I had difficulty matching the before-after effect sizes in Figure 1 with those of model 8
in Table 3. In fact the histograms show differences corresponding to model 1, though this
is not explained. The top lines in the figure, describing the model 8 differences, are
confusing and unhelpful.
Tim Cole
