This is a timely, important, and policy-relevant piece. It is well-conceptualized and well written. My
comments below mainly focus on including a consideration or acknowledgment of how the concept of
UPF is different from how the public health policy space has previously treated unhealthy food and drink
(e.g., shifting from a "nutrients of concern" approach, such as focusing on sugary beverages, to focusing
on a much broader way of conceptualizing unhealthy foods). What does this mean for how we
operationalize policy and how we measure policy's success?
Otherwise, this piece was a pleasure to read and I look forward to seeing it published.
-Lindsey Smith Taillie

Please give a bit more info as to why NOVA is the current "gold standard" for defining UPF.

Could you comment on socio-economic disparities with regards to UPF intake? Not just between
countries, but within?
Line 102-113, might also mention that the Hall study found increased weight gain in just 2 weeks on
UPF diet. An additional note is that I believe in the Hall study, despite the matching, the UPF foods did
turn out to be more energy dense than the non UPF foods, so it's not totally clear what is due to
"processing" vs energy density (but please do double check).
One of the important distinctions of UPF is that it essentially classifies as unhealthy products that contain
low-caloric sweeteners. This is different than other classification systems (for example, those
predominatly focused on identifying foods or drinks high in sugar or specific nutrients of concern). In
general, I would encourage highlight that there is a lot more that needs to be done with regards to
understanding the mechanism of UPF on food intake, weight gain, and other metabolic dysfunction (e.g.,

insulin response, etc). How much is due to high levels of nutrients of concern, how much is due to the
actual composition of foods (food matrix), how much is behavioral/psychological/due to industry factors
like price and marketing?
I would be keen to see the section on the global south expanded, and more discussion overall about how
the increase in UPF relates to the nutrition transition across the globe. Does the dispersion/increase of
UPF look the same across countries in terms of what products are increasing, and what products are
being displaced? Also, I believe that India and China also represent major emerging markets for UPF
products; is this indeed the case? If so, any particular considerations for them (vs. the global south)?
A major point for your reformulation section- I think you should discuss the role of low-caloric
sweeteners. Right now, the current set of policies around the globe is quite focused on limiting sugar,
which will likely have the effect of increasing the amount of low-caloric sweeteners. Under the NOVA
classification system, most products containing low-caloric sweeteners would be considered
ultraprocessed. This has implications for how we evaluate policy: if we consider artificially sweetened
beverages as ultraprocessed, and therefore unhealthy, this greatly changes our intepretation of the
effect of Chile's package of policies, the UK's SDIL, and other similar policies. This is in contrast to other
policies, like Mexico's approve warning label regulation, which will include a warning label on non-caloric
sweetener. It's also potentially interesting to note that some systems intended to identify UPF, such as
the PAHO nutrient profile model, allow processed products to have a certain amount of sugar before they
are subject to a particular regulation, where as the threshold for including non-caloric sweeteners is only
that they are present in any amount.
I also think you need to incorporate this consideration about non-caloric sweeteners into your discussion
about policies- for example in line 195, on sugar-sweetened beverage taxes- recognizing there is a
difference between a sugar-sweetened beverage tax and a ultraprocessed beverage tax (former would
include only sugary soda, while latter would include both sugary soda and diet soda).
Related to the above, one of the important things in considering the public health response is how do we
operationalize UPF. Even if we agree that UPF is more than just the effect of nutrients to limit, putting
policies on UPF requires some amount of reductionism in order to systematically identify foods. How do
we deal with this tradeoff?
Section on home-prepared food should ideally recognize the role of gender historically in home cooking.
In many places, home cooking has decreased as women have moved more into the formal labor sector
(although, at least in the US, women still are predominantly responsible for food shopping and prep).
Thus, any call to action relating to home cooking needs to recognize and respond to this gender-based
disparity, and the time scarcity for home cooking faced by women.
It would be useful to provide more detail- perhaps an example- of the "problem shifting" between
countries/regions mentioned in line 268.
Consider adding a section on research priorities to move this area forward.