I enjoyed reading this paper which gives a comprehensive and systematic review of the literature concerning CVD prediction
models. This work is timely, as such a review was last carried out by Beswick et al over 10 years ago. The findings are
consistent with that review - highlighting a lack of validation and of impact on health outcomes despite a multitude of models.

Whilst this current paper comments on the lack of impact (Conclusions in the Abstract) we need to be clear that this systematic
review included model development and validation studies, and studies of incremental variable inclusion, but not impact
studies. It benefits from the more recent 2014 publication of the CHARMS checklist.
In terms of methodology the paper is of high quality, although I thought for today's practice a stronger justification might have
been given for excluding models predicting stroke events in atrial fibrillation (AF). At the time of the Beswick review, which was
concerned anyway with CHD rather than broader CVD outcomes, use of risk scores for stroke in AF were less commonplace,
but in the time since then they have become a very important issue in clinical practice and the associated literature might have
added significantly to this work.
Finally, whilst I agree that the number of prediction models seems excessive, the authors reach this conclusion without very
much discussion on why this is so and what the motivation is to produce yet more models (apart from producing more
research papers of course!) But there might have been a case for new models either because 1) the population characteristics
or setting differ in ways relevant to model adequacy; and 2) the data source itself might determine the suitability of the
modelling approach. There is, after all, a huge difference between the data used to derive the Framingham equation and that
used to support the derivation of QRISK2. One is based on relatively small but high quality prospectively collected cohort data
and the other on routinely collected data from UK primary care. The differences between the models are not therefore just due
to differences in the populations concerned. And because the wide use in practice of Framingham across diverse populations
different from the source cohort has attracted much criticism, it is perhaps not surprising that people have felt justified in
modifying it regionally, or indeed in starting from scratch.
I hope these comments are useful.
Tim Holt