Comments for the editor
This paper describing the results of a multicentre trial comparing insulin pump vs
multiple injection therapy in new onset T1D children . I struggled with my
recommendation as I think the results are important ie they seem to show that
just treating people with an insulin pump without a lot of experience and more
importantly the availability and accessibility of a team will not improve glycaemic
control or possibly even the quality of life improvements demonstrated by most
other paediatric trials . However, I am very concerned about the interpretation of
the results which could have far reaching influence on UK clinical funding decisions
--perhaps incorrectly. I am particularly concerned about the effect on toddlers in
whom pumps are a boon .
I agree with the authors that CSII per se has not been definitively shown to result
in better HbA1c’s than MDI in pediatric populations . However, mode of insulin
delivery is only 1 arm of intensive diabetes therapy with intensive insulin therapy
being only a tool in this therapy. This manuscript does not describe the rest of the
therapy including the type and frequency of education and support of the team. CSII
clearly needs more initial education, and thus more expensive if provided by the
team (rather than pharmaceutical companies.) In addition the years of experience of
some centers is very short These are important before making judgements of the
equality of theses 2 modes –especially in view of the unusually high frequency of
ED visits and admissions in both groups .
I have another design problem with this study ie whether HbA1c measured by
varying methods is the best tool to assess the primary outcome in the first year
after diagnosis. However, this study was approved as such by the funding agency.
Thus this choice should be explained and justified especially when using an
instrument that may not provide the accuracy to draw the conclusions made. It is a
pity that there was insufficient power to assess effectiveness by age
The conclusion could be regarded by some to be explosive --and definitely affect
the lives of many people with a life long serious disorder . Therefore it needs to be
based on pristine methodology. Although my personal anecdotal opinion is that one
can get similar HbA1c’s with MDI and CSII in most patients , I worry that this study
may not have demonstrated this conclusion. For many parents and children the
quality of life difference is huge and important. It is strange that this didn’t come
out more strongly in this trial .
There are a lot of flaws in this trial . Although the results are important , the
conclusion should be tempered as they may have been influenced by many factors
including the ability of some individuals to use CSII, the degree of education and

team support , missing data and assessment methodologies . I hope that national
policy makers would require more definitive data before making funding
decisions

Comments for the authors
This paper describes the results of a multi-centre trial comparing insulin pump vs
multiple injection therapy in new onset T1D children using varying methods of
measuring HbA1c as the outcome measure with “local clinical practice” determining
how to titrate doses. Unfortunately there is no description of what these practices
are including important aspects of type of education of the families, avaialabilty
of an education and continued support team of diabetes educators , dietician etc
and predermined frequency of contact whether in person or by phone after
diagnosis
The lack of difference between the 2 groups is interpreted by the authors as lack
of effectiveness of CSII in improving glycaemic control . This would be true if
there was also sufficient team based education and the availability of 24hr support
by the experienced diabetes team . In the absence of these resources this
conclusion cannot be drawn
Specific points
1
In the introduction reference 7 should be described as intensive insulin
therapy was one tool of intensive diabetes therapy in the DCCT
2
In reference 9 , the improvement of patient satisfaction should be
mentioned----this is a very important aspect of CSII for many .
3
Lines 35-36 need a reference –is this from UK?? This appears lower pump
usage than other countries????
4
What is the definition of a “pragmatic” trial???
5
Please define “concerning differences “ between the groups
6
Line 49 p 7—abstract says parent or sibling not just sibling
7
Line 26 p8 what are the anti islet cell antibodies measured—ICA ?? If so
who and how
8
Is ref 22 the correct one for line 34
9
Severe hypoglycaemia should be defined line 4 ,p9
10
P 10—what are the national HbA1c target ranges??
11
P 10—lines 9 and 10 need more references regarding the tools used
12
How was IDAAC used?
13
Differences in HbA1c of 0.5%?? Is DCA accurate enough to detect this??
14
When after diagnosis were baseline data obtained ???
15
As so many HbA1c values were missing I assume it was not possible to
adjust for baseline levels ???
16
Table 2—change in BMI would be dependent on when initial data were
collected
17
Insulin doses were higher in CSII group – usually the CSII need less.
Unfortunately with half the data missing and possible lack of documentation, these
data may not be valid and should be removed . This is also a problem with any
IAAC analysis Table 2 difference in the groups in last 4 lines are difficult to
understand
18
Despite the lack of power it would be helpful to describe data by age group
in the results as the largest benefit could be in the toddlers as mentioned in the
discussion.
19
What were the changes in NHS diabetes care during the trial and how many
subjects in each group were affected?
20
P 17-last line –is reference correct?
21
The number of emergency department visits seems very high especially in
the first year in both groups . There also appear to be fewer contact with
professionals than I would expect in the first year of any type of therapy of T1D.

Does this relate to availability of education and support or the pump experience of
the teams in terms of both years and number of patients on CSII?
22
In addition, from the data in the supplement , some basal bolus ratios
appear to be very unusual
23
Did parents complete any QL questionaires?
24
Your point about the potential value of later recruitment possibly affecting
recruitment –but more importantly effectiveness of CSII--- is important
25
P 23 line 9 and 10 . Unfortunately in the absence of an education package
or protocol, all that can be said regarding these data is that the mere mode of
delivery differences without adequate education does not result in large
improvements of HbA1c -especially in view of the large amounts of missing data .
This seems not to be surprising .
26
The recommendation on line 25 p 24 is somewhat disturbing . It seems
possible that if limited, financial resources should be aimed at providing sufficient
care giver numbers , education and experience before whole sale routine institution
of CSII . But a blanket assessment of lack of superiority of CSII cannot be made
from this trial as presented . The conclusion should be tempered .
