The Authors investigated the additional benefit of performing ultrasound over conventional treat-totarget approach in the treatment of DMARDs-naïve patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). As the
Authors argue, this is a randomized trial that is necessary to determine whether ultrasound imaging
remission should be used as a treatment target of RA in routine practice. However, the primary endpoint
is not optimal and the Reviewer does not agree with the Authors’ interpretation of the results.
1. Two out of three primary endpoint components are identical to the treatment target of the
conventional arm (i.e. no swollen joints, DAS remission). Because the improvement in ultrasounddetected synovitis is often not reflected by swollen joint count or DAS, these two components obviously
contribute to the negative result when treatment was adjusted to meet these components in both arms.
The primary endpoint should have been no radiographic progression, which is independent of treatment
targets in both arms, and the study seems to be underpowered to detect the difference in this
component. In fact, the statistically significant differences in ultrasound outcomes and the trends towards
radiographic benefit in ultrasound group are consistent with what have been implied in the previous
studies supporting the use of ultrasound. The Authors’ arguments should be revised according to these
points.
2. The treatment target of the conventional arm (i.e. no swollen joints, DAS remission) is too strict for
the study to reflect real-world practice and to demonstrate the benefit of performing ultrasound in daily
practice. Rheumatologists do not always escalate treatment for a single swollen joint or a minor flare just
above DAS 1.6 as they are aware that these clinical manifestations can be a false positive. Ultrasound
plays an important role in decision making at such an equivocal disease activity. The very strict clinical
treatment target that was applied to both arms is not likely to have allowed the study to demonstrate
this role of ultrasound. This point should be discussed in the manuscript.
3. Page 16, 2nd line, “inflammation assessed by ultrasound was suppressed to a minimum in both arms”.
38.4 % of patients with positive power Doppler signal is not “minimum”. Please revise the sentence. The
Reviewer considers that the statistically significant difference in the positivity of power Doppler signal
between two arms is one of the novel and significant findings of this study. Therefore, the time course of
power Doppler positivity should be added to Figure 2.