I reviewed the earlier version of this paper. I am happy that the authors have addressed most of
my previous comments and I have no new comments. I therefore will restrict my comments to
things that I mentioned before that I don’t think they have entirely addressed.
• I welcome the fact that they have repeated their analysis using the COC in a sensitivity
analysis. They have shown that this supported their main finding of an association between
increased continuity and fewer admissions. However they rather gloss over the fact that the
strength of the relationship is substantially less strong, i.e. 3.58% fewer admissions (2.40 to
4.76%) with COC rather than a 6.22% (4.87 to 7.55%) reduction in admissions for every 0.2
change in continuity using the UPC. I think they could change the sentence on page 19, lines
35/36 to say that although the sensitivity analysis confirms the association, the strength of
relationship was moderated using the COC.
• They have not really addressed in the paper what I see as the main limitation of this paper
(although they do address it in the authors response to the BMJ). That is that they have included
in the calculation of continuity of care all consultations over the same two year period as the
hospital admissions data were collected. It could be that nearly all of these consultations
occurred after rather than before the hospital admission. It could be the case that GPs put more
effort into ensuring that patients see the same doctor after they have been admitted rather than
before. Although they mention in the limitations that they cannot identify cause or mechanisms
(page 18, line 42) all of their argument in the abstract and discussion implies that better
continuity of care might lead to fewer admissions and be cost saving. I think in the limitations
section they should be more explicit about the possibility of reverse causation, i.e. that the
admissions led to the better continuity.
• I find the sentence about the body of literature mentioned on page 18, line 56 rather odd. I do
not think the references they cite here are about the effect of continuity in secondary care. I am
not sure what point they are making here, whether the sentence is badly phrased or whether
they’ve used the wrong references.