Dear editors.
The manuscript ‘Do randomised trials with very large treatment effects make further trials unnecessary? An empirical
assessment.’ raises the question about the necessity of further trials after a randomized interventional trial has shown
a very large treatment effect.
The authors conducted a - what they call - ‘empirical assessment’, which is methodologically close to a systematic
review, where certain sources were searched according to pre-defined inclusion criteria in order to extract data.
Specifically, systematic reviews were searched for forest plots with one trial showing a very large effect, followed by a
large trial with the same objective.
The results of this assessment indicate that the very large effect seen in one trial is rarely replicated in following trials.
The authors conclude that randomised trials with very large treatment effects do not make further trials unnecessary.
The manuscript is well written and illustrative. The issues raised in this manuscript are interesting and important. They
are highly related to the problem of studies with a small sample size, and the manuscript adds to existing knowledge.
I agree with the authors’ methods and conclusions, and I would recommend the publication of the manuscript.

I have listed some minor issues about the manuscript below.
1) Page 8, row 15-25 and row 31-45; page 9, row 20-29: Inclusion and exclusion criteria are presented in different
sections of the methods chapter, with other methodological issues presented in-between. Maybe restructuring would
be helpful presenting all inclusion and exclusion criteria together.
2) Page 8, row 34-38: The authors state that they ‘excluded forest plots … not including the year of publication of each
trial (as it would not be possible to determine if the trial was followed by a large trial)’.
a. Would it not have been possible to extract the year of publication from the reference list of the review?
b. How many potentially eligible forest plots were excluded because of this restriction?
3) Page 8, row 38-44: I feel that this exclusion criterion does not fit well to the heading of this paragraph (‘topics’).
4) Page 10, row 9-14: When there was more than 1 large trial following the index trial, I would find it useful to know
the number of subsequent large trials with upheld and with refuted results (in addition to the meta-analysis).
5) Page 10, row 36: Please explain what is meant by the ‘difference between proportions’. If my understanding is
correct, only relative risks are considered, not absolute differences.
6) Page 10, row 49-57: Please explain the selection of statistical tests (Fisher’s exact, Mann-Whitney U, and KruskalWallis tests). E.g. which comparisons were performed with Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis tests?
7) Table 1 (page 26):
a. Row 27/28: I am not sure I understand what is meant by ‘No of large trials’. Is it ‘large trials among index trials’ or
‘‘large trials within each forest plot’ or ‘large trials for each index trial’? How is the number 1 (overall) compatible with
the sum of 1 (upheld) and 2 (not upheld)?
b. Row 28-34: I am not sure I understand what is meant by ‘… largest trial’. Which trial is ‘the largest’?
8) Table 2 (page 27-28):
a. In Table 1 (page 26), the relative risks (RR) of all trials have been ‘normalised’ in order to be combined. While this
is not technically necessary for Table 2, I would still suggest doing so (e.g. RR of all index trials expressed as above
one), because here the reader compares the RR for the index and the subsequent trial, and I would help if all
comparisons would work in the same direction (instead of towards 1 from both directions).
b. Table 2 presents only data for the 25 upheld index trials and their subsequent trial(s). I would also find it
interesting to see the numerical results for the 19 refuted trials (including the information about upheld or not).
c. For reasons of transparency and replicability, I would suggest to include the references of all 44 forest plots and/or
all 44 index trials plus their respective subsequent trial(s) in the manuscript. Maybe Table 2 would be a convenient
place for doing so. This would also show the number of subsequent trial(s) for each index trial, which I think should be
given.
d. I fully agree with the authors’ conclusion that ‘Caution should be taken when interpreting small studies with very
large treatment effects.’ To strengthen this conclusion, it would be useful to present the sample size of the included
trials, especially for the index trial (but why not also for the subsequent large trial). Again, maybe Table 2 would be a
convenient place for doing so.
e. The order of rows in Table 2 seems to be arbitrary (or at least not easy to identify). A content-related ordering
could be useful. For example, ordering regarding the magnitude of the RR of the index trial; or by (absolute)
discrepancy in RR between index trial and subsequent trial(s).
9) Page 10, row 2-13: This maybe only a theoretical issue, but if there were for example four subsequent trials, one
with a statistically significant effect in the opposite direction, and three with an effect in the same direction (significant
or not), and a meta-analysis of these four trials is significant in the same direction: Does condition 1 hold (‘at least
one subsequent large trial presented a statistically significant effect in the opposite direction’) or condition 2 (‘where
there was more than 1 large trial … meta-analysis performed’). Maybe a rephrasing of the definition of refuted/upheld
trials might increase clarity.
10) Page 16, row 36-40: A ‘rule of thumb’ is mentioned here, but I find it difficult to understand which rule is meant.
In addition, the ‘positive predictive value (PPV) of the rule’ is unclear. The PPV is mentioned several times in the
discussion section, but it would be helpful if it was clearer related to the results.

11) Figure 1 (page 29): In the lowest box, the number of forest plots (n=44) is smaller than the number of Cochrane
reviews (N=45). Is that correct?
12) Figure 2 (page 30) is nicely done and informative. The grid is useful to grasp the RR-values of the plotted studies.
a. Maybe an additional diagonal line would help as an indicator of discrepancy in RR between index trial and
subsequent trial(s).
b. As mentioned before, I would find it helpful to plot the ‘normalised’ RRs here (e.g. all equal to or above 1).
Especially in this figure, the split of results in 2 areas could be avoided.
13) Discussion section (page 16-19): The work presented here is purely empirical without considering the setting,
populations, test interventions, control interventions, etc. of the trials. It might be worthwhile to check if discrepancies
in results between index trial and subsequent trial(s) might be due to differences in study characteristics.
14) Entire manuscript (including tables and figures): It seems that the terms ‘refuted’ and ‘not upheld’ are used
synonymously to indicate subsequent large trials with disagreeing results compared to the index trial. Clarity could be
increased if only one term would be used consistently throughout the manuscript.
15) Entire manuscript (including tables and figures): The term ‘effect size’ is used to denote relative risks. I would
suggest using the term ‘relative risks’ instead, as for some readers ‘effect size’ might be considered the standardized
mean difference (SMD).
16) Entire manuscript (including tables and figures): I would suggest to ‘normalise’ all RR in all tables, figures, and in
the entire manuscript to improve clarity.
Dr. Stephanie Roll
Scientist / statistician
Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin
Institute for Social Medicine, Epidemiology, and Health Economics
Luisenstr. 57, 10117 Berlin, Germany
stephanie.roll@charite.de
http://epidemiologie.charite.de