The authors present a primary care electronic database cohort study following patients aged 18 or
over with a first recorded visit due to chest pain. The cohort was stratified according to the actual
coding of diagnosis; chest pain unattributed, non-coronary or angina. The cohort comprises more
than 170.000 patients seeking medical aid between 2002 and 2009. They were followed up for
median 3.3 years for clearly defined cardiovascular endpoints; 1. fatal or non-fatal myocardial
infarction separately, 2. angina separately and 3. composite cardiovascular. The main finding is that
unattributed chest pain represent a risk as compared to the group initially diagnosed with a noncoronary cause (ORs ranging between 5.9 and 12.2 for the different outcomes, CIs being greater
than 1.0). The authors conclude that efforts have to be made to assess and reduce cardiovascular
risk in this group.
In conclusion, I find this manuscript easy accessible and the findings are important. The manuscript
is well prepared. To my knowledge, the authors are right to write that the outcome of non-attributed
chest pain has been studied before, but this study adds to current knowledge base by being a large
cohort study, by stratifying and comparing according to what level of risk the primary physician
initially assessed the patient to represent and by using hard endpoints applying time to first event
analysis (short and long term prognosis).
This study and its results are important to both primary and secondary care personnel as well as
decision makers. The research questions are well defined and appropriately answered, although I
recommend that the manuscript is seen by a statistician.

The methods are adequately described. Applying the Newcastle-Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale
for cohort studies, it is apparent that this study is of good quality, both in terms of
representativeness of the cohort, ascertainment of exposure, controlling for confounding factors,
assessment of outcome and adequacy of follow up.
My major concern:
Regarding outcome, I would recommend to include coronary revascularizations (PCI, CABG), as
these are not necessarily included in the other outcomes. I would go as far as recommend analyzing
revascularizations separately as has been done for the endpoints myocardial infarction and angina
(a rather noisy endpoint). Furthermore, I am a bit puzzled by including in the composite endpoint
(number two); ischaemic stroke, haemorrhagic stroke, stroke not specified, transient ischaemic
attack and peripheral artery disease. I would recommend combining these in a new combined
endpoint or omit.
I would recommend rewriting the fourth ballpoint in Section 1: What is already known on this
subject. There is loads of research distinguishing acute myocardial infarction from other
cardiovascular events (to be exact).
Sincerely yours,
Vidar Ruddox, MD PhD