This is a nicely written paper, with deep and thorough analyses and robust
conclusions. Main analysis (using %upf) include: testing different models which
adjust for different level/ type of confounders (ie ses, nutrient density, dietary
patterns, prevalent disease at baseline), stratified analysis and sensitivity
analysis. Analysis of association of specific upf and non-upf food group
consumption and CVD is also explored. Results are very consistent across
models.
The mechanisms and potential root causes for observed associations are well
discussed. Study limitations (residual confounding, reverse causality, exposure
misclassification and measurement error, case ascertainment, length of
follow-up, use of weight ratio, volunteer- based cohort and selection bias) are
properly acknowledged and weighted, placing the results into context.
I think the limitations section really improved and the Results are completer
regarding the previous version.
Minor suggestions.
Methods.
1.
“In case of uncertainty for a given food/beverage item, a consensus was
reached among researchers based on the percentage of home-made and
artisanal foods versus industrial brands reported by the participants”. As
industrial brands are not necessarily upf (they can be processed as well), may I
suggest rephrasing as follows: “In case of uncertainty for a given food/beverage
item, a consensus was reached among researchers based on the percentage of
home-made and artisanal foods, processed and ultra-processed industrial brands
reported by the participants”
Results.
2.
“Ultra-processed foods and beverages were usually products with a lower
nutritional quality: in fact, ultra-processed foods in the NutriNet-Santé food
composition database represented more than 85% of the products in the “E”
category of the Nutri-Score five-colour labelling system”.
I suggest completing this phrase as follows “Ultra-processed foods and beverages
were usually products with a lower nutritional quality: in fact, ultra-processed
foods in the NutriNet-Santé food composition database represented more than
85% of the products in the “E” category of the Nutri-Score five-colour labelling
system compared to less than 24% in “A” category”.
3.
I suggest briefly mentioning in the Results whether the linearity
assumption between upf and CVD HR was confirmed and provide a p-value (in
accordance with graph displayed in Appendix 4b).

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Eurídice Martínez Steele
Job Title: Posdoctorate
Institution: School of Public Health
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-ch
ecklists/declaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy)
</a>please declare them here:

Reviewer: 4
Recommendation:
