Migraine and risk of cardiovascular disease in women: prospective cohort study
This is a very large study on an important topic, involving 115,541 younger women followed over 20 years. The
study concludes that migraine is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease in women.
There are some major methodological problems with the study flawing the conclusions drawn.
Major issues:
Ascertainment and definition of migraine
The study uses the self-report of nurses of their recollection of being told that they have migraine by their
physicians. There is no objective test for migraine. The assessment of migraine is highly subjective, making
explicitly stated, standardised definitions and reporting essential in all migraine related research. This is lacking in
this study.
Clearly there are multiple points at which intra- and inter observer errors and inconsistencies could arise using the
authors' approach - with the physicians definition of migraine, with the physicians assessment, with the physicians
records, with the patients recollection. Patients who are very well, or do not attend their physician for a variety of
reasons, or have other health issues taking priority, may be missed or migraine not assessed. We do not have
information about how many of the cohorts saw their physicians, why they saw them, how often the physicians
asked about migraine, and what prompted the physician to ask about, discuss and record migraine. We do not know
at what stage of the study the migraine diagnosis was made, at onset? At what stage during follow-up, or at
multiple time points? Was there a difference in risk dependent on the age of onset of migraine? Were the late onset
migraine patients investigated for symptomatic migraine? We do not know how often a physician record of migraine
was understood and remembered by the patient.
The authors use a very indirect measure of migraine. No checks are made of this process. Although the authors cite
one study suggesting physicians assessment is a valid measure, it is likely to be an unreliable measure. They do not
examine reliability, neither by detailed analysis of randomly selected patients nor by interview or patient
questionnaire of each, and there is no correlation or comparison of these indirect physician reports with
International Headache society definitions (Cephalalgia 2013), or any other standardised assessment of migraine.
Young women made up the cohort studied. We know from other studies, including those cited, that young women
are the group with highest incidence of migraine. The authors point out that migraine affects 20% of people and
that women are 3-4 x more commonly affected than men. From these figures, about 30% of young women would
be expected to have migraine. The authors found only half the expected number, ~15% of those studied, had a
physicians diagnosis of migraine, much lower than in other studies and very much lower than predicted. We have no
information about this discrepancy, data which could significantly change the conclusions reached. This needs full
assessment. Why were less than expected migraineurs found? Were there really less or were less reported? If less
were reported, were there differences in their migraine, differences in their cardiovascular risk factors and most
importantly differences in their cardiac and cerebrovascular outcomes? If the cohort really had less migraineurs why
is this, and what made the group so different from other young women?
As their data came solely from self-reports of a physician’s diagnosis and thus depended on physician recognition

and subject recollection, there is a high risk of missed cases. Ascertainment will thus be skewed towards recognition
of more severe migraine. This potentially distorts the findings considerably – if 5% or more of mild cases were
missed, the true risk could be much less. All of this needs to be discussed in considerable detail.
Women who had CV disease at baseline were excluded – why was this done? I suggest this information is analysed
and presented as it is highly relevant and has a major bearing on the study.
How representative was this population compared to the general population of women and the general population?
The authors make no distinction between migraine without and with aura, yet other studies suggest vascular risk
correlates with migraine with aura, and may not be associated with migraine without aura. Accordingly, the authors
should state how many patients had migraine with, how many without aura, in order to compare their findings with
the published evidence of increased risk in patients with aura.
“Our primary outcome measures was total major cardiovascular disease, a combined endpoint of myocardial
infarction, stroke, and fatal cardiovascular disease(fatal stroke, fatal myocardial infarction, and fatal coronary heart
disease). We further assessed the following secondary outcome measures: total myocardial infarction, which was
defined as fatal or non-fatalmyocardial infarction; total stroke, which included all fatal and non-fatal stroke cases
(ischemic, hemorrhagic and undetermined subtype); angina/coronary revascularization procedure; and
cardiovascular disease mortality.”
It is unclear why the authors choose a primary endpoint which was a conglomerate of all of the secondary
endpoints, and the rationale for this is needed, and justification for its validity. It is important that the authors
compare their methods and endpoints in more detail with other similar studies.
The authors have used multiple tests to look at risks (from data presented, >15 comparisons made at 2 yearly
points over 20 years, so >150 comparisons). I cannot see that appropriate corrections of the p-value after multiple
tests in a Cox proportional hazard model were used, and the reader needs this information to be clearly reported.
The conclusion reached that migraine increases the risk of cardiovascular (CV) risk cannot be drawn form this study.
Such a conclusion has major personal and public health implications, and more evidence is needed before
concluding this, and possibly causing unnecessary alarm in young women with migraine. The study in fact examined
self-reporting of a physician diagnosis of migraine in a cohort of younger nurses and it's association with increased
risk of CV disease. It is very likely that the study missed mild migraine “below the radar” of reporting (see above)
and not necessarily associated with higher CV risk. This distinction needs to be highlighted and analysed in the
paper.
Minor
Stylistics: some expressions need to be clarified to improve flow and clarity. eg. “Only very few studies” should be
“Few studies”
Nurses Health Study II is abbreviated as NHS. This will be confusing for British readers who may equate NHS for
National Health Service. I suggest using NHS II as the abbreviation.