This is a well written paper presenting evidence that, in the UK context at least, is original.
The Natsal surveys are arguably the best UK dataset in which to examine trends in
frequency of sex in Britain over the past 30 years. Natsal can also examine some factors

associated with these trends though this is limited to other variables measured in the
survey and can’t consider questions of causality since the data are cross-sectional. Natsal
has consistently used survey methods that were “state of the art” at the time each sweep
was conducted regarding attempts to ensure a representative sample and valid measures.
Nevertheless, response rate to any sweep has always been around half of the target
sample and the measures are generally self-reported. Both have the potential to introduce
bias, though this bias is likely to have been similar across sweeps such that estimates of
trends are probably valid.
The main message of this paper is that between 2001 and 2012 there was an apparent fall
in frequency of sexual activity amongst people who were sexually active, most marked
amongst couples and those in early middle age. Sexual activity was consistently more
frequent amongst those reporting better health, those in work and the more affluent.
These latter associations have been reported before and, acknowledgement of the possible
salutary effects of regular sex in the “Live Well” section of the UK NHS website
notwithstanding, primary direction of causation is far from clear. Moreover, limitations
related to their cross-sectional nature aside, none of the data presented here strongly
suggest a reason for a fall in the frequency of sex amongst early middle-aged British
couples between 2001 and 2012. The authors speculate on possible effects of
smart-phones and economic recession but there is no supporting evidence for the former in
their data and little support for the latter. They also propose the comparative stressfulness
and “busyness” of modern life as a possible explanation, whilst acknowledging in their final
sentence that the phenomenon they describe is essentially unexplained.
Considering the BMJ criteria guiding decisions around whether to publish a paper in turn:
Importance is very difficult to judge. The article clearly and concisely presents original
evidence on a question that probably is of general interest from a well conducted study
whose limitations are acknowledged. Despite this I find it difficult to see how this evidence
will help many BMJ readers to make decisions (assuming these readers are mainly doctors,
other care providers, health researchers and health policy makers). I enjoyed reading this
paper, I’m not sure that a general medical journal is the right place for it.
Within the limitations discussed above the results are likely to be scientifically reliable.
The research question is clear and the paper answers it.
The study design is appropriate to the question.
Participants are adequately described – response rate to the different survey sweeps could
be given and characteristics of respondents compared to non-respondents could be
described (this information is in background references cited).
Methods are generally adequately described. I didn’t follow the description of how the
“preferred frequency of sex” variable was derived (Measures, p5, para 2). I wondered if
some text had been inadvertently deleted?
Results address the question and are credible – the tables are quite dense, I wonder if
some results (e.g. main trends in frequency over time) could be presented more clearly as
a figure.
Interpretation and conclusions are reasonable and are appropriately related to existing
evidence.
The references are appropriate, I don’t think any important references have been omitted.

In the abstract “preferred frequency of sex” is referenced under “participants” and
“outcome measures” but not reported in “results” or referred to in “conclusions”.
In the summary I would probably say “There is evidence that regular sexual activity *may
be* beneficial to health and well-being”.
The STROBE checklist is provided and is appropriately completed.
