Having agreed to review this paper from a patient perspective, I find it quite difficult to say anything
pertinent as it’s not really concerned with interventions and treatments or patient outcomes and
experience. The focus appears to be on research methodology and primarily of interest to epidemiology.
While this is important in the process of scientific advancement that leads to improvements for patient
outcomes in the long run, it is a few steps back. The paper explicitly says that its focus is “not on
uncovering new risk factors”.
Nevertheless, I can offer one or two observations, using the suggested framework for patient/public
review.
• Are the questions the paper addresses relevant and important to patients and/or carers?
It’s reassuring to see that the core findings of the UK Biobank are consistent with other studies. In a
World where patients and public are bombarded with conflicting messages about risk factors, we need to
know who to trust. In this context, it is good to know that findings from Biobank and, therefore, the
800+ publications that have come from it, are broadly reliable.

I imagine that the half million or so people whose data contributed to UK Biobank would also be
reassured that they have made a positive contribution to improving health.
• Are there topics or issues that are missing, or need to be highlighted more?
I can’t think of any.
• Is the treatment or intervention suggested or guidance given something which patients/carers can
readily take up? or does it present challenges?
Not applicable. No interventions or treatments involved.
• Are the outcomes described/measured in the study important to patients/carers? Are there others that
should have been considered?
Also not relevant. No direct outcomes for patients at issue.
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper and make it more
useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients/ carers?
I don’t think it was designed to help doctors discuss issues with patients. The focus was more
methodological than practice-based. In a very general way, it could help doctors, and anybody else
concerned with helping patients assess the reliability of public messages about risk factors, point to
things to look out for.
• Do you think the level of patient/carer involvement in the study could have been improved? If there
was none do you have ideas on how they might have done so?
It seems to have been a desk-based exercise that wouldn’t really lend itself to patient involvement. It’s
hard to see what a patient perspective could have added. Indeed, the paper explicitly says that there
was no patient involvement in the study and no intention to publicise the findings to patients.
Bearing in mind my earlier observation that those whose data is included in UK Biobank might be
reassured that it was worthwhile, it might be courteous to share the core findings with these people.
Many of them might be aware of the questions that have been raised about the validity of UK Biobank.
