Manuscript ID: BMJ-2020-056013
Title: Systematic review and critical appraisal of prediction models for diagnosis and
prognosis of COVID-19 infection
This article aimed to review and critically appraise published and preprint reports of models
that aim to predict either (i) presence of existing COVID-19 infection, or (ii) future
complications in individuals already diagnosed with COVID-19. Models that could identify
subjects at risk for COVID-19 in the general population were also included.
19 models were identified and appraised from 15 studies. These were classified into 3
groups:
1. Prediction of hospital admission from pneumonia and other events (proxy or COVID-19
pneumonia) in general population (n=3);
2. Diagnostic models to detect COVID-19 infection in symptomatic individuals (n=9);
3. Prognostic models to predict mortality or length of hospital stay (n=7).
All models only used COVID-19 cases in China. The authors found that all were of a high risk
of bias due to unrepresentative control patients, exclusion of patients who had not
experienced the event of interest by the end of follow-up, and poor statistical analysis.
The authors are to be applauded for conducting such a thorough review in short time. I only
have relatively minor comments/suggestions under some of the subheadings below:
• Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature?
Yes, this is very novel as it is the first systematic review of prediction models for the
COVID-19 infection.
• Importance of work to general readers
This work is extremely important and should be published urgently to prevent further poorly
conceived and conducted prediction modelling. As the authors explain, the current models
performed poorly and are unreliable which means that they may cause more harm than
benefit when used for clinical decision making. Research into COVID-19 is accelerating at a
breakneck pace, and we all understand the urgency. However, it is vitally important that
such research is performed to the highest standards and ideally through collaboration with
methodological experts such as the authors of this article. Clinicians want and need reliable
models that facilitate important decisions around managing COVID-19 patients. The general
readership of BMJ are an audience for this piece of work given that clinicians and researchers
from all disciplines are concentrating on COVID-19 research.

• Scientific reliability
The research project has been conducted by renowned experts in the field of clinical
prediction modelling. The search seems comprehensive and the review is very thoughtful
and detailed.
• Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
Excellent. The authors have included models that have been developed for prediction at
appropriate stages of the timeline – predicting those who are at high risk of developing
COVID, those who have COVID, and those who may die from COVID (also length of stay in
hospital).
• Overall design of study - adequate ?
The authors undertook a rigorous and expansive systematic review of the literature.

• Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT
for randomised trials ? Ethical ?
The authors undertook a rigorous expansive search of the literature. They used the
COVID-19 Living Systematic Review publication list and validated it using their search
strategy in search engines including PubMed and arXiv. All recommended checklists and
tools were used at all stages of the work – PRISMA for systematic review, CHARMS for
extracting the appropriate data from prediction modelling studies, and PROBAST for
assessment of bias in prediction modelling studies.

• Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
For each type of model the authors describe the study population, outcome, predictors used,
and reported performance (if assessed). Table 1 displays all the appropriate information you
would expect from a systematic review of prediction models, as does Table 2 with its risk of
bias assessment.
I just have a minor suggestion for improving clarity in the text:
1. Page 8, lines 37 to 42: The wording of the text is a little confusing and could be
interpreted as if studies excluded participants who had not died (the event) by the end of the
study period. Please revise to something like: ‘This wide variation is in part due to severe
sampling bias caused by studies excluding participants who still had the disease by the end
of the study period (i.e., only those who had died or recovered by the end of the study
period were included)’. Also please reference all studies that had this severe sampling bias.
• Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the
data? Message clear?
The findings were well summarised, and in light of the poor quality of the included models
the authors have given useful recommendations. For example, identifying the target
population, following TRIPOD reporting guideline, using individual participant data from
multiple countries etc. It is particularly surprising that calibration is still ignored when
assessing performance despite many guidance papers highlighting the importance.
Two minor suggestions:
1. To support the above sampling bias concern, some text could be added (perhaps to
discussion) to explain why it is important that all representative patients are used for model
development (not just a subset containing those who die or recover).
2. Translation of CT image measurements to predictors is challenging. It would be useful if
the authors mention some referenced methods that may be used to model such data
correctly.

• Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - reflect accurately what the paper
says?

Yes, a well constructed abstract with all the key messages.
Some Further Minor comments:
1. On page 6, line 50, please explain prediction horizon for the general reader.
2. On page 8, line 52-56, please rephrase to: Since the seven imaging studies used either
case-control sampling or an unclear method of data collection, the prevalence in these
diagnostic studies may not have been representative of their target population.
3. As a side note, it would be very useful if the authors were able to update this review over
time given the rate of development and publication of these models.
