BMJ-2019-051339
Long-term exposure to ambient fine particulate matter and stroke incidence in China: The
China-PAR project"
This large cohort study present results for associations between long-term exposure to
particulate matter and stroke in China. The paper is well written, data are of good quality,
research question is clear, and the methods seem valid. The findings indicate an association
between particulate air pollution and incident stroke, both ischemic and hemorrhagic in areas
where the PM2.5 levels are very high: around 65 µg/m3 (+/- 14.2).

This association has been observed in previous studies from other countries that have lower
air pollution levels (e.g. a review: Air pollution and stroke - an overview of the evidence
base. Maheswaran R et al. Spat Spatiotemporal Epidemiol. 2016; PM2.5 air pollution and
cause-specific cardiovascular disease mortality. Hayes RB, et al. Int J Epidemiol. 2019).
Some studies, although with different study methods, have also shown an association
between air pollution and stroke in China: Association between ambient air pollution and
hospitalization for ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke in China: A multicity case-crossover
study. Liu H et al. Environ Pollut. (2017); Association between incidence of fatal intracerebral
hemorrhagic stroke and fine particulate air pollution. Qian Y, et al. Environ Health Prev Med.
(2019).
WHO has already given recommendations for the air pollution levels that could prevent
health hazards (annual PM2.5 <10 µg/m3) that was also noted by the authors. Thus, the
findings are not surprising at all and I find the authors’ conclusion: “this study provided the
first evidence from China that long-term exposure to ambient PM2.5 at relatively high
ambient concentrations is independently and almost linearly associated with an increased
risk of stroke, overall and according to each subtype.” is not providing much new information
for the practitioners nor policy makers.
In addition, I’m not sure what the authors mean by “independently associated” as they did
not include other air pollutants than PM2.5, environmental noise, or neighbourhood level
socioeconomic status that has also been linked with increased risk of cardiovascular diseases
(e.g. Sociodemographic Disparities in Long-Term Mortality Among Stroke Survivors in the
United States. Elfassy T, et al. Stroke. 2019 and Socioeconomic disparities in first stroke
incidence, quality of care, and survival: a nationwide registry-based cohort study of 44
million adults in England. Bray BD, et al.; SSNAP Collaboration. Lancet Public Health. 2018).
These exposures might have some effect on the findings. Lack of data on neighbourhood
level socioeconomic status should be at least discussed as a limitation. Exposure
misclassification due to daily activities that take place outside residential area was neither
mentioned in the discussion.
Several sub-group analyses were performed, however, the justification for the stratified
analyses was lacking and should be based on interactions or prior evidence of possible
moderation.
