Title, methods and discussion should state that analyses are limited to older patients (>65 years). Patients <65 years in the
registry should be removed as they represent a very different population (ESRD, disability).
Please clarify if analyses were limited to patients with histologically confirmed lung cancer, otherwise, analyses could be biased
as SABR-treated patients do not have pathologic assessment. Additionally, please clarify inclusion/exclusion criteria based on
stage and tumor size. SABR is not recommended for patients with tumor size >5 cm.
A potential bias is that the LN status of SABR patients is only based on imaging data. This should be included in the
discussion.
There are inconsistencies regarding censoring date (2013 vs. 2014), please address. Additionally, need to clarify that lung
cancer specific survival data is more limited as reporting usually lags by 3 years.
Unclear if method to assess recurrences and disease free survival is accurate. Authors may consider removing this outcome
from analyses
There are several limitations in the propensity score analyses. The investigators only adjusted for few (albeit key)
comorbidities. Given that comorbidities are a key factor in treatment assignment using a more robust comorbidity index would
be preferable. Additionally, copd is a major confounder and there are claim-based algorithms to estimate copd severity that the
investigators should consider applying to the data. Moreover, the models should adjust for preoperative use of PET and
mediastinoscopy, two factors that may affect staging and treatment allocation. Data regarding post opearative chemotherapy
should be also reported.
Use of t-test to compare number of postoperative CTs is probably inappropriate as count data is usually not normally
distributed. For analyses involving disease specific survival the authors should consider using competing risk methods given
that majority of deaths are due to comorbidities
In results, please clarify that adjusted differences in cancer-specific survival are not significantly different
