This study is a natural experiment and meta-analysis with a robust design to evaluate the impact of the
implementation of physical distancing measures (school closures, workplace closures, public event
cancellation, public transport closure and ‘lockdown’ measures) on the trajectory of the global pandemic
of COVID-19. One hundred nineteen countries/regions are included between January 1 and April 16,
2020. The following are my feedback on this paper:
• Originality:
This study attempts to fill up the knowledge gap on the impact of physical distancing policies using a
cross-country, comparative approach.
• Importance of work to general readers:
Some of the findings may support policy decisions, taking into considerations the limitations of the
findings. The findings can only be taken as reference and should be used with caution. Such findings
may not be applicable to every country because of diverse characteristics and pandemic situations.
• Scientific reliability:
The background of the research team is strong, consisting of experts in epidemiology, public health and
statistics from distinguished tertiary institutions.
Data on the policy interventions was derived from various reliable sources.
• Research question:
The general aim of this study instead of research questions is stated (p.6, lines 27–28).
The findings of the study have generally achieved the aim of the study.
• Overall design of the study:
This study used natural experiment and meta-analysis, adopting an interrupted time-series design.
• Study participants:
The data of participants were anonymous and aggregated without any personal information.
• Methods:
The criteria to be included in the analysis were reasonable.
Although the authors hypothesised a ‘7 day lag time’ (p.8, line 53) to justify ‘the use of the first 7 days
since the implementation of the intervention as the pre-intervention period’, why they did not use 7 days
‘before’ the implementation of the measure(s) as the baseline?
Ethics approval was waived because all the data were anonymous and publicly available.
A number of country-level characteristics, which may affect the policy intervention and the incidence of
COVID-19, were assessed in meta-regression by the authors (p.9, lines 42–60). However, a recent
systematic review indicated that the use of face mask could result in a large reduction in the risk of
infection (Chu et al. 2020). Therefore, whether or not countries implement the mandatory mask policy in
public areas may have an impact and may be considered (see reference below).
• Results:
Appropriate data analyses were adopted, including but not limited to the use of interrupted time series
analysis of each country’s data to model the population incidence of COVID-19 over time,
random-effects meta-analysis and sensitivity analyses.
The statement ‘regions that took earlier and aggressive physical distancing measures grew faster (in
terms of what?) in the post-pandemic period’ needs to be elaborated (p.16, line 6).
In general, presentable study findings with relevant tables/figures were provided.
• Interpretation and conclusions:
More discussions could be made to some interesting findings arising from this study, for example:

- Why public transport closure measure had little effect when the other four physical distancing
measures were in place? Would it be due to that the other measures such as school closures, workplace
closures and public event cancellation already decrease the number of people using public transport and
resulted in no additional benefit of this measure on the IRR incidence?
- Why higher percentage of population ≥65% was associated with greater reduction in the pooled IRR
(p.12, line 17, p.15, line 2) and not the other way round?
- Some discussions on the interventions implemented within a 7 day span could be made, as a number
of countries ‘favour status quo’ instead of ‘physical distancing measures’. Were there any possible
reasons? (pp. 50–55).
Conclusion could generally summarise the focus of the study.
• References:
Recent and relevant references were included to support arguments.
The following references can be considered:
Chu DK et al. (2020). Physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person
transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet. Date of
Electronic Publication: 2020 June 01.
Which countries have made wearing face masks compulsory?
https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/04/countries-wearing-face-masks-compulsory-20042309451086
7.html
• Abstract/summary/key messages/what this paper adds:
The summary was succinct and generally covered the main points of the study.
