This is a well-written manuscript on the association between fluconazole use in pregnancy
and risk of selected birth defects. The study, which is based on US Medicaid data, is
well-designed and analytically strong. Based on 37,650 floconazole-exposed pregnancies,
the study is by far the largest to date on this issue. The question is not novel as such but
previous studies have been smaller and in several cases analytically weaker. The study
focuses on three main outcomes of previous concern and puts to rest some signals of

potential associations while reporting a significant aRR of 1.30 for a previously suspected
association with musculoskeletal defects; the aRR was 1.98 with cumulative fluconazole
doses above those commonly used for treatment of vaginal candidiasis.
Thank you for the opportunity to review this nice piece of work.
Some minor suggestions, which hopefully might serve to help additionally improve the
manuscript:
1. Pregnancies exposed to oral fluconazole are compared with unexposed pregnancies
(unadjusted analysis) and with topical azole-exposed pregnancies (unadjusted and
PS-stratified analysis [corresponding to a fully adjusted]).
a. Given that the main analysis is clearly the active comparator analysis, I would argue it
might be perceived as slightly misleading to give the full background cohort size (2 million)
as the only N in the abstract; this is not the cohort on which the RRs reported in the
abstract are based. Instead, suggest give the Ns for the oral fluconazole and topical azole
groups.
b. In the main methods, please clearly state that the main analysis is the active
comparator analysis (it reads a bit unclear in that section, with mention of a “first” and
“second” reference group).
c. In my view, the comparison vs unexposed is of relatively limited interest, especially as
no adjusted RR is provided, and could be omitted or put in the supplement to reduce the
number of numbers in the main manuscript and better focus the reader on the main
findings. (maybe more a matter of personal preference than anything else)
2. In general, the active comparator design is a strength, decreasing the chance of
confounding by indication. However, topical azoles are available over-the-counter (in the
US as well, I presume). In light of the exposure definition being based on prescriptions, it
might be worth briefly discussing: who are the women receiving over-the-counter drugs by
prescription? Or, in other words, might there be any risk of bias by including a selected
population as the comparator group? (I am not saying that there necessarily is)
3. Some would maybe argue that 3 months follow-up is quite short for detection of birth
defects, especially cardiac defects. Considering discussing.
4. Page 7, line 44 reads “malformations were identified using highly specific algorithms”
with reference provided. As this is a strong claim, please add PPVs in the text for the
primary outcomes specifically.
5. Suggest mention confounder control method in the abstract.
6. The negative conclusion in the discussion regarding conotruncal defects is maybe not
entirely convincing. Yes, the aRR for the primary analysis is 1.04 (0.80-1.55), so viewed in
isolation this is a negative finding. However, in the dose analysis of conotruncal defects,
while based on a small number of cases, the point estimate moves above 2 for the 450+
dose. Further, in the secondary analysis according to type of conotruncal malformation, the
aRR for transposition of the great vessels (one of the previous risk signals) is 2.01
(1.08-3.75). This is currently discarded as a chance finding because of lower than expected
rate among the active comparator group. This is a relatively strong statement in view of
the Howley study reporting a 7-fold increased risk (albeit based on 3 exposed cases); that
would make it two chance findings. Not to claim that this is evidence of harm, still worth
discussing some uncertainty and maybe loosening the negative conclusion regarding
conotruncal defects overall. Indeed, this is what has been done in the abstract conclusion
and there is hence some inconsistency vs. discussion/main text conclusion.
