Review of BMJ paper number 2016.036958
Title Low intensity pulsed ultrasound for bone healing: a systematic review of randomised controlled trials
Reviewer – Dr Nicholas Kalson, Academic Clinical Lecturer in Orthopaedics, Newcastle University, UK.
Overall impression
Schandelmaier et al. present a new, up-to-date meta-analysis of randomised control trials investigating the
efficacy of low intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) to improve bone healing. This is a well-written, wellpresented and robustly constructed analysis, which is of value to the general audience. Evidence is
presented for the widespread use of LIPUS in the orthopaedic community, particularly in North America,
justifying the importance of this research question.
Methods are comprehensively described, search criteria explained, two reviewers independently analysed
the trials, standardized data abstraction methods were used and are presented.
The authors justify the rationale for their new meta-analysis in two main ways:
1. They focus primarily on outcomes that patients have reported to them as important, such as pain and
time to return to work, rather than radiological evidence of bone healing.
2. They include the new TRUST trial, the largest RCT yet completed investigating the efficacy of LIPUS to
improve bone healing in tibia fractures.
Point one, the focus on outcomes deemed important by patients, is I believe a significant step-forward in
interpreting this data and an improvement on previous meta-analyses. The authors should be
congratulated for this advance.
However, I am less convinced that point 2, the inclusion of new TRUST data, significantly advances our
understanding in addition to the findings of the TRUST trial alone.
Their main finding is that there is no evidence for efficacy of LIPUS in all types of bone healing. This has
major implications for patients, healthcare professionals and healthcare funders. However, to justify this
broad conclusion, appropriate data must be available and be included.
This leads on to my three Major Concerns
1. There is a high quality randomised controlled trial recently published (TRUST). What is the need for this
meta-analysis? Justification for the present study is provided by the statement: ‘With inclusion of the
recently published TRUST trial, sufficient high quality data for patients with fresh fractures has accumulated
to conclude that LIPUS fails to improve patient-important outcomes and radiographic healing.’ Could the
authors explain and justify this position? What does this meta-analysis add further to the high-quality
evidence from the randomised controlled TRUST trial? It may be reasonable that previous meta-analyses
could not make firm conclusions because of the small size and poor quality trials they include. With the

addition of TRUST this may change the robustness and quality of the possible meta-analysis, but the
authors must convince us that this RCT genuinely adds more information on top of TRUST. Doesn’t TRUST
itself answer this question (in terms of fresh fractures at least)? In principle meta-analyses are most useful
where numerous small studies are insufficiently powered to answer a question, and pooling them improves
that power. This is not the case here, as indeed is stated by the authors, where TRUST data accounts for
>1/3 total patients included in the meta-analysis
2. I do not find the wide-reaching, comprehensive, conclusion that LIPUS does not work for any bone
healing sufficiently compelling.
The authors state there has not been a high quality trial outside of tibia and clavicle fractures, and base
their firm conclusions about other injuries, including non-unions, on data from trials on tibia and clavicle
fractures only.
Extrapolation to other clinical indications, particularly non-unions, in my view is not justified. Certainly
there is not enough justification for this assertion provided by the authors in the present manuscript. What
evidence is there that stress fractures and non-unions will behave the same under LIPUS treatment? The
biology of the non-union is different to an acute fracture; for example, cell types, collagen types and
changes in molecules (chemokines, cytokines etc) expressed are different, and chronic inflammation is
present.
Can the authors defend the homogeneity of studies included? It seems that the strong conclusions are valid
for tibia and clavicle fractures (fresh fractures) and not for underrepresented types (non-unions,
osteotomies, stress fractures). The biology and aetiology of these injuries is, in my view, different, certainly
in the case of non-union. Therefore it may not be reasonable to make definitive conclusions about these
particular subsets given that the substantial data used (19-46) came only from tibia and clavicle fractures.
E.g. (2 – 41) ‘considering only low risk of bias trials…’. I would be more comfortable if distinction were
made between the fracture types in this strong conclusion; however, this does lessen the impact of the
paper.
On page 57 line 45 (57-45) and 58-32 is the statement: ‘Further research is unlikely to alter the evidence’.
This is a strong statement and fundamentally justifies the importance of this meta-analysis, which
concludes that LIPUS does not work for any bone healing. The strong evidence presented is clearly on a
particular type of injury and without being able to analyse data on other conditions then I am not satisfied
that this question has been answered.
The authors must either provide strong, compelling justification for including under-represented fractures in
their conclusion, or temper their conclusions in accordance with their findings.
3. Data abstraction
The quality of the meta-analysis is completely dependent on a) the quality of the data input and b) rigorous
study selection to identify homogenous studies. In addition to point 2 above (not being convinced that
these studies are homogeneous enough) the researchers pooled treatment effects of LIPUS on similar
outcomes across eligible trials (9-32). The highest quality meta-analysis use raw data - have the raw data
been obtained and analysed? If not this should be stated, justified, and rationale behind not doing this
explained.
Similarly 13-30 – were attempts made to obtain completed but unpublished datasets? If not why not? This
could cause publication bias in the authors’ findings.
Minor points:
Can the authors justify their inclusion of both sham and no treatment comparison trials? Are these
sufficiently similar?
16-26 - ‘transforming of all results’ should be ‘transforming all results’ or ‘transformation of all results’
Insufficient data for inclusion in meta-analysis is given as a reason for not analyzing a study that reported
functional recovery (14-40), pain (16-40). Could further justification for excluding these studies be
provided?
19-44 should be ‘patients’
18-42 ‘with lived’ should be ‘with personal experience of fractures…’