This is an enormous undertaking to recruit such a challenging patient population,
294 children and young people, within 14 days of T1D diagnosis into a pragmatic
RCT. The strengths of the study include the robust multicentre trial design,
generalisability of the study population (albeit with some strong treatment
preferences/high expectations of CSII), ITT analyses and detailed biomedical,
economic and quality of life outcome measures. The matching and diabetes
education and HCP contacts across treatment arms is considered a strength in terms
of trial methodology but may also be considered as a key clinical limitation. It is
widely accepted that increased education for patients and professionals and
additional HCP support is required for optimal implementation of CSII.
Other important limitations include the lack of a formal insulin dose adjustment
structured education programme, high rate of switching between the intervention
arms (15% pump to MDI and 20% MDI to pump) which does not appear to have

been accounted for in the sample size estimates, and the lack of detail regarding
glucose monitoring (capillary and/or continuous glucose monitoring). Whilst
accepting that this is a pragmatic trial design, is unclear whether CSII and/or MDI
were implemented to best effect eg where bolus calculators used to facilitate
prandial insulin delivery (pump and MDI), where capillary glucose targets consistent
across study sites etc.
It is disappointing that even in the setting of an RCT with motivated sites and
participants, glucose control remains suboptimal in both arms 12 months after
diagnosis suggesting that additional measures (structured education, health
psychology input, continuous glucose monitoring, and/or more advanced automated
insulin delivery options) may be required for optimal glucose control in the first year
after diagnosis.
Main points
1.
The original sample size was n=316 which was reduced to 293 following
lower than expected attrition. However, it seems like the rates of switching (15%
pump to MDI and 20% MDI to pump) were not considered. Please include the
proportion of patients who switched treatment modalities in the abstract results and
consider (in the main text) whether or not this may have impacted on your
statistical power and study results
2.
Results – who is included in the per protocol analyses? The N (CSII 87, MDI
66) are substantially reduced from the main ITT (CSII 143, MDI 142). Please
provide further information (and a supplementary data table) about the glycaemic
outcomes in those who continued their randomised intervention arm without
switching.
3.
The insulin dose data, with 80% of the total daily insulin dose administered
as basal insulin and only 20% as boluses suggests inadequate implementation of
pre-meal and/or correction bolus doses in CSII users. Methods procedures page 8
states that “advanced pump features were taught, used and regularly reviewed”.
The clinical study protocol states that bolus insulin should be given for every 5g
carbohydrate ingested. These statements are both incompatible with the very low
proportion of bolus insulin administered. Please comment further on whether this is
due to the limitation in recording insulin dose (which seems unlikely if the data are
from pump downloads) and whether or not the bolus insulin administration was
optimal.
4.
Please comment on the frequency of capillary glucose monitoring and the
proportion of patients using CGM (continuous glucose monitoring) - or list as a
potential study limitation if these data are unavailable. It should also be noted that
the Roche study pump used can only be used in conjunction with an adjunctive
stand-alone CGM – it does not have the possibility of a single integrated pump/CGM
device. What proportion of participants used other study pumps? This insulin pump
does not offer more advanced features such as insulin suspension with actual or
suspected hypoglycaemia. It needs to be made far more explicit in the study
conclusions and discussion that these data may not be applicable to more modern
insulin pumps with CGM and/or insulin suspend features.
Minor points
Pg 2 What is already known about this topic?
Bullet point 3 – Please add in the year following diagnosis of TID to “An adequately
powered RCT and economic evaluation was required to compare the effectiveness,
safety and cost utility of CSII with MDI in the year following diagnosis of TID”.
Pg 2 What does this study add
Bullet point 2 – please clarify that it is standalone CSII without CGM which is not
more clinically/cost effective than MDI

Please add two additional bullet points - one to comment on the differences in
parental quality of life and one to explicitly state that glucose control remained
suboptimal in both groups at the end of the first year.
Page 3 Abstract -Study objectives focus only on the biomedical and cost utility
evaluations – should the psychosocial/quality of life objectives be included both in
the objectives and study title?
Abstract/Main text – please explain the “partial remission rate” terminology (insulin
dose adjusted HbA1c (IDAAC) < 9). It is noted from the clinical study protocol that
this was secondary outcome was added in the 7th protocol amendment (August
2016), after the study had completed. The pre-specified versus post hoc analyses
need to be clearer. Please add that the primary outcome analysis used least squares
regression adjusted for age category and centre.
Page 4 - Abstract results– Please include the numbers (%) of participants switching
from the randomised treatment allocation
Page 4 - Abstract conclusion – comment on the fact that glucose control was
suboptimal in both arms and that further research is needed to optimise glucose
control in newly diagnosed children and young people.
Page 6 - Introduction – The use of CSII in paediatric practice has increased, indeed
doubled from 14 to 28% between 2011-2016. It would be informative to also
comment on the HbA1c levels over this same time period. Does the NPDA have data
specific to newly diagnosed patients and if so please comment either in the
discussion on how these compare to your study findings
Page 8 Procedures – please provide documentary evidence that “all advanced pump
features were taught, used and regularly reviewed” or record as a potential limiation
that details regarding implementation of advanced pump features were not
available.
Statistical analysis/ Results – please comment on whether switching of treatment
allocation (pump to MDI and MDI to pump) was considered in the sample size
estimation? This (15% pump to MDI and 20% MDI to pump) exceeded the 10% loss
to follow up.
Please comment on why the primary outcome analysis was not adjusted for baseline
HbA1c, as per usual practice?
Please also comment on the difference in deprivations scores at baseline (19.4 vs
14.7 for pump vs MDI) and whether this was accounted for in the analyses
Please provide more detail regarding the per protocol analysis and in particular the
outcomes in those who continued CSII or MDI
Please comment on the missing HbA1c data at diagnosis.
Discussion
The discussion needs to more clearly acknowledge the challenges delivering and
evaluating CSII, which is a complex intervention, comprising both of an insulin
delivery device and an educational package for HCPs and users. MDI is undoubtedly
an easier and less complex intervention. Is a more detailed education package
needed for paediatric diabetes teams to implement CSII to best effect or are
automated insulin delivery systems (such as hybrid closed-loop which simplifies
basal insulin delivery potentially making pump treatment more accessible ) needed?
It should also acknowledge the challenge of robustly evaluating new technologies
(technologies improve on average every 2 years and a robust RCT takes 5-7 years
to complete) so that the insulin pump used is inevitably outdated. It should also be
noted that no single intervention (self-management education, pump, CGM,
psychology support) will be adequate for optimal glucose control in all patients. More
work is needed to allow patients to access the treatment options that work best for
them both in terms of biomedical and quality of life outcomes. Emerging data in
adults with T1D suggest that CGM may be more effective for focusing attention on
glucose control while insulin pump therapy may be more impactful on patient
reported quality of life measures.

Please comment on the impact of treatment allocation switching at 12 months both
in switchers and those who followed their randomised treatment allocation. Please
also comment on the timing of switching (was this early after treatment allocation
eg first month, 3-6 months or 6-12 months). Currently only the HbA1c at the time of
switching are provided – the timing and the longer term impact of switching may be
more informative
Please comment also on the finding that the CSII arm had twice as many ED visits
(122 visits by 35/144 patients vs 60 visits by 25/149 patients – how does this
compare to other datasets – does NPDA have ED and/or hospital admission data
Page 22 the authors mention that “significant improvements have been achieved in
glucose control in the UK over the past 5 years ”. For readers not familiar with NPDA
data please clarify the changes in HbA1c over this time period and speculate on the
potential reasons; eg changing targets, paediatric tariff, staffing resources,
psychology input etc. how have these changes impacted on this study
Tables –
Table 1 – Please remove the rows for [N missing data] when there are no missing
data - age at randomisation, age category, gender. Please explain the deprivation
scores (it is unclear if higher vs lower is more deprived). There does appear to be a
difference 19.4 vs 14.7. Please also ensure that the tables are standalone for
example state that this is HbA1c at diagnosis. Likewise, I presume Blood glucose is
the peak plasma glucose concentration?
Table 2 – Please clarify that the primary analysis of HbA1c at 12 months used least
squares regression adjusted for age category and centre. Please clarify what per
protocol analyses were performed, give the N and provide details for those who
continued on the randomised CSII/MDI arm. The % in partial remission and that this
surrogate measure is derived from insulin dose data (which were limited/missing)
from the MDI arm needs to be noted
Figure 1 – please indicate the switching in the consort diagram itself in addition to
the statement provided in the figure legend
Table 4 – it is assumed but not entirely clear that the annualised pump/consumable
costs do not include the 25% discount
