This is an excellent work and well written paper, with high priority to be published.
The authors clearly raised 3 questions: 1) Is UMI-ECG or UMI-CMR associated with a poorer
prognosis in terms of CVD and mortality than the absence of MI? 2) Is the prognosis of UMI
different from that of clinically recognized MI (RMI)? 3) What is the value of screening UMI
with ECG or CMR? Then they performed an excellent systematic review and meta-analysis
of prospective cohort studies to get 3 main findings for these questions. They discuss these
findings from the following aspects with high logical considerations: Who should be
screened, How to screen, How to manage with UMI.
I only have some minor comments.
1). It is on the whole well written, though there are a few typographical errors to resolve.
2). Page 7, line 41 ‘in eTable 1’ should be deleted, as it is the same meaning with ‘in Online
Supplementary File 1’.
3). Page 8, line 51-59, ‘the following study data were recorded:…’, this sentence can be
deleted to make the paper more concise. Actually, all the data presented in the analysis
were extracted from the included studies.
4). Page 9, line 17, references are needed for the criteria of the quality assigned for the
included studies.
5). Page 9, line 30-31, ‘or whether they had been adjusted for risk scores for prediction of
CVD…’I am confused with this statement, please revise it or give a bit more explanation for
it.
6). Page 14, line 20, it is not clear for which ‘health outcomes’ and should be more
specified.

7). To make the paper more concise, page 15, line 28-33, ‘in the model adjusted for age,
sex, ethnicity, smoking, glycated haemoglobin, systolic blood pressure, and ratio of total
cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol’ can be stated just as ‘in multivariable
adjusted model’, and the adjusted risk factors can be moved to the footnote of table 1.
8). The statistical method for comparing the diagnostic consistency of UMI-ECG and
UMI-CMR should be descripted in the part of methods, not in the results.
9). As the authors discussed in the limitation, UMI-ECG was defined with different criteria in
included studies. However, the definition of UMI-ECG should be descripted in the results of
study characteristics.
