The authors are to be commended for undertaking this impressive meta-analysis. Although
rosiglitazone is now very rarely used, the manuscript is highly relevant because it finally
addresses the critical issues limiting prior efforts. Because of the importance of the
manuscript, careful attention to details is required so that the findings represent the most
robust possible analysis. There are several issues with analysis and interpretation that
should be addressed:

1) The issue of heart failure with TZDs represents an established risk. In fact, regulatory
authorities warned of this risk as early as 2001. Accordingly, the manuscript should be
refocused on risk of myocardial infarction and cardiac death, which is what led to the
intense controversy following our 2007 meta-analysis.
2) The primary analysis should focus on the composite of MI and cardiac death, excluding
heart failure since CHF is a settled issue. Importantly, the current composite mixes
irrevocable events (MI and death) with less serious and treatable events such as
hospitalization for heart failure. A secondary outcome should include CHF, but the primary
focus should be MI plus CV death.
3) Because the authors have access to individual patient data (IPD), this should enable the
more statistically reliable "time to event" analysis, which is always preferred. This should
enable calculation of HRs rather than ORs with adjustment for covariates. Since the
authors have the ability to determine a HR for MI plus CV death, this should provide the
needed insight into the effect of rosiglitazone on ischemic CV outcomes.
4) The problem of Type II error needs to be better addressed. Incredibly, there were only
147 myocardial infarction in the rosiglitazone treatment group amongst this very large
number of patients. This results in a HR of 1.25 with an upper 95% CI of 1.60 and lower CI
of 0.99. The authors emphasize that the lower CI "crosses zero" but the low number of
events limits statistical power. In fact, the point estimate of 1.25 is remarkably similar to
our 2010 meta-analysis (1.28).
5) The reasons for the low number of events are important to emphasize. The sponsor
enrolled amazingly low risk patients into rosiglitazone trials, which limited the ability of the
medical community to show an increased hazard for ischemic events. The need to study
higher risk patients to determine risks should be emphasized and the limitations reakted to
low numbers of events requires comment.
6) The implications of the upper 95% confidence interval of 1.60 are really important. The
FDA adopted our proposal to require all diabetes drugs to rule out an upper 95% CI of 1.3.
The current analysis shows an upper CI of 1.6 which fails by a large margin to rule the
required upper 95% CI of the HR. This finding should receive commentary in the abstract
conclusions (depending on the time to event analysis).
7) The short duration of many trials is problematic. Recent CV outcome trials have shown
that both benefits and risks of therapies are often not evident with short term exposure. It
will be interesting to see the KM curves for the time to event analysis to understand this
issue better.
8) After seeing the composite of MI plus CV death, I may suggest altering the conclusion. I
do think the current conclusions are problematic (emphasizing that the hazard is "driven"
by heart failure). In fact, the effect estimates in Table 2 report 34 ORs every one of which
show point estimates > 1.0. For MI, Table 3 reports 68 ORs for myocardial infarction,
every one of which shows a point estimate >1.0. Similarly, Table 5 shows the vast
majority of ORs for CV death with values >1.0. The consistency of these findings support a
conclusion that rosiglitazone increase ischemic CV events. While heart failure shows higher
ORs, the importance of irrevocable ischemic events needs to be emphasized.
9) Finally, there needs to be comment about the observation that the other marketed TZD
(pioglitazone) shows the opposite effects on ischemic CV events. Please cite the
meta-analyses and recent RCTs showing benefits for this alternative therapy. Risks of
drugs must alway be described in the context of alternative therapies.
Although I am requesting major revisions to this manuscript, I must again compliment the
authors for completing this important and Herculean task. The availability of IPD prevented

us from definitively answering this critical public health issue in 2007. I am optimistic that
the efforts of these authors to make patient level data available to independent
investigators will have a transformative effect on medicine