
This paper focuses on changes in all-cause mortality in response to the Covid-19 pandemic,
especially as it impacted the city of Nembo, located in the Bergamo province of Lombardy.
I believe this paper is especially important because deaths from Covid-19 may be
undercounted at the same time that deaths from other causes are likely to be affected by
the pandemic. For example, automobile crash mortality may decline of individuals are
traveling less, but individuals who have other conditions (e.g., cancer, heart disease) may
not be able to receive adequate care in the context of a pandemic. All-cause mortality
provides a reasonable first pass at enumerating the true impact of Covid-19 on mortality in
a region. With some reasonable revisions, I believe this paper will help public health and
policy makers in other cities around the world as they grapple with understanding the
mortality toll associated with the Covid-19 pandemic.
• The introduction focuses on underreporting of cases of Covid-19 as the key driver of
mortality rates. However, the authors could acknowledge other factors as well. Some other
causes of death might also increase (e.g., patients with heart attacks may not get prompt
life-saving care when hospitals are overwhelmed), while others might decrease (e.g.,
deaths from car crashes may decrease if individuals drive less as social distancing takes
effect). Thus, all-cause mortality likely captures the true overall increase in death, not just
from Covid-19, but as a result of the broader impact of the pandemic on all causes of
death. I believe this is a strength of the paper, and it should be highlighted accordingly.
• The reader would benefit from additional information about the setting. In particular, how
wide spread was testing? What precautions were put into place in the region, including
social distancing, wearing masks, or information made available to the public? What
exactly does a “red zone” mean in terms of public and policy reactions to the pandemic?
• Are the mortality counts described on page 7 reported by age and sex? If so, the authors
should mention that and account for that in their analyses.
• Do the authors have information on cause of death? If so, the authors might examine
whether some causes of death declined (e.g., automobile crash mortality), whereas other
causes increased (e.g. heart disease, cancer) perhaps due to failures of care on the context
of a pandemic. It isn’t clear that we’d expect all of the increase in mortality to be a result
of Covid-19 as a specific cause of death, when the burden on the health care system and
changes in individual behaviors are likely to be substantial as well. These “spillover” deaths
have important implications for how other populations respond to the pandemic.
• Do the authors have any information about systematic changes in population size or
age-structure as the outbreak began? I’m thinking in particular about out-migration. It
seems likely that some individuals may have left the region to stay with friends or family
elsewhere. If the authors do not have data on this, they might mention it in their
limitations.
• On page 8, it is unclear what units the authors are using for “person-time at risk?” Person
months? Person days? The authors state that population counts are available through
December 1st, 2019, so it isn’t clear why they have to interpolate values between January
1st 2012 and December 1st, 2019, to get person-year data (in subsequent paragraphs the
authors refer to person years). Also, are the authors using linear regression Poisson
regression, or some other model to do those interpolations?
• In the second paragraph under Statistical Analysis the authors now state that they are
estimating the *daily* number of residents. That should state that in the prior paragraph,
and justify the use of days at risk at the beginning of this section.
• The authors should clarify what they mean by “a convex combination of the two
projections with weights equal to the square root of the elapsed days since December 1st,
2019...” It isn’t clear what the authors are doing here. An additional sentence to describe
the logic behind this technique would be helpful.

• Are the person-days or person-years indexed by age and sex? If so, that should be noted
and made use of in the analyses. The authors state, “Change in the age-sex structure of
the Nembro population over the last 5 years was examined by graphical comparisons of
yearly cross-sections.” They might clarify what they examine those data for, and how they
make use of the products of that examination in their analyses.
• In the discussion of Figure 1 on page 9: what accounts for the ~75 person jump in the
population of Nembro in late 2013?
• On page 10, mention “Figure 2” in the paragraph that describes it, to point the reader to
your results. The horizontal axis on Figure 2 is quite cluttered and hard to read. The
authors might simply label every 3rd or 5th month, but leave the tick marks in for each
month.
• In the paragraph describing Figure 2, the authors might calculatin—in text—some risk
ratios. For example, mortality in March 2020 relative to mortality in March 2019, to
estimate the relative increase in the rate of death from the same month in the prior year.
My quick and dirty estimate suggests that all cause mortality increased by about 7.5 times
in March 2020, relative to March 2019—an important number as other regions work to
forecast their expected mortality as the pandemic reaches their cities.
• The population pyramids in Figure 3 would be easier to understand if the bars for males
were to the left of the central axis and the bars for females were to the right—a standard
presentation. At first glance, I couldn’t understand why there were nearly double the
number of females as males at each age (it wasn’t obvious the bars were stacked).
• On page 10, what insight should the readers take from the slight aging of the population
over the four year interval? How is that shift likely to impact the estimated results?
• On page 12, the authors suggest that the surge in deaths in March 2020 must all be
Covid-19 deaths, even though just half of those excess deaths were designated as
Covid-19 for the cause of death. That is hard to know. Some of those deaths may actually
be from other causes that were not treated well due to the pandemic. Some maybe be
undercounts of Covid-19. Cause of death analyses would help to clarify—what
non-Covid-19 causes appeared to spike along with Covid-19 in March 2020? If
influenza/pneumonia was designated, then they may have actually been Covid-19 deaths.
But if cancer or heart disease (for example) were over-reported, it may suggest that some
individuals died due to foregone care. Information about the prevalence of testing would
also help the reader to understand how many cases may have been missed.
• On pages 12 and 13 the authors mention many of the points I made in my prior
comment. The authors should suggest these in the introduction of the paper. All of these
are important to capture in the context of the outbreak, but they may require different
kinds of public health interventions. Further, the authors might dig into cause of death data
to help discern among those possibilities if those data are available.
Patrick M. Krueger
