The authors have given good responses to many of the comments and suggestions made. In particular,
the move to Poisson regression to validly assess the primary outcome differences is a major
improvement.
I am surprised that the numbers in the 3 arms, for both families and children, are so similar given there
was no stratification or blocking to randomisation (figure 1). It is of course possible, and the author
response suggests that they were fortunate to get such good balance.
I do have some further queries though regarding the current manuscript and the responses given:
1. Re the sample size estimation. This is improved, but I still have a few queries. –
- The authors state that to detect a difference of one half of an sd (diff 0.28, sd estimated 0.56) requires
n=80 per group to give 80% power. I assume this would be at 5% significance level. By my calculation
it would be 63 per group. This is not a major difference, I am just curious as to why the difference.
Maybe a software issue?
- They then give a number of 150 per group to account for 25% attrition (yielding 107 per group) and
possible clustering within families (indicating a design effect of 1.40, which is arbitrarily chosen?)
- N=2 and an ICC of 0.01 would give a design effect of 1.01, and an effective sample size of 1059/1.01
= 1048 (ie. is the design effect given of 1.02 a typo?)
The authors therefore address within family clustering, but was there also within village clustering to
adjust for?
2. Since there is clustering, this should be included in the analyses to adjust the confidence intervals and
significance levels accordingly. Multilevel models should be used.
3. Although in the response the authors discuss the effect size of NEWSUP being 2-4 times greater than
that of FBF, I could not see this information in the manuscript (nor which values they were specifically
referring to). The statements within the manuscript that there were no significant differences between
NEWSUP and FBF should be supported by a difference (RR) and ci. It is accepted that this is an
exploratory analysis without power to detect a difference, as outlined in the methods.
4. Primary outcome is given as the number of stickers found at follow-up in the methods and the results
appear to show this, yet the abstract states that the primary outcome is the change in working memory
from baseline to follow up.
5. It is unclear how many children reached the limit of trials (12 for younger, 18 for older) and how
these were treated in the analyses.

6. Table 4 should given differences and ci for the newsup vs FBF comparison, not just the p-values.
