Dear Editors,
I read with great interest the manuscript from Loupy and colleagues regarding risk prediction
of graft loss following kidney transplantation. The manuscript report results of a prospective
cohort study of adult kidney transplant patients who underwent kidney transplantation
between 2005 and 2014 in four hospitals in France. External validation was performed in 2
cohorts, one from Europe and one from the US, and in 3 randomized controlled trials.
The paper addresses a very important topic and the prediction model objective is clinically
highly relevant. The availability of a valid prediction model would have great
importance for patient care and future research. The authors have conducted a rigorous
study that has a number of strengths: Their model building procedures were statistically
sound. Of particular note is the use of both internal validation via a bootstrapping procedure
and external validation in three groups. They have adhered to the TRIPOD guideline for
prediction models. They have also compared (validated) two previously reported risk scores
in literature with their model. Main limitations have been acknowledged.
Overall, it is a well written manuscript, based on powerful and large data, analyzed properly
using appropriate methods, and well interpreted.
I have a few comments which are as under :
1) One limitation of the iBox is that it is “static” and treats the variables in isolation without
consideration of values over time. A “dynamic” approach to risk prediction would incorporate
changes in results over time and would more closely simulate a transplant physician’s clinical
approach to evaluating the patient. The authors should bring up this point in their
discussion.
2) I wonder why the authors did not include the KDPI risk score for donors in their
univariable analysis? In fact the KDPI includes 10 donor variables that are known to have

strong associations with graft outcome. What was the rationale for leaving out some of these
donor variables associated with graft outcomes?
3) It is not clear whether the ‘anti-HLA DSA’ used in the model is preexisting or de novo?
Further, was the MFI used cumulative or of the immunodominant DSA?
