Webb and colleagues report the results at 24 months of a placebo controlled randomised controlled trial
(RCT) comparing 16 weeks with 8 weeks of prednisolone for the treatment of the initial episode of
steroid sensitive nephrotic syndrome (SSNS). The study found that the time to first relapse (primary
outcome) did not differ significantly between treatment groups and that the number of children with
relapse and the number of children with frequently relapsing disease (FRNS) did not differ between
treatment groups.
Originality
There have been three recent well designed RCTs evaluating prednisolone duration (one comparing two
months of treatment with six months, two comparing three months with six months), which all found no
significant difference between different durations of prednisolone in the time to relapse and the number
of children with relapse and FRNS. However the PREDNOS study is the only study in which a placebo has
been used so that children received either 8 weeks of prednisolone (standard course SC) followed by 8
weeks of placebo or 16 weeks of prednisolone (extended course EC). It is also the only study that has
included a detailed economic assessment. While the clinical results identified no significant differences
between treatment groups, the economic assessment concluded that extended course therapy resulted

in a small increase in quality of life and some cost savings during the two years of follow up. Thus the
study provides important additional data to inform clinicians caring for children with nephrotic syndrome.
Importance of work to general readers
Children with nephrotic syndrome are cared for by general practitioners and paediatricians as well as by
paediatric nephrologists so this study provides important information to them on the duration of
treatment in the initial episode of nephrotic syndrome. I believe that this study deserves publication in a
general journal in the UK.
Scientific reliability
I have reviewed the protocol for this study and the CONSORT diagram, which indicates that the expected
information has been included in the report of this RCT. The reported methods clearly indicate that the
study was carried out to the highest standards of an RCT particularly in relation to reducing the risk of
bias for allocation concealment and blinding. All the study participants were accounted for in the study
follow up. I have reviewed all the information provided in supplementary tables about the health
economic analysis.
Research Question/study design/participants/methods/results/interpretation/references/abstract
The research question has been clearly defined. The study design is appropriate for this study and the
methodology has been reported in sufficient detail for readers to follow easily. The participants were
children with their first episode of steroid sensitive nephrotic syndrome from hospitals throughout the
UK. The study, in addition to important results relevant to children with nephrotic syndrome, has
demonstrated the feasibility of recruiting children from district hospitals without paediatric nephrology
departments.
The results for the number of children with relapse or continuing remission are well presented and are
credible with the numbers of children with relapse and the expected number of children with frequently
relapsing or steroid dependent disease being similar to other large groups of children with nephrotic
syndrome. While there was no significant difference in the time to relapse between groups or in the
number of children with relapse, there was a small and non-significant increase in the time to remission
in the EC group compared with the SC group. The cost effectiveness analyses favoured the longer
duration over the standard duration group. Importantly no significant increase in adverse effects was
seen in the EC group compared with the SC group.
The authors conclude that while EC compared with the SC regimen does not make any statistical
improvement in clinical endpoints, it may be cost saving and improve quality of life and is not associated
with an increase in adverse effects. This is a complicated concept for clinicians, who now have to
determine whether to look only at the clinical results and treat children with eight weeks of prednisolone,
as is the current standard in the UK, or whether to move to a longer duration of prednisolone, which this
study has shown is associated with an improved quality of life, some cost savings due to reduced
primary care visits and hospital admissions and medication costs but no increase in the adverse effects
of corticosteroids.
The references are up to date and the abstract reflects the content of the paper.
I have some minor comments about the manuscript
1.
There are very minor discrepancies in the numbers of children experiencing relapse between the
data reported in the text and table 2 and the data in the flow chart in Figure 1 and the meta-analysis in
Figure 5A. The text and Table 2 report that the numbers of children with relapse were 91 and 88 in the
EC and SC groups respectively. In Figures 1 and 5a, these numbers are 90 and 87.
2.
The Achenbach Child Behaviour Checklist was used to measure behavioural change and was
completed six times for each child during the study. However the authors have not provided the results
of these measurements in detail and only stated that the data showed no difference in behaviour score. I
wonder why the scores were not reported in more detail. Are these data to be reported in a separate
manuscript?
Elisabeth Hodson

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Dr Elisabeth Hodson
Job Title: Emeritus Honorary Physician in Paediatric Nephrology
Institution: Centre for Kidney Research, Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, Australia
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: Yes
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/declaration-co
mpeting-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare them here: I have
received funds to attend a symposium led by KDIGO (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes) in
Singapore in November 2017

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
