This paper asks an interesting question with tremendous relevance to clinical practice: to what extent have
increases in adverse events for opioid use been driven by increases in the utilization of benzodiazepines
and opioids together? While many physicians are aware of the potential dangers in utilizing both drugs
concurrently, the authors find that (a) the concomitant utilization of both drugs has markedly increased
over time and (b) the utilization of both drugs explains a large share of hospitalizations and emergency
room visits for opioid use. Put together, these findings suggest that physicians should exercise a much
greater degree of caution than they may currently be doing when in deciding to prescribe these drugs.
Overall, I believe this is an important message. Concomitant use of opioids and benzodiazepines is as
important to recognize as is our increasing recognition of the harms of opioid use. The paper is clearly
written, the methods are appropriate, and the implications are well drawn out. The authors carry out a nice
set of robustness checks to address the obvious issue that patients who are concomitantly prescribed an
opioid and benzodiazepine are unobservably different than patients who receive only an opioid prescription
in a given year. The demonstration of temporal overlap is key as is the reproducibility in fixed effects
models that use patients as their own controls. I have the following recommendations:
1) A strength of the study is the exhaustive set of controls as well as the use of patient fixed effects in one
of the robustness analyses. Could the authors also add as controls some measure of resource utilization
(number of claims filed, total spending, etc)?

2) Table 1 seems a bit cumbersome; I think the authors can simply delete the "overall" column.
3) Also, re: table 1: could the authors include some measure of effect size?
4) Could the authors create a flow chart describing the sample creation?
5) Residual confounding is always an issue. Can the authors formally assess whether this is likely given the
documented covariate estimates from the model?