This is an important study of VTE in testosterone users in the CPRD. Increasing questions around the overuse and
safety of testosterone remain, and even though warnings of VTE have been issued, there remains a scarcity of
population-level data on them.
This study utilizes the CPRD to study a wide spectrum of men in a case-control study. I find the case-control approach
slightly atypical for this type of study in this database. It does allow for greater power in a UK-based study which has
much more restrained testosterone use than in the US, but there may be other approaches which allow for more
meaningful comparisons comparison (see comments below).
Most of my comments are more editorial, with some requests for additional clarification where the manuscript was
unclear.
1. I find reference number 2 an insufficient citation for the claim: “This upsurge is mainly for men presenting with
sexual dysfunction and/or decreased energy, with testosterone prescribed as an unproven sexual and/or anti-ageing
tonic.” Reference 2 is for an editorial piece, not a study which presents data substantiating that assertion. In fact, the
recently released T Trial did demonstrate a modest improvement in sexual function among men with clear
hypogonadism (N Engl J Med 2016; 374:611-624). While I agree entirely with the authors that much of the vast
increase in testosterone use have been in patients with unclear and questionable indications, I believe the overall tone
of this opening could be tempered somewhat.
2. The authors state that “CPRD has been validated in VTE research” (page 5, lines 3-5), yet reference 15 which is the
offered citation for this article is to an overview of the CPRD which makes no mention of VTE. It does reference
validation studies performed in the CPRD, “Validation of the CPRD has shown high positive predictive value of some
diagnoses and, where evaluated, comparisons of incidence with other UK data sources are also broadly similar.35–38
However, reporting of validation studies was often too poor to permit a clear interpretation, and the majority of studies
focused on positive predictive value rather than sensitivity or specificity.39” yet the referenced outcomes are fractures,
hypertension, prostate cancer, and influenza. Later, the authors cite a paper for validity of VTE as an outcome in the
CPRD, yet that is looking at
3. I would like to hear the authors’ justifications for using a case-control design (to me, the current design is more
reminiscent of a case-cohort design, yet not exactly) rather than a new-user cohort design. The new cohort design
would be easy to implement in the data source, would allow a more thorough observation of the early time on
testosterone treatment for all testosterone users (not just the sampled ones), and would better order the temporal
relationship between covariates and testosterone treatment; in this case-control setting where the covariates are
measured during the same period as the exposure, the relationships between exposures, confounders, intermediates,
and outcomes can become somewhat muddled. Additionally, incidence rates and risk differences could be reported,
rather than the estimated ones currently being calculated from the transformed OR.
4. How was the duration of testosterone treatment calculated for the implants and gels, which have more diverse
dosing schedules and don’t have the pack size/day supply as the gels or patches or orals? The paragraph describing
the exposure duration is not entirely clear how this was handled for the various dosage forms.
5. Regarding the covariate measurements, how were BMI and alcohol use measured? I assume the most recent
measurement to the index date was used, but was it required to be in the 2-year baseline period, or could it have
happened at any point prior to the index date?
6. A minor point, but the disclosure for Dr. Handelsman needs to be updated—it speaks about anticipating funding in
2015, which is either a typo or outdated information.