General comments
- Thank you for the opportunity to review. The authors present a nested case-control study
examining the risk of hospitalization for heart failure among users of NSAIDs and COX-2 inhibitors
across healthcare databases from four European countries. The number of NSAIDs and COX-2
inhibitors examined as well as the sample size in this study is robust and a strength of the study.
This study examines patients using these medications in the ‘real-world’ and appears to add to the
body of literature on this topic.
Major comments
- Methods: Because the comparison group here are non-users of these medications, it is possible
that patients using NSAIDs or COX-2 inhibitors may be more likely to be hospitalized due to
increased exposure to their provider and the healthcare system. Is it possible to identify an control
group (e.g., acetaminophen or aspirin users) that is not thought to be associated with an increased
risk of HF to see whether the associations persist? Comparisons without an active comparator
group may be tricky due to inherent differences in the study populations.
- Methods: Please provide more information on the control group. Did they ever experience a HF
hospitalization? Or just not in that period of time that they were matched?
- Methods: While mentioned in the discussion, please clarify more that the patients included in the
study could have diagnosed HF at baseline. The motivation for the study appears to be the
association between NSAID/COX-2 use and clinically-significant HF (defined here as ‘hospitalization
for HF’); however, if HF differs substantially between the case and control groups at baseline,
naturally there would be differences in hospitalizations for HF (and it may not be possible to fully
control for this). Why not also examine the association among patients without any HF at baseline?
This information might help provide information to answer the key biological questions presented
in the introduction.
Minor comments
- Methods: Is it possible to capture previous use of NSAIDs or COX-2 inhibitors (and the extent to
which that may affect the ‘control’ population)?
- Methods: To help the reader interpret the study findings, please provide information per
medication (in the Appendix) about what was considered to be “low”, “medium”, “high” and “very
high” dose class.
- Discussion: Please provide a biological rationale here for why NSAIDs might be associated with
increased risk of a HF hospitalization.
- Discussion: Is there any information on the extent to which any dispensations of NSAIDs or COX2 inhibitors may not be captured within the healthcare databases? In the US, because traditional
NSAIDs are usually (and most often) dispensed without a prescription (over-the-counter), so they
are frequently not captured in databases. If there are medications that are not captured in the
databases, this could potentially affect the study results through misclassification of exposure, but
agree that this would likely bias towards the null.
Discretionary comments
- Abstract: If space permits, please provide motivation for this work here.
- Abstract: Please define “current use” in the abstract as well as the cases and controls used for
the comparisons.
- Methods: With 27 different NSAID comparisons, please address whether there is any risk of
multiple comparisons affecting the study results.
- Methods: Please consider whether a sensitivity analysis of any diagnosis of HF in the outpatient

setting may be possible. While HF is complex, it may be worth exploring any diagnosis to provide
additional generalizability to the study.
- Methods: Please provide a motivation for using a nested case-control study rather than a full
cohort study.
- Discussion: Was the study ‘powered’ sufficiently to examine all of the NSAIDs (even in a post-hoc
analysis)?
- Discussion: The study appears to be potentially underpowered for some dose classes (Figure 3).
Please provide this as a limitation.