An important and well-designed study ( my great respect), asking the same question of recent paediatric
studies from India (Bagga) and Japan (Yoshikawa) published in KI, however, somewhat later in coming
up with the result.
At the bottom line, they also show, that an extended prednisone scheme does not improve clinical
outcome.
Prolonged therapy does not alter the disease course but leads to a phase shift in the relapse pattern. So
this is in line with the mentioned trials.
Overall it is surprising that short-term benefit in health care economy was highlighted.
What does this mean? Is this a recommendation?
I think it is pointing towards that the play with steroid dosing is not a future concept to solve the
problem of avoiding relapses and help to discriminate which patients are at risk. One scheme probably
cannot fit all patients´ needs. Especially not in the area of personalized medicine. The justification of
prolonged prednisone therapy looks cumbersome to me.
Special points:

I wonder if the ordinary reviewer like me (doing reviews for decades) is really familiar with "However EC
therapy was associated with a mean increase in generic quality of life (0.0162 additional QALYs, 95%
CI: -0.005 to 0.037) and cost savings (difference: -£1,673, 95% CI: -£3,455 to £109) with 99%
probability that EC is cost-effective at a threshold of £20,000 per QALY."
This might be more familiar for readers of health economy journals. Some more explanation of the
methodology and meaning might be helpful for international readers.
Detailed results of patients according to age groups would be of interest, especially because an age
stratification was used. Do younger patients have more relapses, earlier relapses?
Where the health care cost calculated by tables or by true consultation costs?
I think the repeated consultations might need less time to consume and may need less laboratory
investigation.
Drugs for sparing steroids are different among groups. Why that?
On many tables, especially supp. table 5 and 6 there are many non-normal distributed data as shown in
cases in which the SD is greater than the mean; this points toward non-normal distribution. Negative
data are not plausible. A logical and meaningful recalculation is necessary!
In conclusion, on one site I like this study, on the other side, the present form provokes many questions
which the reader might not want to buy.
My recommendation would be: reject and resubmit with special emphasis on what should be the
recommendation: look just for Qualys or ask better questions for future trials.
Thank you very much for the privilege to read the manuscript and suggest improvements for this large
and extremely difficult challenge to conduct the trial.