Dear Editorial Board of BMJ!
Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to review the manuscript titled “ Inequalities in Access to Total Hip
Arthroplasty for Hip Fracture: Population Based Study” for your renowned journal.
The authors objective was to determine whether the decision to offer THA to individuals with a displaced intracapsular
fracture of the femoral neck is based on national guidelines or if there are systematic inequalities in an observational
cohort study by evaluating the UK National Hip Fracture Database NHFD. They found 114,119 hip fractures with 10.2%
of THAs included and that the NICE eligibility criteria did not optimally explain which patients underwent THA. They
conclude that there are wide disparities in access to THA amongst individuals with hip fractures and compliance with
NICE guidance is poor. In addition, they found that patients with higher levels of socioeconomic depreviation and
requiring surgery at weekends are less likely to receive THA.
I found this paper very interesting, scientifically valid, and believe that it is suitable for publication in your renowned

journal. I only recommend some minor revisions before acceptance. This work is of oputstanding quality and I normally
present more critical points in my reviews. However, this time it is just a very beautiful work. Please find my comments
directly listed to the authors.
With kind regards,
Patrick Sadoghi
The authors objective was to determine whether the decision to offer THA to individuals with a displaced intracapsular
fracture of the femoral neck is based on national guidelines or if there are systematic inequalities in an observational
cohort study by evaluating the UK National Hip Fracture Database NHFD. They found 114,119 hip fractures with 10.2%
of THAs included and that the NICE eligibility criteria did not optimally explain which patients underwent THA. They
conclude that there are wide disparities in access to THA amongst individuals with hip fractures and compliance with
NICE guidance is poor. In addition, they found that patients with higher levels of socioeconomic depreviation and
requiring surgery at weekends are less likely to receive THA.
I found this paper very interesting, scientifically valid, and believe that it is suitable for publication in your renowned
journal. I only recommend some minor revisions before acceptance. Please find my comments hereby listed:
Title:
Appropriate
Abstract:
Concise and very well written
Introduction:
The introduction is well written and provides relevant background information. Please explain why you believe THA is
superior to HA in line 42. What is your explanation for this? Please present a study aim and hypothesis at the end of the
introduction section.
Methods:
Are the variables extracted from the NHFD open to all individuals and published for free or do you need special
permission? For arthroplasty register data, most of those are published free and online.
Results:
Why did you choose a 46-month period? How were pathological fractures identified?
Discussion:
Please explain in detail your thoughts about a low volume surgeon with respect to her or his case load – this is not
known to all readers of your work, especially thos interested in the public health aspect of your manuscript.
Figures and tables are very well structured.
The references are up to date.
I highly recommend publication of this work after some minor changes and/or explanations. Congratulations on the very
best article I have had the honor to review this year!