There is undoubtedly a great amount of effort that went into this manuscript, and the authors should be
commended for that. However, there are several points which could make this manuscript more
informative:
1.
This is one of the very few reports on RICC, and so I find it a missed opportunity not to include
a thorough comparison with SCC and AC. This would provide the context for the results and help clarify
whether and how RICC differ from the common CC types; the lack of these data in this paper is
particularly regrettable as the authors do seem have access to the relevant records (see Supplementary
Figure 1).
2.
Today, official cancer registry data in Nordcan report 4430 cases of cervical cancer diagnosed in
2002-2011 in Sweden at ages 25-85+ (which, if I understood correctly, is approximately the age group
that the authors used in the study [birth cohorts 1909-1986]). If we assume that Nordcan data are the
golden standard, then Nordcan reports 176 cases more than what the authors considered to be
confirmed primary ICC (N=4254). As a proportion of the total, the 176 cases represent a small minority.
However, if the “missing” cases are not randomly selected and (potentially) represent RICC, then in the
worst-case scenario they would represent about 50% of all the RICC studied in the paper. I expect that

the explanation for the “missing” cases is more benign, but I would welcome a report/discussion on
these discrepancies.
3.
The authors analysed screening participation during periods of exactly the recommended
lengths of the screening intervals, 3 or 5 years. In cervical screening, it is known that women may
participate in slightly longer intervals, and so many national monitoring reports evaluate participation in
0.5-1 year longer-than-recommended intervals (e.g. 3.5-4 years, and 5.5-6 years). How do the results
change if this reasonable routine variability in screening intervals is considered?
4.
Please explain the completeness and accuracy of the Swedish Patient Register and Longitudinal
Integration Database […]. Please clarify which types of hysterectomies were excluded from the analysis.
Is the proportion of women excluded because of a hysterectomy approximately the same as the
prevalence of hysterectomy in the general population of the same age? What is the source data on
education within the Longitudinal Integration Database […]? Were all these data linked on the individual
level?
5.
The risk of RICC was increased in women with at least one abnormal screening test, compared
to unscreened women. Please clarify whether this was a consequence of insufficient follow-up after an
abnormality.
6.
Tables: data on controls should be added throughout, as should be crude IRRs – this would
increase the transparency of the reporting and would help the readers follow the results.
7.
Minor comment: page 6, line 43-46, please clarify whether controls were required to be alive
until the date of diagnosis of the matched case or until a later date (this may be just a misunderstanding
because of how the sentence is written).
8.
Minor comment: page 12, lines 48-50, when the authors talk about “a smaller magnitude of risk
reduction”, what comparison did they have in mind?
9.
Minor comment: Tables 2 and 3, although not statistically significant and based on small
numbers, the IRRs for FIGO stage IA cases are oddly increased – please discuss.
