Schjerning Olsen et al conducted a study to examine the effect of using PPI in post-MI patients who are on NSAIDS
in Denmark.
It is a clinically interesting study question and the paper is well written in most parts. I have several
questions/concerns regarding their methods/data:
First, it is unclear (I don’t think it is specified in the paper at all) how the authors determine the risk window period
and how they calculated person-years for each exposure status (NSAIDS only, NSAIDs +PPI, and all other
sensitivity analyses). - Were patients considered at risk of GI bleed only during the ‘active treatment’ -period with
both drugs? Since NSAIDS are taken often as PRN, how does that affect the study results? Would some analyses

including different extension period after the last drug available date be useful?
Second, the absolute risk should be also mentioned as the authors only emphasized the HR. And the absolute risk of
GI bleed on nSAIDS should be also mentioned.
Third, a possibility of the interaction between PPI and antithrombotic drug should be discussed. Was there more
recurrent MI or CVD in NSAIDS+PPI group vs NSAIDS only?
Fourth, the limitation of unmeasured/partially measured confounders/exposures should be addressed more. Table 1
makes me think that comorbidities are not well captured (although I am not sure what time period these conditions
were measured).
Fifth: were antithrombotic drugs updated as time varying ? if not, why not?
More detailed comments are below.
Methods:
Unclear how person-time for each exposure status was calculated
P9. 1st paragraph: Alcohol consumption was included as a covariate. How good is this data in the claims
databases?
P9. Cox: what was the time scale for Cox models ?
P10. Lack of Interaction - what kind of interaction was assessed? how was it assessed?
P9. Outcome:
Was the primary outcome validated in the past? If so, what is the performance of the algorithm that the authors
used?
Results:
P12, last paragraph : Sensitivity analyses
- would be more useful to include the data from various sensitivity analyses as suppl tables.
Table 1: covariates:
When were these baseline covariates assessed? Were these characteristics updated as time varying covariates too?
Surprised to see overall low % of comorbidities even though all these pts are post-MI at 30 days?
- DM % is only 4%. Is this consistent with other Danish or non-Danish Post MI pt population?
- I am concerned that all the comorbidities are under-ascertained (e.g. % glc lowering drug use is about 9% versus
4% DM.)
- B-blocker and statin use is also not that high even though these pts all have MI.
Figure 1: ‘quarantine period’ sounds odd, although I think I know what the authors meant by that. I would just give
a definition of the period
Figure 3: what is the unit for the crude rate?
Suppl Tables 3 and 4: what is the risk time? Is it person-years?
- Specify the time unit.
- unclear how the person time was calculated
Supp Table 4: is this table calculated using the data only before ibuprofen became OTC? If not, what would be the
impact of incomplete ascertainment of ibuprofen use?
Suppl Figure 1
- please specify it as ‘ New NSAID users’ in the figure title
Discussion:
- is there any possibility that use of PPI and antithrombotic decease the action of antithrombotic thus leading to less
bleeding? If that is the case, that does not sound clinically beneficial. Please include some discussion on this.
