Comments from Professor Rod Jackson, University of Auckland, New Zealand:
This is an excellent and clearly written paper. It is original and makes a significant and highly clinically relevant new
contribution to the literature on lower blood pressure levels and CVD risk in diabetics. There remains significant
controversy about the possibility of a J-shaped relationship between BP and CVD which has impacted on international
guideline recommendations on blood pressure lowering treatment goals and this study is by far the largest investigation
ever done on the topic.
The study is observational rather than an RCT and the authors are appropriately cautious about drawing conclusions
about treatment based on a non-randomised study. However the authors are able to undertake analyses with
appropriate exclusions that no other study has been big enough to allow and the sensitivity analyses including and
excluding people with prior CVD provides compelling, albeit indirect evidence that the apparent J-shaped association
between BP and CVD risk is an artifact due to reverse causality.
The study is hard to fault and from the text and the references it is clear that the authors have a lot of experience in
analysing (and publishing) these large-scale linked national datasets.
One issue, I would like the authors to comment on is the possibility of a competing risk, which I couldn't find any
mention of in the Discussion. The group with the lowest blood pressure had the highest total mortality so those who died
of non-CVD causes (the majority of deaths) were not available to have a CVD event. I am sure the authors have
considered this issue and I may have missed it. If not, could the authors please discuss this.
I note that the authors chose not to exclude those on loop diuretics and other drugs commonly used in the management
of CVD. I would probably have excluded them, but the authors have adjusted for these groups in the analyses. I am not
suggesting they re-do the analyses, which would be a huge undertaking, and the authors comment on this issue in the
Discussion section. My guess is that the J-shaped relationship with BP and CHF might disappear if they had been
excluded.
One minor issue, the mean SBP in each of the BP categories are skewed to the lower end of the range. For example the
110-119mmHg mean is 113mmHg. This is because GPs round the BP measurement. We have published data showing
GPs tend to round SBP levels to the nearest 10mmHg which would account for this finding. It would be worth mentioning

this issue in the text because I am sure the true mean SBP in each category is closer to the middle value than is
reported.
