The use of routine healthcare data to inform our practice is an important and topical area in
clinical medicine. Here Dr Kaura and colleagues have utilized routine data from five
cardiovascular centres participating in the UK National Institute for Health Research
Informatics Collaborative to evaluate the association between cardiac troponin and all-cause
mortality in a quarter of a million consecutive patients undergoing testing. This is to my
knowledge the largest evaluation of the relationship between cardiac troponin and outcomes
performed to date. There were 55,890 (21.7%) deaths over an average of 3 years of follow
up. As a range of assays were used across participating hospitals troponin concentrations
were standardized for reporting as multiples of the upper reference limit. An elevated
troponin was associated with a 3.2-fold higher risk of death and a 15% absolute excess in
mortality across all age groups. The authors explore the influence of age, diagnosis and
revascularisation on this relationship with some interesting observations. They conclude that
any elevation in cardiac troponin should be taken seriously, and that their findings should
inform clinical practice and risk stratification algorithms.
The use of routine healthcare data to inform our practice is a topical and exciting area of
medicine. This analysis is a very important contribution and the data are fascinating, but I
would ask that the authors consider the following points to ensure that their interpretation is
correct and the message for the readers is clear.
Major comments
1. The authors have adopted a pragmatic approach to identifying the intended study
population: troponin measured and admission to hospital to obtain an ICD-10 coded
diagnosis. Whilst this reflects clinical practice and the use of the test in UK hospitals during

that period, there are two possible sources of selection bias that require clarification or merit
discussion.
a) Does this analysis include patients attending the emergency department or medical
assessment unit who are discharged directly without hospital admission? With the
introduction of high-sensitivity troponin testing this represents a substantial proportion of
patients undergoing troponin testing, and up to 50% in some centres. These patients are
likely to be at low risk of subsequent death, and therefore if they are not included you may
underestimate the excess in mortality associated with having an elevated troponin
concentration.
b) Second, clinicians perform troponin testing widely in patients with syncope, palpitations,
collapse, and breathlessness where they do not suspect acute coronary syndrome, and
mortality in these patients is higher as we do not have evidence based care pathways. The
broad inclusion criteria is a both a strength and a limitation, that needs to be acknowledged,
and the authors should consider whether it is appropriate to refer to this dataset as a
“longitudinal record for patients with a suspected acute coronary syndrome” (page 9, lines
38-40).
2. The relationship between a positive troponin and the timing of subsequent death differs
substantially by age, and merits further analysis or discussion (Figure 2). In patients 18-39
years of age almost all deaths occur during the index presentation, with a positive troponin
not associated with subsequent death over the following 3 years. In contrast, for patients
>80 years a positive troponin is associated with an increasing risk of death over each year of
follow up. This could be explored further by performing a landmark analysis restricted to
those individuals who survive to discharge from the index presentation or if this data is not
available a defined period (e.g. 3 months) could be used. I am not aware of any previous
data illustrating this and the observation has clinical implications, that are not discussed in
full (page 18, lines 58-60, page 19, lines 3-17). It would be useful to highlight in the
discussion that the clinical consequences of an elevated troponin differ by age - in younger
patients it is most likely to reflect an acute illness, where if you survive the outlook is
excellent. In older patients elevated troponin concentrations are as likely to reflect the
long-term risk of having chronic myocardial injury due to structural heart disease or renal
failure and confer important prognostic information beyond the acute presentation. The
hazard ratio by age group reported in Figure 2A would likely look completely different if
restricted to those who survive to 3 months.
3. The relationship between troponin concentration stratified into bands (1 x ULN to 1000 x
ULN) and mortality is more complex, and there are alternative explanations for the
observation that patients with higher troponin concentrations had lower event rates at 3
years (Figure 3). I am not convinced that the lower mortality observed in those with the
highest troponin concentrations is a consequence of revascularisation (page 16, line 14-15).
An analysis reporting the hazard ratio for mortality by troponin concentration as a
continuous measure in those with a diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome, stratified by
revascularisation and adjusted for differences in case mix is required to support this
statement. More likely it reflects better outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation
myocardial infarction (STEMI), who have very high peak troponin concentrations, more early
deaths, but lower overall mortality than patients with non-STEMI, heart failure or renal
failure. Ideally the analysis reported in Figure 3 would be reported separately for those with
and without acute coronary syndrome, and in the former stratified by type of acute coronary
syndrome (if these data were available).
4. The models reported in Figure 4A & 4B and Figure 5B are incongruous. In Figure 4 the
relationship between troponin concentration and death is an inverted U-shape in all patients,
with those who had the highest troponin concentrations having the lowest risk. In Figure 5
(and Supplementary Figure 3), the relationship between troponin concentration and death is
non-linear (exponential) in both those with and without revascularisation (and acute

coronary syndrome diagnosis), with those who had the highest troponin concentrations in
both groups at the highest risk of death. The authors conclude that by grouping patients
according to diagnosis or revascularisation status the inverted U-shaped relations is fully
resolved (page 19, lines 38-40). I disagree, and would suggest these differences are entirely
due to the use of a different referent group and splines (undetectable troponin in Figure 4
and the ULN in Figure 5?). Further detail is required to resolve this and review by a
statistician prior to publication.
5. Figure 5 is interesting in that it provides insight into the different approaches in clinical
practice to revascularisation by troponin concentration, but could perhaps be improved. A
second plot to complement Panel A illustrating the use of coronary angiography by troponin
concentration would provide insights into whether patients with small troponin elevations are
being under investigated. This was a pre-specified secondary outcome measure, and
reporting might help to explain the somewhat unexpected observation that the highest risk
of death is in patients with small increases in troponin (5-10 x ULN) discussed above. As
previously mentioned, Panel B would be more informative and provide insights into the effect
of revascularisation on outcome if restricted to patients with an index diagnosis of acute
coronary syndrome and adjusted for age, gender, haemoglobin, and creatinine. Panel C is
less informative and likely reflects errors in coding for acute coronary syndrome or the
position of that code in the hospital episode statistics, and could be removed.
Minor comments
1. The abstract contains results and interpretation that are not central to the key message
from the analysis, and this could be simplified. In particular the descriptive text on the
U-shaped curve and speculation on why this relationship was observed is better placed in the
discussion section.
2. In the main manuscript the baseline characteristics should be reported for all patients,
and for those who were troponin “negative” and “positive” given the primary purpose of the
analysis was to compare outcomes between these groups. The proportion with missing data
can be reported in the supplement.