Originality of the work
This study investigates the association between ultra-processed food consumption
and cardiovascular disease in a large cohort in France. Previous studies on
ultra-processed food have simply examined the consumption of ultra-processed
foods in sub-groups of the population (e.g. Correa EN et al. Sao Paulo Med J
2018;200-207), or the association between consumption of ultra-processed food and
other risk factors, such as BMI (e.g Juul F et al. Br J Nutr 2018;120:90-100 and
Cunha DB et al. Nutr Diabetes 2018;8:28). There is hardly any literature on
ultra-processed foods and disease outcomes. This research group has previously

published on ultra-processed food and cancer risk in the same cohort and in the
current paper they report on cardiovascular disease risk. As far as I can see, this is
the first study to investigate the association between ultra-processed foods and risk
of cardiovascular disease. This paper takes a different approach to traditional
nutritional epidemiology papers, which normally look at the association between a
macronutrient or micronutrient or a food group and disease risk. In the current
paper, the exposure is the proportion of the diet that is ultra-processed. It is an
interesting approach, and one that could perhaps be easier to translate into advice
(i.e. limiting intake of ultra-processed food items, compared to say advice on intake
of nutrients). On the other hand, I wonder what component of the ultra-processed
food is responsible for these associations (is it the nutrient composition, or the other
components?). Overall, I think this is an interesting way to look at the food
environment and complements more traditional nutritional epidemiological studies.
Importance of work to general readers
I think a general journal is a good fit for this work. ‘Ultra-processed foods’ is
becoming an increasingly used term; however, there is a lack of research on the
associations between ultra-processed foods and disease outcomes. I think this work
would be of interest to clinicians and patients and to policymakers.
Methods
The research question is clearly defined. The STROBE guidelines appear to have
been followed.
The participants are described briefly in this paper and the reader is referred to a
previous paper which describes in the cohort in detail. The dietary assessment
methods are clearly described. The authors included participants who had completed
at least two 24-hour dietary records, I think this is an acceptable and pragmatic
balance between ensuring sufficient number of participants in the study and trying
to get an estimate of habitual or usual diet. Most participants had more than 2
records. The self-administered dietary assessment method has been validated. The
classification of foods into ultra-processed and the other categories was done by a
team of dieticians and nutritional epidemiologists and appears sensible. The way the
exposure variable is categorised is by proportion of the diet on a weight basis (e.g.
% of g/day). The authors argue this is a better choice than categorising based on
energy because for example artificially sweetened beverages do not contain energy,
but still contain additives that would classify them as processed – I agree with the
authors approach. The study has ethical approval and I have no ethical issues with
the study.
1.
The flow chart is given in supplementary material but I would prefer it to be
moved to the main paper.
Outcome identification
As I understand it, the participants self-report major health events through
questionnaires. If an event is declared participants send medical records for review
by study physicians. Also the cohort is linked to national health insurance
administrative database and the national mortality registry, which should identify
participants who may not have self-reported events. It may be possible that some
events are missed although this dilution effect would not have a major effect on the
results. If study physicians review medical records for those that self-report events
this should minimise false positive reports (which is more of a concern in terms of
impacts on the results).
2.

What proportion of the cohort can be linked to the insurance database?

3.
What are the ICD-10 codes that correspond to each of the outcomes (CVD,
stroke, TIA, MI, and angioplasty)?

Results
The tables are well presented and clear.
Interpretation and conclusions
My main concern about the findings would be around residual confounding by other
factors.The authors do mention this in the limitations briefly, but perhaps this
discussion could be expanded a bit. I found it interesting in Appendix 7, when
looking at the specific categories of ultra-processed foods, that fats and sauces and
salty snacks particularly have strong associations with CVD. It made me think that
nutrition composition may be driving the associations with CVD, although the results
were attenuated, but not by much when additional dietary factors were added to the
model.
4.
What is the basis for the statement that repeated 24-hour dietary records
are more accurate than FFQs? Page 10, line 20? Do the authors have a reference to
support this statement?

References
References are appropriate, no obvious omissions.
Other minor comments:
5.

Introduction, line 26, is it supposed to be ‘plant/animal food cells’?

6.
Discussion, page 9, line 31, were the results adjusted for Western-type
dietary pattern, or only the healthy dietary pattern? The footnotes for table 2
suggest just the healthy dietary pattern.
Dr Kathryn Bradbury
