Dear Dr. Merino,
I think that this article is an important article that described pertinent neuroradiologic findings associated with congenital
ZIKV as detected by IgM antibody biomarkers and presumed ZIKV infection by exclusion of other TORCH congenital
infections.
Strengths:
Overall, the manuscript is well written and demonstrate the typical findings of TORCH related congential findings of
intraparenchymal bulky and small dystrophic calcifications.
Although the sample size is small, the authors were able to discern imaging patterns that differentiate ZIKV infections
from other types of congenital infections related to intrauterine TORCH infections. They describe a preponderance of
ventriculomegaly, bifrontal anomalies over other cerebral lobe pathology such as cortical malformation with pachygyria,
polymicrogyria, and lissencephaly. They also note that these patterns are different from the other congenital TORCH
infections. These radiologic findings are corronorated by pathologic analysis of the brain of an ZIKV infected infant who
subsequently died shortly after birth. FOr these reasons, I think that this paper is an important one that should be
published following some revisions.
Weaknesses:
My reading of these images is that the findings suggest massive cortical developmental arrest fairly early- on in brain
development as noted by poor gyral formation, lack of myelination, cortical migration abnormalities and corpus callosal
agenesis. So infection with the virus must have been fairly early on during gestation. IT would be important to know if
the infant whose partent was infected later in gestation showed less severe anomalies. I would predict that this would be
the case at least with respect ot the degree of ventriculomegaly and or corpus callosal agenesis by CT and possibly a
lesser degree of cortical anomaly by MRI. Since fairly few infants got MRIs by the time of the writing of this manuscript,
this point can be mentioned as future work.
The authors imply that there may be high CSF pressure communicating hydrocephalus present as they note in Figure 1.
the presence of "bulging ventricles". It is unclear, by imaging criteria, whether the enlarged ventricles are caused by a
communicating hydrocephalus. There is no clear evidence from the relatively few MRI images provided that there is
tranependymal flow of CSF present in the surrounding periventircular white matter. It is more likely that the
ventriculomegaly is the result of the marked lack of brain tissue development. Also not enough the of MRI postcontrast
images are included to assess whether there is leptomeningeal enhancement that might have contributed to the
development of a communicating hydrocephalus. Plus they not that CSF PCR was negative for ZIKV. So, it may be better
to not even suggest that the ventriculomegaly is caused by a postmeningitis communicating hydrocephalus.
Other than these points mentioned above, I think that the authors have presented an important starting point in
describing the neuroradiologic intrauterine neurologic sequelae of gestational ZIKV infection.