Authors go through a detailed consideration of arguments for and against a recommendation to
use masks in the community as an intervention to reduce COVID-19 transmission. The
arguments are rational and thorough. Counterpoints could be more strongly argued and I will
give a couple of suggestions below.

Minor comments.
1. Apologies for pointing to my own article but I believe this review recently published in
Emerging Infectious Diseases is particularly relevant to your article:
https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/26/5/19-0994_article

The abstract noted “Although mechanistic studies support the potential effect of hand hygiene
or face masks, evidence from 14 randomized controlled trials of these measures did not
support a substantial effect on transmission of laboratory-confirmed influenza.”
It was part of the evidence base used to develop new WHO guidelines for public health
measures to mitigate pandemic and seasonal influenza, which is available here:
https://www.who.int/influenza/publications/public_health_measures/publication/en/
These guidelines for countries do include the suggestion that mask use could be considered in
very severe influenza pandemics. COVID-19 epidemiology has important differences with
influenza epidemiology but there is no reason to believe that masks would be completely
ineffective against COVID-19.
My specific point is that you should probably mention more clearly that masks would not be
expected to have a /very large/ effect on transmission, but a small effect could accrue. A small
effect would not have shown up in the RCTs because they were not powered to detect small
effects. As you note, a small effect could still translate to lives saved.
Your closing sentence is “…they could prove highly effective with relatively small impact on
social and economic life.” I would tend to avoid the use of “highly” here. There is reasonable
evidence against mask use being /highly effective/ in the community. Most likely there is a
small effect which is still worth having?

2. You mentioned four arguments against mask use but did not address the fourth of these supply limitations. If there are serious supply limitations, should a mask recommendation still
be issued?

3. Introduction lines 74-75: “But COVID-19 is a very serious and highly contagious illness.” I
think there is no evidence that COVID-19 is highly contagious. To most readers, highly
contagious would correlate to something like measles with an R0 of 20, rather than an infection
more like influenza or the common cold in terms of transmissibility

4. Line 115 about the US CDC recommendation has just been updated and authors could
update this during the revision stage.

5. Authors didn't mention the specific issue of mask use by pre-symptomatic transmission in
COVID-19. More widespread mask use might be able to prevent some of this transmission from
infected persons who have not yet shown symptoms?
