28/2/2019
Review for BMJ (Manuscript BMJ-2019-049257)
Title 'A systematic review of trends in diabetes incidence'
Overview
This systematic review identified 22,833 abstracts related to the incidence of diabetes, of
which 47 studies reporting on 126 mostly European populations (71%), met the inclusion
criteria. The incidence of newly diagnosed cases of mostly type 2 diabetes was reported
over three times periods between 1960 to 2014. Main results showed that the incidence of
diabetes increased through the 1990s and early 2000s, but from 2006, either stabilised or
trended downwards in most populations. For example, between 1960 and 1989 the
incidence of mostly type 2 diabetes increased for 38% of 126 populations included in the
review, and increased to 65% of these populations between 1990 and 2005. However,
between 2006 and 2014 only 36% of populations showed an increasing incidence of
diabetes. The authors claim that this is the first review reporting on the incidence of
diabetes. The manuscript is well written, concise, interesting and has minimal flaws. This
review adds an important dimension to the overall understanding of the trends in type 2
diabetes and results contrast with the increase in prevalence of type 2 diabetes reported
for most countries.
Abstract
The abstract accurately and clearly summarises the key points in the manuscript.
Introduction
This clearly and concisely explains the differences between the prevalence and the
incidence of diabetes and highlights the paucity of reports on the incidence of diabetes in
at risk populations globally.
Methods
The study selection, data extraction, diagnostic criteria and calculating the incidence of
diabetes over time are explained well.
Results
Results are concisely and adequately explained which helps interpret the linear graphical
presentation for each country and gender in the figures. Appropriate statistical methods
appear to have been used, although I am not familiar with 'Jointpoint'. Sensitivity analyses
using different time-periods, and excluding observational studies, did not alter results.
Tables
These are well laid out and easy to follow. Please add, 'by country' and (n=47) at the end
of the title for Table 1.
Figures

Figures were appropriately used (including the PRISMA flow diagram) to summarise the
study selection and describe trends over time. However, for Figures 2a-2d, it is difficult to
link each line graphed with the corresponding country in black and white. I strongly
recommended that colour be used in these figures.
Supplementary material
Includes essential information on the search strategy, quality of the studies included and
additional results for studies that did not report cases and denominator data.
Discussion
Main results are summarised well with comparisons made between populations. The
authors attempt to explain why the incidence of diabetes has mostly stabilised or reduced
in European and Northern Asian countries included in the review, although no
population-based randomised controlled trials testing these lifestyle interventions are cited.
Authors appropriately discuss why their findings contrast with the increasing prevalence of
type 2 diabetes.
Limitations
Authors have appropriately expanded on limitations in this review. Authors acknowledge
the lack of data from many non-European and developing countries such as those in the
Middle East, South and Central America, the Pacific rim and Southern Asia, where the
prevalence of type 2 diabetes continues to trend upwards, and is not explained by an
increase in survival in those with type 2 diabetes.1 Authors correctly argue that differences
in screening and changes in diagnostic testing, from fasting glucose to HbA1c, does not
explain the downward trend in the incidence of diabetes since 2006 for two-thirds of
population included in the review.
Editing
• Please check in text referencing style and spaces.
• Check font in the discussion para 6.
Reference
1. International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes Atlas 2016 www.diabetesatlas.org
accessed 17 December 2018.
Reviewer
Dr Barbara Daly, (PhD, MHSc, BSc, RN)
Senior Lecturer
Faculty of Medical and Health Science
University of Auckland
New Zealand
b.daly@auckland.ac.nz
