Although several issues remain to be resolved with this study, the most crucial is the lack
of information and understanding around the primary outcome, a variant of the spin the
pots task. I could not find the necessary relevant information in the references either.
Please explain further: The total number of stickers found is recorded as 1-8 for 15 months
to 3.9 year olds, and 1-9 for 4-7 year olds. Why can the number not be zero? There is then
a standardisation by age group to produce z-scores. However, with such a limited number
of integer possibilities (7 for the young and 8 for the older groups), standardisation can
only produce 7 or 8 z-score values and does not turn a discrete outcome into a continuum.
Hence, the methods applied for continuous numeric data (linear mixed models) are not
appropriate.
Other points that need addressing are given below:
1. There should be some evidence of validation of the outcome measure, which (as noted
above) must be summarised and analysed using methods appropriate to it’s type.
2. Secondary outcomes appear to all be continuous numeric and hence the analyses
presented more suited to this type of data. Please verify that the models used do satisfy
the assumptions necessary and that model residuals are approximately normally
distributed.
3. Some reasoning and justification should be given for the supplementation only being for
5 days of the week. Is there any information as to what the children ate on the other 2
days? The potential effects of the 2 day ‘break’ should be discussed.

4. The control breakfast is said to replicate a traditional breakfast for children, but no
reference is given to support this. There should be discussion about any potential bias that
may be introduced by providing a set breakfast rather than testing against the normal
practice without intervention. One reasoning for having a control prepared breakfast may
be to blind participants and evaluators, or to equalise other factors (time of contact etc.)
between the study arms, but this does not appear to be the case.
5. Villages were a convenience sample. How representative are they of all rural villages in
Guinea-Bissau? What evidence is there of this?

6. Did any families within the selected villages drop out after enrolment? If so, what biases
might this introduce? (A free breakfast may be more of an incentive for some families than
others. Also the free rice on study completion. )
7. Was all randomisation simple? Ie. there was no blocking or other procedure in place to
ensure that allocations were not widely different (in total number or in confounders)
between the 3 arms. Was there any age stratification?
8. The sample size paragraph is very unclear. Do the mean differences of 0.56 and 0.28
effects relate to z-score (standardised differences) in NEWSUP and FBF compared to control
respectively? Otherwise an estimate of the sd of working memory is required. Also required
are estimates (with justification) of the ICC within families and the distribution of family
sizes. 80% power is very low.
9. Please define what is a clinically important difference in the primary outcome.
10. The title refers to 3 outcomes, yet only one is deemed primary and there is no
corresponding adjustment for multiple. The other outcomes noted are therefore secondary
and should not be viewed with the same level of inference.
11. Analyses were mostly conducted with the 2 separate age groups. Since there was also
investigation of effect modification by age group via interaction terms, why were the
separate models necessary?
12. The discussion states that NEWSUP caused a marked, significant improvement in
working memory and that the difference of 0.5 sd is better than that of conventional
feeding programs which have a negligible effect of approx 0.09 sds. In this trial FBF is
designed to replicate the supplements often used, and so it is surprising that the
differences between NEWSUP and FBF in this trial are not large (table 3), despite minor
differences in the p-values which deem NEWSUP significant at 5% and FBF not.
13. The authors should present the ICC from their study to (a) compare to that used in the
power calculation and (b) help inform others doing similar studies.
14. In the discussion the authors mention the beneficial effect of NEWSUP on hemaglobin in
contrast to no significant difference for FBF, yet the difference between these is not
significant at 5% (p=0.06) and no confidence interval for the difference is given to show
the potential magnitude of any differences. Similarly for other NEWSUP and FBF effect
differences that are of importance – average differences and confidence intervals should be
presented to enable informed discussion.

15. There is far too much emphasis on p-values and not enough on the confidence limits.
For example, the data are compatible with differences as small as 0.02 sds for NEWSUP
compared to control. (In what study adds, the 0.4 (0.02, 0.78) difference in working

memory on NEWSUP is deemed a ‘significant beneficial effect’, whereas the 0.39 (-0.01,
0.78) difference for FBF is only a ‘suggestive effect’.)
16. The conclusion that cognitive benefit with NEWSUP was of a magnitude previously seen
with successful psychosocial interventions is not upheld (the data are compatible with
differences as small as only 0.02 sd). Nor is the accompanying statement that this was
accompanied by substantial improvements in body composition (many differences shown in
table 4 appear quite small).
