This is a well-written paper with some interesting findings which are largely consistent in
direction, although smaller in magnitude compared with prior studies examining ambient
ozone exposure and mortality risk. It is important that the complexity of this relationship,
including non-linearity, mortality displacement and seasonality are considered. The
investigation includes a wider range of countries and settings compared to existing
literature. However, the study includes a range of different years, sources of ozone and
therefore widespread contextual differences; reflected in the observed heterogeneity and
relatively marginal effect estimates. Furthermore, it is unclear if non-accidental mortality
is included in these estimates which may attenuate the risk estimates.
The analytical approach is broadly acceptable including the use of two-stage time-series
analyses, quasi-Poisson regression and multi-level meta-analysis. The use of multi-level
meta-analysis to obtain city and country specific ozone-mortality association risk
estimates, does not account for regional influences overcomes some challenges of small
mortality figures, although does not enable adjustment for regional effects or all
compositional-contextual interrelationships (such as type of city, major ozone source). I do
have some specific suggestions to improve the overall quality and facilitate interpretation
of the main findings.
1) Summary boxes
Page 4, Line 6. Use of the word ‘tropospheric’ here may be confusing to some readers
Page 4, Line. 10 It is unclear how this article addresses the third point of ‘health impact’
estimates having been rarely reported when the title refers to mortality.
Page 4, Line 17. The stated reduction in excess mortality (0.19%) would be clearer if a
confidence interval were included for the attributable risk estimate. It would also be helpful
to highlight that this reduction in mortality is independent of other pollutant
concentrations.
2) Abstract
Page 5, Line 15: Please clarify ‘non-external causes’ of mortality
Page 5, Line 18: Please clarify here what the is the relative risk for (e.g. mortality)
3) Methods
Page 7, Line 17: Clarification is necessary for ‘poor air quality’ data – it is unclear which
metrics were used to review the air quality observational data and upon what basis this
decision was made.
Page 8, Lines 41-43: Seasonal classification is limited by classification into northern and
southern hemispheres. Use of average monthly temperature by country would be more
accurate, or inclusion of a sensitivity analyses to account for seasonal variation. Further
justification for this approach is necessary.

4) Discussion
Page 11, Line 31 -32. There are also gaps in the available data from sub-Saharan Africa,
however this is not reported by the authors. Limitations of temporal data availability should
also be considered in this section, including whether any attempts were made by study
team members to obtain data which was not routinely available at the outset of the study.
The proximity of monitoring location to the study area of interest should also be considered
in further detail. There is only limited consideration given to the limitations concerning
differences in ascertainment and coding of mortality data between different countries
worldwide.
5) Conclusion
Page 11, Lines 48-49: There is some inconcistency as ‘total mortality’ is discussed here,
however all and non-external causes is stated as the main outcome measure.
Line 5-58: Public health actions which affect ozone concentrations are not solely related to
climate change mitigation strategies. Furthermore there is no mention of the effects of
clean air intervention measures which focus upon compliance for NO2, PM which may
paradoxically increase ozone concentrations and therefore risk increasing the respective
mortality burden.
