The authors have generally clarified most of my previous concerns.
However, I still remain unclear regarding the inclusion of the prediction model in this paper. It is a
distraction from the main aim of the paper, which is about diagnostic accuracy of CT angiography, MR
angiography etc. The authors are reporting a lot of information which deserves to be split into two papers
so that the message of the two aims do not become diluted.
I fully appreciate that prospectively collecting data to externally validate is not a trivial exercise and will
take time. But suggesting that the model should be used is problematic without demonstrating it ‘works’
- particular when the sample size is moderate. Was any attempt made to identify existing datasets that
the model could be evaluated on? Developing a prediction model is a separate study and deserves to be
seen as such so that all aspects in deriving and internally validating the model can be explored in more
detail than is currently described here (again adhering to the TRIPOD Statement for prediction models;
www.bmj.com/content/350/bmj.g7594 and annals.org/article.aspx?articleid=2088542 - which the
authors appear to have overlooked despite being previously pointed towards TRIPOD). The actual
development of the prediction model looks well done and thus just confirms my opinion that this should
be a separate paper.
As an aside presenting ROC curves without labelling particular cut-offs on the curve is uninformative,
labelling the curve can then allow sens/spec to be read off at particular cut-offs. The calibration plot is
ok, but it is widely recommended to also superimpose a lowess calibration curve in addition to the
observed and mean predicted probabilities at fifths of predicted risk. Quintiles is incorrectly used, a
quintile is a cut--point to create equal sized groups, the correct term if fifths (See the BMJ Stats notes,
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7950724). Hosmer-Lemeshow test is an uninformative measure and does
not assess calibration, widely influence by sample size and grouping, but importantly doesn’t assess
direction of magnitude of (mis)calibration). (see TRIPOD Explanation & Elaboration paper for more
details; annals.org/article.aspx?articleid=2088542).
The sample size for the main diagnostic accuracy study has now been reported but included in a
supplementary box. Why? This should be in the main body of the paper and not tucked away in
supplementary materials.