
The paper makes the point that government interventions beyond the health sector may be more
effective in improving population health than conventional health care. It is suggested that the
methods of HTA should be applied in a cross-sectoral way to ensure that tax and expenditure policies
are aligned to maximise health benefits. This is an important topic which goes to the heart of the
policy-making process, involving political, economic, social, administrative and scientific issues. It is
difficult to address all these satisfactorily in a short paper. The authors point out that the
policy-making environment will differ between countries with differing income levels. Much of the
discussion refers to countries such as the UK, which have relatively sophisticated decision-making
structures, suggesting they could do better. The conclusions seem to be generalised. Is it realistic to
expect countries which are developing basic approaches to HTA to avoid the pitfalls into which we
have fallen?
The paper sets the context in terms of policy 'silos': the HBP determined by HTA and fiscal policy by
the efficiency of the yield. This throws up some interesting issues which are not fully explored. Fiscal
policy is concerned with the raising of revenue, with minimal distortion to the working of the
economy, to fund the government's chosen policies. The desired nature and level of government
expenditure differs between political groups. Traditionally desired expenditure determined the funding
needs. The alternative approach of determining desired tax levels and cutting public expenditure to
meet the tax take has become more common in some countries of late. Appropriate tax levels on
individual products depend on equity considerations and the elasticity of consumer demand for the
goods being taxed. Some taxation is deliberately designed to change relative prices and hence
consumption patterns. In the case of goods damaging to health, the rate driven by health
considerations may be higher than that which maximises tax revenue. Thus an optimal policy requires
alignment between the finance ministry and the health ministry, i.e. joined-up government, and few
would disagree with this.
The authors argue that a wider application of HTA methods across policy areas would help to achieve
this.
It would have been helpful if the paper had given more detail on HTA methods and explained how
they go beyond cost-benefit analysis (which they consider inadequate). The core of HTA is some form
of cost-effectiveness analysis using a social measure of health benefits. Further considerations, such
as equity, are usually dealt with qualitatively. When value judgements are involved the question of
whose values arises. Methods which try to quantify the weight to be given to qualitative factors, e.g.
multi-criteria decision-analysis, have not generally been adopted. In the UK economic appraisal is
used by several government departments and the Treasury tries to keep these compatible without
forcing one method on all departments. I think the authors are arguing that if policy proposals are
backed by evaluative evidence, preferably quantitative, they will be more difficult for lobby groups to
challenge. It would be good to have more detail of how such a system ,using HTA, would work any
differently from current political and administrative structures.