Thank you very much for asking me to review this interesting paper entitled: “Patient-reported outcomes in patients
undergoing arthroscopic partial meniscectomy for traumatic or degenerative meniscal tears: A comparative
prospective cohort study”.
This group has spearheaded orthopaedic research in the recent decade, systematically addressing pivotal issues on the
knee surgery, including the role of APM/knee instability/surgery of a torn ACL on knee symptoms and development of
patient reported outcome instruments (including the primary outcome of the study) to study the efficacy of various
interventions on knee function. Specifically regarding arthroscopic surgery for knee pain (which APM essentially is), the
authors have recently published a meta-analysis (ref. #2) summarizing the evidence base on the efficacy of APM.
These studies that can be considered efficacy trials, addressed whether APM is superior to physiotherapy or sham
surgery under idealized (“can it work”) circumstances. The authors demonstrated a small inconsequential benefit of
APM for the degenerative knee (at best), an effect that was limited in time and absent at one to two years after
surgery.
It probably comes as no surprise to anyone that many of our contemporary medical (particularly surgical) practices
base on nothing but intuitively logical rationing: With no support aside from biological rationale, the indication for APM
crept from locked knees in young patients to all patients of all ages with knee pain and “meniscus tears” of any sort.
Once we started to assess our common practices more prudently, these “tears” seen either on magnetic resonance
imaging or at arthroscopy, proved poorly associated with symptoms. Later, APM was also shown to be no better than
conservative treatment or even sham surgery.
The submitted manuscript describes a study that I consider a comparative effectiveness “trial”, assessing the effects of
arthroscopic partial meniscectomy (APM) on traumatic vs. degenerative meniscus tears. This is one of the most
pressing issues in the orthopaedics, as: a) APM is still (one of the) most common surgical procedures performed in the
western world, b) recent evidence has seriously questioned the foundations (indications) of the procedure. In fact,
traumatic tears are among the very few indications that still remain unchallenged (disputed) with respect to this
particular procedure – most others have recently failed under scrutiny.
As noted, the authors have used a more pragmatic “real-life” approach of prospectively collecting all patients
undergoing APM and then comparing the outcome for those with a traumatic tear (allegedly, those who should
respond) to those with a non-traumatic / degenerative tear.
After a thorough review of the paper, here are my remarks, first using the PICO format (although the PICO format
does not truly fit to this design, a prospective cohort):
P: Population is well-defined, represents a very generalizable (representative) group of patients (those for whom the
APM surgery is generally recommended/performed), is well characterized (appropriate eligibility criteria and means to
characterize the disease), and appropriate criteria are used to divide patients into “traumatic” and “degenerative”
(although this aspect also represent the weakness of the study).
I: APM is a highly standardized procedure performed to millions of patients world-wide each year to treat a
“symptomatic meniscus lesion”.
C: The comparison between “active” (traumatic) and control (degenerative) is a reasonable one.
O: KOOS is probably the most widely used PROM in studying the efficacy of various interventions on patients with
knee complaints/pain. 52-weeks is a reasonable follow-up period for such a minor surgery as the APM is.
The authors also provide a comprehensive protocol for the study, although they have chosen to tweak the statistical
analysis somewhat from that described in the paper. However, the rationale for doing this is well argued and they also
provide us with a number of sensitivity analyses to convince the reader that there seems to be no foul play due to the
deviations from the original protocol.
Having said all this, there are some issues that I need to point out about the study:
1) Terminology: As we can all appreciate, definition of terms lies at the heart of any study and this is particularly
pertinent to the study under scrutiny, as there is no universal consensus on the definition of the terms “trauma(tic)”,
non-traumatic/degenerative, mechanical symptoms (locking, catching). Having said that, this also highlights how
obscure the situation is in clinical orthopedics: Surgeons commonly use these definitions in clinical decision-making
despite the fact that they are vague, at best. Nevertheless, from a scientific perspective, this situation introduces an
obvious source of bias, which the authors have attempted to address by having predefined (rationale) definitions for
“symptom onset” and “mechanical symptoms” (page 7). As much as I appreciate the approach, I still wonder whether
the authors should talk about “acute onset” vs. “gradual, non-traumatic onset”, rather than “traumatic” vs.
“degenerative”. The downside of doing this, I must admit, is that the term “traumatic” is so commonly used (with no
universal definition, I must add) that this fact almost justifies its’ use here. Perhaps, the authors could still elaborate

on this in their discussion? Also, although the authors have provided us with a number of different sensitivity analyses,
one potentially clinically-relevant analysis would be to divide patients based on the tear type/morphology, as
advocates of APM commonly argue that meniscus tears with longitudinal tear pattern, bucket handle tear or flap are
“unstable” (indication for APM), whereas radial, horizontal and complex were determined as stable (less optimal for
the APM).
2) Conceptual remark: As noted above, the entire practice of carrying out APM for patients with knee pain basis on
nothing but an intuitively rationale: The alleged link between symptoms and “meniscus tears” has been refuted - there
is no way to determine whether a “tear” seen at arthroscopy or on MRI is symptomatic (causing pain), the
performance of the clinical (meniscus) tests is equivalent to a coin toss… Should the onset of symptoms (see above)
be the crux of this paper?
3) Observational vs. RCT data: An obvious concern related to this design is the observational nature of the study.
Although the authors have provided us with a considerable amount of data suggesting that the analyses (comparison)
are (is) valid, maybe a few words on the potential biases and on how they were addressed would be warranted.
After this lengthy elaboration, below please find my specific (minor) remarks on the paper:
1. What is already known about the subject, second bullet point: “above placebo”, what is the study that has shown
APM to provide a benefit (even short-term) above placebo?
2. Discussion, page 13: Prior evidence on “traumatic vs. degenerative”: The authors already provide a few studies on
this topic, but these two should probably also be included (and their results briefly discussed) given that the evidence
on the topic is indeed so sparse (and surprisingly uniform).
a. Kim et al. 1
b. Ghislain et al. 2
1. Kim JR, Kim BG, Kim JW, et al. Traumatic and non-traumatic isolated horizontal meniscal tears of the knee in
patients less than 40 years of age. Eur J Orthop Surg Traumatol 2013;23(5):589-93. doi: 10.1007/s00590-012-10286
2. Ghislain NA, Wei JN, Li YG. Study of the Clinical Outcome between Traumatic and Degenerative (non-traumatic)
Meniscal Tears after Arthroscopic Surgery: A 4-Years Follow-up Study. J Clin Diagn Res 2016;10(4):RC01-4. doi:
10.7860/JCDR/2016/16686.7569