
In this opinion article, the authors present a comprehensive and critical review of
clinical trials dealing with the purported causal relationship between age of
transfused RBCs and adverse clinical effects in the recipient.
The issue is timely and clinically important. It is timely because opinion leaders in
the field of Transfusion Medicine are asking for a halt of further research on this
topic on the assumption that it is already settled that aged blood has no adverse
clinical effect and, therefore, no restrictions in maximum shelf life are necessary.
Obviously, it is far from being settled. It is important because even in the case that
iatrogenesis related to stored blood were infrequent or circumscribed to small groups
of predisposed patients, transfusion is so a frequent medical intervention that the
aggregate effect would amount to a huge public health issue.
The review is exhaustive, the authors’ critics and opinions are fair, well argued, and
scientifically sound, and the manuscript is well written and easy to read.
This reviewer would like to put forward a few minor comments.
1. The idea that age of transfused blood is not an intervention but a prognostic
factor is compelling but needs further argumentation. It seems to me that it is based
on the continuous nature of the variable age of stored blood as opposed to the
dichotomous nature of most interventions (i.e. to transfuse or not to transfuse).
Nevertheless, this scenario is quite similar to a trial comparing several doses of a
drug.
2. I believe that dose of transfused blood would merit a brief comment. In most of
the trials, patients received a median of 2-4 RBC units, often over a long hospital
stay. This is quite a different scenario from the massively transfused patient in
whom nearly all the circulating RBCs may have been stored for a long time. In fact,
in the last ASH meeting in Sand Diego, investigators from the ABLE trial presented
some results showing that age of blood DO actually matters in the subgroup of
patients who had received more than 5-7 RBC units.
3. The possibility of delayed effects would also merit a brief comment. The largest
epidemiological study on the clinical effects of stored blood (Edgreen et al,
Transfusion 2010; 50(6): 1185-95) found a significantly increased mortality in
patients who had received RBCs stored for more than 30 days. However, the
increased mortality was apparent only in the middle/long term, up to two years after
transfusion. To the best of my knowledge, none of the published trials has explored
mortality beyond 90 days or beyond patient’s discharge.
4. Authors will probably like to include in their analysis the trial by Cooper et al. just
published in New England J Med (September 27).
