Thank you for the opportunity to review this article. The present study provides a
multi-institutional and multi-country view of the criteria that are present in guidelines for
promotion and tenures. The study offers important empirical evidence on the incentive
structures that shape academic work worldwide. I welcome this contribution, which
confirms that institutions place greater emphasis—as evidenced by a greater proportion of
mentions in guidelines—to traditional criteria in relation to "progressive" criteria.

While I really enjoyed the article and believe it makes an important contribution, there are
a series of questions and concerns that I believe should be addressed prior to publication.
They are listed here in no particular order:
I deeply appreciated the ambitious nature of studying incentives with a global focus. Doing
so acknowledges that collaborations extend beyond national boundaries, and that
researchers are subject to incentive structures that may span multiple institutions.
However, there are several challenges with this approach that are not adequately
addressed in the analysis or in the discussion.
Although university rankings are problematic (for a wide range of reasons), I took no issue
with their use for as a source for sampling. The source list of institutions is a relatively
arbitrary choice, and the method for sampling is described to my satisfaction. However, the
limitation of using such a ranking becomes clear in the number of institutions that are
included from South America and Africa, two parts of the world that are under-represented
in the chosen list. This limitation should be acknowledged. Moreover, the small number of
institutions included, and the even smaller number for which documents could be found,
makes any analysis from these two regions of little value. The authors should better justify
why they should be included in the analysis at all, or remove them altogether.
Perhaps more importantly, I have some concerns about the comparison of documents from
such a wide range of countries. The authors pay little attention to the various ways in
which academic careers are structured across the world and what differences may exist in
the incentive structures at play. Although the authors acknowledge that "Within some
countries, promotions first require meeting criteria set at a state or national level," they do
little to describe or explore these differences. They also ignore the material reality of
researchers from different regions and the prevalence of the various "progressive"
practices they seek out (e.g., what funding sources are available in each country; the
support available to share data; or the "default" nature of OA in places like Latin America).
Although they may be limited in what they can do methodologically to address these
differences, more background could be provided, and the global context could be better
addressed in providing background and in the discussion section.
Not only are incentives between countries different, so are academic career progressions.
Here, the author's North American-centric perspectives come through in their application of
the three university ranks of Assistant, Associate and Full Professor. Such ranks do not
exist worldwide, nor does the concept of Tenure in the same way. I found it problematic
that the authors, while attempting to bring a global perspective, are essentially imposing
the North American paradigm without describing how they arrived at equivalences for
ranks, or how the concept of tenure is at play in different jurisdictions. More discussion is
needed to avoid centering a global study in the US and Canada. Whether or not the authors
and editors agree with the problematic nature of such a perspective, it is certainly the case
that additional methodological details are needed of how equivalences were determined
and of what was done with cases where it was not possible to draw a direct parallel.
Finally, and less related to the challenges in bringing a global perspective describe above, I
wondered about the use of the term "progressive criteria." While I might agree that it
would be good for criteria to include additional elements—such as those included in this
category—the use of the word progressive implies that it is desirable to replace traditional
criteria with progressive criteria. I have struggled to come up with an alternative that is
less normative, and can only suggest the term "alternative criteria" or perhaps more simply
"non-traditional criteria". Whether the authors opt to make this change, more care is
needed to justify why the criteria included in this category represent progress for the
academy.

Despite the critique above, I believe the paper is fundamentally strong and deserves to be
published, albeit it with some revisions. Most importantly, I believe that the paper will be
better received by the global audience it seeks to address if it more directly acknowledged
and addressed the use of a North American paradigm in discussing a worldwide
phenomenon. Failing to do so does a disservice to one of the strengths of manuscript,
which implicitly acknowledged that science is global, and that models for organizing
academic careers in other parts of the world are just as valid.