1) The paper is very well written. Clear, concise and well-organized. While this may seem
to be a simplistic comment, I mean it most sincerely as many of the papers that I am sent
for review are poorly written and hard to follow.
2) The topic of this paper is timely, and research on this topic can be important addition to
academic and policy work. That said, I believe requires revision and reformulation.
3) I have serious concerns with the underlying assumptions that are presented at the
beginning of the paper.
a. In LMICs, and especially in low-income countries, external donor financing also plays an
important role. What is the basis for this assumption? In most LMICs external donor
financing is a tiny proportion of the overall health budget. Perhaps at the margin for
innovation? What does important mean?
b. We argue that external financing is therefore an equitable source of funding as it
originates from populations with greater ability to pay. Why does this make external

financing equitable – isn’t in necessary to show how it promotes equity? Do you refer to a
global redistribution of funds and if so, the levels are arguably too low to have an impact.
I find it difficult to follow the logic, yet this point is central to much of the paper.
4) No nationally representative, multi-country datasets exist to permit analysis of
out-of-pocket expenditure by population group or health area.
While it is true that no national survey data provide sufficient information on specific
health conditions and OOP, I would argue that the rest of the sentence needs to be
modified. National income and expenditure surveys exist in many countries, often as a
time series, and they do permit analysis of OOP, and often by population group. I have
analyzed these surveys as a time series for Mexico (the ENIGH), for example. There is a
large literature comparing OOP across countries. I think the point is that we are lacking
OOP data linked to specific health conditions and ideally longitudinal data.
The text box does a good job of explaining the data that are available and if lodged close
to the main text will be helpful. As presented, it seems to be an Appendix but that may be
just how the PDF is constructed.
5) Much of the section on equity of donor financing overstates the results.
For example - from $10.7b (constant 2016 United States dollars) in 2010 to $15.9b in
2017. This increase represents an improvement in equity at a global level because it
redistributes financing from richer to poorer regions. – Is this amount of money large
enough to be deemed a redistribution from rich to poor regions? Another example: the
distribution of the overall envelope of aid for RMNCH became more vertically equitable
over time, in the sense that donors increasingly prioritized low-income countries (whose
share increased from 43% of aid for RMNCH in 2010 to 51% in 2017) – this is an increase
of 8% and based on that small increase how can we assume more vertical equity and
prioritization of low-income countries.
6) I think the section on equity of donor financing will be stronger and clearer once the
figures (tables and graphs) are aligned with the text (visually).
7) While I think the statement below is true and very important, I do not think that the
data are sufficient proof. Are there other ways to show this to be the case? Progress on
specific indicators? If the authors refer specifically to financing, then they need to say
that. But, money does not always buy outcomes as it depends, for example, on how
effectively it is allocated and how relative need changes over time.
Despite the many limitations of the available data, this analysis raises concerns that
women and children in some of the poorest countries with the highest mortality levels are
being left behind.
8) The case studies have the potential to significantly strengthen the paper, but they faññ
short. I am not sure how the authors developed the case studies – what data or methods
were used? Was there field work or were in-depth interviews conducted?
9) Some of the analysis in the cases is imprecise and confusing. For example: Progressive
health policies are in place: deliveries and caesarean sections are meant [WHAT DOES
“MEANT” MEAN HERE? IS THERE A LAW? CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT? OR A NATIONAL
PROGRAM?] to be free in all public health facilities in the 91 country,28, 29 and primary
health services, vaccines, generic drugs and emergency care are 92 meant to be free to
children under five.30 Despite these policies, however, women have 93 reported paying
fees in facilities when delivering29 [WHAT PROPORTION OF WOMEN? IS THIS A
GENERALIZABLE RESULT?. ]
10) The conclusions provide very general points that do not necessarily derive from the
paper. For example, the statement below and especially about OOP…
….highlighted how some countries and specific populations within countries – notably the
poor and refugees – are at risk of being left behind. [BE MORE SPECIFIC ABOUT BEING

LEFT BEHIND] We urge donors to increase their contributions in the poorest countries and
populations at risk of falling behind, and urge LMIC governments to increase efforts to
curb out-of-pocket expenditures.[OVERALL? SPECIFICLLY ON WOMEN, CHILDREN AND
ADOLESCENT HEALTH? ]
