The paper raises important considerations with regard to safeguarding children and young
people who may be exposed to a greater risk of (potentially) preventable harm/injury as a
result of parental mental ill-health. The inclusion of paternal mental ill-health is important
as, from a patient perspective, a focus solely on maternal mental ill-health may be
considered stigmatising – particularly in the context of post-natal depression.
Topics/issues that could be highlighted further :
• Given the focus of the paper on parental mental illness, the introductory sentence (p. 3)
detailing the high incidence of exposure in children to maternal mental illness emphasises
mothers as opposed to parents. While this may seem pedantic, from a patient perspective,
I believe this may set a tone, or lens, through which the paper may be read - hence
opening with data highlighting both paternal and maternal mental ill-health would better
reflect the objectives of the paper.
• It is important to highlight that the correlation between mental illness and higher fertility
in people under 20 years of age (p.3) is due to vulnerability rather than promiscuity in
order to support awareness raising and stigma reduction in relation to this cohort.
• Post-natal depression – I feel that there needs to be greater mention/clarification around
this in the paper given the focus on parents with 0-1- and 2-5-year old children in
particular
• Sociocultural considerations – does the demographic data capture ethnicity and living
arrangements? For example – are parents living with extended family exposed to a
protective factor (support) that correlates with their child/ren experiencing fewer injuries?
• The potential correlation between lack of parental supervision due to mental ill-health
and childhood injury particularly in the first years of life (p. 12) could be highlighted further
given this is a sensitive period in terms of brain development, hence young children are
particularly vulnerable during this time…the data on falls is notable here – does the higher
rate of falls-related injury suggest parents who are experiencing mental ill-health struggle
to adequately supervise their children in this first year of life when many are learning to
walk (as per discussion on p.14 re possible explanations of findings).
While the findings highlight the importance of early intervention and prevention strategies,
the suggested mitigation strategies (eg support for parents and screening for mental illness
in parents) are only touched on briefly. In terms of supporting patients, greater emphasis
could be placed on measures around screening and early intervention (from the stance of
assistance for new parents in navigating the demands of parenthood).
Highlighting the correlation between parents experiencing mental ill-health and harm/injury
of child/ren is important. From a patient/carer perspective, I wonder if a greater emphasis
needs to be placed on early intervention and prevention strategies – ie the ‘problem’ has
been identified and discussed yet the (potential) ‘solution’ is only touched on briefly eg are
there studies on the efficacy of early intervention programs for parents experiencing
mental ill-health?
With regard to utility in relation to clinicians sharing or discussing with patients, the paper
would benefit from a greater solution focused approach given the stigma surrounding
mental illness. For example, is there evidence of the efficacy of open preschools (p. 16) –
this may add weight to the paper as a tangible strategy clinicians could share with parents?
Framing the study in the context of early intervention and prevention would also
strengthen this paper – the wealth of data gleaned from the registers suggests that
children of parents experiencing mental illness are at risk of harm from preventable
injuries. Strategies to identify and support parents may therefore act as a protective factor

ie the ‘angle’ of the paper would be more person (patient) centred if this approach was
taken.
While the sensitive nature of the study may challenge the idea of patient/carer involvement
(p.8) , it could have perhaps been approached from a safeguarding perspective e.g.
self-reported questionnaires on strategies people living with mental illness feel may assist
them in their parenting role or questionnaires on perinatal support (eg do parents have an
informal support network? Are parents aware of primary care supports in their local area?
Etc). This approach would complement the use of register data in the study.
Also, please note that P10 heading states ‘Paternal’ instead of parental (this section refers
to Table 2 which details injuries in the presence of parental mental illness)
