Troponin level, age and mortality risk in an unselected population of over 250000 patients –
TROP-RISK study
Kaura et al report on troponin level, age and mortality in an unselected population of over
250000 patients. Their main findings are: 1) a positive troponin is associated with mortality
in all age groups; with a high absolute risk for older ages and a higher relative risk in
younger age groups as compared to the older age groups 2) troponin level expressed as the
number of times the ULN of the used test is associated with mortality in an inverted
U-shaped curve.
The strength of this work clearly is sample size, and the association with age is interesting.
Nonetheless, I do have some major concerns with regard to the scientific merits of the work
presented.
Major:
Methods: The authors claim that they have investigated an unselected cohort. In the first
place the cohort is obtained from tertiary hospitals only, which probably causes referral bias.
Secondly, the study is retrospective. Therefore, it was a doctor’s decision to determine
troponin levels. This means that a selection of patients is being investigated and conclusions

can only be drawn with respect to patients in whom a doctor decided it was wise to perform
this test.
In addition, these troponins, that were assessed by these doctors, have been performed in
an era, in which it was already known that troponin is associated with worse outcomes in
almost every known clinical condition, even in healthy individuals. Therefore, clinical
decisions have been made based on troponin results which will importantly have influenced
patient outcome. In this respect, it is only logical that troponin has prognostic value (or
otherwise doctors would have been doing a real poor job in the emergency department).
Following this, I don’t agree with the authors when they state that their finding of an
U-shaped curve is surprising. First, ICD codes were only available for those admitted (in
52% of patients, if I understand correctly). Second, the underlying disease is a very strong
confounding factor (it determines prognosis; and it determines the level of troponin), for
which has not been adjusted. Therefore, it is comparing apples with pears (for example: a
patient who has been resuscitated and has a low level troponin, in general has a much worse
prognosis compared to a patient with an ST-elevation infarction who ondergoes a primary
PCI and has a very high peak troponin level). In the selected ‘general’ population, as was
investigated in the current study, prognosis is probably primarily determined by the
underlying disease, and troponin is merely a parameter that expresses, to some extent, the
severity of the underlying disease. In my opinion, the novelty of this finding is limited.
The U-shaped curve was no longer present when the investigators solely analyzed the
patients with an ACS diagnosis. In patients with ACS there is more data. In the FRISCII
substudy, to which the authors refer, a U-shaped curve between troponin level and mortality
is observed. This concerns a fully described population with NONSTE-ACS, and a detailed
analysis is given to find mechanisms that may explain these findings. In addition, Antman et
al (NEJM 1996) described the association between troponin level and mortality, and
Goldstein et al (JAHA 2017) described the relation between peak troponin level and MACE
and observed a plateau in this relation at higher peak levels. In the present data set at hand,
with a wide variety of different sorts of patients, the investigators lack important baseline
characteristics (for example blood pressure, heart rate, history of malignancy, etc).
Methods: Follow-up: how were the patients without an initial ICD-10 code followed. How
many were lost to follow-up. Who were these patients that were lost.
Results: the authors give us the prevalence of a positive troponin per age groups; they
provide us with the number of patients per age group, but was is lacking is the mortality rate
per age group. This could give insight in the relation between troponin and mortality
according to age group. It will make it more clear why patients in the youngest and oldest
age groups have very high and lower hazard ratios, respectively.
Conclusion: Can the authors conclude that their data on troponin level and mortality across
the age spectrum may help inform clinical practice decisions. They should be careful stating
this when using retrospective data. What conclusions can be drawn? The authors should
discuss what they have in mind when they claim clinicians may be helped by the present
findings with respect to clinical decision making? It is important to realize that clinical
decision making should be performed in the context of the underlying disease.
A more appropriate conclusion would be that in a population of all-comers in which you
decide to perform troponin, this biomarker can risk stratify between high and low mortality
risk for all age groups. Clinical decision making is guided by the underlying disease not the
troponin level.
