These investigators report the findings of a pragmatic RCT examining the impact of a shared
decision-making tool for low-risk chest pain intended for application in the ED setting. The authors
have previously published a feasibility study that served as the substrate for this multi-center
replication. The primary outcome of patient knowledge has been selected through patient input and
assessed through survey, again developed with patient input. Secondary outcomes, likely of more
interest from a health services perspective are also reported. In short the trial reports a positive
impact across all outcomes and fails to detect a safety issue. Clinicians report a high level of
acceptability and the tool appears to be user friendly.
This innovative research project is based on sound methodology and study execution. There are
limitations in regards to lack of blinding and missing video recordings but these problems are small
in comparison to the overwhelming positives that are provided by this paper. Specifically this
research amounts to what can be considered a new era in research i.e. with a patient-centered
focus, aligned with the PCORI funding agency that supported this project.
From a scientific perspective I think this research fulfills all of the expectations one would place on
a pragmatic randomized trial. The study also fulfills its primary mandate which was to show that
the intervention will work across a wide range of US emergency settings.
Perhaps most enlightening for readers of this work will be a reflection upon the notion of shared
decision-making. I would venture, and include myself in the large group of clinicians who currently
believe that they engage in shared decision-making. Clearly, after examining the personalized
intervention that was developed and tested in this paper I need to reconsider that assessment. In
fact, reading the paper actually opens up a whole new way of thinking about SDM and thinking
about ways in which it might be applied in other settings.
The paper is well-written and succinct but it leaves some questions unanswered related to the
medicolegal dimensions of the use of a decision-aid as a tool for guiding management. I would
venture that medicolegal risk is likely lower with SDM but I didn’t quite gleam this from the paper.
In addition, I think it would be fair to state that US practice and guideline recommendations from
the AHA which are not noted in the paper argue for a very irrational approach to low risk chest
pain assessment. I think the authors might want to note that SDM may not be as impactful in
scenarios that are already more evidence-based and coherent in regards to resource consumption.
Specific comments.
Intro: The details provided in para 1 are somewhat confusing. The drop in ACS incidence is
presumably based on the denominator of patients presenting to the ED with chest pain. This is not
clear. The increase in advanced cardiac imaging is also vague and would not likely be true across
multiple jurisdictions and are not likely to be ordered from the ED.
The high rate of admission for low risk chest pain patients is likely a US-dominant phenomena. I
think this merits clarification.
Methods: I don’t think CCTA is spelled out but I am presuming coronary CT angiography.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Eddy Lang
Job Title: Emergency Physician / Professor
Institution: University of Calgary
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: Yes
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here: Research
funding unrelated to this project
Reviewer: 3
