Statistical Review BMJ.2014.023070.R1
Consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, artificially sweetened beverages and fruit juice
and incidence of type 2 diabetes
The authors have submitted a revised manuscript.
The authors have now included a quality assessment process for the included studies which is
based around the Cochrane ACROBAT-NSRI tool for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised
intervention studies. I am not completely clear from the manuscript how they have undertaken
this process or that the results of it have been appropriately presented.
1. Page 6 – they do not describe whether the ACROBAT-NSRI assessment was undertaken by a
single observer, checked by a second or done independently in duplicate.
2. Page 6 -it also state here that sensitivity analysis was undertaken for each of the seven
quality domains in the ACROBAT-NSRI tool, but no results of these are mentioned in the text or
presented in any table.
3. Page 9 – a key aspect of the ACROBAT-NSRI tool is documenting which confounders are
balanced/matched/adjusted for in each study. There is no list of the confounders reported – the
best description is given in the middle of page 9 as “socio-demographic variables, clinical
factors (family history of diabetes or prevalent diseases) and lifestyle factors including a diet”.
However, the adjustments used in Table 2 are noted in the footer as being only for
“demographic and lifestyle covariates” which isn’t the same. The legend for Figure 1 doesn’t

mention adjustment for these factors at all, which I presume is an oversight. I would have
expected, particularly given the extension supplementary material provided, to have a
tabulation of the actual adjustments made study-by-study. Table S4 gives the results of
unadjusted and adjusted analyses and does not fully state what was adjusted for.
4. It is also not clear what criteria were used to rate the risk of confounding. In Table S2 it is
noted that only one study was rated as being at high risk of bias due to confounding. Table S4
lists four studies of omitting adjustment for “diet and clinical factors” so it is not clear why
these are also not flagged as being at risk of bias from confounding. Other studies may omit
other key variables, but given that no list of variables is presented we cannot tell.
5. There is no mention whether the analyses of the drink types are mutually adjusted for each
other (for example, is the SSB analysis adjusted for ASB and fruit juice?) It is hard to think that
consumption of each drink is independent.
6. Table S2 and Supplementary material on page 17. Overall quality assessment has to make a
leap from the ratings of the individual domains to obtaining an overall assessment of likelihood
of bias. It is not clear what rule the authors used to achieve this. The text on page 17 does not
describe a consistent system for doing this. For example, studies 25 and 48 are stated as being
at high risk of bias because their classification of diet was wrong, but the other seven studies
marked as having high risk of bias on the dietary measures domain are not classified as being
at high risk of bias overall. The same problem appears across multiple domains in the tool.
7. Page 13 – the authors indicate that publication bias created a false positive effect for ASB.
However, the degree of publication bias seems rather small (not really visible at all in the
funnel plot) and adjustment for it did not substantially change the magnitude of the effect.
8. Page 11 - The authors make GRADE assessment and place two outcomes (ASB and fruit
juice) as being of low quality and one (SSB) as being of moderate quality. There is no strong
argument why SSB is argued to be of moderate quality. It is hard to see why one outcome
would differ from the others given that they are all reported in the same studies which were
done using the same methods and adjusted for the same confounders. Given that the estimates
for both SSB and ASB shift considerably between the analyses adjusting for measurement
error, confounders and publication bias, it is hard to attribute moderate or high credibility to
any of them. The estimate for fruit juice seems to be close to a null effect in all analyses – the
authors seem distracted by it moving either side of the null effect value, but it seems
consistently close to it in all analyses.
9. The population attributable fraction computations are based on assumptions of causality, and
on reducing consumption of the three types of drink to zero. Given that the estimates of effect
vary considerably between the sensitivity analyses, they perhaps should investigate how much
the estimates varies. The authors do state the assumptions behind this, and indicate that
causality is a concern, but are keen to promote intense public health interventions based on
this evidence. Would not trials of SSB reduction be justified now rather than public health
interventions? Also I wonder whether the illustration would be more helpful if it were based on
the sort of magnitude of reduction in SSB that was achievable by a public health intervention
and not an unachievable reduction to zero.