This study explored the risk of hospitalization due to an injury while traveling to work by
riding in a car/motor vehicle/public transport (non-active), bicycling, walking, bicycling in
combination with other commute modes, or walking in combination with other commute
modes. The study also explored the association between the commute modes and all-cause,
CVD, and cancer mortality. The results indicated the higher risk of hospitalization from an
injury biking to work compared to the lower risk commuting by car/motor vehicle/public
transport or walking but found the health benefits from biking to work greater than
commuting by the other modes.
The article complements the highly contributory article published in 2017 by some of the
same authors titled “Association between active commuting and incident cardiovascular
disease, cancer, and mortality; prospective cohort study.” Other authors have published

about the risks of biking in comparison to the health benefits including Mindell, et. al., 2012
(referenced), Rojas-Rueda, et al., 2011 (referenced), and de Hartog, et. al., 2010 (not
referenced) but this article compared risks and health in three commuting modes (vehicle,
bicycling, walking).
This article satisfies all of the requirements of originality, relevance to policy makers,
reliability, methods, etc., but minor changes would improve the article. Before those specific
changes are detailed (page, line), explanations are offered of why these changes would
improve the article.
1) The authors have published using these data (commuting and mortality/2017, screen
time/2018, walking pace/2019) but with outcomes not impacted by unsafe built
environments. For the 2017 article, the intensity of the physical activity would have been the
factor in the association between biking and lower risk of CVD, cancer, and mortality
incidence. For this article, the data came from between 2006 and 2010 UK Biobank and the
bicyclists would have been riding on bicycle facilities built before 2006 up to 2010. Then, the
UK had far fewer safe bicycle facilities, such as the cycle tracks/protected bike lanes in the
Netherlands (Wardlaw, M [2014] “History, risk, infrastructure: perspectives on bicycling in
the Netherlands and the UK” Journal of Transport & Health). As in the U.S. with John
Forester, in the UK, John Franklin advocated for vehicular cycling, or operating the bicycle as
a vehicle. The Dutch and Danes have long provided barrier separated cycle tracks but other
countries only starting building cycle tracks around 2010. Astute readers look at the dates
for data because they know the associations between the years referenced and the built
environments for biking in certain countries. Having the current dates for these data in the
title better informs the reader and sets the authors up for a follow up article using post 2010
data as a comparison.
2) The article should reference recent articles because more studies about the safety of
certain bicycle environments are available. With discussions about recent studies, the
authors can demonstrate that they have knowledge of the risk/health implications and
bicycle environments.
Title (pg 1 lines 3,4) If the authors could add the dates 2006-2010, the readers would know
that the authors are not going to discuss injury-related hospitalization after the safer bicycle
facilities have been built in the UK.
Abstract (pg 2 lines 50-52) Active commuters “who” cycle……those “who” walk. Active
commuters and those who walk are people so “who” and not “that” is appropriate.
Materials and Methods (pg 3 lines 50-60 and pg 4 lines 3-9). The authors could provide an
explanation about the data set dates. While this information could be in the Limitations
section, that is late to inform the reader. The authors could consider a version of this
sentence, While the safety of the bicycle environments in the UK has improved since 2010,
lessons might be learned from this data set and serve as a comparison to similar studies in
the future.
Discussion (pg 8 lines 57 and 58 and pg 9 lines 3 to 4). The authors mention the need to
provide safer infrastructure in the first paragraph and could reference and discuss the types
of bike facilities that are safer later in the discussion.
Discussion (pg 9 lines 33-35). The authors wrote, “clearly marked bike-specific road facilities
were consistently shown to provide improved safety for bicyclists.” This was from a 2009
study. A clearly marked bike-specific road facility could include a painted bike lane in a door
zone by parallel-parked cars where a bicyclist’s risk is high. The majority of the citations
about bicycle facilities are from 2008, 2009, and 2012.

Discussion (pg 9 lines 57-60) The authors write about the benefits of improved infrastructure
when they could elaborate on what makes a safe bike environment. The one citation given
#20 (bibliography) is not complete.
Discussion (pg 10 lines 3-7) The authors state the need for improving cycling infrastructure
but the article referenced (Maizlish/2013) was not about “installation of cycle lanes, traffic
calming or other measures to improve safety.” The authors also need to be more specific
because cycle lanes can be painted bike lanes and not barrier-protected cycle tracks. Traffic
calming measures calm traffic, such as a roundabout, and improve safety for vehicle
occupants and pedestrians but not bicyclists if they have to take a lane. Rather than writing
“other measures to improve safety,” the readers would benefit from specifics about the
safest bicycle infrastructure.
Discussion (pg 10 line 12) need a period and a capital F to start the sentence.
Discussion (pg 10 line 32-33) The authors indicated that the longer time (further distance)
the bicyclists rides the greater their risk for injury. The authors might consider mentioning
muscle and mental fatigue as factors in riding a longer distance and thus the increased risk
of injury. Road designs protect vehicle occupants from mental fatigue (wide roads and
rumble strips on the sides of the road) and perhaps bicycle environments should allow for
muscle and mental fatigue of bicyclists. If the authors align the risk of the longer ride with
the possible explanations, engineers might improve the design of bicycle facilities to
accommodate for muscle and mental fatigue.
Discussion (pg 10 lines 11-34) The authors discuss the longer distance as increasing the risk
but the opportunity exists to also discuss the finding on Page 8 lines 3-4. Cycling exclusively
increased the risk compared with mixed-mode cycling. On page 8 lines 12-13, walking or
mixed-mode walking was not associated with risk. The cyclists who choose mixed-mode
may be choosing this as a weather factor. The pedestrians would be less vulnerable if
walking in the rain or snow compared with the bicyclists. Again, if the readers have this
information, the engineers might design safer bicycle facilities or better maintain the
facilities.
Discussion (pg 10 lines 37 to 60 and pg 11 lines 3 to 9). The authors could decide to add the
limitation that these data were from 2006 to 2010.
Recent articles the authors could consider referencing include:
Marshall, W, Ferenchak, N. (2019) “Why cities with high bicycling rates are safer for all road
users.” Journal of Transport & Health Vol 13, June.
Morrison, C, Thompson, J, Kondo, M, and Beck, B. (2019) “On-road bicycle lane types,
roadway characteristics, and risks for bicycle crashes.” Accident Analysis and Prevention. Vol
123 pgs 123-131.
Zangenehpour, S, Strauss, J, Miranda-Moreno, L, Saunier, N. (2016) “Are signalized
intersections with cycle tracks safer? A case-control study based on automated surrogate
safety analysis using video data.” Accident Analysis and Prevention. Vol 86 pgs 161-172.
