Thank you for asking me to review this revised manuscript from Dr Kaura and colleagues
where they have used routine data in 250,000 persons undergoing testing to evaluate the
association between cardiac troponin and all-cause mortality. I would like to thank the
authors for their thoughtful and detailed response to my previous comments and for
providing additional analysis.
I continue to have one important concern about the central observation of a U-shaped
relationship between troponin and mortality that I would be grateful if the authors could
review and address in a further revision. I also have some minor presentational points for
the authors to consider to ensure the manuscript is clear for the general medical reader.

1. The additional analysis performed stratifying by whether the patient had been admitted
to hospital or not, had an acute coronary syndrome or not, and by whether they had
invasive management or not is helpful. I remain concerned that the U-shaped curve
reported in the original manuscript and again here is in part an artifact of analysis. I
apologise if the point was not clear in my original comments, but it is really important to
understand this observation.
The relationship between troponin and mortality is not U-shaped in those discharged from
hospital (Figure S6) or in those with non-acute coronary syndrome diagnosis (Figure 6B).
It is not possible to resolve the paradox in patients with acute coronary syndrome reported
in Figure 6A by stratifying according to whether these patients has invasive management
or not as reported in Figure 7B. These figures are incongruous. If using the same
population and referent then the relationship between troponin and mortality should be
identical whether or not stratified by invasive management. The U-shaped curve reported
in acute coronary syndrome patients in Figure 6A must have been constructing using the
mean troponin concentration of all patients to anchor the hazard ratios (whether they had
acute coronary syndrome or not) as no hazard ratio at any troponin concentration crosses
1, whereas the analysis reported in acute coronary syndrome patients in Figure 7 reports
hazard ratios anchored on the mean troponin concentration in those with acute coronary
syndrome. Please revise Figure 6A accordingly.
This observation raises a concern that the U-shaped curve reported in all patients (Figure
5, Figure S5) also is not a true representation of this relationship, and has arisen as a
consequence of combining very different patients with and without acute coronary
syndrome. It is likely that younger patients with acute coronary syndrome and very high
troponin concentrations have excellent outcomes compared to older patients without acute
coronary syndromes who similarly elevated troponin concentrations. I would be grateful if
the authors were to present the cumulative incident plots (Figure 4) for patients with and
without acute coronary syndrome separately to reassure me that this is not the primary
explanation for this relationship. If it is the case then I hope the authors would agree that
combining these groups is unhelpful and Figure 5 and Figure S5 should be removed from
the manuscript, and the results and discussion revised accordingly.
2. The relationship between troponin and mortality in those not admitted to hospital was
linear in 113,431 persons. Whilst the rug plot is reassuring that the majority of patients
who were not admitted had troponin concentrations in the normal reference range there
were a not insignificant number of patients not admitted who had very high troponin
concentrations. Please provide the number and proportion of patients with troponin
concentrations > 1xULN, >10xULN, >100xULN, and >1,000xULN, and share your insights
as to why these patients were not admitted for further investigation.
3. It would be useful from a healthcare system perspective to know both the proportion of
patients with an elevated troponin concentration who had a diagnosis of ACS, and the
proportion who were admitted to hospital. Please include the number of patients and
proportion admitted to hospital and diagnosed with ACS as additional rows in Table 1, as
this information is not reported elsewhere for those with and without elevated troponin
concentrations.
4. The new flow diagram of the study cohort provided in the revised manuscript is helpful.
It appears from the authors comments to the editors (point 8) that only the patients first
care episode was included. Given that recurrent presentations with chest pain are
common, occurring in approximately 1 in 4 patients per annum, it would be useful to
provide the number of patients excluded for this reason in the cohort flow diagram (Figure
1). Alternatively, report the number of patients excluded elsewhere if they did not form
part of the 250,000 patient cohort. Were there any missing data for the ICD diagnostic

codes for those admitted to hospital? If so perhaps this could be included in the Figure
legend?
5. The abstract is 440 words in length and both the abstract and the concluding statements
of the manuscript could more focused to ensure the reader is clear what the main findings
and message from this analysis were.
6. The lay abstract is potentially confusing as it could be construed as suggesting younger
persons are 10-fold more likely to die than older persons with an elevated troponin. This is
not the case and in general the overall message here should be reviewed and clarified. It
was notable that the lay reviewer did not understand the data or methods used, so this
section is important.