Are the questions the paper addresses relevant and important to patients and/or carers?
The topic of the paper is not directly relevant to patients/citizens.
It is a paper on how to accurately calculate the cigarettes consumption in a country to use
in assessing how successful the FCTC measures for tobacco control are.
It is relevant to have a reliable measure for cigarette consumption added to the other
evaluations of the FCTC. Several methods for assessing cigarette consumption are used,
this study compares different methods and their results. It advices a relatively simple way
of calculating cigarette consumption if there is reliable information available.
Are topics or issues missing, or need to be highlighted?
The topic that is missing is that it is a quite crude way of measuring cigarette consumption.
Some influences like cross border traffic, smuggled/illegal tobacco, illegal production in a
country, use by non-citizens (tourist, business travel etc.) etc. were not included or
minimally addressed.
Also by looking only at cigarettes, use of tobacco is underestimated. New trends (switching
from one product to another eg cigarettes to cigarillo’s) and new products (eg new vaping
with tobacco) were not addressed.
They did not highlight the system in New Zeeland that legally requires tobacco companies
to publish their production figures for the local market and for export as a good example.
They do not advice on improving the data reporting process to make it more robust in
more countries. This could help getting better data from more countries.
The authors also do not advice on how to add value to this data by using by example the
bi-annual country reports as a source of additional information. They also do not give
suggestions on how this data could be added to the FCTC Global progress report and what
would be needed.
Methods used:
The methods used are well explained and if the data can be found, quite easy to use. They
compared their method to other methods used in other studies and the results are quite
similar.

What can be improved and what is missing:
They have looked at other sources of data that are self-reporting by users of tobacco,
where we know that the use is often under or over reported.
The data used, is data reported by the tobacco industry to the central statistics
organisation in a country. They have not compared these data to other data that is
available to ascertain the reliability of these data. I see no mention of by example the EU
Excise Duty Tables, Tax receipts and combined these with the Released for consumption
tables the EU publishes every year. That could have been a good way to check the
reliability of the data.
Or the data currently used in the FCTC global report in the tobacco use prevalence
reported by parties (Annex 3 in the 2018 report). As the researchers data over several
years from several countries a comparison would have been possible and quite easy.
The data is only on cigarette consumption. Unfortunately this measurement, though
relevant and interesting does not give the full picture of tobacco use. By only looking at
cigarettes the risk is that trends are over or under estimated. By example the population of
the Netherlands role your own tobacco (RYO) is a common form of tobacco use. During the
last economic crisis, the consumption of cigarettes decreased significantly, but this did not
represent less smoking. Many people switched to RYO and home produced cigarettes. I can
understand that they only look at cigarette consumption, but that does not represent the
success of the FCTC measures in tobacco control sufficiently.
On page 7 line 27-28 the researchers describe how they standardised the data by using
the equivalent of one metric tonne of tobacco to one million cigarettes. The 1 gram of
tobacco per cigarette is no longer seen as the standard. Looking at the latest OECD Health
Statistics 2018 Definition, Sources and Methods.
Tobacco consumption in grams per capita (age 15+) June 2018 on grams per capita the
standard calculating measure is between 65-100% of 1 gram. Countries use their own
standard.
Though I understand using the more traditional 1 gram/cigarette, the amount of tobacco
per cigarette is decreasing. The article should at least mention this and offer a possible
solution for this issue.
In the limitations of the study the only mention to difficulty in getting reliable data. That is
not the only limitation of the study as seen above.
Do you think the level of patient/carer involvement in the study could have been
improved? It there was none do you have ideas on how they might have done so?
I can understand why no patients were included. It is kind of strange to mention in this
section in the article (p. 8, line 18-21) that students were engaged in data collection.
