The paper describes an open-label randomised trial that aimed to assess efficacy of hydroxychloroquine
in the treatment of COVID-19.
The trial procedures are clearly described. A weakness in the design is that the trial was not blinded to
treatment allocation, introducing the possibility of both placebo effects in the HCQ arm, and in the
assessment of outcomes by investigators. Though it should be recognised that production of a placebo
may have been challenging given the rapid execution of the trial.
The trial is negative on all pre-specified endpoints, including the secondary endpoint of symptom
alleviation. My principal concern is in the major emphasis given to a single post-hoc subgroup analysis,
which found better symptom alleviation in the HCQ group among those not treated with antivirals during
the trial. As well as being post-hoc, this analysis is in any case methodologically worrying, because the
subgroup is not based on baseline data, but rather is defined based on events occuring during the at-risk
period under analysis, introducing a strong risk of time-related biases. The HR estimate of >8 is itself
implausible as a treatment effect, and the uncertainty around this is highlighted by a 95% CI of 1.09 to
71.3. My feeling is that this analysis should be removed from the report entirely, as it is potentially quite
misleading.

The negative results on the main pre-specified outcomes are not entirely conclusive. The trial is
underpowered and concluded early, well before reaching the target of 360 patients. In addition, the
median time of randomisation was 16 days from disease onset, so the effects of HQ given at an earlier
stage in the disease remain unclear.
It is noteable that there were more symptoms at baseline in the group randomised to HCQ (table 1, e.g.
greater % fever, cough, shortness of beath); presumably this was a chance imbalance made possible by
the small numbers. However, this introduces the possibility that any greater efficacy on symptom
alleviation could have been driven by "regression to the mean".
