Thank you for kindly inviting me to peer review this paper by Dr Islam and colleagues, entitled
“Effectiveness of physical distancing interventions on COVID-19 incidence”. This study evaluated the

impact of implementing physical distancing interventions on the incidence of COVID-19 utilising data
from 119 countries.
There is certainly a lack of data that is currently available on the efficacy of physical distancing measures
on COVID-19 infection rates and hence, this piece of work addresses an important issue that would be
very useful for public healthcare systems across the globe.
In general, the article is well written and presented – the authors have clearly described the methods
and analyses they have undertaken. The major strength of this study is that the authors have been able
to rapidly combine and analyse data from 119 different countries.

Major comments
• Given the rapid nature of data collection and the complexities of collecting and collating data from 119
different countries, there are a number of intrinsic limitations to the study design. However, these are
well described and acknowledged by the authors in the limitations section of the discussion.
• The abstract should provide more details on what major data sources the authors utilised to perform
this study in the “design” subheading (i.e. mention the Oxford COVID-19 Government Response Tracker
– which was the key resource that enabled the authors to perform this analysis).
• It would be useful to provide more background details regarding the Oxford COVID-19 Government
Response Tracker resource in the methods section i.e. what data is collected, how the data is collected,
how the data is used etc.
• The Oxford COVID-19 Government Response Tracker resource provides data on 8 containment
measures – however only 5 were used for this study. Measures not utilised in this study but available in
Oxford COVID-19 Government Response Tracker resource include international travel restrictions,
restrictions on gatherings and stay at home restrictions. Why did the authors choose not to include these
important physical distancing policies for their analysis? This is an important limitation of this piece of
work – if the authors are able to include these other measures in their analysis, then it would be
pertinent to re-run the analysis with these measures.
• On Page 12, Lines 10-14, the authors state “Meta-regression did not identify any effects on the IRR of
days since the first reported case until the first policy implementation….”. This is quite a surprising
finding, and “contrary to anecdotal data from some countries that implemented these policies earlier” as
the authors themselves state in the discussion. Could this result have been confounded by any other
factor e.g. differences in testing rate during the period between first reported case and first policy
implementation vs the period after first policy implementation? Alternatively, this finding may also be
due to some countries implementing one of the 3 physical distancing measures which the authors did
not utilise in the analysis, as their first implemented policy (for instance many countries implemented
international travel restrictions well before other physical distancing measures:
https://www.brookings.edu/2020/04/02/the-early-days-of-a-global-pandemic-a-timeline-of-covid-19-spr
ead-and-government-interventions/)
• On Page 13, lines 42-56, the authors state: “Hence, there was evidence of greater effectiveness when
public event cancellation and population movement restrictions (lockdown) were implemented earlier,
before school and workplace closures (pooled IRR: 0.80, 95% CI: 0.65-0.98, N=3) as opposed to when
these were implemented later (i.e. after school and workplace closures) (pooled IRR: 0.89, 95% CI:
0.68-1.16, N=3).” The authors go onto state this as a main finding in the discussion on Page 14 (“A
greater reduction in incidence was observed when public event cancellation and lockdown were
implemented earlier together with school closure and workplace closure”) and also in the abstract. I
have two concerns with this finding which I would like the authors to kindly address. Firstly, although
the IRRs were mildly different (0.80 vs 0.89), the confidence intervals overlap with each other –
therefore there may be no statistically significant difference between these two sequences of
interventions. Secondly, this finding is based on data from just 3 countries for each sequence of
interventions, and hence is greatly underpowered to be able to draw generalisable conclusions applicable
for all countries.
• On Page 21, Lines 2-6, the authors state: “The findings may also help decide which intervention to lift
first as the epidemic curve starts to flatten”. I would be cautious in suggesting this - it may be too
difficult to predict which intervention to lift first based on data from implementing physical interventions
at the beginning of the pandemic as there are too many factors which may confound this (for instance

differences in SARS-CoV-2 transmission rates, differences in other public health policies e.g. wearing of
masks).
Minor comment
• Page 12, line 53: (pooled IRR: 0.91, 95% CI: 0.82, 1.0; N=8). Confidence interval should be written
with a hyphen rather than a comma.
• Page 16, lines 31-35: “Similar study from Hubei and Guangdong also reported significant reduction in
COVID-19 incidence.” Grammatical error – could be re-written as “A similar study from Hubei and
Guangdong also reported a significant reduction in COVID-19 incidence”.
