I think the authors have presented an informative project on a timely topic,
specifically pelvic mesh. Overall, I found the methods to be very well outlined and
conceived. The presentation in the manuscript is also clear and succinct. The findings
are interesting and important. I think the authors have done a good job with this
project. I believe this manuscript should be accepted for publication with a few
revisions.
I have a couple of specific questions for the authors: I presume that the authors
were not able to differentiate between a vaginal or abdominal approach to the POP
surgery, given the limitations to coding mechanisms (ICD9 and CPT). However, they
do not mention this important issue in the manuscript. These distinctions do have
implications for the results, because the FDA mesh announcements were specific to
vaginally placed synthetic mesh. Abdominally-placed mesh, while still subject to
complications, is generally accepted as different in nature and not subject to the
same set of complications (whether this is in fact true or not). The general trend has
been to transition from the vaginal mesh procedures to the abdominal procedures
(i.e. sacrocolpopexy) in the face of these mesh-related issues. Because both employ
"mesh", it is not surprising that the rates of procedures that include mesh continue to
rise. If feasible, I would recommend the authors differentiate between these different
approaches to mesh placement, as it would greatly improve on the impact. If not
feasible because of the coding issues, Some discussion of this limitation and the
ramifications is warranted.
According to the authors' description of the data source, it appears not to capture
outpatient visits, but only inpatient, ER, and ambulatory surgery centers. Therefore,
if I interpret their methods appropriately, then the authors are only reporting on
those complications that resulted in presentations to these healthcare settings. I
would suggest that their estimates of 90 day complications are therefore underestimations of the true rates, because they are not capturing all the visits to the
healthcare system. Could the authors please comment on this? I would also suggest
that the authors consider including any data on hospital re-admissions in the 90 day
period, as this would also increase the significance of the findings. As the authors are
surely aware, 30-day and 90-day readmission rates are an important metric for
surgical quality.
Finally, regarding the figures, I find it difficult to determine which line is which in the
figure, according to the legends. In black and white, these are too close together.