BMJ.053803
Association between newly-diagnosed atrial fibrillation and the excess risk of death: temporal trends
over 40 years in the Framingham Heart Study
Statistical review:
In this article, the authors have unique data collected as part of the Framingham Heart Study to analyse
changes in the prognosis of AF, specifically excess risk of death, over time. The results suggest that
although there have been improvements in both early identification and treatment of this patient group,
AF is still strongly associated with an increased risk, impacting on a reduction in life expectancy of
around 2years (compared to non-AF).
Given the nature of the data, this study should be able not only to provide an adequate description of
the continuing increased risk but also explore some of the potential issues regarding changes over time.
Specifically (as mentioned in the Discussion) if there has been a change in the population identified as
having AF and/or in their treatment.
In short, the main questions that they should be able to address (besides a pure description of a
continuous elevated risk) are:

a) What are the similarities/differences of these different ‘epochs’ overall (e.g. baseline characteristics
like SBP, treatments, etc). Are these pointing towards a ‘healthier’ cohort or a more multimorbid cohort
in each ‘epoch’?
b) What are the similarities/differences of these cohorts at time of diagnosis? Specifically, for the AF
group, is the assumption of early identification of low-risk individuals (as mentioned in the Discussion)
valid?
c) Is the treatment provided to the AF group changing (improving) over time? This is also touched on in
the Discussion and is mentioned as part of the limitation. Given their timeline it would not be unlikely
that the improvements suggested have reached a plateau and hence there is no evidence of a trend.
This might be the case that any information (even if incomplete would be better than no information.
It might be that no further information is available, in which case, a more extended Limitation section in
the Discussion would be relevant to address these points.
Besides this, there are several issues (listed below) which would help clarify and expand on some of the
findings presented.
Issues to clarify:
Choice of Epochs
-Please provide an explanation for the decision to group the data into three epochs. Currently, the
manuscript does not specifically explain the choice of a) number of epochs nor b) the reasons for
choosing those years as cut-offs.

Participants
-Please provide a figure with the timelines for the different cohorts/examinations/measures linking to the
identification of the epochs. If possible, also include in this Figure (or an alternative one) information for
the identification of the data used in the ‘population analysis’ as well as for the ‘matched analysis’.
-The identification of AF is based on the visits/examinations during any given epoch. Please provide
information (possibly as a supplement) about the number of visits and who attended these visits. The
increased number of diagnoses (proportional) in epoch 2 might need explaining too.
-Related, please comment if there is a bias created by controls providing information into several
epochs.
Covariates included
-Given that the significant improvement observed over time has been on CVD mortality, it would have
been particularly useful to have included lipid measures (at baseline) as a relevant covariate as well as
lipid treatment (e.g. statins) in a similar way as antihypertensives are reported. If not available, this
might need to be included as an important limitation.
Statistical analyses
-The choice of different study designs (population based and matched cases-controls) is adequately
described, but please expand here as to which is used as primary analysis and why.

-I am unclear on the use of meta-regression to evaluate a time trend. Is this based on 3 ‘datapoints’? If
so, a comment on the power of such approach would be useful. Related, there are a number of
comparisons (for trend) presented in the paper, a mention in the limitation section of the potential for
spurious finding given this would be appropriate.
-Critically, the analysis based on RMST reaches a different conclusion to that of the time-varying
covariates Cox model. Please discuss include (probably in the Limitations) an explanation as to why
these differences occur. I imagine it is due to the way the time-varying covariates are incorporated to
the models, but this might require some clarification.
Tables
-Table 2 gives total number and events but for the whole population. Please provide these also for the
AF group for each of the epochs.
Figures
- Figure one will need some adjustments. Current one has a problem with overlap of text confidence
intervals and graphical ones. Suggest maybe separating using lines?
-Figure 2. Please provide light coloured grid to aid with comparisons across different epochs. (similar
issue for Figures S2 and S3)
-Figure S4 – substantial reduction in cumulative incidence of cardiovascular death. This would need
some discussion/interpretation. See point above about lipid levels and use of lipid lowering drugs.
