Introduction (p. 3, line 25-27): The definition of CPG dates back to 1992, but the 2011 definition is now
used more widely and focuses stronger on the methodological requirements that constitute trustworthy
guidelines (3).
Introduction (p. 3, line 53): The publication by Sinclair et al. does not focus on CPGs produced in
emergencies. Another publication dealing with the evaluation of WHO guidelines is Burda et al.

Furthermore, Alexander et al. have dealt with methodological aspects that might be of interest in the
introduction or discussion (4-6).
Methods (p. 5, line 24): The PROSPERO ID is incorrect (the last digit is missing)
Methods (p. 5, line 30): The quoted link to the review protocol does not provide any further information
than the title and the first author. Therefore it seems to be dispensable.
Results (p. 7, line 6 and flowchart (fig 1.)): There is a discrepancy between the information in the text
and in the flowchart regarding the number of additionally identified studies (20 vs. 18).
Results (p. 10, table 2):
a) The table heading does not reflect the content of the table. The table does not show the scope, but
the health questions covered by the guideline.
b) The column heading of the first column is missing (guidelines).
c) The appropriate citation behind the guideline should be added to make it easier to find in the
bibliography.
Discussion (p. 18, lines 50 ff. and p. 20 lines 44 ff.): It is unclear whether the alignment with the WHO
guidelines should be criticized. In general, it seems to make a high sense that in a pandemic situation
the focus should be on the world and not only on individual nations. Also for resource reasons, it seems
reasonable that there should be a central source (WHO or medical societies) that gathers and keeps the
existing evidence up to date, so that individual countries or institutions can use it as a basis for adapting
the content for their system.
Discussion (p. 20, lines 31 ff. and p. 21 line 44): Of course GRADE is a good and transparent system to
develop guideline recommendations in a transparent and comprehensible way. However,
methodologically high-quality CPGs can be developed without GRADE, so that this does not necessarily
have to be recommended so strongly.
1. Hoffmann-Esser W, Siering U, Neugebauer EAM, Brockhaus AC, McGauran N, Eikermann M. Guideline
appraisal with AGREE II: online survey of the potential influence of AGREE II items on overall
assessment of guideline quality and recommendation for use. BMC health services research.
2018;18(1):143.
2. Hoffmann-Esser W, Siering U, Neugebauer EA, Brockhaus AC, Lampert U, Eikermann M. Guideline
appraisal with AGREE II: Systematic review of the current evidence on how users handle the 2 overall
assessments. PloS one. 2017;12(3):e0174831.
3. Institute of Medicine Committee on Standards for Developing Trustworthy Clinical Practice Guidelines.
Clinical Practice Guidelines We Can Trust. Graham R, Mancher M, Miller Wolman D, Greenfield S,
Steinberg E, editors. Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2011.
4. Burda BU, Chambers AR, Johnson JC. Appraisal of guidelines developed by the World Health
Organization. Public health. 2014;128(5):444-74.
5. Alexander PE, Bero L, Montori VM, Brito JP, Stoltzfus R, Djulbegovic B, et al. World Health
Organization recommendations are often strong based on low confidence in effect estimates. Journal of
clinical epidemiology. 2014;67(6):629-34.
6. Alexander PE, Brito JP, Neumann I, Gionfriddo MR, Bero L, Djulbegovic B, et al. World Health
Organization strong recommendations based on low-quality evidence (study quality) are frequent and
often inconsistent with GRADE guidance. Journal of clinical epidemiology. 2016;72:98-106.
