This research article uses data on 109,012 men and women aged 45 to 90 from 37 cohort studies in 24
countries to explore differences in walking speed by socioeconomic status and the WHO 25x25 risk
factors.
Originality
This paper complements a recent Lancet article published by the same group (reference 4) which had
similar aims but with a focus on premature mortality. This second paper recognises the importance of
identifying strategies to improve healthspan as well as lifespan.
By pooling data from many different studies and presenting effect estimates for each risk factor in an
easily comparable way (i.e. years of functioning lost) there are clear strengths to these analyses and
novel insights that can be provided. However, the paper would benefit from being more clearly placed in
the context of existing relevant research. For example, in the objectives section of the abstract it is
stated that ‘the extent to which these factors affect physical functioning is unknown’ and in the
introduction ‘to date there is limited evidence on the extent to which functional loss will be reduced by….
WHO 25x25 risk factors and adverse socioeconomic circumstances’. These statements do not reflect
our current level of understanding – there are many papers relating the risk factors studied in these new
analyses to measures of physical functioning including walking speed. These papers date back over

many years (e.g. PMID: 8484377, 10075171), include earlier analyses of studies that have contributed
to this new paper (e.g. Whitehall II (PMID: 19535784, 21444833, 24461963, 25283337, 28220042),
ELSA (PMID: 23682157, 18662211)), systematic reviews (PMID: 21297868) and previous papers
published in the BMJ (PMID: 23881930). A clearer case for what this study is able to add, given this
existing body of literature, thus needs to be made and previous work needs to be acknowledged.
Importance of work to general readers
As the identification of strategies to promote healthy ageing is a global public health priority this paper is
suitable for a general journal with a wide readership such as the BMJ.
Scientific reliability
The aim ‘to estimate the extent to which the WHO 25x25 risk factors and low socioeconomic status
impact physical functioning’ is rather vague and so it would be helpful if the research question/s could be
more clearly defined. Doing this may help emphasise what this study is able to add.
The overall design of the study appears to be adequate to address the main aim. The queries I have
about the methods are outlined below.
Main comments
1) I support the authors’ decision to focus their analyses on walking speed which I assume was because
of evidence of its associations with a range of adverse health outcomes including mortality and also for
pragmatic reasons. However, the importance of this single measure should not be overstated and it is
necessary to acknowledge that it is unlikely to capture all important aspects of ‘overall functional
capacity’. It is also not clear from existing evidence how ‘sensitive’ this measure really is. For example,
as most work relating walking speed to health outcomes has been undertaken in older populations (see
our previous BMJ review where this was highlighted, PMID: 20829298) questions remain over the extent
to which variation in usual walking speed over short distances in adults younger than 60 is meaningful
(and my understanding is that such concerns explain why walking speed has not been assessed in
participants younger than 60 in some studies including ELSA).
2) It is reported that ‘Walking speed was assessed at the same time as the risk factors’. As some of the
studies have measured walking speed and risk factors at multiple waves please could the authors clarify
(either in the main text or supplementary material) what wave data were taken from in each study.
3) When assessing walking speed there are usually some people who are unable to complete the test for
health reasons. How many people in each study were unable to complete the test for health reasons
and how were these people handled in analyses? If these people were excluded this may have
introduced bias.
4) 3664 people were excluded from analyses because they used walking aids. Please provide
justification for excluding these people. As people who use walking aids tend to have mobility disability
and on average walk more slowly than people not using aids (even though the aid may allow them to
walk slightly faster than they may otherwise have been able to), the exclusion of these people may have
introduced bias and led to underestimation of the impact of the risk factors.
5) Supplementary results show differences in the size of the impact of each of the different risk factors
between high income and low-middle income countries. Were these differences formally tested? Were
differences by sex and cohort also formally tested? If there are significant differences between countries
it may not be appropriate to report overall summary estimates (as shown in the results and abstract);
stratified results should be the main focus instead. My concern is that the method employed risks
overlooking meaningful variation between countries and other characteristics and that this may have
important implications for intervention.
6) As walking speed and other measures of physical performance tend to be only moderately correlated
until very old age, and previous studies (including some of those cited above) have shown different
patterns of association between the risk factors studied in this paper and different indicators of
functioning I would not assume that study of other indicators would necessarily ‘yield roughly similar
estimates as for walking speed’. For example, there is much less consistent evidence in the literature of

associations between obesity, socioeconomic status and grip strength than there is between these two
risk factors and walking speed.
7) Many of the 25 x 25 risk factors co-occur and some are causally associated. In addition they cluster
within lower SES groups (at least within high income countries). What implications does this have?
8) As the meaningful variation in risk will have been more accurately captured by the measures of some
risk factors than others and, it will also have been easier to harmonise the data from different studies for
some risk factors than others what implications does this have when comparing the impact of the
different risk factors on walking speed?
Minor comments
1) Please provide justification for excluding those who were underweight from analyses
2) Why was cohort not included as a covariate?
3) Please provide justification for restricting the age range to 45-90 years.
4) When assessing walking speed, multiple trials are often undertaken. Please report how many trials
were undertaken in each study in the supplementary information and provide information on which
measure (first, average or fastest) was used where more than one trial had been completed.
5) Were participants excluded from analyses younger on average than those included because there was
a sizeable group of participants with relevant data but who were aged <45 and therefore excluded?
6) To support the statement in the discussion ‘These findings are consistent with studies showing that
physical activity may improve physical performance even at older ages’, it may be preferable to cite the
findings from the main LIFE study (published in JAMA, PMID: 24866862) rather than from the pilot study
(ref 24). There are many other more recent references on this which may be used in place of reference
25 (published in 1989).
7) Please check the paper for minor grammatical errors and correct these. For example, page 4
‘Addressing these risk factors globally will likely to bring’, page 15 ‘to intervene in earlier ages’
8) The focus of these analyses on walking speed should be reflected in the title.
