Thanks for addressing my initial comments. I have a further few comments to make:
1) Table 2: If I add up the percentages to rows or columns I do not get 100% so I feel this is still
confusing to the reader - see point below.

2) Table 2: In addition, when describing the demographics of the cohort, you need to present the full
picture. As an example, occupational position has three categories; low, medium and high. In table 2,
you present only the data for 'low'. As there are more than 2 categories, I can only deduce that the
remaining % is from intermediate and high combined but I might also want to know the individual
proportion of intermediate and high. This is loss of information and should be made clearer (i.e. add in
extra rows). The same applies for education. This is particularly important as you make reference in
denoting better health from "the higher educational and occupational groups". Have you done this to
constrain your significant testing to two groups? You could use a more appropriate test.
Table S1 - you also need to present 'N' as well as '%'
3) Thanks for repeating the analysis with intermediate as the reference. As you have now provided
rationale for using 'poor' as the references can you take this sentence out please "Repeating the
analyses with the intermediate CVH category as the reference, poor CVH was associated with higher risk
of dementia (HR=1.64, 95% CI: 1.25 to 2.14) while no significant difference in dementia risk was
observed in the optimal CVH category (HR=0.94, 95% CI: 0.63 to 1.40)." I think this adds to confusion
if you present both analyses with poor and intermediate as the reference.
4) In the discussion surrounding Table 3, I wondered why you first present the results in terms of HRs
and then convert to discussing in terms of % risk reduction and then back to HRs - I would be
consistent.
5) Table S2 - should the results to Model 1 without APOE ε4 be the same as the results in Table 3 or did
you used the reduced sample size for this analysis too?
4) Table 4 - can you tell the reader what 'Beta' is in terms of an effect estimate?
