General:
The author makes several important assertions regarding weakness of traditional
pharmacovigilance for detecting signals of new multi-syndromic adverse event
following immunization. Unfortunately documentation of evidence supporting the
assertions, especially quantitative data, are sparse at best. Furthermore, the author
may benefit from a better understanding of how current large-linked database
(LLDB) test new vaccine safety hypotheses.
Given each of the syndromes mentioned (CRPS, POTS and CFS/ME) existed prior to
introduction of HPV vaccine, the key question is whether HPV vaccination results in
an increase in these syndromes vs. populations without HPV vaccination (vs. HPV

vaccine causes a truly new syndrome). In spite of the tetanus exception case
mentioned, this is fundamentally an epidemiologic research question. The fact that
these syndromes are difficult to diagnose (and are challenging to apply case
definitions to) should apply equally to HPV vaccine exposed and unexposed
populations, albeit resulting in a “bias towards the null”. In current LLDB vaccine
safety studies, the case finding for syndrome X in study population is done
independently of the vaccine Y exposure. If coding for a syndrome X is poor, they
first assemble a cohort of “possible” cases using as broad a set of search terms as
possible. Ideally, after chart review, a smaller set of more specific “probable” cases
are assembled before the linkage with the vaccine exposure info to see if an
association is there or not. If there is an association, then the search for a biological
mechanism can then be initiated [it’s tempting to try to do so before this (refs 27 &
28), but this is putting the cart before the horse given real world realities in
economics). Accordingly, the author fails to provide any info on status of ongoing
LLDB studies to test the hypothesized link between HPV vaccine and syndromes and
jumps to the conclusion “A focus on the population fails to advance vaccine safety
science.”
It’s true that if no association is found, it may be that the study population was too
small (e.g., Denmark) or the LLDB inadequate/non-existent (e.g., Japan), but these
are separate (solvable) problems if the association is real. Bigger (even through
meta-analyses), better LLDB are desirable to address “Safety concerns specific to
sub-populations at risk may escape current epidemiological detection and are thus
left unexplored.” But it is also possible that the no association is the truth. At the
extreme, since each person’s genome is unique, it can be argued ad nauseum that
“I’m just like that tetanus case”, but the days of predictive vaccinology for the
masses unfortunately are not here yet.
In summary, this paper has a few nuggets of truth (e.g., Hard to diagnose illnesses
are invisible to the system, adverse event reports are plagued by incomplete data),
but the overall critique is of the vaccine safety process is somewhat off the mark
(due in part to the author’s incomplete pharmacovigilance lens)
Specific:
P.1, L.17: suggest adding “HPV” before “vaccination”
P.1, L.38: please add citations for each of these episodes.
P.3, L.9: please add www.brightoncollaboration.org
P.3, L.48: once you’ve introduced “AEFI”, please use it in lieu of the spelled
out “adverse event following immunizations”.
