This excellent manuscript reports a comparison of risk effect estimates from UK Biobank and a
compilation of cohort studies from England and Scotland, to address the question of impact of UK
Biobank’s low response rates on the generalizability of its risk estimates to nationally representative
studies with much higher response rates. The paper is well-conceived, well-written, clear, and concise. It
will be an important addition to the literature on cohort study methodology and the balance of high
response rates and individualized data collection against large sample size and more automated data
collection methods.
I have only minor suggestions:
1. Abstract p.4, lines 44-54: Although the Methods (p.10, lines 22-24) describes calculating a ratio of
hazard ratios (HR) using UK Biobank as the referent, the Abstract seems to reverse them; CVD mortality
HRs for smoking was 2.04 in UK Biobank and 1.99 in HSE-SHS, yet the RHR is greater than one.
Conversely, HRs for hypertension were 1.89 in UK Biobank and 2.56 in HSE-SHS but the reported RHR is
0.74. Elsewhere throughout the paper the RHRs appear to use UK Biobank as the referent, so these
should be checked carefully.
2. p.7, line 12-13: The “conventional range” of response rates for the 18 HSE-SHS cohorts could be
reported here for the convenience of the reader.
3. p.10, line 14-15: The Methods report HRs were adjusted for only age and sex but given the
substantial differences in educational attainment, smoking, and other CVD risk factors it might be helpful
to conduct a secondary analysis adjusting for these other differences, or at a minimum reporting these
differences and lack of adjustment for them in the Limitations section.
4. p.14, line 19-20: Would also include temporal differences between UK Biobank and its comparators as
a (minor) limitation; although the authors appropriately addressed differences in recruitment periods,
they did not address differences in follow-up period (2016 vs. 2009 and 2011), at a time when
significant social and risk factor change was occurring.
