Stats Review BMJ51219
This article presents an analysis based on electronic health records from the Veterans Health
Administration. The focus is to examine the risk of overdose or suicide-related mortality
(composite) associated with opioid cessation and in particular the impact that the VHA opioid
safety initiatives (OSI) have had on this risk. To achieve this, they obtained data from two
cohorts (FY2010 and FY2013) which provide them information before and after OSI was
implemented. The topic is very important at the data relevant and unique. However there
are significant issues regarding the focus of the paper, the methods used and the reporting
of the methods used. These are stated below:
• Focus: the aims and conclusions do not match up. The general aim was a comparison of
the new safety initiatives (OSI) established in 2013 to determine if these had any impact
reducing/increasing risk of overdose or suicide-related mortality. Based on the currently
reported estimates, the guidance appears to have increased the risk. This has not been
highlighted in the Discussion which instead focuses on the risk after cessation and after
initiation (more about these below). Having said the above, there is no formal comparison
of the two risks (these are presented individually for each cohort), which seems to me not to

answer the initially proposed question. This formal comparison should be carried out,
possibly as part of a full model.
• The way the cohorts were created is particularly difficult to follow. We need more clarity
regarding:
o The type of opioid prescription should have a substantial impact on risk. Stratified
analysis and comparison (across Cohorts) would be required to address this issue. The use
of opioids appear to vary by cohorts and presenting separate estimate prevents adequate
direct comparison.
o The average length of an opioid prescription. The authors have partially included this as
part of their prescription episode definition but it is unclear if this definition is adequate given
that there is no information on the number of days an average prescription would cover.
Also, it is not reported if this is consistent in both cohorts.
o The start of follow-up. The duration of prescription episode is likely to be an important
covariate and this has not been included in the analysis. This needs to be reported as part of
the patient characteristics. If possible using a Figure for the distribution of this variable
(could be as part of a supplementary material).
o The Index date which appears to vary depending on the type of analysis. A clear
definition is required, ideally supported by a diagram/figure.
o The possibility that individuals might appear in both cohorts. This needs to be discussed
and quantified. A sensitivity analysis excluding these people should be carried out.
o Is it possible that individuals within the same cohort go from ‘users’ to ‘cessation’ to
‘users’ again? If so, how was this treated?
o With regards to ‘cessation’, is it possible to identify if the OSI was used in these cases. If
not, then it is unclear how the current analysis is actually evaluating these initiatives. Should
be at least an important Limitation.
• The use of Cox models with time-varying covariates appears to me adequate to deal with
the issue of immortal time bias, but this needs to be reported more clearly. Please provide
further information about which covariates were used and how the time-dependent covariate
was created and incorporated, to address issues such as avoiding immortal time bias. In
particular, what information was used for the ‘continuation group’ for this time-dependent
covariate (if any). Please also provide evidence that relevant assumptions for these models
are adequate.
• Related to the above, I believe that the approach taken for the Life Tables is not correct for
the ‘continuation group’. These are treated (and labelled) as ‘initiation’, while in reality the
exposure has been experienced much before the date used as index. If it is a repeat
prescription, the risk is NOT due to the treatment. The time of exposure should be taken
from the moment the prescription episode started (possibly up to 5 years back). To be
consistent with this analysis, this initiation risks should also include those in the cessation
group (at the time of initiation).
• It is possible that there is an increase risk every time that a change in prescription is
meant to occur and is exacerbated if it doesn’t occur (cessation). In order to evaluate if the
increase in risk is specific to opioids, a similar analysis based on a ‘negative control’ would be
required to check if the risk of suicide/overdose is similar in both years (regardless of
opioids). As stated above, this seems to diverge from the original aim although it is the
main element of the Discussion section (vulnerability during important life changes).
• The exclusion of missing data could impact significantly on your findings as the missing
rate is different for each one of the cohorts. Imputation methods might be required to
account for this. Current approach of ‘complete case analysis’ is likely to provide bias
comparisons.

• The use of a composite outcome is valid only in certain scenarios. Please report separately
suicides and overdose episodes to verify similarities in risk magnitude and direction (this
could be included as part of a supplement).
