Summary
This is a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis of randomized trials of beta-blockers for treatment of
congestive heart failure with reduced systolic function. The primary objective was to determine whether age (either as a
continuous variable or in quartiles) or gender modify the well known beneficial effect of beta-blockers on mortality and
morbidity in this patient population. The authors had access to individual patient data from over 13,000 patients from 11 trials,
representing the vast majority of the pertinent literature. Inclusion was restricted to those with sinus rhythm at study entry,
based on this group’s earlier report of a neutral effect of beta-blockers in those with AF. The primary results are that, in these
trials, the benefits of beta-blockers on all-cause mortality were similar in men and women, and across of age strata. There was
slight attenuation of the relative risk reduction in those in the highest age quartile, but the benefit was nevertheless
statistically significant, and, due to a higher baseline risk in older patients, led to a similar absolute risk reduction and NNT.
Comparable results were obtained for the other endpoints studied. Importantly, rates of medication discontinuation were
similar across age strata.
Review
I have structured this review using the headings provided by the BMJ.
Overall, the manuscript is clearly and concisely written. The data sources are unimpeachable, and the methods are
appropriate.
Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the
published literature? If so, what does it add? If not, please cite relevant
references.
No previous published meta-analysis has addressed the benefits of beta-blockers in these subgroups with access to individual
patient data. Pooling data from these major trials has allowed construction of a very important data set.

Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to
clinicians, patients, teachers, or policymakers? Is a general
journal the right place for it?

Despite its methodological rigour, I am not entirely convinced that the impact of this analysis will be high enough to merit
publication in a general medical journal. The principal rationale the authors give for performing this analysis is that use of betablockers in older patients and women with heart failure is suboptimal. The evidence given in support of this idea, as it relates
to age, in the Introduction relates largely to underuse in octagenarians. Even this large pooled RCT dataset only includes a
small number of octagenarians, so the ‘skeptics’ may remain unconvinced. Relevant guidelines already support use of
evidence-based heart failure therapy independent of age or gender, so this analysis will not cause a need for these to be
updated.
Scientific reliablity
A. Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
Yes.
B. Overall design of study - adequate ?
Yes. No major concerns.
C. Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions
defined?

D. Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting
standard - Eg CONSORT for randomised trials ? Ethical ?
The methods are clearly described and justified in most cases. There are no ethical concerns.
Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
Yes, in general, the analysis plan and presentation of the data is adequate.
I recognize that opinions differ on this point, but I prefer to see p-values added to tables of baseline characteristics, especially
when the categorizing variable is not the randomized therapy (ie Tables 2 and 5, and Supplementary Tables A,B,C).
Table 4 is not relevant to this analysis as it does not address treatment effect, so I would remove it, or alter to be similar to
Supplementary Table D.
Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently
derived from/focused on the data? Message clear?
The discussion of the results is adequate, and the authors acknowledge the significant limitations. The conclusions are justified.
In short, my main concern with this paper is with respect to priority.
References – up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
They are up to date.
Abstract/summary/key messages/This week in BMJ - reflect
accurately what the paper says
Yes – no concerns.
Additional References
None.