This meta-analysis assessed the efficacy and safety of the SGLT-1/2 inhibitor sotagliflozin
in Type 1 diabetes (T1D) management based on results from six available randomized
controlled trials (RCTs). Most T1D patients treated solely with insulin do not achieve target
glycemic control. In May 2018, US FDA accepted the regulatory filing for sotagliflozin, a
proposed adjunctive therapy for T1D in combination with insulin. Therefore, this
meta-analysis effort is quite timing and important. The current study found Sotagliflozin
provides substantial glycemic and additional clinical benefits (e.g. reduced HbA1C, fasting
and 2h-postprandial plasma glucose, reduced hypoglycaemia rate, reduced body weight,
etc). Safety concerns reported in the study include increased risks of ketoacidosis, genital
tract infections and diarrhea. These association patterns are generally consistent with
results reported from each individual phase-3 trial. However, it is important to know that
the benefits of sotagliflozin is confirmed by the pooled estimates in this meta-analysis
which is more robust due to larger statistical power. The larger statistical power also
revealed significantly reduced hypoglycemia rate and increased DKA risk among treatment
groups; those associations however are not statistical significant in many individual trials.
Generally, the meta-analysis is well conducted and the manuscript is well written. The
methodology has little to fault. Limitations of this study may be the relatively short
durations of included trials and the modest number of included trials/participants. So it is
too early to determine the long-term efficacy and safety outcomes. Finally it will be an
editorial decision as to whether these data are of sufficient priority for BMJ. Some minor
suggestions include:
1.
The cut-off of heterogeneity, i.e. I2 = 50%, for further subgroups analysis needs
brief justification.
2.
There are a few inconsistent data points in the abstract and in the main text. For
example, data sources listed in the abstract is not consistent with those listed in the main
text (e.g. clinicaltrial.gov is not mentioned in abstract). In the abstract, 42 articles are
eligible for further assessment while Figure 1 shows 52 reports are identified after the
initial search.

3.

Results of sensitivity analysis are not shown/discussed.
