This is an interesting manuscript that identifies challenges that policymakers face when
making decisions about investing in programs to prevent NCDs. One of the strongest
aspects is its identification of steps that these policymakers can take to improve their
decision-making. Though this topic is important and the paper’s content is strong, in many
places the writing could be much clearer and better organized. Additionally, revisions in
the following major and minor areas would improve this manuscript:
MAJOR:
1. Page 4, Lines 10-21: It would be very helpful to provide some examples of Best Buys
that were identified by the WHO, either in the manuscript text or a table or figure.
2. Page 4, Lines 35-39: Did the WHO also have a definition for Wasted Buys, or is this the
authors’ term? Either way this should be defined similar to the way Best Buys was defined.
Additionally, examples of Wasted Buys should be provided.
3. Page 7, Lines 14-16: The assertion in this section that “NCD managers face challenges
on several fronts” seems odd, as to this point the manuscript has been focused on
challenges that NCD managers face. I would suggest that the authors restructure their
paper so that it begins by outlining challenges policymakers face when making decisions
about investments in programs to prevent NCD, and then offers suggestions to improve
these policymakers’ decision-making.
4. Page 7, Line 44 – Page 8, Line 13: The SEED framework is interesting and very
relevant to the topic of the paper, but this section could be improved. First, are the
authors suggesting that policymakers use the SEED framework? If so, then this should be
stated more clearly. Second, are there any other systematic approaches that have been
suggested to help NCD prevention managers, or is SEED the only one? If the former, then
the authors should describe these other frameworks or state whey they think SEED is the
strongest framework.
MINOR:
5. Page 3, Line 4: What burden are the authors referring to? The public health burden,
economic burden or something else? This would be helpful to specify here.
6. Page 3, Line 6: I would suggest broadening beyond “Universal Health Coverage,” as
identifying and pursuing the highest-value interventions for NCD prevention is an
important issue in a wide range of countries, not just those with universal health
insurance.
7. Page 4, Lines 7-8: “Greater understanding” is a vague term. I would suggest that in
this sentence the authors be more specific about what is most needed for stakeholders to
pursue Best Buys.
8. Page 4, Lines 22-29: It seems more logical for this background on NCDs to precede the
definition of Best Buys.
9. Page 5, Lines 24-29: This is a very long sentence that is difficult to follow. I suggest
breaking it up.

10. Page 7, Lines 14-42: In this passage I would suggest adding descriptive headings to
mark the informational and political challenges that policymakers face when investing in
programs to prevent NCDs.
11. Page 8, Line 13: It is odd how the manuscript just ends after the description of the
SEED framework. I would suggest adding at least a brief concluding paragraph that
summarizes the paper.
Jeffrey T. Kullgren, MD, MS, MPH
Research Scientist, VA Center for Clinical Management Research, VA Ann Arbor Healthcare
System
Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School