The paper is well-written, the basic analysis is sound. There is however, a gap between the
results and the far-reaching conclusions, I believe. Most of the problems could be resolved
by further MR analysis, which I detail below.

The main weakness of the analysis is inherent in the small variant explained of the IVs.
While the authors claim that their tested exposure change (1SD Ca levels) is compatible
with the impact of pharmaceutical interventions, the genetically altered effects are huge
extrapolations: the average Ca level difference between the lowest and highest Ca-level
GRS group (0 vs 12 Ca increasing alleles) is far lower (I expect not even 0.2 SD) than the
claimed 1SD. The estimation of the authors is based on an extrapolation, assuming fully
linear causal effect in all ranges of Ca levels.
Related to this, when they claim that given the MR results, Ca supplementation has no
effect on BMD and fracture, is again not the right conclusion: given the instrument
strength (0.77% explained variance in total), the only effect that MR can reliably estimate
(provided all assumptions hold) is tiny modifications of the serum calcium levels near the
population average. It is a leap of faith to draw conclusions from this to a subpopulation
with extremely low Ca levels, for whom the supplements would be recommended. There
are examples of U-shaped causal effects that around the population mean look
monotonous and increasing (e.g. alcohol consumption as exposure). Methods for
non-linear MR exist and could be testable here
[https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25192829,
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25166881] to see whether the causal average
treatment effects (LACE) are zero everywhere.
It would be fair to mention that such 2-sample MR method, where the outcome is binary,
combined with the use of a generally non-collapsible measure (such as the odds ratio) can
be problematic and can yield biased results
[https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/77408671.pdf].
Using CASR SNP alone as instrument yields significant negative causal effect. The authors
claim that it is an outlier and my be due to horizontal pleiotropy, could they identify any
mechanism that explains this?
When will the association summary statistics for fracture be released?
