Dear Editor/Authors,
Thank you for the opportunity to review the manuscript by Kirsty and colleagues that
evaluated the effectiveness, and cost effectiveness, of a cluster randomised controlled trial
(RCT) in primary care to increase uptake of Hepatitis C virus (HCV) testing and treatment.
The authors, that include internationally acclaimed HCV experts such as Prof. Hickman, must
be applauded for conducting a trial with important implications to inform clinical and public

health policy and practice, especially in the real-life setting. However, some important
analytic issues require further clarification before considering the findings reported.
- There is inconsistency in the statistical analysis the authors reported to have used. For
example, the authors mention that random-effects Poisson regression model was used to
estimate the primary effect measure (page# 7). However, the statistical analysis used to
estimate the same is mentioned as negative binomial regression in Table 3 (page# 19).
- There was inconsistency in the use of effect measure as well. For example, the authors said
the effect measure was rate ratio (page#7 and 19), and then again it said the effect
measure was risk ratio (in the abstract, and in page# 9). The risk and rate measures are
estimated using different statistical methods assuming different underlying distributions and
estimation link functions (e.g., log, logit, logistic etc.). Therefore, it would be helpful to
clarify and use the effect measure consistently across the manuscript.
- The manuscript also reported a risk difference without specifying the underlying statistical
distribution assumed including the variance structure for the estimation of confidence
interval. Also, why was the ‘crude’ risk difference was reported (page# 7), and not the
adjusted one?
- Please elaborate what the ‘minimised by” meant in “… and minimised by current rate of
HCV testing as…” (page# 6).
- The analysis was adjusted (page# 7) for the stratifying variables (Bristol vs non-Bristol,
and HCV testing rate), but not by practice list size (which was also mentioned to be one such
in page# 6).
- To that note, please present the detailed practice- and individual-level baseline
characteristics by intervention groups in Table 1 (as per the CONSORT extension for
Pragmatic Trials checklist). Were there any other major differences that need to be adjusted
for to (at least partially) ensure conditional exchangeability?
- It will be helpful to see the number of clusters/practices coming from each of the
stratifying variables (e.g., of 22 intervention practices, xx came from Bristol, yy had high
rate of HCV testing at baseline etc.) in the Flow of participants (Fig 1).
- The rate ratio (or risk ratio?) of 2.75 in the opioid/IDU group reported in the Results
section (page# 10) is referred to Table 3, but it doesn't appear to be in Table 3. It also does
not mention if the rate ratio is the adjusted or the crude estimate. The crude rate ratio would
be 2.68 (6.45/2.41) and 1.38 (18.51/13.44) in the opioid/IDU and non-opioid/IDU groups,
respectively. Not sure which result is the 2.75 referring to.
- In the same paragraph (page# 10), the risk difference was referred to Table 3, even
though the risk difference was not presented. It was not tested statistically either.
- On the previous note on risk difference, the authors mentioned that while the risk (or rate)
ratio was significantly different, the risk difference was not. Since we know the choice of
effect measure may have implication when the results are reported (as we can see in this
example as well), the question here is whether choice of effect measure (ratio vs difference)
was pre-specified. It would also be helpful to elaborate of the implications of these two effect
measures (especially because one effect measure is significant while the other is not(?).
- It would also be helpful if further explanation is added as to how the “…regression model
accommodated variation in the outcome measure between GP practices and also allowed for
the shorter follow-up period at two practices.” (page# 7).

- If the follow-up time was available, would it not be more accurate to use the (log of)
person-time (instead of log of number of person at-risk) as the offset term in the regression
model?
- Please also mention the software used for the statistical analysis along with any link
function (e.g., log or logistic) for further clarification.
- I leave the review of the economic evaluation to the relevant expert(s).
I hope you find the feedback helpful. Thank you once again.
Sincerely,
Nazrul Islam, MBBS, MSc, MPH, PhD