Firstly, to be clear, I have no overt conflicts of interest in reviewing this paper, I am not
personally familiar with any of the authors, nor institutions. I do not work in the UK, and the
NHS system is unfamiliar to me. However, I do appreciate the clever acronym.
Summary: This is a balanced cluster randomized implementation study to evaluate the
impact of a package of practice-level enhancements as it relates to HCV screening in
algorithmically identified patients at high-risk for HCV. It also includes a cost-effectiveness
assessment.
#1 Title: I ask that it might be changed to specify that it includes the robust
cost-effectiveness assessment. (CHEERS checklist item #1)
Abstract: Overall excellent summary of what might be split into two separate papers. The
results section could be condensed.
#2 Could eliminate several sentences p3 44-45, 52-55 (no longer relevant economic
analysis.)

#3 p3 lines 44-45: I recommend specifying that the positive screening yield was not
significant (CI overlapping 1).
Introduction: Overall good. The last paragraph adequately highlights the need to get highly
generalizable information on the utility of broad screening efforts in general practice.
Specific comments:
#4 p5 lines 21-22 - the reference cited (10 - also from HepCATT) says only 28/2% of +HCV
results were referred from primary care, not "over 30%." and rough calculations of overall
tests done show a 26.5% testing proportion from GPs (468,481/1,766,515).
Methods: I appreciate the smart cluster randomization strategy.
#5 Because of the goal of generalizability, I'd like to know about the practices that didn't
sign on to the study. Here I assume there are publically available NHS data on the practices
that could be compared to those participating, forgive me if this is inaccurate.
#6 As this is a screening intervention, I would like to know how much the "Audit+" software
integrates into the electronic medical records used at these sites. Does it require extra steps,
or pops up in the midst of the patient visit? Some of the logistical steps and nuances of the
environment are quite nice to know, the previously published research protocol doesn't
specify context either.
#7 Please comment on if the screening of the patient lists resulted in changes in the
statistical plan (were the removed patients still in the denominator of high risk patients who
should be screened)? Because of the cost of doing this step, it would be appreciated to
assessing its impact in a separate analysis, though perhaps this is too much to ask for this
already extensive assessment. (see p11 lines 15-24)
p8 34-35 - thank you for noting the sourcing of the cost estimates
Results
#8 p9 line 28 - should be "Table S8a" not "Table S8"
#9 p10 line 13 - did table S7 become S14? I see no S7, but S14 looks to be the right table.
#10 p10 line 34 - I assume PCT is a typo for PCR, otherwise should identify what this
acronym means.
#11 p10 line 55 - ok, maybe my own OCD, but does their need to be a supplementary table
S8 and S8a and S8b when they aren't subsets of each other?
#12 p11 lines 15-24 - this references an activity not specified in the methods section
(though detailed in the previously published protocol), I recommend mentioning this at least
briefly in the methods section.
#13 p11 lines 53 - the claim of reduced utility for those who continue to inject drugs is
focused on case finding and direct costs. The indirect cost and benefit to the community of
decreased transmissibility (thus fewer new community infections) is worth considering. I
reviewed the references (12 and 43) and was unable to identify the 16% utility decrease.
The initial paper (43) evaluating this assumed that the knowledge of the diagnosis decreased
QoL instead of the inverse correlation, thus the utility of a proactive approach to screening
such as in here, could increase the QALYs gained per positive test.
Discussion
#14 p13 line 54-56 Several other screening studies have challenged the previous data and
continued assumption that about 75% of folks with +ab have +rna. The other point worth
mentioning in the investigation of the unexpected 40% +RNA rate is that the algorithm
highlighted folks with *prior tests* (I suspect many may have been negative previously),
prior positive tests may have already been referred and thus not retested perhaps. The
population of interest here is also those folks who are connected with primary care, which
may be a lower risk population than the population in general.

Examples: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5527269/
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26033458
#15 p14 lines 52-57 - I would recommend avoiding the speculative claim about age based
screening.
#16 p15 line 12 - contingency management for whom? The providers to order the tests or
the patients to accept the test?
Overall - An impressively and robust assessment of the implementation of screening. This is
something that should be commended in an era when many changes and impositions to
primary care are unquestioned. I certainly recommend publication with revisions, I defer to
the editors as to the benefit of addressing points #5-#7 as they may require more than
minor revisions.