I thank the authors for addressing my comments in detail. I am pleased that the multiple imputation
approach has now been done and shown to not change the conclusions. It would be even better to have
this as the main analysis, but it is at least including in the supplementary material. Similarly, the
authors show in their response that a Cox modelling approach produces similar results to the Poisson
approach. Again, it is a shame that these results do not become the main analyses. Following this, I
have a major comment
1) In their response, the IRR estimates after multiple imputation are slightly closer to 1 than when using
the missing indicator method. Also, the IRR estimates closer to 1 when using the Cox model than when
using the Poisson model (e.g. gestational diabetes 1.19 Cox compared to 1.25 Poisson). This raises the
big question about whether the estimated IRR values would be even closer to 1 had BOTH Cox and
multiple imputation been used together, as we recommended. This seems to be a major issue
remaining. Even if the statistical significance remains in favour of an association, if the estimates move
even closer to 1, then we have more concern that any residual confounding would be able remove the
association altogether.
A related issue is that the associations also come down slightly when adjusting for non-linear effects of
continuous confounders. See Table S11, where the effect of gestational diabetes is now 1.20 compared
to 1.25 before. Again, we see a picture of more in-depth analyses leading to more attenuated effect
sizes between diabetes and CVD risk.
2) Another major comment: Those that died before CVD were censored – but this then makes absolute
risks and rates inflated to an artificial population that can never die (and so must at some point develop
CVD). The authors respond to this point by saying that the IRR from a fine and Gray model (which

accounts for competing risks) is similar to their result. But, this does not address the issue that the
absolute risk estimates produced will be too high, because people who died cannot actually developed
CVD ever, but the authors rather censor such individuals, which assume CVD can still occur after the
censoring point. This is an important issue: the absolute risks must surely be based on the competing
risks analysis approach.Unless the number of deaths is so few that is barely has an impact.
Minor comments
1) The abstract concludes with a causal statement: “Prevention, screening and treatment of diabetes in
women of childbearing age may help reduce CVD risk in the next generation”. It might be more explicit
to say “Assuming diabetes in women of childbearing age is causal for increased CVD risk in their
offspring, prevention, screening and treatment of diabetes in such women may help reduce CVD risk in
the next generation”.
2) The Cox model results (shown in the response) are not even included in a supplementary material in
the paper; I think this should be done for completeness (with multiple imputation), and a comment
made in the paper. See major comment above.
3) The plot examining a constant IRR (hazard ratio) in the response to reviewers should be included in
the supplementary material, and in the main text should be used as a justification of why proportional
hazards was assumed over time. That being said, the lines do appear to be converging slightly – did the
authors actually quantify statistically if there is evidence of an interaction between the IRR and time?
4) In their response the authors note that: “We agree with the Reviewer that gestational age at delivery,
pre-eclampsia, and small for gestational age are important covariates. Previous studies have reported
that maternal diabetes is associated with increased risk of preterm birth, pre-eclampsia, and
macrosomia.23,25,26 Therefore, these factors could be consequences of maternal diabetes and may lie
on the pathway from maternal diabetes during pregnancy and early-onset CVD in offspring. As expected,
additional adjustment for maternal pre-eclampsia, preterm birth, and small for gestational age yielded
slightly decreased associations compared to the main analysis (Table R4.9-2). Therefore, we did not
adjust for these factors in the main analysis, preferring to consider them as potential mediators.”
- this is an interesting discussion. Should this rather be considered in the results? Currently only
addressed in the response to reviewers.
4) need to explain in the abstract where the absolute risks come from (i.e. averaged across all
individuals and adjustment factors? the word standardized is hard to interpret, and often is used to refer
to dividing by standard deviations )
With best wishes, Richard Riley
