GENERAL COMMENTS
This is an important contribution to the field, as it is the first work to apply
decomposition methods to the GBD data, which includes an extensive list of causes
of death and disability to a large number of countries. The manuscript is very
well-written; the authors clearly stated the main contribution of mortality to the
HALE, highlighting the main causes of death in the world and in the world regions.
My main suggestion concerns the results of the decomposition by cause related to
the disability effect, although its contribution to the HALE differences was much
smaller than mortality, I consider important also to emphasize the main contributors
to disability in the paper, as this information is crucial to policymakers to promote
healthy ageing.
I have other minor comments that are detailed below.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
ABSTRACT
Design: I would replace the reference to the authors of the decomposition
method (Nusselder & Looman) by decomposition by kind of effect and cause or
include both.
Results

In the sentence: “Around 1/3 of countries with lower baseline HALE0…”,
what do you mean by lower? Lower than what?
The sentence: “…61.8% of Level 3 causes had an absolute mortality effect
which was at least five times as high as absolute disability effect.” is confusing.
What do you mean by Level 3 causes?
Conclusions
I suggest including SDG target 3.3, as some readers may not be familiar
with the Sustainable Development Goals.
INTRODUCTION
Second paragraph: the authors only mention the advantages of using the
HALE x DALY. Disadvantages should also be clearly stated. The same applies for the
use of GBD data. For instance, the use of disability weights can also be seen as a
disadvantage, as they are subjective, based on population opinion of severity. This
can be added in the discussion (see comment below).
Third paragraph: it is not clear what the authors meant in the
sentence“…decomposition of temporal HALE … mechanism of population health
change”.
METHODS
Data
Are the GBD 1990 and 2013 data comparable in terms of the definition of
causes of death and disability to allow the decomposition of differences over time as
done by the authors?
ANALYSES
I think there are some repetitions in the sentence “Combining YLDs… by age
and cause”. I suggest re-writing it as “Combining YLDs per person and proportion of
YLDs by age and cause, we obtained the proportion disabled and the proportion of
non-disabled by age and cause”.
Still on the sentence above and on the description of the method in the
Appendix: it is not clear to me how the authors combined the YLDs per person and
the proportion of YLDs by age and cause to obtain the proportion disabled and
non-disabled. This is step is crucial for the use of decomposition methods with the
GDB data. In the Appendix (Page 2 - Calculation of HALE using Sullivan’s method),
how the authors can obtain the proportion of disabled (ndx) from the YLDs?
RESULTS
Changes in Hale0
On page 6, I suggest replacing “suggesting a medium and negative
relationship…” by “suggesting a moderate and inverse relationship…”
The authors mention the results for the Gini coefficient of HALE0, but this is
not previously mentioned in the Methods section. How it was calculated?
The contribution of causes to changes in Hale0
Here I suggest splitting Figures 3 and 4 into the rank of the main
contributors (causes) of death and disability, i.e. focus should not be on the total
effect of causes, but separately on the disability and mortality effects.
Please convert the Hale0 due to diabetes to years instead of months in “…
diabetes reduced global HALE0 by 1.5 months…”, to be consistent with the rest of
the text.

DISCUSSION

Strengths and limitations
The authors should clearly state the limitations regarding the Sullivan
method, the decomposition methods, and at least the main limitations of the GBD
study.
Comparison with other studies
I suggest adding an example with the change in HALE0 (in years) in the
Results section to illustrate what the authors meant here: “However, for causes that
which mainly influence health through disability, e.g., chronic pain and arthritis,
disability effect is usually more important than mortality effect.”
Implications of findings
In the last paragraph of this subsection, the authors mention “This study
extends its application by using GBD data”, since the decomposition methods are
often used with cross-sectional data. Aren’t the GBD data also mainly coming from
cross-sectional studies?
FIGURE 2
This figure is confusing. First, the colour used to identify the group of (i)
communicable, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional diseases is very similar to the
colour used for the group of (ii) non-communicable diseases. Also, maybe the
authors should add the country names in the “x” axis of the plot?
