This is a large elegant paper examining the initial effects of the introduction of Minimum
Unit Pricing in Scotland in 2018. It is certainly worthy of publication.
Compared with England, over the same period, Scotland demonstrates a small but
significant fall in consumption most notably in heavier consuming households and a small
increase in expenditure. Those are the changes that advocates of Minimum Unit Pricing
hope for: a targeted non regressive tax.
I particularly like the inclusion of a North of England control group. One wonders, in fact, if
the rest of England is needed at all. It would be a much 'neater' study if it just compared
those two areas.
The study is notably honest in the discussion of its limitations.
My main concerns with the paper are about the data set used, the Kantar Worldpanel
(KWP) household survey and how representative it is of the heavier drinkers in the
community, the target group for intervention.
As I read the paper, I thought of the expression “Carry-oot”, referring to the old practice
of Scots folk, predominantly men, starting a drinking session in the pub then acquiring a
further supply of alcohol either from the pub where they are drinking or from the local off
licence to continue the session at home, leading to high session intake. Such people are
more likely to be solitary: single, divorced or bereaved; the people most at risk of
developing alcohol problems.
I cannot envisage such people being readily recruitable onto and retainable by the KWP
which requires a sustained and meticulous recording of all purchases over a period of
time. It would be helpful if there was more detail about the demographic breakdown of the
households. How many single person households, how stably housed, and what gender
are the occupants? I know the study notes that they are a stratified sample recruited to
reflect the general populations in which they dwell. But the quality control criteria would
exclude many. It is difficult to believe that the participating households are other than a

somewhat elite group. And I do wonder how many men undertake the scanning of the
groceries.
Of course I acknowledge that was not the focus of this study but unless an attempt is
made in further studies to seek out, by purposive sampling if needs be, those at greater
risk of developing alcohol problems the full impact of MUP, or lack of it, will remain
elusive.
There is also the problem of using weekly purchases of alcohol as the outcome measure. I
remember some very old data from Peter Nathan in the USA suggesting that the
determinants of purchasing of alcohol and the determinants of consumption of alcohol
were not the same. Again, as well as weekly consumption, dose consumed per drinking
session is important. Because on licence sales are not included in the study, much of the
drinking of solitary people and on- and off- licence consumption in a single session cannot
be captured.
It is entirely appropriate to cite Tim Stockwell's Saskatchewan and British Columbian
studies on health benefits in the discussion. But Canadian drinking culture is very different
from Scottish.
Scotland did not have a football team participating in the 2018 World Cup!
