The authors have addressed many of my points, but there remain some matters of concern.
1. Table 1 summarises the cities in the analysis, giving mean daily PM10 and mortality. An important
but unaddressed question is to what extent the mean PM10 scores in the different cities explain
variation in mean mortality. I recognise that this is different from the main focus of the paper, the
association between short-term changes in PM10 and mortality, but it is nevertheless fundamental to
the research question - are mortality and PM10 linked?
The mean daily deaths by city in Table 1 are unhelpful as they reflect population size more than
anything else. I would like to see a plot of age-sex-standardised mortality vs mean PM10 by city, i.e.
making use of the information in Table SM2.
2. The fixed effects model (1) is described in great detail, whereas the random effects model (foot of
page 9) is poorly described. Does it contain just the PM10 term in equation (1) omitting the other
terms, or are the other terms included but applied to all cities? This needs to be made clear. Also it's
not clear whether the fixed or random effects coefficients are being used in later analyses.
3. There is no need to apply a chi-square test to Figure 2, as the I2 value summarises heterogeneity.
Also using p = 0 or p = 0.000 is wrong, it should be p < 0.001 - this applies throughout.
4. The discussion of the different lags in Figures 2 and SM1 to SM6 does not state whether using lagged
PM10 in addition to concurrent PM10 added significantly. I'm not convinced that Figures SM1 to SM7
add usefully to the paper, as they are hard to compare with each other. A table summarising the results
for each lag or combination of lags should be provided.
5. Figures 3 and 4 rank the cities in the same order, but differently from Figure 2. Better to use the
Figure 2 order for Figures 3 and 4 as well. The I2 value for Figure 3 is virtually the same as for Figure 2
(59%), whereas that for Figure 4 is appreciably smaller (38%). This is worth commenting on, as it
shows that the cities are more homogeneous for non-CRD than for CRD mortality.
6. Putting the various summary regression coefficients on pages 7-9 into a table rather than the text
would make them easier to see and compare. The comparisons for sex and age group give the separate
coefficients with CIs, but for comparison purposes the difference (i.e. the interaction with PM10) and its
CI should be provided - to say that the separate CIs overlap is not sufficient. Also, to say that the PM10
effect was (just) significant for those over 60 and not for those under 60 does not make the age groups
significantly different - again the interaction term should be fitted with its CI. (The authors' response
letter says that this age interaction is significant at p < 0.1, i.e. not significant).
7. Using subgroups by sex and age group strikes me as both inefficient and potentially biased. If say the
sexes are analysed separately then all the coefficients in equation (1) will differ by sex, and those that
are correlated with PM10 (say weather conditions) will impact on the PM10 coefficient. Far better to
include the sex and age terms in equation (1), which will also allow their interaction to be tested. This
relates to point 2 above.
8. The paper still focuses unnecessarily on statistical significance. On page 9 lines 48-50 the phrase "...
and statistically significant at the 5-percent level" is both redundant and wrong - it is considerably more
significant than that.
9. The Notes with Figures SM9 and SM10 refer to "total mortality for cardiorespiratory and noncardiorespiratory deaths separately" which look incorrect.
10. The comments above also apply to the city analyses for mean PM10, North vs South, GDP and %
construction workers. The results need to be to presented as coefficients with confidence intervals, and
when comparing groups (e.g. Figure SM 12) the interactions with CI should also be given. Several of the
figures demonstrate the existence of one or more high outliers, which will bias the regression
coefficient. Urumqi in Figure 1 is also a notable Western outlier that needs to be acknowledged.
11. To say that air pollution effects were smaller in more polluted cities (Figure SM11) is not correct the p value of 0.07 is not significant. It should be made clear here that the "air pollution effect" is the
city PM10 regression coefficient. Again I don't know if this is the fixed or random city effect.
12. Table 3 needs some attention. The Constant terms are of no interest and should be omitted. Why
are there only 18 cities for model 2 but 38 for all the others? Confidence intervals should be given for

each coefficient, not p values. The numbers should be given to 2 or 3 significant digits, not 3 decimal
places. The North vs South analysis should be given as the main effect (say North) and the difference
between North and South. Is there any reason why sex and age are not included in the table?
Presenting the results of six distinct models is excessive - better to focus on model (6) including mean
PM10, North, South vs North, GDP, % construction, and perhaps sex and age group as well.
13. The Discussion repeats several erroneous statements from the Results. There is not a significant
age effect (at least it has not been shown), there is no sex effect (it is not significant), the air pollution
effects were not smaller in more polluted cities (p = 0.07), also they were not more homogenous in
northern cities than in southern cities (again the interaction is not shown to be significant), and the
association with GDP was far from significant. There are also statements about significance at the 5%
level that should be omitted. The only convincing association in Table 3 is that for the percentage of
construction workers.