This well written paper addresses an interesting question: the safety profile of Tramadol
among surgical patients. Strengths of the paper include a fairly large, national based
sample and a fairy careful empirical analysis. In order to further assess the suitability of
the paper, I think the following suggestions should be addressed:
1). Much of the paper is framed in the setting of Tramadol being thought to be safer than
other opioids, but the only outcome examined here is persistent postoperative opioid use.
As the authors note, safety encompasses many other elements (respiratory depression,
etc), all of which could inform policy (particular the authors' suggestion that tramadol be
reclassified to a different schedule) and clinical decision making. As such, these outcomes
should be examined as well.
2). Regarding sample construction I don't quite understand the sentence on p.8 "Finally,
we required 90 days of follow-up...to ensure patients survived surgery." Yes, but it seems
your study more generally requires 180 days of follow-up to measure your outcomes so
why is this sentence necessary?
3). Despite the large number of patients overall (>200k), a fairly small number received
tramadol (~12k). This raises two issues: first, it would be helpful to have more motivation
for the policy/clinical relevance of this study as it seems to involve a fairly small minority of
surgical patients. Figure 1 suggests the the use of tramadol is increasing, but is there
anything else--For example, are guidelines being issued that favor the use of tramadol
over other alternatives? The second question concerns statistical power (particularly as
this is a null funding); in some cases, the confidence intervals shown in table 4 are fairly
wide (particularly for the tramadol+short acting group), so it would be helpful to analyze
whether the null finding is a genuine null or a lack of precision.

4). Regarding the title, "acute pain" can be the result of other things besides surgery (e.g.,
trauma etc), so I would modify the title to reflect that this is a study about the use of
Tramadol in surgical patients.