Overall
This paper presents a nice summary of CRC mortality trends in Europe over the past 40 years, however,
the paper examines mortality in isolation from other key factors such as CRC screening rates, incidence
trends, survival and stage specific survival trends, and demographic trends that would provide context to
the results. Although the authors attempt to explain the results in the discussion using literature on
factors known to affect CRC mortality, much of the information presented is speculative and may or may
not apply to all of the countries included in the analysis. The paper could be strengthened by:
1. Clearly explaining how the paper adds to/improves on information on European trends in CRC
mortality presented by Bosetti C, et al (Int J Cancer 2010;129:180-91);
2. Refocusing the discussion to emphasize key factors that may explain the divergence in mortality
trends between countries with large declines in CRC mortality and those with large increases;
3. Suggest action steps that could be taken by various stakeholders to improve CRC mortality,
particularly in areas where mortality is increasing.
Introduction
1. The purpose of the paper is “to better understand the possible reasons underlying the heterogeneity in
CRC mortality across European countries”, but analysis of CRC mortality data alone would not accomplish
this goal. Consider re-stating the purpose to more closely align with what can actually be accomplished
with the data that is being analyzed.
2. Given that a previous paper examined trends in CRC mortality in Europe, as referenced, explain how
this paper differs (additional countries) and potentially adds to the findings from that paper.
Methods
1. Consider adding a brief description of the WHO mortality database and/or refer readers to a source for
more information on how this data is collected and quality assurance is conducted.
2. There are many references to Western, Northern, Eastern, Southern and Central Europe, and to the
EU throughout the paper. For clarity, consider indicating in the table or in the methods which countries
belong to which category.
3. Consider adding a rationale for the age-categories that were chosen for the analysis.
4. Given that less than 1% of cases were classified as anal/anal canal cancers, it is not clear what the
rationale is for keeping them in the analysis. Did this proportion vary substantially by country?
5. It is not entirely clear why the regression was fitted for Slovakia and Macedonia given that per
supplementary table 1 data was available for most of the years for which the regression was fitted.
6. What proportion of cases were less than 50 years of age? This population is unlikely to be directly
impacted by changes to accessibility to screening.
Results
1. Consider reformatting the tables to group countries by region (Eastern, Western, etc.), then rank by
percent change in mortality within region to make it easier to follow the results/discussion.
2. There is mention of countries with “comparable socio-economic” characteristics; either include this as
a factor in the analysis or consider dropping it.
Discussion
1. Consider adding a discussion of how this paper updates/adds to the information presented by Bosetti
et al.
2. It is difficult to determine from the discussion as written what may have led to declines in CRC
mortality in some countries and increases in others. Did most of the countries with declines have
organized screening programs and/or access to CRC screening as well as improvements in lifestyle
factors, greater improvements in treatment, etc.? Did countries with increases in CRC mortality have no
access to screening in addition to changes in lifestyle factors? The discussion may be easier to follow and
draw conclusions from if organized by country/region rather than by contributing factor.
3. The suggestion that men in particular should receive endoscopic screening only holds if there is no
differential mortality benefit between FOBT and endoscopy for women. If there is a differential benefit for
women as well, then it seems more logical to suggest endoscopy for both sexes.
4. Limitations should include a discussion any potential under-reporting by participating countries, if
known.
5. Consider adding information on top causes of death by region/country. Where does CRC or cancer in

general rank as a cause of death? Are there countries where CRC mortality is increasing, but is not
currently a leading cause of death?
6. Consider adding some guidance to the audience on what they can do to improve CRC outcomes.