The article by Nikkel and colleagues considers the association between LOS and mortality among patients
with hip fracture in a New York, statewide population. The article is motivated by recent work from
Sweden, which suggests that longer stays are associated with lower mortality. Using a statewide discharge
data set, Nikkel et al. regress mortality on LOS categories and find that longer stays are associated with
higher mortality, the opposite of the Swedish data. Overall, the analysis is sound and the paper is well
written and easy to follow.
I have the following suggestions:
Major Issues
The authors argue that differences between health care systems between the US and Sweden could
account for the difference in effect of LOS on mortality. But the specific differences are not spelled out.
What differences could cause longer LOS to lower mortality in Sweden but increase mortality in the US? For
example, in the US there is pressure for hospitals to transfer patients to rehab hospitals and SNFs. If US
hospitals respond to these incentives then they would have a lower LOS on average, and a lower mortality
since the transferring institutions would receive “credit” for the mortality. If Swedish hospitals do not have
the same pressure as a result of a publicly financed system, then could this explain the difference between
the countries? Are rehab and SNFs used in Sweden the way they are in the US? If this is the case, then to
really have comparable results you would need to link inpatient admissions to their step down admissions.
It would also imply that the LOSes reported in the two analysis (Sweden and New York) are really different
measures. Are there other explanations for the differences in your results?
For much of the paper the authors are careful about not inferring causality between LOS and mortality. But
there are places where this is implied. For example, page 10, line 1, “LOS did not influence mortality”;
page 11, line 1, “altering LOS influence mortality rates”; line 23 “influences on mortality”. I would
recommend that you maintain the language of “association” rather than “influence” or other words that
suggest that LOS is causing the mortality effect. Unless you can explain how LOS would “cause” mortality
rates, I think a more likely explanation for your finding is that there is some other (unobserved or
unmeasured) variable that is associated with both LOS and mortality that is the driving factor here.
The last sentence of the paper makes a leap from New York data to the US population. I would recommend
that you not try to generalize, and that you limit your inferences to New York since it is likely that other
states and the average for the US look different from New York.
Minor Issues
Abstract, Objective. Consider saying “determine whether…” rather than “determine if…”.
Page 10, line 10. Consider revising the phrase “…and this trend was dominant in the overall cohort…” I
cannot tell what you mean.
