First, let me thank the BMJ manuscript comitee for the extensive review on this paper, which
has been very interesting to read due to the high standard and diverse comments.
Secondly, thanks to the authors for taking on the task of detailed answers to the many
questions and suggestions raised.
My comments to this revision are based upon the specific answers to my review, but also
aligned with the authors responses to the other reviewers. As stated by reviewer 1, this
review is extensive risking to exclude important perioperative factors.
I am happy to see that the fluid-strategy was included and the finding of a beneficial effect
of goal directed therapy is in-line with specific literature on the subject, but this is now
updated.
My main concern regarding this paper is still the omission of several intraoperative risk
factors, despite the title of the paper being “perioperative interventions”. The authors state
that this is due to their definition of an intervention being included if longitudinal, and not
only “single-shot”. I do not understand the reason for this definition as several “single-shot”
interventions have an effect throughout the surgical period and sometimes into the
post-anaesthesia care unit.

Again, coming back to neuromuscular blockade, which often is repeated by the hour (not a
single shot), and where reversal also has to be repeated is a TOF-ratio of >0.9 is not
achieved (true for both suggamadex and neostigmine in a subset of patients. Studies on
light vs. deep neuromuscular blockade exists and could have been included.
Furthermore, the importance of neuromuscular monitoring to detect residual blockade is also
excluded for the same reason, and I could add other continuous intraoperative factors such
as hypothermia prevention by active warming, surgical technique, airway suctioning at the
end of surgery etc. (see the fine (non-systematic) review by Hedenstierna Acta Anaesthesiol
Scand. 2012 Jul;56(6):675-85.). The choice of airway management can also (in my opinion)
not be considered a single shot as this is something that us used throughout the procedure
How can the authors argue that this SR will form the basis for a care-bundle definition (reply
to the editor comments), and not include all potential factors? My concern is that readers will
think that this paper has assessed all relevant factors for PPC, which is not the case.
