Barry and colleagues present a systematic review assessing the accuracy of currently used screening tests for type 2 diabetes,
and the efficacy of preventive interventions in individuals considered at increased risk of type 2 diabetes. The prevalence of
type 2 diabetes is rising globally, and with its impact on population health and health systems financing, prevention strategies
are a public health priority. The systematic review is, therefore, timely and important. The methods used for the systematic
review and the two meta-analyses are appropriate. Although the manuscript is clearly written, I think that it would benefit
from further clarifications in certain sections. Comments for the authors to consider are provided below.
- It is not completely clear whether the authors originally aimed to conduct an additional meta-analysis focusing on lifestyle
interventions exclusively in women with a history of gestational diabetes, or if these studies were meant to be included in the
meta-analysis currently presented that assessed the efficacy of preventive interventions. A better contextualisation in the

introduction referring to the latest evidence on GDM and a clearer description in the methods section of this part of the
systematic review would strengthen the manuscript.
- Studies for the meta-analysis assessing the efficacy of lifestyle interventions have been divided in two sub-group based on
follow-up length (1-2 yrs/3-6yrs). Could the authors explain why they did not stratify studies in shorter time periods (i.e. every
one of two years), like previous studies (see Balk et al, 2015)? Furthermore, the meta-analysis examining risk reduction at
follow-up post intervention includes studies which differ quite substantially in their follow-up period. Authors conclude ‘lifestyle
interventions were associated with a mean 36% relative risk reduction in incidence of type 2 diabetes over 1-6 years,
attenuating to 20% with follow-up of 2-20 years’. The latest estimate would be hard to interpret strategically considering the
18 years range. Please explain.
- Comparison between screening tests accuracy is extremely interesting. Considering the low sensitivity of both HbA1c and
fasting glucose tests, the authors highlight the danger of inaccurately classifying individuals at high risk of type 2 diabetes,
especially for those who tested falsely positive. While upstream interventions aimed at the entire population would be ideal,
they are not always feasible. Sometimes the screen-and-treat approach can better align with the financial capacity of the
health system. I suggest the authors expand the discussion on the ‘pre-diabetes’ label, encouraging, in the future, the usage of
alternative terms such as ‘non-diabetic hyperglycaemia’, which are less likely to imply that a type 2 diabetes diagnosis is
inevitable.
Minor comments:
- Page 10. I might be wrong but it seems like the figure referring to the meta-analysis evaluating the impact of the metformin
is figure eight (and not seven).
- Page 18. The box reporting that ‘5 conference abstract excluded’ in the flow diagram seems better placed in the upper
selection. Please check. I also suggest flipping the two arms of the flow diagram, positioning the information regarding the test
accuracy meta-analysis on the left as it comes first in the manuscript.
- Page 22. Figure 9 is not straightforward to understand. I suggest using footnotes to better explain it.
