Statistical review BMJ-2019-050974
The manuscript reports a pooled analysis of data from 3 cohort studies reporting on the
association between egg consumption and cardiovascular disease, and also contains a
meta-analysis of cohort studies updated with the new data. The statistical methods and
reporting in the manuscript are generally strong. The authors have access to three
particularly good data sets, with large sample sizes, standardised repeated assessments of
dietary intake, good covariate data allowing adjustment for major predictors of CVD events,
and long follow-up with high numbers of events to allow precise estimates of risk. However,
there are two main issues with the prospective studies and several issues with the additional
meta-analysis which the authors need to pay attention to.
1) The report includes a ‘replacement’ analysis, that hypothesises as to how switching egg
consumption to other food types would affect CVD. This is a hypothetical modelling
exercise, contrasting coefficients for egg consumption with each other food group in turn.
The data set does not contain any empirical data that looks at individuals who have switched
consumption between each of the two food types – this is simply a game of contrasting

model coefficients and forecasting what the switch would create. It is based on an unstated
set of assumptions concerning the independence of the different foods. Whilst I appreciate
that such analyses are in vogue in nutritional research, the strength of evidence which can
be attributed to these results is exceptionally poor, and their inclusion is to the detriment of
the excellent epidemiology in the rest of the manuscript. In particular including these
estimates in the abstract and in the first paragraph of the discussion is poor scientific
reporting as it is likely to mislead readers as to the credibility of these findings. The
manuscript would be greatly strengthened by total removal of the pretence of evidence that
this ‘replacement’ analysis depicts. Particularly when you notice that those who consume
eggs are the same as those who consume more red meat so the idea of people ‘switching’ is
not evidence based, and unlikely to be true. The rest of the manuscript is really strong, this
part is at high risk of being misleading and false.
2) A strength of the datasets which are analysed is that they contain repeated dietary
assessments. The authors discuss including ‘cumulative exposure up until each follow-up
period’ but it is not really clear to me what this means. What is a follow-up period? There
is no explanation whether the covariate values are changing over time, and if so how they
are being incorporated into the regression models. Are time-varying models being used?
That would seem appropriate. It would also seem appropriate to include updated covariates
for the other predictors of risk at the same time. Can the authors please improve their
explanation of the model, and if time varying covariate models are not being used, please
can they investigate their usage.
3) As there are three data sets in the analysis, I would expect all analyses to be stratified by
study, and I think that the authors have done this. However, the text indicates that they are
stratified by study(sex) – please can you be precise what has been done here (I suspect that
the authors are using short hand to indicate that stratifying by study also stratifies by sex).
4) The results appear to show overall that those with high egg consumption are more likely
to have CVD events but that after adjustment for other differences between the egg
consumption groups, the direction of the association is reversed (note the manuscript states
‘attenuated’ – to me this indicates reduction of magnitude, not reversal of direction – the
authors may want to check their wording). In all analyses, the confidence that the increase
(or decrease) in effect exists is not high, but there is reasonable confidence that an
important increase in risk is very unlikely. The authors could more clearly emphasis this
difference between unadjusted and adjusted findings, and discuss the increases and
decreases in risk which are compatible with the findings.
5) Please note that PRISMA is not a method, but a reporting guideline. It states the details
of what needs to be included in a systematic review report, not how to do the systematic
review.
6) The search strategy and inclusion criteria for the systematic review are rather weak.
Inclusion of studies ad hoc is explicitly non-systematic – if there are important studies that
the search strategy missed, it needs to be improved, rerun and new assessments made. If
there are new studies then the strategy needs to be rerun. Exclusion of non-English
language studies (Google translate greatly facilitates their assessment and inclusion) is an
unnecessary restriction. The database selection is limited – why has EMBASE not been
searched? Also, was a professional search specialist used to create the search? It seems a
very brief strategy, and input from a professional may have helped ensure that an
appropriately sensitive strategy is used.
7) It is good to see the assessment of the quality of the non-randomised studies being
undertaken rigorously including detailed assessment of the adjustments made in each
analysis. Could more be reported on these issues in the manuscript? Currently there is no
mention of the findings of these assessments in the results section of the manuscript – it is
important to inform the reader of the certainty which can be attributed to the conclusions of

these studies, and any limitations which were found which need to be considered. The data
for this are all reported in the supplementary materials, but no summary is reported.
8) There are a number of instances where the wording or presentation can be improved:
a. Results, Page 14 paragraph 2. The link between the covariates and the results in Table 1
are not as clear as reported in the text. Table 1 does not contain data for all participants in
the study – please can the missing columns be inserted? They are important to be able to
make sense of the numbers in the study.
b. Results, Page 14 paragraph 3 – this is where the word ‘attenuated’ is used, which may be
replaced with ‘reversed’. It is not always clear in this paragraph whether the quoted risks
are unadjusted or adjusted.
c. Results, Page 16 paragraph 4 – this is where I would expect to read some summary of the
risk of bias in the included studies.
d. Results, Page 17 paragraph 1 – ‘heterogeneity was <40%’ is an incomplete statement. I
suspect you mean that the I^2 value was <40%
e. Table 1 – please include the missing columns.
f. Figure 1 – please drop this figure and reporting of these results
g. Figure 2 – please label the scale as HR or RR and not ES. Please choose appropriate
points to mark on the x-axis and consider rescaling as there is so much white space to the
left of the ES=1 line.
h. Supplementary Figure 4. Labelling of the axes, and choice of data points to report again
could be greatly improved.
