Comments on New drugs: Where did we go wrong and what can we do better?"
I would like to thank the BMJ for giving me the opportunity to review this
manuscript. The authors describe the results of drug assessments done by a
prominent European HTA agency; the reported results and, even more so, how they
are discussed in the context of the alleged innovation brought by several of the
drugs are of interest. I would recommend the publication of this manuscript that
could be appreciated by the readers of the BMJ.
I would like to suggest some minor changes to clarify some aspects:
1) The authors may re-consider the sentence “As the vast majority of new drugs
approved on a European level enter the German market, our results also reflect the
outcome of European drug development and policy”. While it is true that the analysis
includes drug marketed at the European level (all by the EMA?), thus the bases of
evidence is more or less the same, HTA evaluation and the uptake from each
Member state may greatly vary depending on national policies and budget
constraints (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4283087/;
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/etudes/join/2011/451481/IPOL-EN
VI_ET(2011)451481_EN.pdf. )
2) I would suggest to briefly clarify why the assessment done by IQWiG and
reported in the paper is named “early benefit assessment”. I assume this is the
English translation of the German terminology. However, one may wonder if there is
also a “later” assessment once the drug is on the market. Moreover, a clarification
could help to avoid any confusion with other HTA-like activities, such as horizon
scanning of new drugs or technologies.

3) The Authors may clarify if the unit of analysis is the drug or the drug/indication.
In the case of anti PD1-PD-L1, the same drug has been marketed for different types
of neoplasms and, I assume, underwent more than one assessment.
4) Some more details on the criteria for assessing added benefit may be useful,
especially to dampen possible criticisms on the hardness of the assessment. Now the
only information available is included in a generic statement in the box “Added
benefit of the new drug is primarily determined via a direct or a suitable indirect
comparison versus standard care using patient-relevant outcomes on benefits and
harms, namely, mortality, morbidity (including adverse events), and health-related
quality of life.” For instance, how indirect comparisons are considered in the
assessment? Does the Agency set threshold/minimum important difference for
establishing a benefit, for instance, in terms of mortality? Is this related to the
burden of the disease and quality of evidence? Some interesting details are reported
in the footnote of Figure 1 but maybe they are not very visible and should be
included in the text.
A reference to the IQWiG’s website could be mentioned if these details are publicly
available.
5) I understand cost considerations are not part of the IQWiG’s assessment. Could
the authors comment about this issue, that may be extremely relevant for high-cost
drugs but also for biosimilars?
6) Did a standard care exist for all the drugs/indications considered at the time of
the analysis?
7) The second paragraph of the section “The illusion of post-approval evidence”
provides some figures about the request for further evidence to fill the gap at the
time of the assessment. It is not clear if these figures refer to the same 216 drugs
assessed in the previous section. If so, it seems this procedure is not used very
often: nine requests of additional cut off data + six post-approval studies. Could the
author comment on this issue? Moreover, if the decision-making body is G-BA I
think it would be better to cite it in this paragraph.
8) The authors correctly discuss the issue of regulatory requirements that driven
clinical development. If placebo-controlled trials are requested or encouraged by the
regulators, we shouldn’t be surprised that drugs are marketed without a proof of a
better clinical efficacy or safety over the standard of care. The authors may clarify
the point that above regulatory requirements stand a legislative framework that only
requires that new drugs show they are of good quality and intrinsically efficacious
and safe. The introduction of a requirement on the therapeutic added value in the
current legislation could have a positive cascade effect on regulatory requirements
and drug development.
Rita Banzi
Milan, Oct 22, 2018
