This is a well-written, very interesting and important paper that fills major gaps on the previously
proposed association between CAP and subsequent risk of HF. The major contributions by Eurich et al
are that they demonstrate that CAP is associated with higher HF risk in the short and long term not
only in elderly survivors of CAP hospitalization (as described in previous reports) but also in younger
individuals and across the rage of CAP severity (requiring inpatient vs. outpatient management). The
fact that their study involves a population-based prospective cohort adds to the significance of their
findings which are, I think, of interest to general practitioners, internists, ID specialists, cardiologist
and public health professionals (given the frequency of these two diagnoses, pneumonia and heart
failure, in the general population). Nonetheless, I think that a sharper focus on these novel aspects
of the paper, a stronger discussion of its implications, and the performance of a couple of additional
analyses that could provide mechanistic insight into this association could greatly increase the
(perceived) novelty and interest of the paper for the BMJ audience. Please see my specific comments
below.
Sincerely,
V. Corrales-Medina, MD, MSc

MAJOR COMMENTS
Introduction
Second paragraph - There is one previous paper that has looked into the absolute intermediate-term
of HF after CAP and another paper that investigated the post-CAP relative risk of HF both in the
intermediate and long term post infection and they should be acknowledged:
- Incidence of cardiovascular events after hospital admission for pneumonia. Perry et al. Am J Med.
2011 Mar;124(3):244-51
- Intermediate and long-term risk of new-onset heart failure after hospitalization for pneumonia in
elderly adults. Corrales-Medina et al. Am Heart J. 2015 Aug;170(2):306-12.
However, major limitations of these previous papers:
- They studied very select populations (the study was limited to elderly – age >=65).
- Only hospitalized CAP cases were included
- One of them (Corrales et al) could not account for HF events occurring in the first 30 days after CAP
admission.
-Identification of pneumonia cases was based on ICD-9 coding thus leaving room for misclassification
of cases.
- Relative risk estimated were calculated relative to individuals not hospitalized for CAP, regardless
of whether they were hospitalized for other reasons during the study or not hospitalized at all, thus
leaving room for potential confounding of these estimates from (unmeasured) factors associated with
participant hospitalization.
The current report by Eurich et al overcomes these deficiencies of the existing literature. Therefore,
the fact that this report more clearly establishes the CAP-associated risk of HF after hospitalization
for this infection across the range of age and severity of CAP cases in a population-based cohort
needs to be highlighted.
Third and fourth paragraphs – same as above, these paragraphs need to incorporate the recent
literature mentioned above.
Methods
The methodology is sound and well explained. However, there are 2 other analyses that I think
would greatly increase the relevance and novelty of this paper, in addition to also provide
mechanistic insight into this association:
- Stratified analysis by age ranges: The age ranges could be <45, ≥45 to <65, and ≥65. This is
because, from previous literature (see above), it is expected that a significant HF risk will be present
in the older group but it is not known whether this risk is also present in younger age ranges. If the
number of patients younger than 45 years is too low, this group can be merged with the ≥45 to <65.
If feasible, stratification by age-categories should be presented (in supplemental material) when
analyzing the cohorts by site of care (inpatient vs. outpatient). Also, it would be important that the
cumulative absolute rates of events (at 90 days, 1 year and beyond) in each in of these agecategories are provided together with the relative risk estimates. This is because there are no
previous estimations of the absolute and/or relative risk of heart failure younger pneumonia
survivors (i.e. younger than 65, whereas there are two previous reports that have focused on elderly
adults – see below) and also to have a better understanding of the reasons behind the apparent
discrepancy between incidence rates and relative risk of HF in the short term post-CAP found in the
current report compared to previous literature (also see comments about the Discussion section):
o Incidence of cardiovascular events after hospital admission for pneumonia. Am J Med. 2011
Mar;124(3):244-51
o Intermediate and long-term risk of new-onset heart failure after hospitalization for pneumonia in
elderly adults. Am Heart J. 2015 Aug;170(2):306-12.
Because of the the novelty of this aspect of the current submission, I suggest that the Authors
consider making it a more central part of their report.
- Sub-analysis of pneumonia cases of non-pneumococcal etiology. This is because there are
pneumococcal specific mechanisms of myocardial injury that have been proposed to explain the high
risk of HF in CAP patients (Cardiotoxicity during invasive pneumococcal disease; Am J Respir Crit
Care Med Apr 1;191(7):739-45). Therefore, finding that there are no associations between other
specific non-pneumococcal CAP cases and subsequent development of HF would be strong support
for this pneumococcal-specific hypothesis. On the other hand, if it is demonstrated that the risk of HF
is also present for specific non-pneumococcal CAP cases, it is more likely that the predominant
pathways that contribute the increased risk of HF after CAP are not pathogen-specific but rather
related to the common body-response to infection. Since the Authors have already performed the
analysis for CAP cases with pneumococcal bacteremia, I suggest that they add an analysis of nonpneumococcal bacteremia cases only. If numbers allow, an analysis of only cases with confirmed viral
etiology should also be considered.
Results

Overall the results are well presented. However, a new revised version should include the new
analyses suggested in the previous section.
Discussion
First paragraph. I am not sure if mention to the fact that most new HF episodes occurred
simultaneously to CAP during the acute episode of the infection is appropriate in this paragraph as
this is not part of the primary results of this paper.
Second paragraph. Previous literature on the intermediate and long term risk of HF after CAP needs
to be acknowledged and discussed, especially in relation to an apparent discrepancy with the rates of
HF in the short/intermediate term post CAP:
o Incidence of cardiovascular events after hospital admission for pneumonia. Am J Med. 2011
Mar;124(3):244-51
o Intermediate and long-term risk of new-onset heart failure after hospitalization for pneumonia in
elderly adults. Am Heart J. 2015 Aug;170(2):306-12.
Second paragraph. The meta-analysis discussed in the paragraph (reporting 14.1% incidence of HF
in the short term post CAP) included only reports of CAP cohorts in which the diagnosis of HF
occurred during the CAP hospitalization or in the first 30-days since admission (as opposed to first 90
days post-discharge, which is the short term analysis in the current report by Eurich et. al.). Also,
the outcome was new or worsening HF rather than only new episodes as in the current report by
Eurich et al. Finally, in many of those reports, the adjudication of HF was done prospectively and
clinically rather than relying on ICD-9 coding. These elements need to be appropriately noted.
Last paragraph. “Indeed, for every twenty patients presenting with CAP for either inpatient or
outpatient management, we would expect to see one additional case of heart failure compared to
patients accessing the health system without pneumonia.” This is a very powerful line. I suggest that
the Authors elaborate more on this estimation in the Results section while also breaking it by site of
care and age-categories, if feasible.
Finally, again, the analyses of long-term HF risk associated with CAP across the range of age and
severity of CAP cases are the most novel and (in my view) important contributions of this report and
they should be highlighted in this Discussion section of the paper including a discussion of their
implications.
Abstract
Based on the comments above I suggest something along the following lines:
Abstract – Introduction: CAP has been associated with new-onset heart failure in the short and long
term; yet, the attributable risk of CAP on heart failure incidence throughout the range of age and
severity of CAP cases is not known.
Abstract – Results: Acknowledge results by age ranges and site of care.
Abstract – Conclusion: Our results demonstrate that CAP significantly increases the risk of heart
failure across the range of age and severity of CAP cases. This information should be considered
when formulating post-CAP care plans and preventive strategies.
MINOR COMMENTS
Introduction- First paragraph “… the long-term risks of CAP are substantial.” Consider using
“associated with” instead of “of.”
Methods - Statistical analysis – second paragraph. Consider change “…this data were used to
evaluate the outcomes…” for “these data was to evaluate the risk of the outcomes.”
