This paper is dealing with a very important issue ie the cost of clinical error and the
impact it is having on scarce resources and sustainability of the NHS into the future
The following are some general thoughts on this submission.
1
Starting at the closing sentence of the submission the authors say
“With so much at stake for patients, families and health systems, the need to address the
challenge of improving patient’s safety is now.”
This has been expressed in many ways before, however a reference/ inclusion of the new
“NHS Patient safety strategy “published 2019 would add color to the paper fro eg
It is estimated that the initiative could save 1000 lives and £100 million in care costs each
year from 2023/24 – Importantly in the context of this paper there is scope to reduce
claims provision by £750 million pa.
This strategy contains many of the activities also referred to in this paper.
2
While the escalating costs were well referenced from the NHS Resolution, some
estimates of cost reduction by implementing various proposed reforms would strengthen
the call to action.
The “Crises “has been noted before
NHS compensation payouts 'unsustainable', say health leaders
https://www.theguardian.com/society/2018/feb/02/nhs-compensation-payouts-unsustain
able-say-health-leaders
3
The use of some tables would have been helpful as the reference to various reports
was I found personally difficult to follow eg the Director Woman’s Health and Maternity
HSE which clearly shows that maternity services consume < 5% of health care spend and
70% of claims payouts. They have a rigorous plan to address this.
4 The paper says that’s “Though close to £2 in every £100 funding to NHS is now spend
on negligence claims …..” I’m unfamiliar with the UK NHS funding coverage but if the
figure for funding acute services and maternity could be broken out and these costs were
compared, more startling ratios might emerge, and highlight the opportunity cost of do
nothing.
How does the 2% of NHS funding ending up as negligence claims compare internationally

5
The reference to “Priority Thickets” - have the authors considered the NHS Patient
Safety strategy that may clear some of these “Thickets” in a structured way?
6
Again there is an opportunity to not only say that service’s will be constrained by
unsustainable legal costs to actually quantity what that means; eg 10,000 doctors can’t be
funded leading to length of time to get an operation ,number of hip replacements or heart
valves, such fair calculated figures can contribute to the public's understanding of what
this crises is about.
7
There are numerous strategies to improve patient safety, some patient advocates
would argue why should there be incentive's to do their job correctly, does an airline pilot
get a bonus when s/he lands the jet safely, besides their life?!
The authors propose 4 key principles to improve patient safety, I’m not sure as to the
originality of these principles.
Addressing structural Problems, is staffing the main big challenge?
Could it be argued that accountability of management and governance structures to drive
reform is equally a big challenge or better linkages within the health care systems, Acute,
Primary, Pharmacy?
Commitment to learning, while I understand the authors argument re a compliance-based
culture – it would be useful to provide more information on what a compliance-based
culture is ?
It is my opinion that Adherence to proven clinical protocols and guidelines is expected, but
such protocols must be dynamic and change as knowledge informs reform.
Patients have rights and some of these are to quality , and safe care, built on the right to
give informed consent these aspects might also be included in the review - The authors
have chosen a big topic with a complex mosaic of activities to make our systems safer,
perhaps a focused approach to one or two innovative solutions might better serve their
purpose - The paper is a valuable contribution by highlighting the rising costs of medical
negligence. Particularity the compliance based culture and its impact on the ethos of
learning .
