GENERAL COMMENTS:
The authors present a randomized clinical trial evaluating the role of antibiotics in patients
with chronic low back pain (CLBP) and Modic changes. This is an important study and the
authors are to be commended for their performing it. I should also note that I am a healthy
skeptic of the role of antibiotics as a treatment for patients with CLBP, including those with
Modic changes. That said, I am concerned about the presentation of this study’s results.
In the accompanying protocol documents submitted as supplementary material, the reason
for including patients with Modic I and II changes in the current study makes sense. This
isn’t reflected in the paper and caused me considerable confusion. Prior work has focused on
those with Modic I changes and while expanding to include those with Modic II changes is
reasonable, I was confused and then bothered by a lack of presentation of the subgroup with
Modic I changes. Indeed, even in the supplementary tables, there is no presentation of
primary and secondary outcomes among those with Modic I changes. I guess the authors
will argue that these weren’t specified in their analysis plan as key outcomes, but I think that
is a problem.
I also found the emphasis on a difference of 4 or greater in the RMDQ to be problematic. In
reviewing the authors’ analysis plan, I couldn’t find mention of this as part of the primary
outcomes assessment. Rather I found mention of a 30% or greater improvement in RMDQ in
the analysis plan. The mention of the DMDQ difference of 4 is included in the power
calculations section. Thus, the very large emphasis on discounting the results favoring the
intervention based upon the primary outcome not meeting this difference seems overplayed.
In trying to digest these results, I came to the following conclusions. First, it appears that
those patients receiving antibiotics had a statistically significant improvement in the primary
outcome and several secondary outcomes compared to those receiving placebo. Moreover,
the magnitude of the benefit appeared limited to those with Modic I changes (as mentioned
this is based upon only the primary outcome, not any secondary ones since they aren’t
reported). Second, the improvement seen in this study is considerably less than the prior
RCT. Third, major side effects of the antibiotics were pretty limited and if the magnitude of
the benefit was sufficiently large, many providers (including myself) would use them. Finally,
it isn’t clear how this treatment compares to other commonly used therapies for CLBP, but
the magnitude of the effect of antibiotics seems to be comparable to other treatments in
use.
Putting all this together, I find it harder to entirely discount the small but favorable results
seen in this study than the authors have. Before further consideration of these results for
publication in BMJ, I would like to see all the primary and secondary outcomes in those with
Modic I changes. I think that a more nuanced interpretation of the results would likely result.
I suspect this won’t fully satisfy those who favor this treatment as well as those who don’t.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
1. Abstract, Page 3, Lines 82-83: I presume that most BMJ readers won’t know the potential
significance of Modic changes and the theory behind antibiotic treatment.
2. Abstract, Page 3, Lines 96-97: In reading through the protocol attachment, I had difficulty
identifying a statement where the MCID between group difference of 4 was part of the
primary outcome assessment. Rather in section 3.4.1 it says, “A clinically important change
will be defined as a 30% reduction of the individual’s baseline score.” I could not find
reference to the current sentence in the abstract in sections describing primary outcomes.

3. Abstract, Page 3, Lines 99-104: As noted above, the authors do not report the percent of
patients with a 30% reduction in RMDQ. From Table S4, it appears that there is a statistically
significant difference between the two study groups (48% vs. 29%, p=0.01). Seems like this
should be included in the paper and abstract.
4. Abstract, Page 3, Lines 100-102: It isn’t clear to me why the difference in outcomes
among Modic I and II groups isn’t highlighted in the conclusions. Doesn’t this support the
hypothesis under investigation? I’d argue that while a secondary outcome based upon it
being a subgroup, in a differently designed study it would be the key result. At a minimum,
the conclusion is that this requires further study in an adequately designed trial of
individuals with Modic I changes.
5. Abstract, Page 3, Lines 106-107: It appears that the authors are downplaying the results
of their primary outcomes. Though the differences may not be large, the intervention group
had superior outcomes on the primary measure, the clinically important change outcome,
and several key secondary measures. Why isn’t this good enough?
6. Introduction, Page 3, Lines 113-115: It would be helpful to comment upon how common
each of these findings are and how reliably they can be identified.
7. Introduction, Page 3, Lines 129-130: As per the prior comment, it would be helpful to
comment upon the breakdown of the different Modic categories.
8. Introduction, Page 3, Lines 132-134: Given that the one study cited found benefit in
individuals with type I Modic changes, why include both type I and II?
9. Methods, Page 4, Lines 183-192: Was data collected on use of treatments for back pain
during the 1 year study period? Similarly, was data collected on use of antibiotics for other
indications during the study period?
10. Methods, Page 4, Lines 209-212: As previously noted, I was unable to find mention of
this in the protocol supplements. The MCID for the RMDQ is often cited as greater than 2.
What was the basis for a between group difference of 4?
11. Results, Page 6, Line 257-259: I think it is worth mentioning that almost all secondary
outcomes in Table 2 also showed a statistically significant difference favoring the
intervention group. I also think the authors should state in the results whether the
as-treated outcomes were similar to the ITT ones.
12. Results, Page 6, Lines 268-270: I’m not an expert on blinding analyses, but it appears
that the control group was able to know their treatment assignment more than for the
intervention group. This bias doesn’t appear to be stated as such in the limitations paragraph
of the discussion.
13. Discussion, Page 6, 273-275: Unfortunately, I find this conclusion to lack the necessary
nuance for a BMJ publication. The study showed statistically significant changes favoring the
intervention on primary and a range of secondary outcomes. Moreover, the magnitude of the
benefit seen appears to have been limited to those with Modic I changes, as expected. One
can then question the whether the the difference in outcomes is of sufficient magnitude, but
I am concerned that this statement does not adequately reflect the study analyses and
findings.
14. Discussion, Page 6, 276-279: Similar to my prior comments, one could take a very
different perspective on the observed secondary outcomes. Additionally, there is no mention
of as-treated results or the greater impact in those with Modic I changes.

15. Discussion, Page 6, 281-283: Did the other trial include the same percentage of patients
with Modic I and II changes. Given that the current study shows all of the benefit appears to
be in those with Modic I changes, the combined outcomes may underestimate the true
benefit of the intervention. It appears that there was a difference of 2.3 in the current study
among those with Modic I changes. This is less than 8.3 in the other trial, but the direction is
the same. Then one may approach somewhat differently why the current study was
associated with less benefit. Differences in the antibiotic regimen are highlighted, but others
should also be explored.
16. Discussion, Page 6, 295-298: Burying this in the limitations paragraph seems a bit
disingenuous to me. At a minimum, these results support further study in those with Modic I
changes as the primary outcome.
17. Discussion, Page 6, 298-300: If the study was adequately powered for the subgroup of
Modic I changes, why don’t the authors present this subgroup analysis in an additional table
in the paper?
18. Discussion, Page 7, 310-311: In what way do these decrease the generalizability of the
study findings? Does the population studied not reflect those with Modic I or II changes in
other studies?
19. Discussion, Page 7, 320-321: These outcomes are not presented in the results section.
Please add them or remove mention here.
20. Discussion, Page 7, 328-330: Revise per prior comments.
21. Page 3, Lines 10-11: I’ve provided some suggestions for revising this paragraph. I’d
suggest that this second sentence isn’t particularly helpful and that it can be deleted.
22. Table S4: It appears that these are the results that pertain to the comment above about
not being mentioned in the results section.
23. Table S7: I think mention of the per-protocol findings in the results section as a line of
text would be helpful.