The submitted paper is a flamboyant statement to end the neglect of chronic kidney disease
(CKD) in its most advanced form, i.e. CKD stage 5 by not including dialysis in the universal
health coverage of many health care systems which causes the death of 7.5 million people per
year.
Even though I wholeheartedly support the overriding theme of the paper and especially the
conclusion ”The global community needs to pay more attention to ESRD as a global health
priority…” I don’t see all the statements made by the authors supported by the literature. I
think those statements should be either revised or toned down a bit.
1) Peritoneal dialysis is cheap, and hemodialysis is expensive is one of the themes of the
paper. Even though this holds healthcare systems like in South Africa (PMID: 30868410)
however it is not as simple as that. I some settings like published for Manitoba home
hemodialysis with a simple dialysis maschine (Nx stage system one) was as expensive as
peritoneal dialysis (PMID: 30021819). Also, in low income countries were labour is cheap even
in-center hemodialysis can be as cheap (or expensive) as peritoneal dialysis, especially as the
later one requires the import of expensive peritoneal dialysis solutions.
2) Moreover, the choice of modality is influenced not only by the healthcare system and
dialysis provider but also by patients and physician/nurse related factors as recently outlined
(PMID: 31005921). Please refer to a recent paper in Kidney International (PMID: 30904051)
addressing increasing access to integrated ESKD care as part of universal health coverage.
3) I share the impression that healthcare systems do invest more in cancer treatment as in
the treatment of CKD. This has however not always been the case, even in healthcare systems
with limited resources. In the former East Germany dialysis and renal transplantation were
among the most important goals in the healthcare system (PMID: 2609800) aside form
reducing perinatal mortality. This mainly depended on key opinion leaders that managed to
convince the politicians that this would be important. Maybe dialysis lost its appeal?
4) I agree that there should be more studies comparing dialysis technologies but to underline
this point by stating there is only one randomized controlled trial in 2003 comparing PD and
HD (page 4 line 35) is a statement that unnecessary oversimplifies the problem.
5) I don’t share the view of the authors that “There has been little technological advantage in
the past 75 years when the first prototype of an dialysis dialysis machine was developed….”
Please reconsider this statement after looking at the following picures:
https://www.kidneynews.org/kidney-news/features/willem-kolff-honoring-pioneer-of-moderndialysis
https://www.freseniusmedicalcare.com/fileadmin/data/masterContent/images/Media_Center/I
mages/Therapies_and_products/Fresenius-Medical-Care-Hemodialysis-6008-machine.jpg
https://www.nxstage.com/hcp/products/nxstage-system-one/
6) It would be nice to present some options on how to increase the number of patients that
have access to dialysis. Aside from pre-emptive renal transplantation this includes incremental
dialysis (PMID: 3060415), use of home dialysis techniques (both hemodialysis and peritoneal
dialysis), nighttime hemodialysis allowing to work during the day, limted care dialysis, water
sparing strategies for reduced dialysis flow (PMID: 29148024), simple dialysis machines
(https://www.dialysisprize.org).

7) You might consider changing “renal dialysis” to “dialysis” as is this the term used mostly in
the scientific literature.
