This was a well-written article that addresses an important topic affecting not only the medical and
policy spheres, but everyone due to the increasing burden and impact of disability in the
population. The message of the article appeared clear to me, and the relevance should be obvious
to those making policy on disability evaluation systems. Overall, I would recommend acceptance
with very light revisions.
The paper adds to the existing literature in a practical way in that many of us working in the
disability and occupational medicine sphere recognize the intuitive association between subjective
assessment process and outcomes. However, understanding the evidence for this is difficult when
considering the wide array of articles to date. It is very challenging to study this area because of
the great heterogeneity in almost every aspect, including predictors, processes and outcomes, in
particular the latter, as discussed in the paper. The authors did an admirable job in devising
methods to assess the range of data in a useful and interpretable way.
It was wise to assess insurance studies in order to address these critical, real world outcomes.
One of the most challenging aspects of analyzing disability data is understanding the preceding
trajectories for patients. It would therefore have been good to see a little more information
regarding the heterogeneity observed on acuity, chronicity and injury definitions in the studies,
and whether a determination of the severity of functional impairment was expected to be inherent
to the "acuity" concept. I recognize that this may necessitate a level of granularity of discussion
that goes beyond the article's aims, but standardizing the foundational clinical assessment will be
the cornerstone of obtaining reliability in these determinations.
I believe the authors are using the Fleiss kappa cut-off criteria, which they may want to specifically

state, given the subjectivity to which interpretation here is prone (and which they do already
acknowledge). Overall, the methods appear adequate and the interpretations were reasonable,
taking into account potential alternative explanations for effects observed (e.g., training among
Dutch physicians.)