The authors have provided thorough and scientifically-supported responses to
prior comments. They provide important supplemental analyses now available to
readers of the study. The authors have also appropriately modified the
manuscript so that the results provide evidence of an association, not necessarily
causality. association.

My remaining comments center on ensuring that the generalizability of the study
is clear to readers as they interpret the findings.
Study Population
The study population was comprised of U.S. Veterans. As the data indicate, the
cohort is approximately 96% male, 87% white, with a mean age of 65 years at
the time of the incident prescription drug claim. While the authors acknowledge
this limitation at the end of the discussion section, I would like to see these key
demographics included in the abstract and stated in the text when Table 1 is
introduced.
I also recommend that the conclusion in the abstract include a modifier on the
study population – for example, … prescription PPI use is older patients is
associated with ...
Given the international readership of the journal, I would like to see a description
of the characteristics of the VA health care system in the Data Source section of
the Methods. The fact that many veterans enter the medical system later in life,
after being covered by other insurance plans, may not be evident to a reader of
the study. This has implications for interpreting the findings and what “new use”
means in this context.
Drug Exposure
Based on the definitions used to define drug exposure, the authors investigated
new use of prescription acid suppressants. I recommend that this modifier be
included in the title, abstract conclusion, and the “what this study adds” section.
There are several places throughout the manuscript where I would clarify that
this is prescription drug use, including in the titles of figures and tables.
I would like to see data on initial drug dose and average duration of treatment
stated in the results (both abstract and manuscript text).
I say this because acid suppressants are widely available over-the-counter at
lower doses and are indicated for shorter duration of use. It is important that the
findings from this study not be confused with an investigation of OTC drug
exposure. The authors may want to include a statement in the discussion
specifically calling for more research to investigate the safety implications with
OTC drug use.
A minor comment. There is a typographical error in the title. It should state
'mortality', not 'morality'.