This is an analysis of a large prospective cohort study examining associations between diagnosis of migraine and
future cardiovascular events in women. This question is incredibly important for public health. The NHS II is an
excellent dataset to use to answer the question of association between migraine and cardiovascular events in
women. The analyses were appropriate to answer the question. The conclusions drawn by the authors are
appropriate. However, as is the case in almost all secondary analysis of large datasets, the CVD events were

incredibly well-characterized, while the diagnosis of migraine and other migraine-related characteristics were less
well-characterized. Despite this limitation, this is an interesting and important study.
Specific comments:
Methods:
1) Please include all inclusion/exclusion criteria for this study in your description of study population (e.g., women
who reported angina, corononary revascularization procedure or CVD event were excluded).
2) Please be more explicit in how you combined the endpoint of total major cardiovascular disease. It appears that
endorsement of any MI, stroke, or fatal CVD was considered an event, and lack of any of these outcomes was a
non-event.
3) Does the NHS II include any information about how migraine might have been treated? Effect modification was
examined by HRT and oral contraceptive use, which certainly make sense. However, if information about migraine
medication was available, that could be incredibly useful. It appears that at least NSAID use is available.
Results:
1) Small comment, but “women with migraine” is generally considered to be more appropriate that “migraineurs.”
Please adjust this wording throughout.
2) Regarding sensitivity analyses, “results were very similar” could be more descriptive. Could you explicate
whether the significant of any result changed, even if the change in the HR was minor?
Discussion
1) The “Comparison to other studies” section could be more cohesive in telling the story about how the results from
the current study confirm or disconfirm previous results, and how the results from the current study add to previous
results. The section as written would be more appropriate for the introduction.
2) This study did not examine biological mechanisms. If the results from this study provide new information that
could inform research on biological mechanisms, please explicitly state this connection. If not, I would recommend
briefly stating potential mechanisms in the introduction only, and remove them from the discussion (other than in
future directions).
3) Not only is information about aura unavailable, but information about chronic vs. episodic migraine, and
potentially information about medications used to treat migraine. Please note the full scope of information about
migraine unavailable from this dataset in the limitations.