Physical Activity and Risks of Breast Cancer, Colon Cancer, Diabetes, Ischemic Heart Disease and Ischemic
Stroke Events: A Systematic Review and Dose-Response Meta- Analysis for the Global Burden of Disease
Study 2013
Peer review:

I would like to thank the authors for a well-written paper that has many merits. However, I have a number
of concerns and questions:
Can the authors please provide a rationale for the 5 chronic diseases? For instance, there could have been
a rationale for including other diseases (e.g. prostate/endometrial cancer, COPD, etc.)
Also in the title, the authors appear to suggest that they will focus on colon cancer, yet some of the eligible
studies investigated colorectal cancer (i.e. large bowel or colon cancer and rectal cancer). Please can the
authors clarify whether colorectal or just colon cancer will be investigated?
Pg 5. Line 11: “Two recent systematic reviews have examined the dose-response associations of physical
activity with breast cancer [1] and ischemic heart disease, [2] but focused mainly on leisure time physical
activity.” “Since leisure time activity constitutes only about 4% of total daily activity for an average
individual, it does not provide an overall picture of physical activity”
The authors provide only one reference to support the point that “leisure time activity constitutes only
about 4% of total daily activity for an average individual”. The study used to support this point did not
support this statement. Please can the authors provide more and better evidence to support this point?
Also, the authors should appreciate that leisure PA may be the only PA performed at a sufficiently high
intensity to achieve favourable adaptations. Have the authors considered the role of intensity versus
volume? For example, there is evidence of favourable adaptations with high-intensity PA performed in
intermittent short bursts (i.e. high-intensity intermittent exercise). Also, the authors should consider the
potential for a greater inaccuracy in the self-reporting of PA in non-leisure time settings. Leisure time PA is
by its nature more structured and intentional, and therefore, may be more easily to recall compared to
non-leisure PA.
The authors need to describe previous meta-analyses carried out on studies in the chronic diseases chosen.
In particular, those with dose response analyses should be included. For example, a quick search on
PubMed revealed the following potentially relevant papers:
1: Liu L, Shi Y, Li T, Qin Q, Yin J, Pang S, Nie S, Wei S. Leisure time physical
activity and cancer risk: evaluation of the WHO's recommendation based on 126
high-quality epidemiological studies. Br J Sports Med. 2015 Oct 23. pii:
bjsports-2015-094728. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2015-094728. [Epub ahead of print]
PubMed PMID: 26500336.
2: Shi Y, Li T, Wang Y, Zhou L, Qin Q, Yin J, Wei S, Liu L, Nie S. Household
physical activity and cancer risk: a systematic review and dose-response
meta-analysis of epidemiological studies. Sci Rep. 2015 Oct 7;5:14901. doi:
10.1038/srep14901. PubMed PMID: 26443426; PubMed Central PMCID: PMC4595663.
3: Li T, Wei S, Shi Y, Pang S, Qin Q, Yin J, Deng Y, Chen Q, Wei S, Nie S, Liu L.
The dose-response effect of physical activity on cancer mortality: findings from
71 prospective cohort studies. Br J Sports Med. 2015 Sep 18. pii:
bjsports-2015-094927. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2015-094927. [Epub ahead of print]
Review. PubMed PMID: 26385207.
4: Li Y, Gu M, Jing F, Cai S, Bao C, Wang J, Jin M, Chen K. Association between
physical activity and all cancer mortality: Dose-response meta-analysis of cohort
studies. Int J Cancer. 2016 Feb 15;138(4):818-32. doi: 10.1002/ijc.29828. Epub
2015 Sep 25. PubMed PMID: 26317834.
5: Zhong S, Chen L, Lv M, Ma T, Zhang X, Zhao J. Nonoccupational physical
activity and risk of ovarian cancer: a meta-analysis. Tumour Biol. 2014
Nov;35(11):11065-73. doi: 10.1007/s13277-014-2385-z. Epub 2014 Aug 6. PubMed
PMID: 25095977.
6: Zhong S, Jiang T, Ma T, Zhang X, Tang J, Chen W, Lv M, Zhao J. Association
between physical activity and mortality in breast cancer: a meta-analysis of
cohort studies. Eur J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;29(6):391-404. doi:
10.1007/s10654-014-9916-1. Epub 2014 May 23. PubMed PMID: 24853250.
7: Keum N, Ju W, Lee DH, Ding EL, Hsieh CC, Goodman JE, Giovannucci EL.
Leisure-time physical activity and endometrial cancer risk: dose-response
meta-analysis of epidemiological studies. Int J Cancer. 2014 Aug 1;135(3):682-94.
doi: 10.1002/ijc.28687. Epub 2014 Mar 3. PubMed PMID: 24375149.
8: Wu Y, Zhang D, Kang S. Physical activity and risk of breast cancer: a
meta-analysis of prospective studies. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2013
Feb;137(3):869-82. doi: 10.1007/s10549-012-2396-7. Epub 2012 Dec 30. PubMed PMID:
23274845.
There are a few aspects of this review that expose it to an increased risk of bias. Only two databases were
used (PubMed and EMBASE), while these are two large databases, it is possible that eligible studies may
have been missed.
The review is at risk of language bias (“Limited to English language”). Was this necessary? How many nonEnglish studies would have been eligible?
The review was at risk of publication bias as there was no search of grey literature. A non-significant Egger
test does not mean that publication bias does not exist.
The search strategy lacks detail. Only one term used per PICO item (e.g. for breast cancer only ‘breast
cancer’ used and not for example, ‘neoplasms’, ‘tumours’, ‘carcinoma’, etc.)
The review was not registered on Prospero, for example, so it is not possible to determine whether the
review is free from researcher bias.
“Cohort studies that provided risk estimates (relative risk, hazard ratio or odds ratio) with confidence
intervals or standard errors, or data to calculate them, were eligible for inclusion.”
Can the authors please clarify whether both retrospective and prospective cohort studies were eligible?
Also, was there an attempt to find randomised controlled trials? This type of study should be a priori for
investigating the effectiveness of an intervention.
Pg 7, line 18: “a better control of confounding variables.” What was the decision on better control of
confounding variables based on? What confounding variables were given priority?
Pg 7, line 43: “(age/sex adjusted and multivariate adjusted) for each activity category”

Can the authors be clearer on what information on confounding variables was extracted for each chronic
disease?
Can the authors please define a MET more clearly? For example, one metabolic equivalent (MET) is defined
as the amount of oxygen consumed while sitting at rest and is equal to 3.5 ml O2 per kg body weight per
min.
Can the authors comment on the accuracy of the method they used to map domain specific activity to total
activity? This issue was commented on in the limitation section of the discussion, however, are there
studies in which leisure and domain PA data are reported that can be used to establish how much error is
involved in the mapping method used?
I am unfamiliar with the Bayesian meta-analysis method used, therefore, I cannot comment on its
appropriateness. Can the authors please justify why they used this meta-analysis method in particular?
Can the authors clarify the choice of reference category used, please? The term inactive is perhaps not the
most appropriate term to use to describe those achieving less than 600 MET-min/wk. For example, a
person achieving 599 MET-min/wk is not inactive. Perhaps, ‘insufficiently active’ would be a more
appropriate term. Also, some previous research has suggested that there may be some benefit with doing
‘some’ PA compared to doing nothing, why was the threshold set at 600 MET-min/wk? This is a general PA
guideline, which does not necessarily mean that chronic disease risk is lowered only once this threshold is
passed.
In the screening process, how were disagreements around eligibility of studies solved?
Did any of the studies measure PA objectively via accelerometer, pedometer, etc.? These methods are
more sensitive and record PA more accurately than self-report.
Can the authors comment on the limitations of using relative risk reduction scores on its own as measures
of risk. Relative risk should be interpreted alongside the absolute risk reduction ideally.
The inclusion of a sensitivity analysis based on the intensities of PA performed and disease risk would
benefit this work. The authors appear to be overly concerned with volume, while neglecting the role that
intensity plays in PA dose. How much of a MET-min/wk score is comprised of vigorous/high, moderate and
low intensity PA may be important.
* Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what does it
add? If not, please cite relevant references.
I have noted above a number of meta-analysis there are available with dose-response analysis. What this
review does is combine a number of conditions together. The authors do not mention whether they have
checked Prospero to report on registered ongoing systematic reviews. This current review was not preregistered.
* Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
While the topic is an important one, the paper may be a better fit for the British Journal of Sports Medicine
rather than the BMJ.
* SCIENTIFIC RELIABILITY
Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered?
Apart from the confusion surrounding the inclusion of colon/colorectal cancer, the research question is
clearly defined, the review conforms mostly to PRISMA guidelines, and the question is relatively
appropriately answered.
Overall design of study - adequate?
Apart from the comprehensibility of the search process, the design of the study is adequate.
The use of Bayesian meta-analysis approach could be explained. In addition, the accuracy of the method
used to map domain specific activity to total activity is unclear.

Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?
There were 5 chronic diseases included in this review, no justification for their conclusion or rationale as to
why PA would reduce risk.
Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT for randomised
trials ? Ethical ?
Methods were described adequately and PRISMA and MOOSE checklists were completed.
Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
The results were well presented and credible. I have made comments regarding possible additions to the
analysis, such as the importance of intensity of PA.
Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data? Message
clear?
The authors conclude that based on their findings a “re-evaluation of current physical activity guidelines on
the recommended level of total physical activity” is necessary. This is not particularly novel, and the
conclusions appear to suggest that to reduce the risk of the 5 diseases studies people should do several
times more than this. However, the findings of improvements in risk factor profiles with high-intensity
intermittent exercise and resistance exercise appear to refute this. Similarly, a recent dose-response Metaanalysis concluded that the current WHO recommendation (equal to an average of 10 metabolic equivalents
of energy hours per week) assessed via leisure-time PA induced a 7% (95% CI 5% to 9%) cancer
reduction.
References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?

I have included a list of potentially important previous similar reviews.
Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - reflect accurately what the paper says?
Confidential: For Review Only
Pg 4 line 6: “The findings suggest that increasing total physical activity, beyond the current recommended
minimum level to moderately and highly active levels of activity, significantly reduces the risk of breast
cancer, colon cancer, diabetes, ischemic heart disease and ischemic stroke.”
This conclusion should be reworded. The conclusion is based on observational data, and while a doseresponse may be one criteria of a casual relation, by itself it is not enough. The authors found that those
who achieved higher levels of total PA experienced a reduced risk of the 5 diseases studied, and not as
stated that when individuals increased their total PA the risk of the diseases reduced.