This paper reports on a large systematic review and meta-analysis of studies reporting the association of atrial
fibrillation with cardiovascular disease, renal disease and death. The authors are to be congratulated on assembling
100 cohort studies involving over 9.5 million participants. The paper is well written and provides interesting
(although not particularly novel) information about the relative risks of adverse outcomes associated with atrial
fibrillation.
As the authors acknowledge, their analyses are limited by substantial heterogeneity between the included studies
and by the lack of individual patient data.
The prevalence of atrial fibrillation amongst the participants was 14.8% overall and varied substantially between the
analyses for different endpoints (5.4% to 15.5%). It would be useful to illustrate the considerable variation in the
prevalence of atrial fibrillation between individual studies (currently only available as numbers in the on-line
supplement).
The heterogeneity might partly reflect variation in endpoint definitions between the studies and over time (e.g.
impact of troponin on diagnosis of myocardial infarction) but the authors provide little information about this aspect
of their systematic review. Did the authors document variation in endpoint definitions and can they comment on the
extent to which this may have contributed to heterogeneity between studies?
The authors used American estimates for the incidence of cardiovascular mortality and other cardiovascular events
to translate relative risks into estimates of absolute risk. Can the authors comment on the extent to which this might
limit generalisability of the absolute risk estimates to other populations?
Some of the analyses suggest that atrial fibrillation is associated with very large increases in the risk of adverse
cardiovascular outcomes, but these risks likely reflect the particular populations under study. For example, only 6 of
the 100 studies reported on the association between atrial fibrillation and heart failure (RR 4.99). Can the authors
comment on the extent to which their findings are generalizable to a wider unselected population of patients with
atrial fibrillation, particularly as sensitivity analyses were not done for some outcomes?
The authors conclude that additional interventions to reduce cardiovascular risk (beyond the use of anticoagulation
to reduce the risk of stroke) are warranted in patients with atrial fibrillation, but also correctly state that they have
only demonstrated a statistical association between atrial fibrillation and adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Can the
authors comment on the extent to which the increased risks of adverse outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation
are likely to be modifiable?
The reference notation in the paper appears inconsistent. For example, in line 7 on page 4, the authors refer to
reference 5 (super script) and reference 4 (in brackets). The text suggests that reference 5 relates to a guideline,
but reference 5 in the main reference list is a research paper. Please can the authors review and correct the
referencing in the paper.
Minor point:
The abbreviation CHF (page 6, line 7) is not defined until line 11.
Rob Henderson
Nottingham University Hospitals

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Robert Henderson
Job Title: Consultant Cardiologist
Institution: Nottingham University Hospitals
If you have any competing interests (please see BMJ policy) please declare them here:
Date Sent: 20-Jun-2016

