Comments for the editor
Importance and relevance to general readership
Gambling related harm is receiving a higher profile in the media , not least because of the
resignation by Tracy Crouch and the subsequent U turn by the Treasury on the introduction
of the £2 stake on FBOTs amongst other things . Thus the issue of gambling as a public
health issue is an important and timely topic and the case is well made in this article for
gambling as a public health challenge given the cause of harms to individuals , families,
children and communities.The suggestion to adopt of the socio-ecological model in
understanding gambling related harm and responding through policy which affects the
determinants rather than focussing on the individual is sound and in line with developing
policy . However, little mention is made of the role of the NHS in prevention, relevant
since health policy/systems need to address preventing gambling related harms .
Does the article cover the topic well ?
The article describes the topic well but might also consider a few points which might help
stimulate discussion and debate , which I believe is the purpose of an Analysis article .
Whilst gambling is a word everyone knows it might be helpful to describe what activities
are included in gambling as not everyone will have the same understanding and the
Gambling Commission could be highlighted as a source of further data.
Reference could be made to the patterns of gambling – such as the growth of on line
gambling - and the engagement of sports /media in promoting gambling eg adverts around
the World Cup which drew a lot of recent comment . These are areas which would draw in
people to the realities of why gambling is increasingly harmful.
More mention could be made of the need to protect children in particular .
And whilst this paper provides an excellent analysis of the need for prevention it does not
however suggest how, other than top level policy changes, gambling related harm might
be addressed eg within local government policy or within the NHS . Public health combines
health promotion , health protection and health service provision.The approach of the
authors does not draw sufficiently on the significant unquantified burden on the health
services as part of the case for a public health response and the need for a systems
response by the health service in both and secondary care . Given Britain is being used as
a case study this could include some reference to the document from PHE/LGA “Tackling
gambling related harm – a whole council approach “ and to integration within the

forthcoming publication of the new NHS Long Term Plan . This would nudge toward not just
analysis /acceptance but action on gambling as a public health issue with wide
socioeconomic influences and consequences – i.e. inclusion of gambling within the current
priority areas of mental health and of prevention and allocation of appropriate funding
potentially in England within the public health grant ,which is currently under threat .
Another issue within UK is that of who is responsible for taking such an approach forward .
Even within government in England the DCMS is the responsible department but any action
would need to be initiated with full engagement of the DHSC , not least within the
Prevention priority area , - with similar complex arrangements in the devolved
administrations .One of the challenges in the recent FBOT debate was the role and position
of the Treasury who have been shown to be key to policy making .

Is the case made well through reasoned argument/drawing reasonable inferences from
available data ?
The authors set out to make the case that gambling should be considered as a public
health issue . They draw well on the available inter/national evidence but could make more
of the general lack of evidence resulting from failure to recognise the scale of problems
associated with gambling .
The case for gambling harms being underestimated is well made, as is the association
between gambling and social/health inequalities and also mental ill health and suicide . The
gap which needs further consideration is the role of the NHS in prevention and how this
links to treatment within an overall strategy to reduce gambling related harms .
Will this stimulate discussion , raise debate or air controversies ? Is the opposing view
recognised?
To do this perhaps the tone of the article could be written through to raise with the general
audience of the BMJ [mostly clinicians, I would surmise, many of whom may not recognise
gambling as a factor in their patients well being?] of how is it in 2018 we are not
responding to the age old problems of gambling – known for decades to be associated with
social hardship, mental ill health , family disharmony etc – and how can we address this
gap? More research is needed, more education and explicit service provision integrated
into the mainstream. This will require funding .Some people are doing excellent work – not
least the authors of this paper -but more is needed.
Sian M Griffiths
