Comments to Editor:
Investigating association between sugary beverages and cancer is a valuable research topic.
Only a few prospective cohort studies are available, showing conflicting results. However, for
the current manuscript, the mean age of the study sample is 42 years and the follow up time
is only 5 years, short for cancer outcomes in young age. It is difficult to believe that sugary
beverages lead to development of cancer within 5 years at such young age. Plus, the
consumption level of sugary beverages in the study sample is low, much lower than another
French cohort (national INCA3 survey), 129 ml/d vs 269 g/d. The final study sample is a
selective sample of a highly selective original population. Self-reported diet data as well as
other covariates via web may also have severe reporting bias. Thus, the validity of the
results, generalizability, and public health implications are uncertain. This study will be much
more compelling and reliable when authors have longer follow-up data and more mature
methodology to account for selection bias and measurement error is developed.

Comments to authors:
The authors used a massive French cohort to study the association between sugary
beverages and cancer. This is definitely an understudied nutrition topic. The authors
conducted thoughtful analyses. However, there are a number of concerns listed below that
need to be addressed.
1. How was baseline defined, time at the first dietary recall or the median of all recalls, or
the last recall? This is important given the short follow-up. A sensitivity analysis may be
needed.
2. Please briefly give the validity statistics of the web-based 24 h dietary recalls. The authors
cited the references, but presenting a little more details would be helpful.
3. Soft drinks (or primarily sugar sweetened soda) are the most widely studied sugary
beverage in the literature. It will be valuable to also study soft drinks separately.
4. Sport drinks and energy drinks contain caffeine which has very different health effects
compared to sugar. Suggest removing these two beverages in a sensitivity analysis. Also,
adjusting for coffee and tea consumption may be considered. As people drink more coffee
and tea may drink less sugary beverages. The link between coffee/tea with cancer is clearer
than sugary beverages.

5. Using a restricted cubic spline model or similar kind to display the shape of the association
is more informative, as not all associations are nearly perfectly linear.
6. What’s the total size of the NutriNet-Santé cohort? This is a very selective cohort already.
And the study sample is a selective sample of an originally selective cohort. Providing a table
comparing the characteristics between the original cohort and final analytical sample is
useful. The authors have addressed this as a limitation, but it remains unclear to whom the
study findings can be generalized to.
7. The estimates between sugary beverage-cancer association and sugar-cancer association
are mathematically similar. Also, after adjusting for sugar from sugary beverages, the
associations were no longer significant. These imply sugar is the major nutrient determinant
for the associations. It would be interesting to perform beverage-specific analysis where all
beverages are ranked according to sugar content. A does response relationship may be
expected if the study results are robust and if the hypothesis “sugar cancer” is plausible.
8. Are glycemic index and glycemic load available? If so, the authors are able to test this
mechanistic pathway in modeling.
9. The mean baseline age of the sample was 42 years old. Further, the follow-up was only 5
years. Cancer occurs at such early age is unique etiologically. Many cancers have longer
“latency period”. Could sugary beverages cause cancer in young age within such a short
period, at a relatively low consumption level? Sugary beverages may be just an indicator of
measured or unmeasured carcinogenic risk factors, not the direct or underlying cause.