Summary
A description of the characteristics of patients with COVID-19 admitted to Tongji Hospital
between mid-Jan to Feb 20th 2020, comparing those who died (n=70) with those who
recovered (n=67). The findings were that older people, males and those with more
comorbidities (especially hypertension) were at greater risk of mortality, as were those with
close contact with a confirmed case [check discussion]. Healthcare workers were less likely
to die. There were a range of other factors which did not reach statistical significance but
tended to be higher among those who died, eg diabetes, cardiovascular disease, chronic lung
diseases. In addition, those displaying cough, fatigue and chest symptoms were more likely
to die, and those presenting unconscious were highly at risk, whereas those with myalgia
and diarrhoea were less likely to die. Those who died had significantly longer duration of
disease before being admitted and a worse clinical picture (blood pressure, heart rate,
respiratory rate, oxygen sats).
Those that died suffered more from ARDS, respiratory failure, acute cardiac injury (more in
those without pre-existing disease). About a third of the fatalities had lab findings consistent
with bacterial infection and many had a cytokine storm.
Those who survived were more likely to have been given antivirals and Interferons; those
who died more likely to have had steroids.
But none of the above results were adjusted for any potential confounders eg age, sex,
smoking status, other comorbidities.
They also refer to the more severe end of cases who were transferred here.
Comments
General comments:
1. Some grammatical issues/missing words
2. Would benefit from more sub-headings throughout
3. There are long lists of results; these could be shortened and tables referred to, with some
indication where things could be grouped together or maybe not mentioned in the text at all
(or not in so much depth)
4. Respiratory conditions eg COPD tend to be very under diagnosed in China and therefore
there could be difficulty in assessing their risks
5. Main problem is the lack of adjustment – confounding by age and sex could explain some
of the increased risk amongst those with certain comorbidities
Novelty:
1. Seems to add to the literature in this emerging situation
Abstract:
1. Abstract: needs to state that the aim is to describe and compare the characteristics of
those who died with those who survived
2. Abstract methods: needs to state how people were selected into each group and more
information about the methods of obtaining data and statistical analysis
3. Make clear which conditions were statistically significantly different, and which not
Methods:

1. Smoking status was not reported.
2. What was the status of the remaining 152 patients in the cohort?
3. What was the current diagnostic criteria in brief? Should be briefly described here in the
text.
4. How was mild and moderate severity defined?
Results:
1. Tables should have p values as p<0.001 not 0.000
2. Table 2 needs sub-headings to group the results to make them meaningful to the general
reader
3. The main results section needs more sub-headings and perhaps cut down – at the
moment it is a long list
4. My main worry is the lack of adjustment for confounders. Because of this, we do not know
if those with cardiovascular disease or respiratory disease are truly more at risk; it may be
confounded by age and sex, and to a lesser extent smoking or other comorbidities.
Discussion
1. The likely younger age of healthcare workers is not proposed as an explanation for their
lower mortality rate (but should be).
2. There is no comment about potential confounders here; the analysis is mainly descriptive
but to be sure that certain populations are at high risk (e those with cardiovascular disease),
some adjustment is necessary.
3. A further comment about the lack of generalisability is needed here; this hospital will have
the most severe cases and we need to know more about those with milder disease.
