I thank the authors again for providing a comprehensive response, which I have been through. I assume
they have updated their manuscript accordingly as they stated they have (I haven’t had time to check
this line by line). A few final things:
1) The response to question 3 is interesting, with an updated analysis provided included the updated
follow-up information of participants after the first submission of this article. It is worth adding the
actual results to the paper. I see the authors already mention this updated analysis in the new revision,
so it is merely a case of adding a table (An appendix should be fine for the results).
2) By the way, these new results for 28 days in this table are given as either NE (not evaluable) or
100% (CI 100 to 100). I don’t think a CI of 100 to 100 is sensible to state, and it is unclear why the
results for the HCQ group are NE at 28 days. Explanation is needed below the table.
3) Page 18: please change “The hazard ratio was estimated by the Cox model, which is the higher, the
more rapid the virus negative conversion or symptoms alleviation is” to “The hazard ratio was estimated
by the Cox model, and HRs greater than 1 indicate the rate of virus negative conversion or symptoms
alleviation is higher in the WHICH GROUP compared to OTHER group’ – and of course please define the
groups appropriately.
4) Page 24 – trail should be trial. Actually, if you search for trail, there are 6 occurrences in the article.
These should be replaced with trial.
5) Supplementary Table 1: “Negative conversion rate by the specific time” – this should be “Probability
of negative conversion by the specific time” – also heading should say difference in probabilities not
difference in rates

6) Abstracts: “The median time from randomization to illness onset was 16.6±10.5 days” – I find this
confusing upon re-reading. The participants are already ill upon randomisation, as they have tested
positive, so what illness onset are the authors referring to here?
With best wishes, Richard Riley
