This study of abrupt opioid analgesic cessation in the VA population provides a timely
perspective on the critically important question of suicide and overdose risk following
discontinuation of therapy. The authors benefit from a large sample size and robust data,
and this study has the potential to stand as the analysis of record on this important topic.
The authors point out the “unintended” consequence of OSI policies, even though they do
not explicitly use those words; the findings suggest that interventions be more carefully
assessed. There are some gaps in the methods section which could be filled, and a diagram
of the study design would go a long way to make the paper more readable. Other points,
mostly of clarification, are below. However, the one key weakness is the composite end point
of suicide AND overdose. It seems odd not to at least report these in a descriptive manner
separately.
Introduction is concise and portrays the current concerns and state of research adequately
and in non-judgmental tones.
Methods
6,38: Were codeine cough syrups included? Would those fall under the OSI targets?
6,45: Was methadone maintenance for opioid use disorders included? Was buprenorphine
patch included?
6,52: How was right-censoring handled? If patients continued to receive opioids during
follow-up, could there be a bias in the results?
7,10: What is the lookback period on the covariates measured? 5 years? Index year only?
Other?
7,26: “release” are these dispensing data or prescribing data?
7,31: “prescription data were tracked 5 years backwards”
This is confusing to me. The lookback period is 5 years but the interventions were in the 2
year period? A diagram (maybe in Appendix 1) showing these timelines and possible patient
scenarios would be very helpful to understand study design. It seems that there are different
lookback periods for enrollment (6,26), and a different time period to define mediation use.
Given that the 5 year lookback in the latter cohort would encompass parts of the first, was it
possible for people to appear in both cohorts?
7,51: "The maximum opioid prescription dose“
Was it calculated for a given prescription? Was days supply taken into account or is it based
on quantity dispensed? A little more detail on how this was calculated is warranted for
replicability.
8,54: A little more detail on the NDI linkage is warranted. What record features were used
for matching? Was the matching done previously/separately as per citation #34, or part of
this project?

9,10: SAS - usually the location of the software vendor is also provided.
10,12: “patients in the opioid continuation group…”
Was a days supply washout ("immortal”) period included for these?
10,24: Patient and Public Involvement - The authors should be commended for including this
section.
Results
Table 1: Missingness is appropriately identified. In the methods, it would be beneficial to
mention how these missing data were handled in models.
14, 31: “associated with greater risk for overdose/suicide mortality in both cohorts”
It is unclear what the reference groups are for these findings, and whether these are from
univariate or multivariable models.
Table 3: could be simplified by removing the parameter estimates since these are simply the
non-exponentiated HRs.
15,52: Acronym HR not needed
Figure 1: What is the unit on the horizontal axis? Consider making this chart into two panels
with the different cohorts because the overlapping lines are hard to see. A legend figure
describing which models these outputs are from would be beneficial (e.g., adjustment
variables).
Table 3: Are these fully adjusted models?
I was a little surprised to not see a breakdown between the suicide and overdose composite
outcome. The reason for using a composite endpoint was briefly touched upon, but it seems
odd to not at least present these data. Would the associations, even if under powered, be
different? I also do not see a descriptive count of the number of outcome events.
Discussion
One of the most important findings is the maximum dose analysis, which is buried in the
tables. What is the interpretation of these findings? Does the HR increase for each unit of
MME? If so, the effect (HR 1.38 and 1.42) is very strong. If it should be interpreted a
different way, please describe. This is a critical clinical question to whether high dose opioids
may have a particular risk, as was mentioned at a recent FDA Advisory Committee meeting
on the topic in June. This particular finding may warrant highlighting.
17,31: ”transition periods in opioid therapy”
The authors make a good point here. It piques the curiosity as to what these transition
periods looked like. It seems like the definitions used considered abrupt discontinuation, but
if patients had been tapered prior to their last dispensed opioid, the risk during a putative
transition period from full bore therapy to cessation might be modified depending on the
speed of the taper. This doesn’t appear to have been a quantified outcome, but perhaps the
authors could speak to any observations that would elucidate exposure during pre-cessation
transition periods.
Limitations
The analysis assumed medications were taken as described and no unused medication was
taken after the prescribed period. This should be acknowledged, even if it is a common
limitation.
General Issues

The VA has promoted the use of extended-release naltrexone for patients with opioid use
disorder. Abrupt discontinuation of naltrexone carries a risk of overdose (PMID 30073490
and 31082666) with a time window similar to that observed in this study. Similarly, other
extenuating factors could influence suicide and overdose risk (e.g., benzodiazepines). Some
prescribers may use buprenorphine to taper opioid analgesic patients. Some of these are
theoretically observable in VA data, and might be worth mentioning.
