Dr. Park and colleagues have demonstrated that much of the increase in thyroid cancer incidence in Korea is due to
screening rather than enhanced clinical detection. This paper is very similar to the studies of Davies and Welch (JAMA
2006;295:2164-7) and others which has shown a global increase in thyroid cancer incidence, with much of it due to
use of neck ultrasound and other imaging modalities which pick up incidental nodules. The major advantage of this
study is that the authors reviewed the charts of the patients to find out how the thyroid tumors were discovered,
which makes their conclusions more solid than prior studies. This is a nicely performed and analyzed study and the
conclusions are supported by the data.
I have a few suggestions for the authors to consider:
1. Table I: please provide p-values for differences between groups.
2. Table 1: histologic types--does the decrease in percentage of follicular carcinoma from 1999 (7%) to 2008 (1.8%)
represent a true decrease or does it represent more follicular lesions being called Follicular Variant of Papillary
Carcinoma? This needs a comment.
3. I think that Supplementary Figure 1 should be included in the text.
4. This study emphasizes the need to try and differentiate between indolent tumors and the more aggressive tumors;
otherwise there will be many patients undergoing unnecessary surgeries for tumors that would never have caused
problems. One approach is through the use of molecular markers in the FNA specimens, while another is the active
surveillance of the small papillary carcinomas as described by Ito and colleagues (Ito Y, et al. Thyroid 2003;13:381-7)
as well as others. A brief discussion of this should be added to the Discussion section to allow readers to think about
ways to handle the overdiagnosis issue without sending all patients to surgery.
5. Minor corrections
Pg 12, line 14--remove the first "tumor" from the sentence.
Pg 13, line 52--The sentence starts with "Moreover" but there is no rest of the sentence.
Pg 16, last sentence--should connect with prior sentence and connect with a comma.