
The impact of manufacturer payments to physicians and its impact on prescribing is an important topic. The authors of this
paper use the data from the Open Payments program to compare market share change for marketed versus non-marketed
drugs in two drug classes. Based on the starting assumptions, the analysis is competently done. The primary conclusion is that
the use of payments does lead to a rise in market share. Admittedly, the authors themselves state towards the end "as a
cross-sectional study, we cannot prove the causality that marketing causes prescribing; it is possible that pharmaceutical
companies market in regions where there already is higher prescribing". However, they go on to state that this study would
inform legislative policy. Given this ambitious goal, the authors need to dig deeper into the possibility of causality. Given below
is my major concern on this front.
My prior on how pharmaceutical companies market their drugs is that they make careful choices on what they should market.
If a company chooses to not market a product, a strong reason is that the product is unlikely to find favor with a vast majority
of physicians due to drug-specific reasons. The drugs that they do market might be in a competitive market which requires
actively promoting the product to even hold on to market share. Thus, a more important market share comparison is between
drugs in a class that compete against each other. If two direct competitors increased market share by similar amounts (at the
expense of a non-marketed drug) by investing the same amount of money in physician payments, it is hard to say that the
payments themselves are influencing market share, it may just be the strength of the products. This comparison across
competitors is not that hard to do statistically once the competitive space within the class has been mapped out. Such analysis
would be an important step in shedding some more light on the causal connection. Else making a case for legislative policy
changes based on this study seem tenuous.
Minor issue: the opening line talks about billions of money spent on physician payments. Billions are spent on sales and
marketing but a lot of this goes to sales reps, advertising and samples. What is the exact figure for physician payments? I am
sure it is lower than billions. Further, this data is not that hard to obtain. The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association
(PHRMA) self reports a lot of this data. I encourage the authors to look at varied sources to corroborate their statements.