The topic of self-initiated health interventions (SIIs) is undoubtedly of growing interest. In
a situation where health services are struggling, underfunded or non-existent, low-cost
interventions that can be user-initiated may be an important avenue to explore and
support. But as with all health interventions, there is a series of important dimensions to
be considered to ensure that people's health and rights are protected.
This paper is both welcome and timely. The authors clearly set out the problem: “SIIs are
already in use around the globe and are expanding rapidly with minimal regulation or
guidance.” Then then lay out a conceptual framework (based on work by WHO) which can

be used for elaborating such regulation and guidance, and go on to illustrate how such a
framework works through two concrete examples – unprescribed (medically unmonitored)
self-injection of hormones for people in the process of sex and gender transition, and
self-injection of prescribed hormone treatment of assisted reproduction.
Initially, I was expecting (hoping) that the authors would use more traditional sexual and
reproductive health (SRH) interventions that could be self-initiated, such as those
currently the focus of a WHO on-line survey: self-injection of contraceptives; self-testing
for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV and self-sampling of HPV;
self-management of abortion; accessing information on SRHR on the internet; and
self-monitoring of fertility (see
https://www.iapo.org.uk/news/2018/aug/10/creating-guidelines-self-initiated-intervention
s-sexual-reproductive-health-and.) As I read the paper, however, I believe I understood
why the authors chose less obvious examples: both interventions are similar in nature
(self-injection of hormones) but potentially engaging and affecting different population
groups. The first group (people who are sex/gender transitioning) are often outside the
health system and are frequently stigmatized in society generally, while the situation of
the second group (seeking assisted reproduction) varies enormously depending on
whether assisted reproduction is formally regulated by law, and whether those laws and
regulations restrict access to care for specific populations.
Using the framework of seven relevant human rights – the right to the highest attainable
standard of health, participation, non-discrimination, the right to information, the right to
informed decision.making, the right to privacy and confidentiality, and the right to
accountability – the authors make an eloquent case for what consideration of these rights
implies for making self-initiated interventions available. They draw on a number of studies
to demonstrate the points made in each example, particularly in relation to bad
experiences due to misinformation, discrimination, or lack of access to health services due
to cost. Such situations are well documented and frequent.
The authors make an excellent and clear case for the use of the human rights framework
in this important area. It should be both of interest and of use to all those engaged in the
SRH field. I would like to see the framework made explicit for other areas of SRH, in
particular for self-management of abortion, and self-testing for STIs. The authors make
the point that “a similar analysis of self-sampling for HPV testing, self-injection of DMPA
contraception, or any other SII would potentially raise different concerns than those
highlighted in this example”, and I would encourage the same authors, or others, to do
just that!
Some specific editorial remarks:
Page 1 line 34: I suggest amending as “- to ensure the rapidly intensifying roll-out does
not inadvertently neglect or violate rights or be detrimental to health, but instead”...
Page 4 line 3: phrasing is unclear. I suggest rewording “support a disconnect” to
“contribute to people being disconnected”.
Page 4 line 23/24: for grammatical reasons and ease of reading, I suggest amending to
“will be identified and the kinds of regulations that can be tailored in ways that take their
needs into account in different”...
Page 5 lines 27-33, right-hand column: please check the tenses of the verbs. “57% of
countries surveyed have...” and then 24% did not have...”
Page 5 line 39, right-hand column: “are a concern” is weak. Could it be modified to say
“are likely to have a negative effect on both health and rights”, with the WHO publication
Sexual Health, Human Rights and the Law as a reference?
Page 5, line 40, left-hand column: it would be important to include a comma after
“marginalization”, other it's confusing and difficult to read.
Page 6 line 42, right-hand column: I suggest adding the word “even”, thus: “relationships
even in countries such as the United States”... in order to emphasize the point that even
where protective laws are in place, this does not necessarily eliminate provider bias.

Page 6 line 53-54, sentence beginning “In Malaysia”: I suggest adding “for example” after
In Malaysia, otherwise it sounds blunt and as though this is the only country where gender
identity is generally unrecognized and not accepted.
Page 8 lines 9-11, left-hand column: use of the word “client” jars, especially because
everywhere else the authors refer to “users”. “Client” implies a certain consumer
relationship which I believe should be questioned. The complete sentence could be
reworded to read (from line 5): “Low health worker knowledge along with discriminatory
attitudes can impede their willingness to discuss hormone use with transgender people or
those who are transitioning, which might drive them to procure hormones elsewhere. This
curtails users' ability to make informed decisions about their treatment options.”