Thank you for the opportunity to review this compelling manuscript. It is a call to arms for
the health care community to mobilize and address the climate crisis. This manuscript has
many strengths as an editorial insofar as it is persuasive, cogent and offers a clear set of
suggestions for readership. However, this manuscript has a number of weaknesses and
challenges which need to be addressed in order for the suggestions to be meaningful to
the international clinician audience of the BMJ. General comments are below and include
examples from the manuscript where these comments apply.
- the authors describe 'health services' and 'health system' in general terms, but when
drawing from examples are only using the NHS. For example, there are general
statements such as 'Most health systems and professionals now consider environmental
sustainability ...' (line 55, page 1) but it is unclear what basis this statement is made
from. This paper would be more clear if the authors highlighted the journey of the NHS in
advancing sustainability and then reframed the paper as offering lessons from this journey
for other health care systems.
- the paper often uses very prescriptive language and while this is a challenge generally
when discussing the climate crisis and future impact it is not phrased in a particularly
scientific fashion , and should have some data or supporting evidence presented to
support these statements (eg line 3, page 6) 'If human civilization is survive in the
Anthropocene, there is an absolute imperative that health and social care services, along
with the rest of the economy, must become carbon neutral.' Another example of this is the
opening paragraph in lines 10-17 on page 1. Some data to substantiate the description in
this powerful paragraph would make it more compelling and convincing to readers.
- the paper reads as somewhat naïve to the complex and challenging current political
climate, including both Brexit in the UK and the rise of world leaders who are not
supportive of scientific evidence around the climate crisis and in fact are rolling back
climate protections and legislation. Not addressing this complex political reality is a blind
spot of the paper. How does health care and health services aiming to reduce their impact
on climate fit within this climate? (eg. page 2 line 51 discussion of supply chain in England
and page 4 paragraph starting line 20-47 on role of government)
- The papers central thesis to me seems to be focused on the role of health services and
health care professionals to be active leaders and voices to advance sustainability but the
paper neglects the role of the public in this and what role patients and the public can play
to advance this. For example the paragraph starting with line 8-24 on page 3 highlights
carbon impact of health care providers staff travelling. What about patient travel? What
about telemedicine? Are there innovative, carbon neutral or carbon-minimizing approaches
that focus on the patient? Can patients be involved in co-designing these? The paper
convincingly argues that professional leadership is needed, but how patients and the
public can co-design or advance these changes need to be further developed.
- Similarly to the above, page 7 lines 40-48 present a complex and challenging scenario
where stopping carbon intensive health care interventions is an imperative in order to
reduce emissions. What role would patients and consumers play in terms of advancing
acceptability of these changes? To date, there has been deep public concern regarding
rationing at the bedside to reduce costs, and some considerations of public acceptability

regarding rationing at the bedside to reduce emissions is needed in the paper to make
arguments more substantive.
- The paper briefly alludes to waste related to overtreatment and overprescribing but
offers no examples of this. (line 13 page 3) Suggest substantiating on how resource
stewardship and reducing overuse are aligned, or else remove.
Thank you again for the opportunity to review this manuscript and I hope that my
comments and suggestions are useful for the authors and editors.
