This is a very interesting original paper, which explores an emergent social and heatlh
paradigm: the measure a and approach to patients with multiple chronic conditions and
multimorbidity. Its scope , centered in the patients, and not in any "protagonist" disease is
also a success.
.
Methodological aspects are powerful and correct, and the methods, results, discussion and
conclusions are coherent and easy to read.
.
I have THREE major concerns and some minor suggestions.
.
THE MAJOR CONCERNS:
1. In the data collection process Authors state, that TWO independent investigators revised
throughtfully all pre-selected indices. Then, the consistency of extracted items was
compared and any differences were resolved by discussion and reference to the original
paper. How? I mean, if the opinions were divergent, how was this 'conflict' solved?. In
other similar studies authors worked with THREE independent experts in order to better
solve discrepancies (consensus was defined when 2 or the 3 experts shared the same
opinion). Probably this very original has been sent to an odd number of reviewers for the
same reason.
Authors should explain this decision, or reconsider this issue.
.

2. In data items authors have included Mental Health as comorbidity and or outcome. This
is a very important and 'milestone' variable of their work. Nevertheless, in this section it is
vaguely and poorly explained and defined. Only in the lasts sections of Results can the
reader have an idea of what authors consider for Mental Health. I suggest to clearly define
this nuclear point ( for example 'Mental Health was defined as consignation of delirium,
cognitive, affective or psychotic disorders'....).
.
3. All authors have a notorious scientific trajectory in epidemiological, clinimetric, and
mental health investigations. Nevertheless, when analyzing multimorbidity indices the
point of view of clinicians who manage with patients with multimorbidity, chronicity and
age-related diseases is of extreme value. I was surprised when I did not find any
geriatrician, internal medicine or family physician specialist in the list of authors. This could
be a weakness , that authors should explain.
.
The minor suggestions:
- In Results Section, lines 16-17: "The screening process is presented in a PRISMA
diagram, Error! Reference source not found…". Please fit.
- In Results Section, PRISMA diagram is not referred in the text as Figure 1, there is no
Figure legend, and left boxes have moved, and are hardly legible.
- Figure 2 is very interesting, but hardly legible. ¿Could be letter size a little bit bigger?