The issues raised in the paper are relevant and important to patients and the public as open disclosure
being undertaken by health providers is crucial to transparency and patient-centred care when harm
occurs to a patient and/or their family member. Apologising and factually acknowledging that harm has
occurred by health care providers is important to patient trust and wellbeing and the patient-provider
relationship.
The paper is an important discussion on the issue of the extent of what an apology consists of and how
apology laws legally enable an apology and how this is occurs in practice. The paper appears to assume
a prior level of knowledge on open disclosure by the reader. The paper could be strengthened by
providing the reader with greater clarity of the open disclosure/duty of candour process, the integral part
of apology/expression of regret in open disclosure together with communicating the known facts of the
harm that has occurred to a patient.
Some of the statements made in the paper do appear to be 'broad brush' and not backed by evidence.
Some counties apology laws, such as Australia, have been altered and aligned to ensure that the
provision of an apology does not infer an admission of liability in legal proceedings.
The arguments (on legal protection of elements other than contained within an apology) such as the
factual elements could be presented in an itemised way and supported with a key point summary as to
the authors views and support of the arguments of 1. perceived understanding of what constitutes an
apology, 2. what is protected, 3. focused in-depth education on the topic 4. change to laws.
Further discussion and a more detailed evidence and balanced explanation of statements made for the
reader to gain clarity of the argument and the opportunities for further research/next steps would be
supportive.
The paper could be further enhanced by providing examples of where duty of candour has reduced legal
action and thereby illustrate the intent of candour/open disclosure that is to provide a person-focused
approach foremost.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Stephanie Newell
Job Title: Consultant
Institution: None
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/declaration-co
mpeting-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare them here: No

Reviewer: 4
Recommendation:
