The authors conducted a systematic review of clinical trials that tested the hypothesis that genetic risk
information can be used to motivate behavior change. This is an excellent and timely review of a topic in
which there needs to be greater recognition. There has been persistent enthusiasm for the role of genetic
risk testing to change patient behaviors without enough acknowledgement that risk information (of any
type) is rarely sufficient to motivate patients to change difficult behaviors such as unhealthy eating,
insufficient exercise, or smoking. This review does an excellent job of gathering all existing trials and
demonstrating the limited to lack of impact of genetic risk testing for these challenging behavior changes.
A thorough review and explicit screening process yielded 18 clinical trials. The authors did an excellent job
of framing the research issue in the introduction, the methods appear robust, and the data presentation is
clear. The worthwhile review updates a prior Cochrane review from 2010 that more than doubles the
number of trials.
My primary conern, discussed in more detail below, is the authors' narrow principle message that further
research is needed.
Minor points:
1) P12: clarify what sub-group was analyzed in the Alzheimer study.
3) P14: Clarify what “This” refers to (as written, it sounds like it refers to the studies with low summary
risk, which is not the authors intent).
“Only four of the 18 studies were considered to have a low summary risk of bias, having met all of the
specified criteria 32 36-38. This reflected both a lack of clarity in reporting…” Could say “Studies not
meeting low summary risk of bias lacked clarity in reporting…etc”
4) P18: “While the results of the current review are strongly suggestive of, at most, small effects on health
behaviours, there is currently insufficient high-quality research evidence to be able to be confident of this
for each individual behaviour included in the review. This would require additional, better designed and
conducted trials.”
Additional large trials are probably not necessary given the weight of the evidence, and thus the discussion
can be more nuanced. There are significant costs associated with conducting larger and larger research
studies to chase after what is certainly a small (if any) effect, and the cost of genetic testing solely for risk
assessment to guide behavior change is also an unnecessary cost burden to patients and care systems.
Patients who smoke know they need to quit; overweight patients with diabetes know they need to change
their lifestyles. Research and care delivery investments should be going towards identifying more effective
ways of motivating behavior change, not chasing down more genetic testing options. Based on this
assessment, I strongly disagree with the conclusion: “the principal implication for research is that data
from better quality randomised controlled trials are needed”