This is an umbrella review of systematic reviews with meta-analyses of
prospective observational studies and randomized controlled trials on dietary intakes
of patterns, foods, and nutrients and risk of type 2 diabetes. This review was done
in a careful and comprehensive fashion and the findings can have important clinical
and public health implications and for developing evidence-based nutritional
guidelines.
The authors mixed data from prospective cohort studies and RCTs. Because the
evaluation of study quality and data interpretation are different between the two
types of studies. it would be helpful to conduct separate reviews for them. Of note,
several RCTs included in the review analyzed T2D as a secondary outcome rather
than a primary outcome.
In the abstract, the authors emphasized the findings for whole grains, cereal fiber,
red meat, processed meats, and SSBs. However, other findings such as healthy
eating patterns and coffee consumption are also very robust and the quality of the
evidence is similar.
The data on fruit juices and T2D risk are confusing. There are several items on fruit
juices (100% fruit juices, fruit juices, and fruit juices with added sugars). It is
unclear how these items were differentiated in the original studies.
The authors indicated that there was no significant association between nut
consumption and risk of T2D. However, previous meta-analyses on this topic
examined this association with and without adjustment for BMI. The association was
significant before BMI adjustment. One interpretation is that part of the association
between nut consumption and risk of T2D was mediated through body weight. It is
important for the authors to capture nuances of these associations.
In terms of omega-6 fatty acids, the authors should focus on linoleic acid, which is
the main type of omega-6. A recent pooled analysis found a robust inverse
association between LA biomarker and incident T2D (Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol.

2017 Dec;5(12):965-974. doi: 10.1016/S2213-8587(17)30307-8. Epub 2017 Oct
12). This study should be included.
Regarding fish/long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, previous meta-analyses have found
ethnic/racial/geographic differences. Studies conducted in Asian populations tend to
find an inverse association, whereas studies in North America tends to find a slight
positive association. Therefore, the overall association would be null when studies
from Asian and North American cohorts were combined.
This review found a positive association between consumption of artificially
sweetened beverages and risk of T2D. This association needs to be interpreted with
caution because of the reverse causation problem. Typically the association was
attenuated after adjustment for baseline BMI and metabolic diseases. The authors
should include meta-analyses results with and without adjustment for these
variables.
