This study evaluated the effects of ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption and mortality
in a cohort of Spanish adults. This is an interesting report and consistent with findings in
larger cohorts. However, the number of observed deaths was also not large and the
estimated 95%CI are wide. I also think the potential for residual confounding is quite large
(especially since some key confounders are often difficult to measure). There are several
aspects of this paper that I have questions about, which are outlined below:
1.
What is the distribution of missing values for the cohort? The authors cite that
missing values were set “as if they did not present the condition”
2.
Individuals who consumed more UPF were more likely to be smokers and were less
likely to participate in physical activity. Did the authors complete an analysis restricted to
non-smokers? It seems (as in the French Study which evaluated processed food
consumption and cancer risk) that individuals with higher levels of UPF were more likely to
be smokers. Analyses excluding individuals with depression at baseline could also be
considered.
3.
Another weakness is the consideration of only confounders at baseline? Do the
authors have any data on how the set of confounders considered (or diet) changed over
follow-up)? I think the lack of consideration for time-varying confounders is important.
Furthermore, while the tests for proportionality of hazards was not less than 0.05, results
were a bit marginal. It would be good to know what the HR was <median follow-up vs.
>=median follow-up – were they largely different?
4.
Perhaps more analyses could be presented that demonstrate that the foods
contributing to the UPF are also associated with mortality in this cohort.

5.
What’s the correlation between the Mediterranean diet score and UPF levels? The
difference in score between top vs. bottom quartiles of UPF is not very large.
Minor comments:
1.
It seems that Tables 1 and 2 could be combined ( I do not think the cumulative R2
is adding anything to this – these foods constitute the UPF, so of course the cumulative R2
will increase)
2.
Figure 2 is largely repetitive of what’s described in the table (and also not very
convincing).
