First of all, I wish to thank the Editors for giving me the opportunity to review for the BMJ.
In this interesting metaanalysis, the authors examined the effect of sotagliflozin, the
first-in class dual SGLT1/2 inhibitor, on glycemic and nonglycemic outcomes and on
hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes (T1DM): compared with placebo, sotagliflozin improved
glycemic outcomes (both "traditional" and Continuous Glucose Monitoring parameters) and
nonglycemic outcomes (including body weight, diabetic nephropathy, and blood pressure)
and reduced the incidence of hypoglycemic and severe hypoglycemic events. Sotagliflozin
treatment was associated with an increased incidence of diabetic ketoacidosis, genital
infections and diarrhea, but not of urinary tract infections.
Overall, this well-conducted, thoughtfully, timely relevant meta-analysis brings out novel,
clinically important effects of sotagliflozin, which were not disclosed by recent individual
phase 3 trials. Due to the absolute clinical relevance of new information and the rigorous
methodology, this paper is likely to be highly valued, attract much attention, impact
decision making by regulatory authorities (starting March 2019 the application for this drug
for T1DM will be examined by FDA and EMA) and inform International Scientific guidelines,
eventually helping clinicians and patients manage T1DM. Additionally, this article opens
several new venues for future clinical research on SGLT inhibitors.
I scored each item reported below using the following scale: 1 (unsatisfactory/strongly
disagree); 2 (fair); 3 (good); 4 (very good/agree); 5 (excellent/strongly agree).

Item A. Originality: does the work add enough to what is already in the published
literature? If so, what does it add? If not, please cite relevant references.
5/5: yes the work adds valuable new information to existing literature. The timeliness of
this article is outstanding, as it is the first metaanalysis on sotagliflozin, occurring soon
after publication of the cornerstone phase 3 trials and several months before the
regulatory agencies FDA and EMA will examine the application of this novel drug for T1DM
treatment.
This rationale for this metaanaysis is strong and lies in the largely unmet therapeutic need
of T1DM patients. The prevalence of T1DM is rising and the treatment of these patients,
relying on injectable insulins, is largely unsatisfactory: T1DM patients achieve glycemic
targets in less than 33% of cases and are encumbered by insulin-related unwanted effects,
including weight gain and, most of all, hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia is of greatest concern
in insulin-treated patients and seems the unsurmountable obstacle to optimal glycemic
control in T1DM (joint ADA and Endocrine Society report, Diabetes Care 2013; 36:
1384-95). Severe hypoglycemia, in particular, remains a major unresolved clinical
problem, as it adds substantial direct and indirect costs to diabetes (J Med Econ.
2016;19:1099-1106;Eur Endocrinol. 2018;14:50-56), can precipitate acute CVD and
neurocognitive impairment and is an independent predictor of adverse vascular and

nonvascular outcomes and death (N Engl J Med 2014;371:1972–1982; Diabetologia
2018;61:58–65; N Engl J Med 2009; 360: 129-39; Diabetes Care 2018; doi:
10.2337/dc18-1144; N Engl J Med 2008; 358: 2545–2559; N Engl J
Med.2010;363:1410-8).
On this basis, International Scientofic Associations concluded that “even a 10-20%
reduction in severe hypoglycemia by a new drug, device, or management strategy would
represent a clinically important improvement over exhisting therapies” (Diabetes Care
2013; 36: 1384-1395; Diabetes Care 2005; 28: 1245-49)
Unfortunately,to date none of the novel drugs recently approved for T2DM (including
incretin analogues and SGLT2 inhibitors) and seeking an indication for T1DM reduced
hypoglycemic risk, which is either unaffected or increased by these drugs.
Within this landscape, this meta-analysis has the remarkable merit of disclosing a reduced
incidence of hypoglycemic and severe hypoglycemic events with sotagliflozin added to
insulin as compared with placebo in T1DM patients. This novel finding will likely impact the
efficacy and safety analysis of this drug, aid decision making of regulatory agencies and
policymakers, and help general clinicians and patients manage T1DM.
Beside the effect on hypoglycemia, this metaanalysis disclosed further novel effects of this
drug in T1DM patients, not emerged in single RCTs.
Renoprotection is another interesting effect of sotagliflozin, disclosed by this analysis of
pooled trials: while renoprotection of SGLT2 inhibitors has been well documented in
T2DM, the impact of SGLT2 inhibitors on renal disease progression in T1DM patients
remains to be addressed.
Pooled data analysis disclosed also a dose-response relationship for renal and glycemic
outcomes, but not for unwanted effects of sotagliflozin, a novel finding which will help
select the optimal therapeutic dose of this drug. It is also remarkable that pooled data
analysis allowed to exclude with sufficient precision and consistency the risk of urinar tract
infections, which was increased by SGLT2 inhibitors. A plausible explanation for this
difference has been discussed by the authors.
Lastly, another relevant finding of this metaanalysis is the association of the incidence of
DKA with the magnitude of basal insulin reduction. Both SGLT2 inhibitors and sotagliflozin
are associated with similar rates of DKA, suggesting a common pathogenic milieu. This is
the first systematic review trying to identify factors predisposing to DKA associated with
the use of SGLT inhibitors. With due caution imposed by the limitations of
meta-regression, the association of DKA with basal insulin reduction would serve as a
warning sign for clinicians and patients on SGLT inhibitors against excessive basal insulin
reduction and would prompt development of definite protocols for insulin dose
down-titration during treatment with these drugs. These clinical and research implications
are adequately discussed by the authors.
•Item B. Importance of work to general readers:does this work matter to clinicians,
patients, teachers, or policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
5/5: yes, the topic is absolutely relevant for BMJ Readers. This meta-analysis would
provide clinically relevant information for the whole scientific community, currently
concerned with the lack of effective and safe adjunct therapies to insulin for T1DM. The
costs of novel drugs and technologies for diabetes treatment can only be justfied by steps
forward in efficacy and safety. This metaanalysis substantiates with rigorous methodology
the evidence from individual trials and adds novel, clinically relevant information into the
efficacy and safety of the novel SGTL1/2 inhibitor sotagliflozin. Hence, it would assist
regulatory authorities and policy makers in assessing the benefit/risk balance of this drug
and clinicians and patients in T1DM management.
Overall, the paper is well written and I think the BMJ would be an adequate place fot this
paper after appropriate revision by the authors.

• Item C. Scientific reliability:

5/5.The methods used in this metaanalysis are accurate and the quality of the evidence at
the study level and at the outcome level is high.
The low heterogeneity suggests both consistency of drug effect and careful selection of
studies; similarly, the size of included population and the number of events are sufficiently
large to reach the optimal information size for assessed outcomes and measure effect size
with adequate precision.
Collectively, these features confer robustness and reliablity to this paper.
•Item D. Research Question: clearly defined and appropriately answered?
4/5: Yes the research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered. The different
outcomes were defined according to current guidelines. Concerning hypoglycemia, the
authors rightfully focused on overall hypoglycemia (blood glucose<70 mg/dL) and on
severe hypoglycemia (not defined by a specific glucose value, but denoting cognitive
impairment, requiring external assistance for recovery and often hospitalization). The
choice of separately assessing these 2 outcomes is clinically justified and informative, the
criteria do follow current recommendations on defining and reporting hypoglycemia
(Diabetes Care 2013; 36: 1384-95; Diabetres care 2017, 40: 1631-40) and were
consistent across all included trials. Some explanation, however, would help general
clinicians understand the different clinical meaning of the 2 outcomes (see Item I). Also
some clarification on the meaning and clinical implications of the continuous glucose
monitorig metrics, like time-in-range, would ease understanding by general audience.

•Item E. Overall design of study:adequate?
5/5: the overall design of the study is adequate, and the flow of analysis with quality
assessment of the evidence is plain. The subgroup analyses are also informative and
clearly designed to respond to relevant clinical questions.
Regarding glycemic outcomes, the evidence is substantiated by a thorough analysis of
both “traditional” glycemic goals (i.e., HbA1c, fasting and postprandial glycemia) and of
Continuous Glucose Monitoring metrics, recently set by international consensus as a
standard of care for T1DM (Diabetes Care 2017;40:1631–1640) and approved by FDA for
T1DM (see ref 14 of the metaanalysis). Hence, the inclusion of CGM metrics, which are
rapidly spreading in general practice, adds strength to the conclusions of the paper.

• Item F. Participants studied: adequately described and their conditions defined?
5/5. Yes the main RCTs are adeuqately described.
• Item G. Methods-adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg
CONSORT for randomised trials ?Ethical ?
5/5: yes the metaanalysis complies with PRISMA reporting checklist and ethical
standards.The inclusion of a GRADE SoF Table enables also interpretation of results at the
outcome level and is a strength of this paper.
• Item H. Results- answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
4/5. The paper is overall well presented and well written. The assessed outcomes were
clearly described in the Methods section and in online Appendix.
I only have 2 minor suggestions to improve the quality of presentation:
-The Forest plots are so much detailed that they are almost unreadable: consider removing
nonessential information from the plots.
-currently, there is one long GRADE SoF Table reporting well over 7 outcomes and 3
subheadings (glycemic findings, nonglycemic findings, and adverse outcomes). I agree
they are all clinically relevant outcomes and should be reported, but condensing them all in

one Table may not adequately draw the readers’attention to each outcome. Hence I
suggest splitting this Table into 3 separate SoF Tables for each type of outcome.
• Item I. Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived
from/focused on the data? Message clear?
3/5:several aspects of the Discussion need improvement to make the messages clearer
for a general readership.
In general, the discussion should be more focused to place the results into the context of
what is already known, and more specifically, of the novel aspects of sotagliflozin as
compared with SGLT2 inhibitors and other adjunctive therapies proposed for T1DM.
Putative mechanisms of hypoglycemia reduction, in particular, should e discussed more in
depth: how/why does sotagliflozin reduce hypoglycemia, while SGLT2 inhibitors do not?
Is it just total insulin dose reduction or could lower glycemic variability play a role?
Intriguingly, a reduced glycemic variability and bolus insulin dose with sotagliflozin are two
novel findings of the metaanalysis. Could hypoglycemia reduction be attributable to
sotagliflozin-mediated peculiar inhibition of SGLT1-mediated intestinal glucose absorption,
which limits postprandial glucose excursions? Lower postprandial and day-to-day glycemic
swings reduce the need for bolus insulin corrections and the attendant hypoglycemic
glucose falls (see Monnier L, et al. Diabetes Care 2017;40:832–8). Thus this drug would
also make insulin dose more stable and ease self-management of insulin dosing.These
comments would be interesting for the general physician, too.
For the outcome overall hypoglycemia (blood glucose<70 mg/dL), the authors chose to
evaluate the rate of hypoglycemic events (events per patient-year) rather than comparing
the number of patients who had at least one hypoglycemic event. This choice is consistent
with international recommendations and is clinically justified (Diabetes Care 2005; 28:
1245-49; Diabetes Care 2013; 1384-95, referenced in the text): differently from T2DM,
episodes of mild hypoglycemia are frequent in T1DM (it could be said that every T1DM
patient experiences at least 1 such episode within few weeks) and self-managed. While
one isolated episode of mild hypoglycemia does not have per se major clinical
consequences, its recurrence impairs counterregulatory mechanisms and hypoglycemia
awareness, determines significant disability, costs, affects quality of life, and prevents
optimal glucose control. Hence, the rate of recurrence of overall hypoglycemic events
(severe and non-severe) has far more clinical relevance rather than knowing if a patient
has had at least one mild hypoglycemic event during the treatment period (EurEndocrinol.
2018;14(2):50-56; Prim Care Diabetes. 2014;8:3-11; J Diabetes Comp. 2018;32:373–8;
Diabetes Care. 1992;15:518–21; Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010;8:18; J MedEcon.
2013;16:1453–61).
Conversely, severe hypoglycemia is less frequent than mild hypoglycemia, but each
episode can result in significant morbidity, mortality and costs (Diabetes Care. 2013
May;36(5):1384-95; Diabetes Care. 2017;40:1631–40). Hence, comparing patients who
had at least one severe hypoglycemic event with those who never had does have clinical
relevance.
The general readership, however, may not be familiar with this concepts and may be
confused by the authors’choice: hence, the authors need to explain in the Methods
orDiscussion section the rationale beyond their choice.
Lastly, a final summary statement on what this paper adds to existing literature, on its
limitations (already acknowledged in the abstract and Discussion) , on what the authors
think would be the place of this drug in the current therapeutic scenario and on issues to
be solved by future research should be included.
•Item j References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
5/5: yes the references are uptodate, clinically relevant and adeuqte to put this paper into
prospective. I would suggest mentioning in the Introducion or Discussion the recently
released joint EASD/ADA 2018 guidelines for T2DM management.
• Item l. Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds- reflect accurately what
the paper says?

3/5: although the abstract and key messages reflect the overall content of the paper, in
their current form they do not sufficiently highlight the key novel findings of this analysis,
which could be overlooked by a general audience.
