This is an impressive manuscript with authors from several institutions in 6 countries from 4 continents:
Australia, New Zealand, The Netherlands, China, United Kingdom and The United States. The analysis even
included non-english language papers that are often excluded for the convenience of the authors.
The important main message for clinicians reading BMJ is that compared to the most widely used standard
first line treatment of ovulation induction, which is clomiphene citrate, you may use either letrozole or a
combination of clomiphene and metformin. This conclusion is tested though appropriate sub-analysis
looking at for instance treatment naïve patients – and letrozole continued to be associated with higher live
birth rates than clomiphene alone or metformin. Secondly the profile, in terms of multiple pregnancies, is
favorable. Is this conclusion clinically important? Yes indeed, millions of anovulatory infertile patients have
been treated with clomiphene for the last 45 years. The present analysis may call for a chance of this

approach.
One minor reservation. The aims have been to make a very comprehensive (Network) analysis. It you look
at the studies, those on TAM, FSH and LOD are indeed few ….you may argue that the value of this
“Network analysis” may add very little… why make such advanced analysis and statistics when the number
of studies are 1,2 and 4 on those treatment modalities. Without the “Network analysis” the conclusions
would probably have been the same. Anyway, it is complete and comprehensive. Good.
The paper is of general relevance also for BMJ readers, it deals with an important and often discussed area
of medicine that extends beyond fertility specialists. The paper is well written and the text and discussion is
appropriately short – due to the extensive referral to supplementary tales and figures.
The title includes the phrase: Network meta-analysis … I can read what it is in the text, but there may be
clinicians like me who are not familiar with that concept. Why not chance the title to include the phrase:
“multiple treatment comparison meta-analysis”
Page 11, as I read it 8 papers were only available from published abstracts. According to Figure 1 it states
“full text articles”. Were the abstracts included in the analysis or not? It is not clear, so clarify please.
Fig 2 a,b,c,d and e. A lot of space is used to present graphically the “Network plots”. As I see this it simply
shows that most studies are on clomiphene, metformin and letrozole, so to present 5 figures it not
appropriate. I would let the figures be presented as supplementary material.
In the discussion the off-label used of letrozole is discussed and references are given to such off-label use.
I It should be added that off-label use in one issue, another is that in for instance Denmark use of letrozole
for ovulation induction or IVF is explicitly prohibited by the Health Authorities, except if used in GCP
approved clinical trial.
The superiority of letrozole versus clomiphene in terms of live birth rates does not seem to be related to a
decreased miscarriage rate. At least the data showed no differences in miscarriage rates between the
different treatment modalities. I would add in the discussion a few lines on miscarriages rates, as this issue
is often discussed, in PCOS patients which will be the majority of the included type WHO type II patients.
In the discussion section I would abbreviate the methodological aspects that are presently 4 full pages.
(Considering the extensive documentation given in all the supplementary data).
There is no discussion of safety aspects on letrozole. Why is the drug prohibited in some countries? What is
the problem with off-label use? Please refer to the papers earlier published after the debate on Letrozole
safety.
I have made this review with the reservation, that I am not an expert on meta-analysis methodology.
Others may evaluate such aspects.
Anders Nyboe Andersen