This study evaluated whether calorie labeling is associated with a change in calories
purchased per transaction by conducting a quasi-experimental longitudinal study. This is an
interesting and important topic, given that fact that Americans currently eat and drink about
one-third of their calories away from home, and rates of child and adult obesity in the U.S.
are at historic highs. The study found that calorie labeling was associated with a small
decrease in calories purchased following implementation in a large franchise of fast-food
restaurants, but this reduction diminished over one year of follow-up. The authors have
conducted the analysis as I would have.
Here are some minor comments:
Introduction: I would expect to read some information about how reduction in calories would
affect human health.
Line 88: it would be more informative if the exact numbers were given regarding the obesity
rates.
Methods: It was unclear if these restaurants have information on regular menu and kids’
menu. It would be interesting and more informative if the authors could give results for
adults and kids separately.
Is there any information about why these restaurants labelled the menu for only one week?
Results: it will be better if the authors could provide some information about how the
reduction in calories varied by such as regions, seasons, etc.
Discussion:
Calories of the order are not necessarily equal to calories consumed by the individuals. This
need to be listed as one of the limitations.
Line 270: please give numbers and reference.
Lines 287-290: please give references.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Yangbo Sun
Job Title: Postdoctoral research scholar
Institution: University of Iowa
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here: none

Reviewer: 2

