This well-written paper addresses a an interesting question: whether duty hour reforms
were associated with poorer outcomes for physicians who graduated under the newer
(more lenient) duty hour rules. Overall, the authors find no association. In addition to
being interesting in its own right, this question (and the authors'. findings) have first-order
implications for policy and medical education, particularly since concerns about the quality
of training were (and perhaps remain?) part of the objection against these changes. Most
studies of duty hour reform have primarily focused on its impact on the performance of
residents themselves; this paper extends the issue by examining what happens when
these residents graduate and become attendings--an interesting and important facet, since
few residents stay residents forever. The authors' empirical approach is a careful and
creative one that minimizes confounding, which is important because we are extremely
unlikely to have a RCT examining this issue. An additional strength is the use of national
data to ensure generalizability. This paper would be an appropriate match for the Annals of
Internal Medicine audience, with a few revisions:
1). Could the authors consider a sensitivity analysis that examines physicians who are a
little further out of residency (e.g., 2-3 years).
2) In addition, the paper defines the post-reform cohort as those who finished residency
after 2006. As the reforms began in 2003, there are three groups: (1) those who finished
residency prior to 2003, who were 100% under the old rules, (2) those who finished after
2006, who are 100% under the new rules, and (3) the "in-betweeners", those who finished
between 2003 and 2006, and who were under the old AND new rules. The baseline
specification counts the "in-betweeners" as the being in the pre-reform group, which has
facial validity, but it would be useful to have some sensitivity analyses examining alternate
ways of treating the "in-betweeners"
3). My memory escapes me, but I believe at some point the ACGME instituted an additional
reform: in addition to the 80 hour work week, it forbade interns from staying in the
hospital for 24 hours at a time; and then it relaxed this rule more recently. I'm not sure
about the timing of this reform and whether it would have affected any of the trainees in
this sample (I think the changes happened at the very end of the period), but perhaps
worth a look/mention.
4). One strength of the authors' approach is the use of hospital fixed effects to further
adjust for time-invariant, unobserved hospital-level factors (e.g., quality of RNs and
administrators, unobserved patient population characteristics) that could bias their results.
It would be helpful to more explicitly make this point
5). Finally, it's worth pointing out in the conclusions/limitaitons that similar concerns have
been raised for the surgical specialties, but that this may be a harder question to examine
given the longer--and more variable (i.e., many surgery residencies "encourage" their
residents to add a few research years)--residency time period for our surgical colleagues.
