This was a very well written and well-argued report. I think it will add an important dimension to the
debate over high drug prices and Hep C treatments in particular. It is both nicely balanced in its
understanding of the importance of the drug for patients and devastatingly convincing in its explanation of
how the late-stage acquisition process contributes to the problem.
I felt like the paper was weakest when it came to the end and the 'ways forward.' Other than pointing out
the problem (a major feat), the authors should be prodded to brainstorm some potential solution,
understanding that the prospect of transparency in R&D expenditures is unlikely to be implemented with
much success or change much. I always find ending papers with a call for more research to be a bit anticlimactic. I would rather the authors condense some of the lead-up and give themselves a 500-1000 words
on steps forward, and if not specific steps, then at least ideas about where in the marketplace solutions
would come from.
I didn't follow the pg 6 "eye on the external world" quote, since it seemed at odds with the discussion
following -- that Gilead actually used much of the money on stock buybacks, not other acquisitions. Have
there been other late-stage acquisitions as well?
Are there dissenting voices out there that should be mentioned? I have heard that, at the time, some in the
investment community thought Gilead's acquisition of Pharmasset was foolhardy. I don't believe that, given
the positive P2 trials that the drug already showed, but it might be worthwhile to seek out and
acknowledge opinions like that (if they exist) that might mitigate the thrust of the argument. Trying to
identify what those who would disagree with this vantage point would say, and how to counter those
responses, would make the thesis stronger.
It might also be worthwhile to point out (briefly) the market features of the US system that allowed Gilead
to get away with its much higher price for sofosbuvir and enable the corporate strategies that you outline in
the paper. Then, at the end, you could discuss how alterations to those features could (or could not) work
to address the issue.