This is the report of a multicenter randomized controlled trial comparing ongoing pregnancy beyond 8th
gestational week following fresh or elective frozen blastocyst transfer in women who had regular
menstrual cycles. The agent for triggering oocyte maturation was also different between the two groups,
i.e. hcg vs GnRH agonist, respectively. Thus, the trial compares two different strategies; hcg trigger +
fresh blastocyst transfer (more or less the standard of care) vs agonist trigger + elective blastocyst
transfer. The authors report similar clinical outcome in all domains, effectivess, safety of women and
off-spring in the two groups, except for time to pregnancy/delivery. They conclude that elective frozen
blastocyts transfer is not indicated in women with regular menstrual cycles. The authors should be
commended for partaking such a large and relevant randomized trial. As stated in the introduction, the
study addresses a gap in the literature as former trials included different populations and employed
different strategies, i.e. cleavage stage embryo transfer, hcg trigger in frozen transfers etc.
I think the paper should be eventually published in the BMJ.
I have a few queries before publication;
Most causes of ART failure were listed as exclusion criteria, however, were women with hydrosalpinges
excluded. Especially given the fact that some participants had their transfers postponed due to fluid in
uterine cavity? Likewise men requiring TESA were excluded, I assume men requiring TESE were also
excluded. It could be better to say azospermic males were excluded.
Prior publications suggest that adverse effects of fresh transfer is proportional with ovarian response
(reviewed in Ata and Seli, A universal freeze all strategy: why it is not warranted. Curr Opin Obstet
Gynecol. 2017 Jun;29(3):136-145), i.e. more oocytes, the higher serum sex steroid levels the lower live
birth rates. As such, women with low ovarian response are unlikely or the least likely to benefit from
elective frozen transfers. With this in mind, one can think that the selection of an AMH treshold of as low
as 6.28 pmol/l (0.88 ng/ml) for inclusion, could have led to accumulation of women with a low reserve,
whose fresh transfers are unlikely to be affected due to high peak estradiol levels. So, a false negative
overall conclusion is possible, depending on the number of women with low reserve/response in the
study population. Moreover, AMH levels are unlikely to have a normal distribution (as evidenced by the
high ratio of standard deviation to mean AMH values in Table 1) and using parametric descriptive
statistics does not enable the reader to understand what proportion of women had low AMH levels in
each group. Using median and quartiles would be the appropriate descriptive statistics to define the
distribution of AMH. It would also be informative to present percentage of women in different AMH
categories (such a classification is deemed to be arbitrary but would still be informative) Given the large
sample size, even a regression model with an interaction term between AMH category and transfer
strategy would be interesting and can render the paper more authorative.
Likewise, the distribution of oocytes and M2 oocytes are unlikely to be normal, and non-parametric
descriptive statistics are needed in Table two for these measures. Again, it would be interesting to see
how the outcomes compared between women with more than 3 eggs available in each group.
Some of my comments are just recommendations, I do not regard them mandatory for publication.