Review by Tom Treasure
A Propensity Matched Comparative Analysis of Long-term Survival of SABR vs Thoracoscopic Sublobar Lung Resection using
the SEER-Medicare database: Insights from Registry Data
Declaration:
I have previously published with some of these authors in the BMJ using the same source of data (SEER) and an analysis using
a similar approach.[1] I was not involved in the data analysis for this submission.
The subject matter is very important for the reasons very well set out by the Paul and colleagues. SABR as a lung cancer
treatment is highly contentious. A valiant effort to recover otherwise lost RCT data[2] to which I and British colleagues added a
commentary[3] drew a lot of correspondence in Lancet Oncology.
The Lancet Oncology article and the commentary were then attacked in JTCVS, the premier thoracic surgery journal. The
thoracic editor himself delivered the four page article with a deprecating title. [4] It was clear that as a thoracic surgeon he felt
entitled to use the columns of his own journal so see off the advances of radiation oncology. This debate is now to be seen as a
turf war between surgeons and oncologists. This is not a good way to resolve the question of relative benefit to patients. The
explicit call for an RCT from Paul et al is welcome.
Included in The Lancet correspondence columns is a letter lauding the funding of SABR in the NHS under Commission through
Evaluation. This is unfortunate because it undermines the need for randomised controlled trials to find real differences.
It is a debate which must be had and if this paper is published and draws attention to the need for an RCT that would be no
bad thing. The debate would help indicate that if there is not at first sight ‘equipoise’ there is at least growing uncertainty
about which treatment is better and for whom.
But I have reservations about the conclusion and I wonder if the whole pitch of this paper might be to underline uncertainty
rather than make any attempt to resolve it.
Looking at the output of this analysis the absolute difference between the arms is greatest for overall survival at about 20-30%
and smaller for cancer specific measures of survival for which it is about 10%. To summarise, the larger proportion of the
deaths are not due to cancer. The cancer specific deaths are a minority; the root cause of the majority of deaths is likely to be
age-related comorbidities. (Authors’ Fig.1)
The point of matching is to find two groups who are as like to each other as possible apart from the treatments under scrutiny.
What we see here seems to me to suggest that the matching may have failed. It is possible that it has failed to a large degree.
If it had succeeded you would expect any harm done to be greater in surgery rather than the less invasive SABR, although
even that could be a wrong assumption.
Then in thinking about problems with propensity scoring as a means of matching I came across this lecture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBv39pK1iEs
which as a non-statistician I found compelling. Gary King of the Institute for Quantitative Social Science, Harvard University,
1737 Cambridge Street, Cambridge MA likes matching when one can’t obtain a randomised trial but argues that propensity
scoring is a bad means of matching.
The problem is that the data entries cannot contain all the elements that a clinician would use to avoid surgery in a patient.
Because they are not objective and measurable they are not in the data available for matching. That does not mean they are
not real and very powerfully predictive.
If I have it right cancer was not the biggest risk to survival of patients in this category. We can see that most died of
something else. Overall, 90% of the cancers were Stage Ia with only some of those cancers presenting a threat to survival
within the next few years.[5] But it is only attrition attributable to lethal cancer that is amenable to the beneficial effect of
either SABR or surgery. And cancer survival may have occurred irrespective of treatment. The ‘signal’ of treatment effect may
be swamped by ‘noise’ of death due to causes other than cancer and survival at five years may have been irrespective of
treatment.[6]
There are two limitations to even the most carefully performed and sophisticated propensity matching study. First, the decision
to use SABR rather than surgery in SEER data was neither made by randomisation but nor was it haphazard. It was a carefully
made choice between two therapies, informed by clinical judgements. SABR may be carrying a lot of heavy baggage in terms
of comorbidity and perceived risk which led their doctors to steer then away from surgery, and it cannot be matched for. It will
affect not only the deaths that are not cancer related but remains there in the cancer related deaths. The factors taken into
consideration go beyond what can be captured in a registry. We can only match on what we know; we cannot match for what
we don’t know. The authors do not appear to mention the risk of that residual confounding was in play.
The matter is complicated by another factor. There is growing (but unproven) belief that mediastinal nodal dissection is an

important component of lung cancer surgery.[7;8] SABR cannot provide this.
Although the authors conclude that an RCT will be needed. P.15/34 “Given the state of ambiguity on the proper use of SABR in
resectable lung cancer patients, an adequately powered RCT is now highly warranted to inform and ensure evidence-based
introduction of SABR into practice.”
The track record of thoracic surgeons with respect to trial is poor and there is something of an apologia for this within the text.
P.13/34 L.27-34. “A randomized controlled trial (RCT) would be ideal to answer these and other unresolved issues regarding
SABR. However, it is unclear such a large-scale trial can be completed. Unfortunately, all RCTS comparing SABR with surgery
in operable patients to date have been incomplete with premature closure due to poor enrolment.”
Reference List
1 Paul S, Isaacs AJ, Treasure T, Altorki NK, Sedrakyan A: Long term survival with thoracoscopic versus open lobectomy:
propensity matched comparative analysis using SEER-Medicare database. BMJ 2014;349:g5575.
2 Chang JY, Senan S, Paul MA, Mehran RJ, Louie AV, Balter P, Groen HJ, McRae SE, Widder J, Feng L, van den Borne BE,
Munsell MF, Hurkmans C, Berry DA, van WE, Kresl JJ, Dingemans AM, Dawood O, Haasbeek CJ, Carpenter LS, de JK, Komaki
R, Slotman BJ, Smit EF, Roth JA: Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy versus lobectomy for operable stage I non-small-cell lung
cancer: a pooled analysis of two randomised trials. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:630-637.
3 Treasure T, Rintoul RC, Macbeth F: SABR in early operable lung cancer: time for evidence. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:597-598.
4 Meyers BF, Puri V, Broderick SR, Samson P, Keogan K, Crabtree TD: Lobectomy versus stereotactic body radiotherapy for
stage I non-small cell lung cancer: Post hoc analysis dressed up as level-1 evidence? J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2015;150:468471.
5 Hillerdal G: Indolent lung cancers--time for a paradigm shift: a review. J Thorac Oncol 2008;3:208-211.
6 Glasziou P, Chalmers I, Rawlins M, McCulloch P: When are randomised trials unnecessary? Picking signal from noise. BMJ
2007;334:349-351.
7 Lim E, McElnay PJ, Rocco G, Brunelli A, Massard G, Toker A, Passlick B, Varela G, Weder W: Invasive mediastinal staging is
irrelevant for PET/CT positive N2 lung cancer if the primary tumour and ipsilateral lymph nodes are resectable. Lancet Respir
Med 2015;3:e32-e33.
8 McElnay PJ, Choong A, Jordan E, Song F, Lim E: Outcome of surgery versus radiotherapy after induction treatment in
patients with N2 disease: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised trials. Thorax 2015;70:764-768.
