In this submission entitled “Screening as a cause of the thyroid cancer epidemic in Korea: Evidence from a nationwide
study” the authors present the results of a detailed epidemiologic study to support the conclusion from recent
publications suggesting that the epidemic of thyroid cancer observed in South Korea are a result of overdiagnosis
stemming from the adoption of nationwide screening in 1999. The manuscript is well written. I have only the minor
comments below.
- Further clarification for what constitutes “screen-detected” versus “clinically detected” cases would be helpful. For the
former, the assumption is that these are cases discovered by screening ultrasound, and not other forms of screening
such as physical exam or radiologic studies done for other reasons (incidental findings)? For the latter, more details
regarding what tumor-related symptoms led to clinical detection would be informative (pain?, detection of a painless
lump?, etc…).
- I certainly agree with the author’s central premise that increased screening is primarily responsible for the
overdiagnosis of clinically insignificant thyroid cancers, and this is the predominant cause for the rise of thyroid cancer
incidence in South Korea. The three publications highlighted by the authors (refs 11-13) as challenges to this premise,
however, were not analyses performed in the Korean population and did not completely discount the primary
contribution of overdiagnosis, but suggested that other factors may be minor contributors given the observation of
small increases in more advanced disease. The authors do also make note of minor increases in larger thyroid cancers,
extrathyroidal invasion, and to a lesser extent distant metastases (in the screening group of Table 2) in their own data
set. Is it possible that in addition to overdiagnosis there is also a small, minor increase in more advanced disease as
well that may speak to other contributors?
- The results regarding regional lymph node involvement needs greater clarification. The text refers to a
Supplementary Table 2, but none was included in the manuscript that I reviewed. Criteria for what constitutes lymph
node involvement would need to be included. While there is an increase in nodal involvement noted over time, I
suspect this is related to greater detection of small regional nodes that were of marginal clinical significance?
- Would it be possible to break down the regional stage tumor category (according to the SEER criteria) to disease that
qualified because of lymph node involvement only versus those that did because of direct extension? Likely, the
increase in regional stage over time is the result of clinically insignificant nodal involvement, but clearly delineating
this and establishing that an increase in extensive, invasive primaries did not contribute would be important to support
the central premise of the paper.