Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting and well-written manuscript. I have focused on
statistical aspects, and have the following comments
1) Why use Poisson regression and not a Cox model? The former assumes a constant hazard rate over
time, whilst the latter does not and so is more flexible (and more plausible).
2) Why were adjustment factors categorised? I find this sub-optimal to including them as linear or,
preferably, by allowing for potential non-linear trends using restricted cubic splines
3) The missing indicator method is not recommended, and imputation should be used. This is a major
issue that needs to be addressed going forward. See for example Groenwold RH, White IR, Donders AR,
et al. Missing covariate data in clinical research: when and when not to use the missing-indicator method
for analysis. CMAJ : 2012;184(11):1265-9.
4) Those that died before CVD were censored – but this then makes absolute risks and rates inflated to
an artificial population that can never die (and so must at some point develop CVD). So, although HRs
will still be cause-specific, there needs to be much caution about the estimate of absolute risk and rates
when the competing event of death is not modelled. It would be more correct to do a competing risks
analysis, and then derive absolute risks from such an analysis (e.g. using a subdistribution approach).
HRs can still be reported from the suggested Cox approach however.
5) Incidence rate ratios (IRRs) are derived, but why are these a constant over time? This should be
checked, ideally in a Cox model as stated. In other words, when fitting the Cox model, the proportional
hazards assumption should be checked, as the HRs may not be constant over time.

6) “The increased risks were more pronounced among offspring of diabetic mothers with comorbid CVD
…” – such statements should be justified with an estimate of the difference between groups (i.e. the
interaction between the effect of diabetes and presences of cormobid CVD)
7) In the abstract, there is no mention of any adjustment for confounding
8) Following my point 4, if there are confounders to be adjusted for, then how were absolute risks
derived (as these should be conditional on covariate values, or averaged across the distribution of
covariate values)?
9) The list of confounders does not seem particularly comprehensive to me. For example, the gestational
age at delivery of the baby is not included, and nor is smoking habits before pregnancy, or the amount
of smoking (if any) during pregnancy. Complications during pregnancy like pre-eclampsia do not seem to
be included, or adverse outcomes like small for gestational age are not included. Surely these will also
be important?
I hope these comments are useful to the BMJ and the authors going forward.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
