This is an analysis paper regarding the importance of understanding and monitoring of children born to
mothers infected with HIV. This is an incredibly important topic, and the authors’ have extensive
international expertise and leadership in this area. This is a strong paper that brings up some critical
points to consider regarding the vulnerabilities of this population. Having a clear message about this
topic helps stakeholders and clinicians understand the current state of HEU children and is tremendously
valuable. I strongly recommend that this paper be published, however, in order to maximize its impact
and clarity, I have a few suggestions to consider.
Of note, I commend the authors for highlighting the HUA and EHE groups. I don’t think I’ve seen them
as clearly defined as they are here. This paper can be an origin point, of sorts, for the use of these terms
to describe their respective populations.
Suggested revisions:
Introduction- It would be valuable to clearly indicate what specific areas appear to be affected within the
research on morbidity and mortality of HEUs. The paper generally speaks of health and development
early on, and only later notes its association with worse language, growth, and immunity. Being
clear/specific early on regarding the evidence would be of great benefit to those less familiar with this
topic and can strengthen the case for why more comprehensive monitoring should take place.
Page 4, “Definition of Exposure Status”- Line 35- the authors listed, “indirect/environmental HIV
exposure through an HIV-affected household,” which is a valid exposure that many clinicians may not
consider (making it even more important to highlight). However, there isn’t a lot a clarity about what
this means. In the following sentences discussing the heterogeneity of the HEU group, it is unclear if
Lines 44-47 are referring to the indirect/environmental HIV exposure through an HIV-affected household
or just the general heterogeneity. Additionally, it is unclear how this exposure is the
same/different/related to the EHE population, which is mentioned at the end of this section (page 5,
lines 33-47). This section would be much stronger if this specific area is made clearer.
I was enthusiastic when reading the ideas laid forward by the authors regarding routine monitoring and
how data platforms could help collect information about this population and brings up the need for
unique identifiers that can follow a child to adulthood. This would be incredibly valuable and a way to
benefit children in ways beyond HIV exposure as well. However, I was a little confused when the
discussion switched to disclosure of status. I completely agree that the child should be aware of his/her
HIV or exposure status. However, the authors also highlighted that long-term monitoring needs to
consider disclosure to those who monitor outcomes or provide interventions. Who are “those” groups?
(Page 7, Line 37-39)
Page 7, Lines 39-42- the author’s note that documented HIV status for healthcare purposes would
disclose a mother’s status, and that presents an ethical dilemma. I’m not sure if I follow this. Are the
author’s talking about medical records? And if so, are they concerned that the data documented within
these records are not secure or that people are not willing to share their status or be tested within the
healthcare system, making this issue ethically challenging? I may be naïve in this area, but I didn’t
realize that any of those points might be issues. However, if disclosure is a challenge within healthcare,
it would be important to expand on why this is the case.

During Page 7 lines 46-51, who are the authors referring to when they’re discussing disclosure of a
breastfeeding mothers’ status? Health care settings, studies, surveillance, or interventions all may
request information regarding HIV exposure or infection status. I wasn’t under the impression that
many individuals refuse to provide this information if it were otherwise kept confidential, perhaps I’m
wrong. Further clarification (see above) would be appreciated.
Page 7, lines 53-54, Which article within the International Convention on the Rights of the Child are the
authors referring to with their statement that specific health care providers need access to their HIV and
or ARV exposure status throughout their lives? Could providers just directly ask their patients about it,
like other exposures that can negatively affect one’s long-term health (ACEs, tobacco or alcohol
consumption, etc)? Or if more specific data regarding in utero exposure is needed, could there just be a
push for individual patient identifiers that are linked to a parent from birth to resolve this issue?
Again, overall, I think this is a fantastic paper that discusses an important topic, and I’m grateful the
authors put this together. It will be valuable to the scientific community and I recommend it for
publication, with consideration of the suggested revisions.
Minor editorial revisions:
Please check the citation style within the text.
Page 6, line 15- Please consider revising the phase: “well thought through long-term prospective cohort
study designs.” Having 7 adjectives before “designs” is difficult to follow, even within such an important
statement.
Page 6, line 29- ART was used instead of ARV for the first time- likely unintentional.