RCTs aren't so easy to conduct in the field of surgery, so non-randomised comparisons such as this one are common in
this field. This paper reports a study that has been conducted very carefully, in cognisance of the potential problems of
not having randomised allocation. I find the paper general very clearly written, and the interpretation of findings is
appropriate.
Reading this new draft led me to make a few comments, as detailed below. None is major.
1. Initially I was confused by the hazard ratios being greater than 1 to indicate better survival in the identified group.
So, for example, the Abstract includes this statement:
“In our primary analysis of patients with tumours ≤2cm in size, the CSS diverged for both groups after one year with
non-significantly higher three-year CSS found in patients undergoing thoracoscopic SLR (SABR vs. SLR: 82.6% vs.
86.4%, HR 1.32, 95% CI 0.77-2.26, p=0.32).”
The hazard ratio refers to (relative frequency of) events, not of non-events, so I’d expected HR<1 at the end of this
sentence. Interestingly, looking at an earlier BMJ paper by this group (Chughtai et al 2015 – not in fact cited in this
paper) the HR in the Abstract does indeed refer to events, not non-events. Later in the paper (e.g. Table 2) it simply
isn’t clear which way round the HR was calculated. So I’d ask that the authors review the presentation of HRs
throughout.
2. P3: In last paragraph of Abstract there is a reference to “some cancer subgroups”. See also p18. I’m unclear which
analyses these statements refer to. Is it perhaps related to tumour size, as discussed in my next point?
3. I presume authors chose 2cm as max size for the primary analysis as non-surgical intervention is more likely to be
competitive with surgery for less severe cases. This is borne out by the findings. The lack of statistical significance for
tumours <2cm doesn’t of course demonstrate equivalence (comparability of the two interventions) for such patients and
I feel this is discussed well in the main text Discussion but of course the nuances of the text cannot be conveyed in a
short abstract.
4. P8-9: please give a reference to the method described that treats paired patients as clusters.
5. Likewise please mention and reference the use of Hall-Wellner bands.
6. Please indicate numbers of events in each group in each analysis in figures 1 and 2. Please also mention tumour size
cutoff used.
7. “Overall survival” is used in the text but “all-cause mortality” in Table 2.

8. There is no mention of the OS analyses in the Discussion. Given that these analyses are presented I feel that there
should be, if only briefly.
9. P15: What is unusual about the randomisation scheme for STABLEMATES and why is it relevant? I note that OS is the
primary outcome of that trial.
10. I’m always somewhat sceptical of the classification of cause of death, here as cancer-related or not. Perhaps some
comment can be made about the reliability of CSS as an outcome.
