The authors assessed the effects of fluoroquinolones on the risk of VT/VF, cardiac arrest and SCD, in a
cohort of ~900.000 outpatients at low to intermediate cardiovascular risk who were matched with
900000 patients who received penicillin. The results suggested that fluoroquinolones did not increase the
risk for arhythmic events and/or death.
Although the results of the study are well presented, well-supported, and certainly add to the current
knowledge, there are some important limitations:
i) Several previous cohorts have suggested that use of certain fluoroquinolones is associated with QT
prolongation and TdP. What we need to clarify is which fluoroquinolones are those associated with higher
risk and which are safe to use in patients with higher risk. Moxifloxacin is associated with higher risk,
gemifloxacin, levofloxacin, and ofloxacin have lower risk and ciprofloxacin has the lowest risk. The
authors need to provide information about the type of fluoroquinolones used.
ii) Propensity-matched analysis reduced the risk of bias due to confounding by accounting for covariables
that predict receiving a treatment. In this particular study authors compared fluiroquinolones which are
used in sicker patients with complicated infections, with penicillin which is used in relatively healthy
outpatients. By matching the two cohorts, authors excluded the vast majority of patients at higher
cardiovascular risk who are more likely to develop TdP after fluoroquinolone use. It would be helpful if
authors presented the risk for TdP, SCD, arrhythmias in all patients received fluoroquinolones, divided in
tertiles of cardiovascular risk. Also at this point it's very important to identify predictors of events.
iii) What is the baseline QT interval for the included patients?
iv) If there is an ICD 10 code of prolonged QT this should be included in the outcomes.
v) As the event rates were low, the authors could add all-cause mortality as outcome.
vi) The fact that inpatients were excluded suggests that outpatient events may have been underreported.
vii) Is there an estimation of compliance with prescribed antibiotics?
viii) Are data on average dose used available? It would be interesting to study the association with the
dose and duration of treatment
ix) The authors could add a graph showing the events and the number of days after the initiation of

antibiotics.
Conclusively, in a low risk population the risk of arrhythmic death was similar with fluoroquinolones and
penicillin but data on higher cardiovascular risk patients taking newer generation antibiotics are lacking.
Finally, the risk of death is compared to penicillin and not to controls.