The authors have revised the manuscript to reduce some concerns raised by reviewers. Not using the
data before 2007 is a superb decision. The manuscript somewhat remains difficult to read. The
possible primary reason is given in the first two comments, followed by others.
Main comments:
1. The Introduction raised important issues, but they are not addressed. For example, on Page 5, the
authors introduce a few trials showing the null or adverse effect of gliptins on a risk of heart failure.
However, after the authors present numerous results from the standard analyses, the inconsistency
between the trial findings and the observational findings has not yet been discussed. The authors
hint it but do not provide a direct explanation, just mentioning general limitations of trials.
I would like the authors to read their Introduction again, imagine possible questions or interests
which readers would keep in mind, and answer them proactively in the Discussion section. Just
pointing out generic limitations of trials (i.e. short duration, limited size) is unlikely to be helpful for
readers, even though these limitations of trials may be true.
Specifically speaking about gliptins, the inconsistency between trials and the authors’ findings
seemed to reflect that the conclusion of the meta-analysis and the trials was mainly driven by the
effect of saxagliptin, whereas the authors of this manuscript mainly examined the association of
sitagliptin with the cardiac outcomes. As the haemoglobin A1c example (Ref 49 of Esposito et al.,
BMJ Open, 2015), the inconsistency for the hard endpoints also highlights the importance that
clinicians and researchers need to pay careful attention to subtypes of gliptins. That seems to be
better take-home message.
The authors are writing down the pieces of information, but they should be tied up to provide as a
simple implication as possible.
Notably, the heterogeneity of subtypes is not sufficient to explain the observed difference. The
author must also discuss why the authors found inverse associations of gliptin treatment with 15%
lower risk of heart failure, whereas trials did not indicate such a strong benefit.

The authors found significant inverse associations of gliptin treatment with all-cause mortality, but
not with CVD outcomes. The authors might want to discuss available evidence or else for potential
effects of gliptins on non-CVD outcomes.

2. The same point can be made for sulphonylureas. The authors introduce the existing uncertainty
about the effect of sulphonylureas on major cardiac outcomes in the Introduction (Page 5-6).
However, although the authors let readers be interested in the topic, the authors did not discuss
anything about sulphonylureas as they did not consider them as the primary interest (according to
their response to the previous comment). The authors must consider readers who are interested or
get interested in sulphonylureas. As far as the authors present results potentially informative for
clinical practice, the authors must better provide how to interpret them appropriately: otherwise,
readers would feel irritated and the authors would be labelled as not reader-friendly.
As commented previously, it seems very important for readers to recognise potential heterogeneity
of different subtypes of sulfonylureas (Simpson et al Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol, 2015;3(1):43-51)
for cardiac endpoints. After discussing the similar importance in the interpretation of the findings of
gliptins, it should be easy to discuss take-home message about gliptins. Of note, it would not be
helpful or informative just to note general limitations of trials or network meta-analysis of trials.
I hope the authors can discuss clinical implications succinctly for metformin, sulphonylureas, and
insulin, rather than just presenting the results.
3. The limitations should include lack of analyses for different subtypes of each type of drugs, not
only gliptins, and for different dose levels. The comment on the lack of adherence is reasonable. If
the authors think the manuscript is too long, the authors may take out strengths of the study,
because they can be readily inferred from the Introduction and the Method, they can be partly
discussed in comparison with prior observational studies, and they are not what readers must be
informed and less important than the limitations.
Limitations also include potential confounding by indication. The rigorous model was helpful, but not
correcting the issue. Also, the authors should state, somewhere in the Discussion, that changes in
point estimates varied by different modelling approaches, indicating possibility of unknown bias and
sensitivity of results to how variables were collected and modelled.
Minor comments:
Of Table 2, move the descriptive statistics of biomarkers to Table 1, and missing information to the
supplementary materials. Given the small proportions of those with missing information, the
information seems to be less important than that in the previous manuscript.
The current Table 3. Take out the letters “model C”. Adjusted HR (95% CI) with a double dagger is
sufficient. Each main table should stand alone so that readers do not need to go back to text.
The current Table 4 and 5. Can they be combined? The crude statistics of the current Table 4 is
useful as they are, but not for the research questions of interest. Two columns of “cases” and “pyrs”
may be combined to “cases/persons-years”. Two columns for each outcome. Dual therapy was
examined for that with metformin and for that with sulphonylureas. So, the column sub-header “Dual
therapy” can be “Dual therapy with metformin”, taking out “metformin and” or “metformin &”. The
same for “sulphonylureas &”. “Triple therapy” can be “Triple therapy with metformin and
sulphonylureas”, taking out “metformin, sulphonylureas &”. A total number of the sample size may
be put on the footnote.
Supplementary Table 2 should include results from Model C. The table should be easy to compare
how results vary by the different approaches. For Model E, the sample size should be stated.
In Supplementary table 3, “1.00 (1.00 to 1.00)” should be “1.00” so that readers can instantly
understand what are presented, without reading the table title.