Song et al. have produced an excellent manuscript regarding stress disorders and risk of
CVD. Although the overall finding of increased risk is not particularly surprising, the novelty
here is the use of a sibling-matched analysis to address potential confounding. The
manuscript is well-written and analyses conducted thoroughly. Some potential areas for
improvement are discussed below.
Introduction
A fundamental argument of this manuscript is that stress increases CVD risk and that
persons who have developed a stress disorder are at greater risk. However, this point is
not properly supported by the authors. Reference 5 from the Nurses Health Study is used
to support this point, but in that study, trauma with no PTSD symptoms vs. trauma with
4+ PTSD symptoms were generally equivalent in increased risk of incident CVD across
various model adjustments. That study would support that trauma, regardless of
psychiatric disorders or not, is the important determinant of CVD risk. The authors should
find evidence that better supports their point (while acknowledging incompatible evidence)
…or consider reframing their argument. It should also be noted that the Nurses Health
Study participants are all women, and stress disorders and CVD both exhibit sex
differences that may make this reference even more unhelpful to the present study.
Methods:
Sibling cohort – this section is presented in a confusing manner. The first paragraph seems
to be more relevant to the overall study rather than the specific sibling cohort – a simple
fix would be to move the header to the actual paragraph describing the sibling cohort. It
also would be helpful to the reader to introduce the rationale for a sibling cohort design
here.
The sample selection may be problematic because of potential immortal time bias. The age
at index date is 36 +/- 14 years SD, which suggests that there are very young participants
included who are very unlikely to be diagnosed with stress disorders (due to lower
detection in pediatric populations) and CVD even with long follow-up (due to lower inherent
risk). Implementing a minimum age eligibility requirement as well as an assessment of the
distributions of the ages of diagnosis of the stress disorders would help mitigate this
potential bias.

From a causal inference perspective, the sibling matched analysis still has some problems
since shared genetic or environmental confounding is still a possibility. It may make sense
to use a case-crossover analysis to better control for this, so that each person is his/her
own control. Having this 3rd matching analysis triangulate with the sibling and
population-matched analyses would be powerful support of the authors’ results.
The authors mention the possibility of surveillance bias in that patients with stress
disorders have more healthcare visits and greater likelihood of receiving CVD diagnoses.
Sensitivity analyses would be useful to defend against this, e.g.: adjusting/stratifying on
number of health care contacts or days in hospital.
Were pain disorders considered as covariates? Pain and pain control are very relevant to
stress-disorders.
Table 1: Numbers in the columns do not sum to the listed number of exposed “patients”.
Also: some standardization of terminology would be helpful, since unexposed and
unaffected are seemingly used interchangeably, as well as patients and individuals. Could
just use exposed vs. unexposed.
