Mass violence incidents including terrorist attacks appear to be occurring with increasing
frequency, and they pose challenges to healthcare and mental health care providers and
systems as well as to the communities in which they occur. This paper is difficult to
evaluate on some levels because it is not a research paper per se but more of a "think
piece" paper that describes two mass violent incidents, the responses to each, makes
comparisons about differences in response to the second vs the first, and continuing
barriers to providing mental and other healthcare services to victims and survivors of
mass violence incidents.The paper is timely and contains some useful information, and the
series of actions the authors identify on page 5 of the manuscript are quite valuable.
However, the paper would be improved substantially by a revision that addresses the
following issues.
First, there is insufficient conceptual structure and organization to assist the reader in
putting the response to these two mass violence incidents into proper perspective. It be
helpful to have it bit more discussion of what an adequate mental health response to mass
violence incidents might look like and how this response might vary depending on
characteristics of the incident or victims affected (e.g. those that involve criminal justice
system activity due to survival are the perpetrator versus those that do not; age range of
victims and survivors; whether most victims and survivors live near the location where the
incident occurred versus those that are dispersed geographically and will require
long-term follow-up services in multiple locations). The point needs to be made that the
characteristics of the incident itself need to be analyzed carefully in order to determine
what victim needs are likely to be and that the service delivery system will have to be
adjusted based on this information. For example, cases in which perpetrators survive

frequently involve protracted criminal justice system procedures that require special
assistance to victims throughout this long process, highlighting the importance of
partnerships with criminal justice system agencies to ensure that evidence-based,
victim-centric planning and assistance is available at all stages. If incidents occur at
concerts, sporting events, etc., it is likely that many if not most victims and survivors will
not live near where the incident occurred, so provisions must be in place to provide
services to victims who are geographically dispersed.
Second once this framework of best practices and needs has been described, the two
mass violence incidents described in the paper can be compared to this template, which
will facilitate the reader being able to determine the adequacy of response to each one
and the extent to which the response to the second incident improved on the response to
the first incident.
Third, an alternative way of organizing the paper would be the following. Start with an
overview of policies, procedures, or best practices that were in place prior to the 2005
incident. Next, describe what was done and learned on the basis of response to that
incident. Next, describe policies/procedures/best practices recommendations that were
made based on experience with the 2005 incident. Two documents were mentioned in the
paper that appeared to have such recommendations, and it would be helpful to include
more information about these. Next, describe what was done in response to the 2017
incident but also make clear which of the previous recommendations were either not in
place or could not be implemented in the 2017 incident. Finally, conclude with the analysis
of what old recommendations still need to be implemented and what new
recommendations should be added based on experience with the 2017 incident.
Third, it would be helpful for readers who are not familiar with the UK health system for
the authors to provide a bit more information/explanation about the system and terms
that are specific to it. Similarly, the section starting at the bottom of page 2 describing
failure to share data because of concerns raised by the data protection act is not clear. It
is unclear whether the authors believe that data were not shared enough, were shared too
much, or some combination of the two. More information about this would be helpful. I
also think it would be helpful to provide a bit more information about the Manchester
Resilience Hub. What is it? What is that supposed to do? What services does it provide?
How is it organized?
In summary, this paper provides some valuable information, but it could be strengthened
substantially by a revision that addresses these issues.