This is an interesting research question and the authors have undertaken an important project. However,
after reviewing this from a statistical perspective, I have some considerable concerns as it stands. I hope
my following comments helps the authors going forward.
1) The conclusions from the authors are strong (“This paper provides the most comprehensive evaluation
of the “weekend effect” in obstetric Care”; “Outcomes for both women and babies are generally worse at
the weekend”, etc), but the complexity of the research question and the statistical results do not support
such strong conclusions. Indeed, the messages need to be toned down and the limitation of the work
(See below) need greater weight.
2) Many of the significant results are only just significant; in other words, 95% Cis have lower bounds
only just above the null (e.g. 1.02 to 1.12, and 1.00 to 1.45). Residual confounding is also a genuine
concern, and the addition of more confounders could easily overturn the significance of the findings
(attenuate the effect estimates further).
3) A major confusion is that the outcomes of interest are not clearly defined in the Methods section.
4) Perhaps the biggest limitation of the work is that a baby may have been born at the weekend, but die
during the week. Conversely, what if they are born in the week but die in the weekend? What does that
mean in terms of casual inference of care at weekends or the week? Thus statements such as ‘outcomes
for women and babies are generally worse at the weekend” is meaningless – actually the level of care
may span both week and weekend days, and so to infer causality (which the authors are doing here
essentially, which could be a major newspaper headline and scare women) that weekend admission leads
to worse outcomes is dangerous when ‘weekend care’ and ‘week day care’ are not actually distinct. The
care individuals receive is an amalgamation of weekend and week days, and the authors might have
been better to count the number of days experiencing weekend care out of the total number of days of
care, and examine if that is associated with the risk of poor outcomes (After adjusted for total days).
5) A related point is that the authors lump Monday to Friday, and Saturday and Sunday together. This
masks variability across individual days. In particular, and most concerning, is that outcomes appear
different across Monday to Friday. See for example Figure 2d, where mortality is best for Monday and

Tuesday, but appear similarly worse for Wednesday to Sunday. Therefore, why focus on the weekend
being bad? Why not Wednesday, Thursday and Friday? By lumping Monday to Friday together, the
authors are implicitly assuming the outcome risk is the same across these days, but the evidence from
Figure 2 does not support this. Another example is Figure 2c, where the risks appear lower for Wed to
Sunday, and hgigher on Monday and Wednesday. These figures certainly do not reassure me that
‘outcomes of women and babies are generally worse at the weekend’ as the authors conclude.
6) It is not explicit how the 750 and 450 numbers in the abstract and end of results are calculated.
Please be clearer in the methods.
7) The analysis description is also quite brief in the methods, in general. It just says that multiple logistic
regression was used to adjust for the effect of covariates, but it doesn’t say what covariates were
considered and how they were selected for adjustment. Indeed, I can’t see a list of the adjustment
factors anywhere. How can we tell if the authors’ have considered all relevant confounders when these
are not listed, as far as I can tell.
8) The authors do tell us that they did not adjust for hospital, as ‘the hospital-level effects were found to
be small’ – however, as I mention above the significant results are only just significant, and thus even
small impact of adjustment factors is potentially critical. They should therefore include hospital as a
confounder.
9) Also there is no discussion on the handling of missing data. If patients had a missing confounder
value, for example, how were they handled in the analysis?
10) An alternative approach to the analysis is a matched propensity score analysis. Would conclusions
remain the same if a propensity score analysis was undertaken?
11) No details on how multiple babies from the same women (either at the same birth, or later down the
line) are accounted for. These are not independent observations, so this should be accounted for using,
for example, random effects models.
12) It would be nice to see unadjusted odds ratio results AND adjusted results, to ascertain how much
attenuation in the effect there is after adjustment (impact of confounders).
Therefore, I’m sorry to say that there are major issues with this work and in my opinion it needs to be
considerably re-analysed and the limitations brought into sharper focus when making the conclusions. In
my opinion, the findings and conclusions are not robust based on the analyses, reporting and study
design presented. However, I recognise the hard work of the authors, and so I hope my comments are
helpful to them when revising their work in the future.