Summary: The objective of this article to (i) define equitable financing, (ii) explore if
financing for women’s, children’s, and adolescent’s health (WCAH) is equitable across and
within countries, (iii) explore three case studies on the same topic, and (iv) prioritize
areas for future research and policy. The stated conclusions (in the key messages section
and in the paper conclusion) are that there has been limited progress improving equitable
financing for WCAH, there are gaps in the data, that in many countries those most in need
are at risk of being left behind, and donors should increase their investments to the
poorest countries and populations within countries which are at risk of falling behind.
Review: This is a tremendously important topic, although the paper as it is currently was
very difficult to review. The paper is not explicit about its measurement strategy, ie. it is
not explicit about what it is measuring and identifying the specific hypothesis being tested
is very hard. While equitable financing is defined, how it should be measured isn’t clear.
Most concerning, it’s neither clear that the data are sufficient for answering the questions
the authors pose nor that the stated key messages are supported by the empirical results.
My review below focuses very little on the case studies. I’m not an expert on any of the
countries described (nor do I have a lot of experience completing case studies). I would
recommend having a financing expert(s) with knowledge of each of the three countries
review the paper, as the financing dynamics described are complex. If the conclusions of
the case studies are to be informative (and generalized as the authors claim), someone
with knowledge of the context should validate what authors describe.
I’ve broken my feedback into several themes: I. Definition and measurement strategy, II.
Results and Conclusions, III. Miscellaneous other issues.
I. Definition and measurement strategy
a. The authors have not identified a measurement strategy. While equitable financing is
defined (in relative terms), it is not clear how it should be measured. As a consequence,
there are no testable hypotheses identified. I would recommend making clearer what the
authors believe equitable WCAH financing to be and explicitly how it should be measured.
This likely would require a methods section (and limitations section), which I would
recommend.
b. Currently, equitable financing is defined in the paper in relative terms, without any
constraints, meaning the authors definition can only be used (even if a measurement
strategy is defined) to suggest if financing for one country-year is more or less equitable
than another country-year. This seems problematic because the implicit assumption of the
article is that more equitable financing is always better than less equitable financing.
According to the definitions presented, this means that donors “should” always give a
larger fraction of aid to poorer countries in order to make financing more equitable. Taken
to the extreme, this suggests that the most equitable (vertical equity) financing scheme is
to have all aid go to the poorest country. While nobody actually believes this, it highlights
that having a relative definition that is purely relative and not bounded by a constraint is
very challenging framework to conduct research.

c. The authors focus on defining equitable financing “contributions” and contrast it with
equitable financing “benefits,” but never refer back to this distinction. It’s unclear if the
paper is focusing one or both of these, and is a confusing way to start the paper.
d. The authors definition of equitable financing is not WCAH specific. That’s fine, but it
should be made clear that equitable financing for WCAH is simply equitable financing of
resources that are for WCAH.
e. I think the paper could be stronger if there was more articulation of within and between
country equitable financing (and a measurement strategy for each could be defined). I
think this could be a useful platform to organize two points the authors are already
making: within countries -> dependence on OOP is bad, while government health
spending and aid are good… then test the hypothesis that across LMICs the fraction of
WCAH from OOP for a critical mass of countries is going down or fraction of WCAH from
governments or from donors is going up. Similarly, for between countries -> test
empirically (using one year of data from Muskoka2 because Muskoka2 is not comparable
across time) if recipient GDP and health burden are statistically associated with receiving
aid for WCAH. These are testable hypothesis that can be refuted and therefore feels more
like research rather than perspective.
II. Results and conclusions
a. Several of the main conclusions stated in the key messages and the conclusion section
are not supported by the empirical results.
Key message #1: “Some limited progress has been made in improving equity in financing
between countries for some aspects of WCAH.” This is not a precise statement and is
impossible to validate. Presumably “some limited progress” for “some aspects of WCAH”
refers to results related to donors more recently prioritizing poorer countries, but even
this statement is not measured in a way where a hypothesis is stated and tested
empirically. The authors rely on a figure rather than a statistical test to assert this claim;
worse still the figure is not particularly clear.
Key message #2: Seems fine.
Key message #3: “Many countries and specific populations within countries –notably the
poor and vulnerable populations – are at risk of being left behind.” There is no data used
in this paper that assesses financing for vulnerable populations within a country. All the
data is country level. There is no data on “specific populations within countries” and no
data on “the poor and vulnerable populations.” While it is likely that OOP spending is
associated with less than equitable financing, the authors’ analyses alone does not prove
this statement. While this key message is a hugely important conclusion, and it is likely
true, it is not supported by the data or the analysis presented in the paper. In general, the
authors are urged to be far more cautious about what they suggest about within country
equity. They simply do not have within country data and who is paying for and benefiting
from health services is not available.
Key message #4: “Donors should increase investment in the poorest countries and
populations within countries at risk of falling behind…” There is no evidence provided in
the analysis to support this normative conclusion and little explanation on what has led
the authors to come to this conclusion. Donor allocation of aid is tremendously
complicated and there are many studies that focus on this allocation specifically. A
normative statement about what donors should do is likely outside the scope of this study.
b. The Muskoka2 aid data is not comparable across time because the sole data source
used to generate the estimates does not adjust for the fact that many donors do not

provide data for all years. For example, Gates Foundation data is only included post 2009,
thus the series pre- and post-2009 are fundamentally different and shouldn’t be
compared. This is the case for a multitude of donors, all with different points in which they
start reporting to the CRS. Because of this, none of the results comparing aid allocations
across time are valid, including everything in the “Progress in equity of donor financing”
section.
c. There is no serious limitations section. Both data sources used for this study have
limitations that are important for the reader to consider and impact the reliability of the
authors’ claims. The Muskoka2 has limitations that should be mentioned, including the
assignment of what is RMNCH (ie including relatively arbitrary portions of malaria funding,
HIV funding, including humanitarian aid, etc.). The NHA data used for tracking domestic
spending also has major concerns about being comparable across time, as well as across
countries, especially for key health focus areas. Conversations with the experts at WHO
who help guide the creation of these datasets highlight that they are very cautious about
how they recommend the data be used and have stressed before that it is not appropriate
for comparison across time/country, especially when focusing on a single health focus
area.
d. The analysis of how aid has changed focus across time should be completed at the
country level (as health gains have varied dramatically across countries), rather than in
aggregate (last paragraph of the Progress in Equity of Donor Financing Section).

III. Miscellaneous other concerns
a. I would recommend defining equitable financing in the first paragraph of the paper. I
found myself wondering what the authors meant by this until the second page.
b. The authors alternate between RMNCH (which isn’t defined) and WCAH. If these are
distinct it should be made clearer. If they are the same thing, then I recommend the
authors choose one to use consistently.
c. Different parts of the paper use different currencies (USD versus purchasing power
parity adjusted). It would be easier to follow if the authors were consistent, or the authors
should explain why they use the two currencies in different situations.
d. The “Box,” which is essentially the literature review deserves to have citations.
Currently there are none.
e. It’s unclear if HIV and malaria are included in WCAH domestic funding, as they are (at
least partially) for the Muskoka2 data.
f. The authors state that the IHME aid data is not replicable or transparent. As a producer
of those data, I know that each year we publish a 100+ page methods appendix and aim
to always answer questions from users and critics alike. We have shared code with other
researchers and never hesitate to jump on the phone and answer questions. Methods
being complex and sophisticated is not the same thing as not replicable and/or
transparent. In addition, the authors point out that the IHME RMNCH data “exclude
funding for malaria, HIV, humanitarian aid, and basic health care.” A fairer representation
of IHME’s data would be that IHME includes this DAH as their own health focus area
categories, which could be easily added to IHME’s RMNCH estimates to create estimates
that correspond with the Muskoka2 authors’ perspective. Since the IHME data is published
and reported in a disaggregated way it should not be presented as if this is a limitation (as
it is not).

g. Given that the figures are the primary evidence to support the authors’ perspectives, it
would serve to make them clearer. I would recommend log scaled axes (or at least the
y-axis) to prevent the dots from being so on top of each other and adding best fit lines to
show the empirical relationship between the variables. In figure 1 I would make the dot
size a function of total aid or WCAH aid, rather than population size. Figure 2 and 3 are
not clear at all. I would recommend measuring year-over-year growth rates and making
bar charts. If the authors are determined to keep the scatter plots, then I would make
lines with arrows connect the dots rather than just lines.
h. Figure 1, Figure 5, webappendix Figure 1 (panel B), webappendix Figure 2 (panel B),
and webappendix Figure 3 (panel B) should be removed because Muskoka2 data is not
comparable across time.
i. In the webappendix Table 1, there should be rows reporting that IHME has 138
countries of donor funding estimates for child health, malaria, HIV, and health system
strengthening (all of which relate to WCAH).
j. In the webappendices Table 2 and 3 should highlight the data source. Given that these
estimates are unadjusted downloads from the WHO website, it’s not clear why they are
being reported in the webappendix.
