
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review "Thirty-Day Hospital Revisits After
Discharge for Conditions Targeted by Readmission Measures in the United States: National
Retrospective Analysis" (MS BMJ-2019-049877).
The authors present findings from a descriptive study examining trends over three and a
half years in hospital revisits, encompassing ED treat-and-discharge visits, observation
stays, and hospital readmissions. They find that, although readmissions per 100 patient
discharges have declined, ED visits and observations per 100 patient discharges have
increased, suggesting that hospitals have responded to Hospital Readmissions Reduction
Program (HRRP) incentives by shifting their re-visiting patients away from readmissions
and towards ED and observation stays.
The particular strengths of the paper are the comprehensive data used by the authors and
the significance of the research question they are asking. A weakness of the paper is that,
given the data, the authors could push their analyses a bit further to elucidate mechanisms
and heterogeneity in responses.
Major comments:
1.
The authors present an interesting finding (shifts from readmissions to ED and
observational stays) that seems appropriate for a brief report but perhaps a little on the
skinny side for a full-fledged article. Here are some ways they could unpack their findings a
bit further:
1.1.
Can they cluster or stratify by hospital-types or hospitals? Basic characteristics like
bed size categories, urban-rural, private vs. non-profit, % Medicare patients, and %
managed care patients might be helpful for identifying patterns related to conjectured
HRRP responses.
1.2. Related to 1.1, can they analyze this at the hospital level (each hospital contributes
according to the # of admissions occurring at that hospital)?
1.3.
Related to 1.1 and 1.2, which hospitals would have been expected to have been
penalized by HRRP (i.e. prior to HRRP, being closer to the penalty threshold) and do we see
greater shifts for these hospitals? This would support their claim that hospitals are
responding to HRRP, not by improving in the care provided during the index admission but
by gaming the classification of revisits.
2.
I am not clear on the purpose and utility behind the methods that use index
hospitalizations for the year 2014 to estimate the "potential outcomes" for the outcome
measures between January 2012 and September 2015 for what looks like a straightforward
descriptive paper. What exactly is the treatment requiring the use of the potential
outcomes approach and why fix to a specific year? Perhaps they are constrained by the
granularity of the data in ways that haven't been made clear in the paper?
2.1.
Further elaboration of the rationale and citations in the biostatistics literature
would be helpful. This as well as 2.2 could be done in the Appendix.
2.2.
Specific modeling equations (with time indices, especially with respect to the
calculation involving data from 2014) at each step in the protocol would clarify things.
Minor comments:
1.
The authors might want to state more explicitly in the abstract the motivation for
the research question they are trying to answer. It wasn't until the introduction that the
authors made explicit the reason this question was an important question to answer
(namely, that hospitals are gaming the HRRP narrowly-defined incentives).
2.
Reporting the number of patients in addition to the number of hospitalizations in
Table 1 would be helpful. Are the percentages reporting % of patients with these
characteristics or % of hospitalizations?
3.
Reporting the total number (over all years) of the various hospital revisit measures
in the last column of eTable 1 would be useful.
4.
p. 7, l. 45: "Poison" should be "Poisson"
5.
Great figures!

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Genevieve Kanter
Job Title: Assistant Professor
Institution: University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 5
