Comments for the editor:
The authors present data on 70 fatal cases of Covid-19, comparing them with 67 non-fatal
cases. Most of the data are laboratory parameters and they are useful and very well
presented. The speed with which they prepared the analysis is remarkable. Modest
demographic information is presented. But their management appears to be different from
what happens in the West limiting our ability to use it.
The English is good enough to be clear.
But it’s what is not presented that breaks my heart. We get little sense of the course of this
illness and management detail. These authors must have more experience managing this
illness than anyone in the world – and likely soon we’ll be overwhelmed by Covid-19. Their
clinical and management experience is precious but is not presented. I know I long for
much more than the authors offered. I do not gainsay the objective data they present –
they are very valuable. Perhaps they could add a more subjective “Clinical Management”
section. Maybe they have the material I miss in a separate submission. I wouldn’t want this
issue to obstruct prompt publication of these urgently needed data.

Comments for the authors:
I’m not sure the number of Covid cases in Hubei in “mid-January” but it was 571 on 1/23. It
was 62,662 on 2/22. What fraction of the very ill Covid patients in Hubei would go to Wuhan
Tongji Hospital? This could help us project what our needs will be. Although, perhaps, we
should simply estimate the number of deaths.
Of the 70 fatal cases, only 20% were placed on ventilators and there was only one use of
extra corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and one use of continuous renal
replacement therapy (CRRT). It’s hard for me to imagine (admittedly I haven’t seen a single
SARS-2 infection!) ANY patient in the US or Europe dying of SARS-2 infection without being
on a ventilator. Many would also be on ECMO. The authors should comment on whether
this represents resource limitation or some aspect beyond my expectation.
They can still help us on this matter. What were their criteria for intubation? What should
the criteria be if access to ventilators is unlimited? We would use pO2 <90, pH <7.2,

mentation change or excess work of breathing – should it be any different for Covid? Same
questions for ECMO although the indications here are debated.
The most critical gap in the presentation is the total absence of hemodynamic information
even although heart failure is a major feature of fatal Covid-19. Not presented is
echocardiography, cardiac index information, CVPs or even jugular venous distention. My
expectation from the management of severe influenza pneumonia is that Covid death would
be driven by pulmonary failure through ARDS (which developed in 100% of the authors’ fatal
cases) then right heart failure. Could the authors give us feel for what Covid deaths are
like? Could cardiogenic pulmonary edema be ruled out? Could right heart failure be
discerned from biventricular heart failure?
I presume that “non-invasive ventilation” is BiPAP. True? What strategies did they use to
avoid overventilation?
What kind of ventilators were used? What were the authors’ strategies for ventilator use?
Prone position? Paralysis? Starting TV of 6 ml/kg? What lung protective strategies were
used? We would try to keep the plateau pressure <30. What other strategies did the
authors use?
Cases were defined as moderate, severe and critical (Page 7, lines 126-129). But this is
probably not granular enough for analytic stratification. No other parameters of severity
were presented, eg, APACHE2 or SOFA. No stratification of P:F ratios were presented (the
Berlin criteria divide mild 200-300, moderate 100-200, severe <100). Stratification is
needed to make sense of the higher adrenocorticosteroid usage in fatal cases (79%) than
recovered cases (48%). The authors should comment on this finding. Assessment of
outcomes within severity strata is needed for the interferon association as well.
Is any postmortem information available?
Were the fluid balances of the fatal cases distinctive?
83% of the patients received antibacterial therapy. When measured, the procalcitonin was
>0.5 in 18% of the fatal cases and in 32% of the recovered cases, an unexpected reversal.
Do the authors have a comment on this reversal? Was there other evidence of bacterial
infection? What pathogens, if any?
No physical examination information is presented.
I do not think the NT-proBNP value is a good measure of heart failure. It correlates with
cardiac distention rather than myocardial failure.

My remaining comments are minor or simple edits and are keyed to the text.
• Figure. The images in the manuscript sent to me are low resolution. No mention is made
peripheral distribution, seen in A,B,D,H. This feature is one of the few distinctive radiologic
findings in Covid (see Chung M, et al. Radiology doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2020200230).
Images from E-F are presumably from cases that recovered although that’s not stated.
• Page 3, line 58. Probably baseline, premorbid hypertension, not hypertension during the
illness – but not explicitly indicated.
• Page 3, line 61. Symptoms (add the s)
• Page 3, line 62. Leukocytosis was developed (delete was)
• Page 3, lines 62-3. One recovered … cases. (delete the s)
• Page 3, line 63. Lymphopenia was developed (delete was)
• Page 3, line 71. Delete “were”
• Page 6, line 109. “and those they didn’t have been” “weren’t”
• Page 6, lines 111-112; page 17, line 406. Better to say no vaccines or treatments are
“demonstrated to be effective” or “licensed”. Plenty of vaccines and treatments are
available, being used and being tested.
• Page 6, lines 117-119. The radiological features weren’t explicitly compared besides one
sentence (Page12, lines 284-285).
• Page 7, line 125. Give exact dates.
• Page 7, line 126. Delete “were”.
• Page 7, lines 126-129. Please provide a citation for the diagnostic criteria. Do they include
definitions of moderate, severe and critical? If not, what criteria were used?
• Page 7, lines 131-132. Unclear.

• Page 8, lines 156-157. I couldn’t access the WHO definition.
• Page 8, lines 159-161. Provide citation.
• Page 10, line 221; page 17, line 09. “Fewer” is preferred over “less” for a quantitative
attribute (eg, less mortality, fewer deaths)
• Page 10, lines 231-232. For projecting our needs, the average duration of ventilation is
needed.
• Page 11, line 261. You imply that there is a special kind of cTn1, ie, hypertension cTn1,
• Page 13, line 317. Is “rbidol” misspelled? Google finds nothing relevant.
• Page 17, line 388. You indicate that acute renal injury occurred but Table 2 (page 29, lines
37-39) suggests it was quite rare. This would be unexpected in ARDS. Is there an
explanation?
• P21, Ref 10. I could not access this using the provided URL, even when adding a “-“
between respiratory and infection.
