Thank you for asking me to review this interesting paper for potential publication in the BMJ
The topic is clearly of huge interest, and the researchers should be congratulated for having
implemented a trial so quickly in this current situation. Clearly, in the challenging situation, it may not
be possible to attain as high standards as we would otherwise like. The researchers do discuss this in
their discussion. For example, the open-label, as opposed to double-blind design, may introduce biased
investigator-determined assessments. However this trial may provide some initial evidence of the pros
and cons of HCQ, to support further research, even if not definitive to resolve the debate.
Yet, having reviewed this from a statistical perspective, I do have some major concerns and crucial
comments for the authors and BMJ to consider going forward

1) In particular, I struggle to follow why the paper places strong emphasis on the single significant result
in favour of HCQ, which is a secondary outcome (symptoms) and is only significant after adjustment for
another variable in a post-hoc analysis (and reducing the sample size to 28 patients! See comment 4
below). On reading the paper, my strong impression was that there was no clear evidence to support
the use of HCQ based on the results presented. Furthermore, many confidence intervals (CIs) are quite
wide, and so it could be argued that further research is still needed to ascertain the effect of HCQ more
precisely. This should be the message, but as it stands, the casual reader (journalist, politician, etc) will
look at the abstract and immediately think that HCQ does benefit patients as it reduces symptoms, even
if not improving viral response. I do not agree based on this evidence.
2) Going forward, I urge the authors and the BMJ to be very careful about any promotion of this
post-hoc analysis. It should be removed. I do not agree with the recommendation that “Clinicians might
consider hydroxychloroquine treatment in symptomatic patients with elevated CRP and/or lymphopenia
because hydroxychloroquine might prevent disease progression, particularly in patients at higher risk” –
where does this recommendation come from based on the results? There is no evidence that it might
prevent disease progression.
3) It is concerning that the trial was stopped by the IDMC after the interim analysis of a secondary
outcome (symptoms) showed “good efficacy” – yet later we see that this is only significant in post-hoc
analysis after adjustment for confounding variables and removing to 28 patients. This again raises
concerns about the quality of this trial, and the potential for prior beliefs about the benefit of HCQ to be
influencing the decision to stop the trial and write the article with the focus on symptoms improvement.
Surely the hard outcome is the viral response.
4) Indeed, I do not follow the rationale for the symptoms analysis adjusting for the ‘confounding effects
of anti-viral agents’. As this is a randomised trial, the sudden adjustment in a post-hoc analysis rings
alarms bells to me, especially when this is the only result that is significant and being promoted. Was
this analysis pre-specified? No. Why not also adjust for other prognostic variables? Why does this
analysis truly adjust for confounding? It raises too many questions to have the credibility that the media
and others will take from it.
Upon deeper reading, more alarm bells ring when I see that the significant results are based on a tiny
subset of patients!! See Figure 3 – there are just 28 patients included, with just 9 ‘events’. Hence why
the 95% CI goes from 1.1 to 70! This selective and highly speculative analysis must be removed.
5) The main outcome is a ‘negative conversion rate’. What does this mean exactly? I struggled in the
whole paper to truly follow this. Do the authors mean that the patient becomes COVID19 negative?
Also, is this truly a dichotomous measure? Is it not measured on some continuous scale (viral
response?) – and if so, why is it not analysed on a continuous scale. ““The overall negative conversion
rate was estimated and compared by analyzing time to virus nucleic acid negativity” – how was
negativity defined? Isn’t this a continuous measurement?
I see that Kaplan-Meier curves were used to obtain the conversion proportion over time. Does this
mean that some patients were censored (i.e. not followed for 28 days or until conversion)? If so, is such
censoring non-informative? For example, people who left hospital (but were still covid19 positive) at 7
days may be different than people who remained in hospital but only were followed for 7 days until end
of trial. Please clarify this.
6) Most patients have mild to moderate COVID19 symptoms, and no patients in the trial died. Therefore,
it seems that this sample does not reflect very well the broader set of patients, in particular those that
have severe symptoms and become very poorly. Indeed, the severe patients are those for which the
drug is of most interest. With this in mind, I think the title of the paper should be very clear that this is
in a mild/moderate symptom population – perhaps even a primary care population (which is still very
relevant to the BMJ of course!). It is unfortunate that the inclusion criteria is not more explicit in this, as
ultimately a few more severe cases are included. Perhaps change the title to: “Hydroxychloroquine in

patients with COVID-19 expressing mainly mild to moderate symptoms: an openlabel, randomized,
controlled trial”
7) Aside from the aforementioned post-hoc analysis of symptom severity, there are many other post-hoc
subgroup analyses which ether need to be undertaken properly or removed. In particular, many use
arbitrary cut-points (e.g. age 45) to dichotomise continuous variables. Such categorisation simply loses
power and is biologically implausible. Better to examine on the continuous scale, and ideally with
non-linear trends. Nevertheless, as the paper was not designed and not power to examine subgroup
effects, I question whether they should be included at all in this piece of research. At best a brief
mention and inclusion in a supplementary material.
8) Many analyses do not have all the patients included. This is a major concern. For example, Figure 4
has 48 patients included! It seems that many analyses are dropping patients for whom outcomes were
not measured. We really cannot trust the randomisation anymore in such selected subsets of data. This
all points to just focusing on the main (primary ) outcome and not anything else.
9) There are two Figure 4s presented, one with 48 patients and one with 38 patients.
10) “The overall 28-day negative conversion rate was not different between SOC – better to say they
were similar, as there is an observed difference. Check elsewhere for such language too.
11) CRP analysis should be the final score adjusted for the baseline score (i.e. not a change score
analysis), for the reasons outlined in Vickers et al.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1121605/
- Same issue also holds for lymphocyte count
12) “which also led to more rapid recovery of lymphopenia, albeit no statistical significance.” – another
example of over-stating findings and this should not be given so much prominence.
13) “Adverse events were significantly increased in HCQ recipients but no apparently increase of serious
adverse events” – yet I think there were 2 serious in the HCQ group and none in the other group. I
would remove the second part of this sentence (after the ‘but’)
14) I would not use the term ‘wonder drug’ in the introduction, as too emotive and may be taken in the
wrong manner.
15) Abstract (And what this study adds) needs to make it clear those most people in the trial had mild to
moderate symptoms
16) ‘the family-wise type-I error’ – what does family-wise mean?
17) Is there any evidence that hazard ratios may not be a constant over time
18) “The overall rate of symptoms alleviation within 28-day was not different between patients with SOC
with (59.9%, 95%CI, 45.0% to 75.3%) and without HCQ (66.6%, 95%CI, 39.5% to 90.9%).” – we also
need to have the difference in % presented and the CI for the difference
19) Figure 2: focus should be on interaction estimates (differences in effect for subgroups) not (just) the
subgroup results themselves. However, see earlier comment about subgroup analyses. Also Fig 2 label
says that KM curves are presented, but clearly these are HR estimates
In summary, whilst recongising the timely nature of this trial and the difficulty researchers faced when it
was undertaken in challenging circumstances, there are substantial concerns about the quality and
reporting and interpretation of this trial as it stands. If the BMJ remains interested, I strongly

recommend it needs major revision, and that is should focus mainly (only) on the primary outcome, that
participants had mild/moderate symptoms, and removing the aforementioned ad-hoc analyses that are
inappropriate and potentially dangerously misleading. Even then, we need greater clarity on how the
primary outcome is defined and measured, and how censored observations were handled.
I truly hope this review helps the BMJ and the authors going forward.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
