Authors attempted to evaluate the frequency and validity of sex-treatment interactions in
randomized controlled trials (RCTs) included in the eligible Cochrane systematic reviews. Moreover,
authors explored relevant guidelines to assess the recommendations on sex-based analysis. This
topic is important as the majority of guidelines do not provide any evidence informed
recommendations for sex-based analysis while funding agencies are strongly encouraging to
perform sex-based analysis in funded knowledge synthesis, clinical and basic research projects
without any prior relevant evidence.
• This paper discusses evidence on sex-treatment effects from Cochrane Meta-analysis (Metaanalysis requires at least two or more RCTs contributing data); hence those topics (outcomes) are
generated from data contributed by a single RCT should be excluded.
• Page 9, Line 45: "A total of 23 of the 41 reviews had more than one eligible topic, and there were
total of 109 eligible topics with sex-based subgroup data." I would recommend to include only
single topic per review primarily the primary outcome or the topic with the biggest sample size.
However, this is completely at authors' discretion.
• Abstract: Page 2: Line 5: Objective: "To evaluate the frequency….(RCTs)" This is not correct as
only RCTs contributing data in the meta-analysis of the eligible Cochrane systematic reviews were
considered in the presented paper. Many RCTs including sex-treatment analysis might have been
missed as these Cochrane systematic reviews are not up to date.
• Abstract: Page 2: Line 45: "Statistically significant sex-treatment ….. Interactions." What is the
expected value or reference value?
• Page 8: Line 47: "For eligible topics, we performed non-systematic searches and scrutinized
recent guidelines for evidence suggesting differential clinical management based on the sex
treatment effects." This is not reflecting in the abstract or methods section of the text. It is
mentioned in the statistical section. Authors found eight statistically significant sex-treatment
interactions (seven reported in table 1) but failed to discuss relevant guidelines covering on eight
topics.
• Page 8: Line 47: "For eligible topics, we performed non-systematic searches and scrutinized
recent guidelines for evidence suggesting differential clinical management based on the sex
treatment effects." This is not reflecting in the abstract, objectives, as well as the protocol. I
assume that this protocol is not published previously through any portal (e.g., Prospero), you may
either include an amendment in your protocol or remove the details on guidelines
recommendations on clinical management based on the sex-treatment effects. This is surprising to
me especially when authors pointed out the deviation from protocol as a major issue in the
introduction section.
• Page 8: Line 55: Authors mentioned that a search was conducted in PubMed, however, a search
strategy employed is not presented. Please provide a complete search strategy in the appendix.
• Page 9, Line 7: Authors reported: "We excluded reviews that were withdrawn, that included
outcomes that pertained to one specific sex…." While in the same paragraph there is a
contradicting statement "We included studies where some of the primary outcomes focused

exclusively on females if any of the outcomes in the review also pertained to …".
• Page 9, Line 21: Patient involvement: There is no need to include information on patient
engagement if it is not a part of the presented work.
• Page 9, Line 41: " Out of these 1141 articles, 41 included data from RCTs that had sex-based
subgroups as determined by screening of the forest plots (Figure 1)" Please provide the reasons for
exclusion with a number of citations excluded per reason for 1099 articles during level 2
screening.
• Page 9, Line 45: "A total of 23 of the 41 reviews had more than one eligible topic, and there were
total of 109 eligible topics with sex-based subgroup data." However, supplementary table 1
provided details on 42 reviews.
• Page 9, Line 53: "The 109 topics included a total of 309 trials (160 with data on both men and
women, 46 with data only on men, and 103 with data only on women)." May I suggest to add a
number of patients represented by 309 trials.
• Page 11, Line 35: "When the five forest plots were recreated excluding the first RCT with a
statistically significant sex-treatment interaction, none of the remaining RCTs validated the
statistically significant results." This is striking as subsequent RCTs did not support the sextreatment interaction, which was indicated by the first RCTs, which may be due to by chance. The
results presented later on the same page "However, none of these 3 topics found sex-treatment
interactions that were consistent with treatment recommendations in recent guidelines." supports
my notion. Would it be possible to provide a separate comparative table of outcomes (RR or MD)
with and without first RCTs?
• Page 11, Line 43: "The eight statistically significant sex-treatment interactions (Table 1) did not
present a consistent pattern in populations, disease of interest, interventions, or outcomes." Table
1 presents details of only seven reviews.
• Table 1: Please provide the reference or study ID in table 1 so the reviewer can verify that the
reported sex-treatment effects are supported by how many other topics in the same review. Please
also provide the sample size (patient population) and duration of intervention in table 1.
• Page 11, Line 45: "Three of the eight topics contained data from only a single RCT." This is
interesting notice as this may be by chance and may not be corroborated by subsequent RCTs.
• Page 11, Line 47: "Five of the eight topics had effect sizes in the same direction for males and
females." A pictorial presentation is always better to indicate trend or direction of effects. However,
it is absolutely authors' discretion to convert the table into a forest plot (RR and MD separately as
figure 1A and 1B).
• Page 11, Line 55: "However, none of these 3 topics found sex-treatment interactions that were
consistent with treatment recommendations in recent guidelines." Which guidelines? Please provide
the references.
• Page 12 and 13: Paragraph "For example, in the topic….additional evidence is necessary."
Mentions about the results are based on a single RCT. Can author use another example of outcome
based on multiple RCTs (bigger samples size) to support the statement?
• Page 13: Line 57: "General sex-based subgroup reporting practices within the CDSR" Three
paragraphs reported an interesting outcome that the prevalence of evaluating sex-treatment is
strikingly low in the Cochrane systematic reviews, which is making sense as it is not strongly
recommended in the Cochrane reviews guidelines (except Sex/Gender Methods Group, Cochrane
Methods Equity: http://methods.cochrane.org/equity/sex-and-gender-analysis). However, the
author did not mention this exercise in the protocol, abstract or methodology sections.
• Page 15: Line 7: The presented example of meta-analysis is based on only two RCTs. I would
suggest considering an example of meta-analysis based on multiple RCTs as a substantial evidence
from various studies and correlate with corroboration at the meta-analysis and reflection in the
relevant guidelines.
• Figure 1: Please combine the numbers of articles excluded due to withdrawn (11 + 1) from the
CDSR database and present together.
• Supplementary table 1: May I suggest you to provide details on the year of publication of the
review; sample size per outcome, evidence grade (only if reported by the review in the summary
of finding tables), duration of intervention (range in weeks), etc.
