
I very much appreciated the opportunity to review this short paper, which basically
calls for i) consistency in the approach to low-risk pragmatic trials between EU and
elsewhere and ii) a more nuanced approach to assessment of the legality and ethics
review for these trials.
Let me start by saying I am supportive of these arguments and happy to see them
promoted in BMJ.
I have some suggestions which I hope will help improve the paper:
1) I think, word-count permitting, an example would be helpful. In particular, I think
an example that is currently not permitted, with suggested options to make it
permitted under different regulatory situations, would bring the argument to life.
This might possibly be presented in a table to save on the word-count.
2) I think it would be helpful to more clearly elucidate the concepts of minimal risk
and burden as it relates to this sort of research. Where should the line be drawn?
3) I think some examples of trials that are needed for public and social health
circumstances but that would be impracticable under current regulations would be
good.
4) I think that since this is essential a bioethics paper, some comment on the ethical
principles at play would be useful. how to reconcile autonomy with broader social
benefit is one thing to identify here and i think there are many well-cited references
you could cite around this - one that comes to mind is Upshur's work on ethics for
public health, but you might think of others.
5) As a Canadian, I'd be remiss if I didn't point out that we have our own regulations
which you might consider citing - see the TCPS2, which has a specific section on
alteration to standard approach to consent. The TCPS2 calls for a post-study debrief
in cases where pre-study consent is not feasible or not appropriate. It might be
worth explicitly addressing the idea of whether/how a debrief would work, as it is
informed by solid ethical principles.
6) Finally, many pRCTs are about testing QI initiatives rather than testing different
drugs. This seems to me an easier place to make the argument for waiver of
consent. When the drugs themselves are randomized at the patient-level, i do think
it feels awkward not to let the patient know. How might this affect the doctor-patient
relationship and what principles do we have to consider in regard to that? How,
practically-speaking, might this work during the clinical encounter? My concern here
very much relates, i think, to my first point where I suggest an example would be
helpful.