Thank you for giving me the possibility to review this commentary considered for publication at the BMJ.
The commentary looks at the Human Capital Index (HCI), the latest indicator developed by the World
Bank and seeks to present the strengths and weaknesses of the index in improving health worldwide. I
have read the piece with interest – the write up is very clear and the comment could be an interesting
contribution since there is very little discussion about the HCI yet. However, the discussion fails to
capture the measurement challenges of the HCI or contextualise the new index in the existing literature
or measurement efforts in the past.
My comments:
- The main criticism put forward by the authors is that the HCI ‘subsumes healthcare to the goals and
logics of economic growth’. I don’t see this as a criticism of HCI, but of human capital theory as an
entire field of enquiry. As the authors rightfully point out, the concept of human capital is very closely
link with questions around worker productivity and economic growth. Productive abilities can be
enhanced by education, health, experience, skills etc. I find it hardly surprising that a measurement of
human capital subsumes health to the logics of productivity; in the sense that health is part of the
definition of this capital. Since the 1980s, many attempts to measure human capital has included
measures of health – and the World Bank HCI is in line with those. If the authors disagree with the
premises of human capital theory, they should revise the commentary to reflect their concerns as such.
- The aim of the HCI is to basically push further investments in education and health by demonstrating
to countries that there could be significant ‘returns on investment’. The discussions about the weakness
of the instrument are not really fully in line with this: the HCI is criticised for things that it does not
intend to do and it seems a bit unfair at points.
o For instance, the authors compare the HCI to the human development index, stating HCI contrasts
with other ‘development indices’. I agree that the HDI is a much better development index, but its aim is
to rank countries according to their level of development; whereas the HCI intends to capture the
unrealised economic gains from loss of health and education and is therefore not a development index.
o The authors also don’t really compare HCI to other existing measures of human capital that are in use.
They point out that human capital is one of the oldest fields of enquiry in economics. There have been
numerous attempts to quantify HC.
• The OECD has worked extensively on measurement of human capital, it didn’t quite include health
• Other measures would only include rough measures of health such as life expectancy
• There has been important work done by the IHME (Lim and colleagues) in the same spirit as the HCI.
As a reader, it would be much more useful to try to understand what the contribution of the HCI is
compared to existing work – see
https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(18)31941-X/fulltext#%20
o The authors don’t actually discuss the ‘strengths’ of the HCI itself, but rather praise what the Bank is
trying to do with the HCI. It should be noted that the HCI is an improvement in many regards:

• It considers health not just as life expectancy and makes a first attempt to consider morbidity and
mortality selection using U5m and stunting.
• It considers quality of education as well as length of education, something that researchers have
struggled for a long time.
https://www.devex.com/news/opinion-2-things-the-world-bank-s-human-capital-index-gets-right-on-ed
ucation-93654
o The authors don’t actually talk about the HCI itself, really. It discusses opinions about strategies of the
World Bank that the authors find problematic; which many readers might not disagree with but seem
slightly off topic in the context of this article. They present the mechanics of the HCI but yet don’t offer
constructive comment about whether those make sense:
• Is stunting a good measure of morbidity? Some may argue that it is not. Perhaps it is worth
researching and raising the pros and cons of using stunting.
• How are the different components of the HCI combined into a single measure? There might be
methodological issues with weighting each element of the indicator – this typically influences very
heavily what the final figure would be. This seems to be a potential weakness of the HCI.
The presented weaknesses seem to refer more to problems with the Bank’s ethos and modus operandi.
- The authors state that the HCI will push private funding in healthcare rather than public funds: the
policy documents they cite are generic policy documents that predate the HCI. It’s perhaps a general
position of the WB (although not sure this is correct in health given the Bank’s latest engagements on
UHC or the GFF), which the authors could question in a different piece, but I don’t see the link with the
HCI.
- The authors imply that the HCI will promote a vision of healthcare focused on productivity, at the
expense of ‘non productive members of the society’. It may be a problem with human capital theory
more widely, not specifically a problem of the HCI. The HCI actually uses quite generic measures of
health like life expectancy or stunting, so not sure why it would undermine investments for those who
are not in working age.
- P6, L37-48 – a link here is made about international cooperation on taxation, tariffs and redistribution
– it is not clear why there is reference to this here?
- In general, the HCI is fairly new and has not been widely used yet (as of mid-2019). The ‘weaknesses’
that the authors point to then seem to be ‘speculative’ in nature. I understand that this is a
commentary, and as such, it should leave some space for discussion of ideas and opinions, but I think
that ideas need to be supported by some level of evidence.
- Finally, the authors imply that the HCI ‘works for the Bank itself internally’. They support this claim by
stating that ‘it spurs further data gathering efforts around health as it relies on country data rather than
than IHME estimates’. I find this comment problematic.
o First of all, the WDI child mortality estimate is not an indicator collected by the World Bank. It is
collected by a well-established UN inter-agency Group for child mortality estimation, which also includes
prominent experts from many institutions incl. UNICEF and WHO. They have worked on this for decades
and decades.
o Would the authors imply that the IHME estimates would have been better for this indicators? See other
authors have pointed out:
https://www.cgdev.org/blog/known-unknown-estimating-global-burden-disease
https://www.cgdev.org/blog/global-burden-disease-estimates-secret-recipes-or-spoiled-ingredients
Other comments:
- Box and figures numbering: they are screenshots from other publications, they need to be edited and
numbered correctly. It is hard to assess the value of the two figures as they are not discussed at all in
the text.