
This is a useful study which investigates the real-world effects of TSH levels in
hypothyroidism (taking replacement therapy) on long-term health outcomes using an
extensive database of primary care data collected in routine clinical practice – giving the
power of very large numbers of patients and TSH levels.
I agree with the authors that this study “validates with hard evidence the latest …
guidelines” on TSH levels in the management of hypothyroidism – guidelines which are all
otherwise largely based on consensus expert opinion rather than on clinical trial or
large-scale retrospective data.
I think this sort of study based on large datasets collected from primary care is very
valuable to validate and guide routine clinical practice outside the context of clinical trials.
The authors generally describe their methods and their analysis fully and appropriately.
The authors conclude that there is an increased risk of IHD and HF at TSH levels >10 and
(perhaps surprisingly) a protective effect for HF at TSH <0.1.
They found no increased risk of AF or stroke at high or low TSH concentrations – which is
reassuring for those cases where endocrinologists might aim to keep TSH below normal
(primary thyroid cancers) and perhaps surprising since suppressed TSH levels have
previously been thought to be associated with an increased risk of AF (and one of the main
clinical risks of this thought to be stroke) – indeed the authors report a marginal protective
effect at TSH 0.1-0.4. I don’t know if the authors are able to offer any explanation was to
why their dataset might give a result which is contrary to conventional opinion in this
regard – but this difference should perhaps be included in discussion.
I also find the findings on fracture contrary to routine expectations – since it is thyroid
overactivity that is typically associated with osteoporosis – and we might therefore expect
that increased fracture would be seen with low rather than high TSH. Again the authors
might like to comment on possible reasons for this discrepancy – and whether it was
indeed contrary to their a priori expectations.
The above findings might tempt the clinician to think that their only target in
hypothyroidism replacement should be to avoid a TSH >10. However, the data on overall
mortality showed highly statistically significant increased risk at effectively all TSH levels
outside the population normal range for TSH (i.e. when TSH was <0.1 or >4). The HR for
mortality was much greater than the HR for IHD or HF at TSH >10 – and of course no
increase in individual cardiovascular adverse outcomes had been seen at other TSH levels.
These risk data for mortality reinforce the current guideline recommendations to maintain
a normal level of TSH in hypothyroidism replacement – but it does raise the question – if
there is no increase (or for some parameters with TSH> 10 a less marked increase) in IHD,
HF, stroke or AF (which would be the obvious ways in which an abnormal TSH might
change mortality) – then what is the mechanism of this increased mortality (that is, what
are the patients dying of)? Are the authors able to shed any light from their data on which
conditions are responsible for the death of these patients (and whether that is different
from the background population)?.
The choice of statistics to analyse such a large clinical dataset and the handling of the
variation of TSH levels over time is a complex statistical issue on which I am not really
qualified to comment. No doubt the editors will have requested a statistical review.
I am a little surprised that in a study of data covering 23years, and for a condition in which
treatment is lifelong after diagnosis, that the median follow up was only 6 years.
Presumably the incidence of hypothyroidism was constant during that time. Are the
authors able to shed any light on this?
The authors also do not state whether or not they have excluded patients with pituitary
disease (and therefore TSH deficiency rather than primary hypothyroidism) from analysis.
Ideally one should do this, because in hypopituitarism the TSH levels will not reflect the
prevailing levels of circulating (replacement) thyroid hormones since the deficiency itself is
caused by inadequate secretion of TSH. In the Read code (v3) concept hierarchy “TSH
deficiency” is a subtype of “Hypothyroidism” – and so it is likely to have been included in
analysis unless specifically excluded. In addition, it seems possible that a primary care
clinician might easily enter “Hypothyroidism” rather than “TSH deficiency” for a pituitary
patient who required thyroxine replacement. For this reason, I think we need to know
either that pituitary disease has been excluded from the analysis – or at very least know

the proportion of cases (likely to be low) that have other Read-Code evidence of pituitary
disease in their record.
