Review: Countdown to 2030 collection (#2): Equity in financing for women’s, children’s
and adolescents’ health: are those most in need being left behind? BMJ 2019-051685
This paper sets out to examine progress in improving equity in financing for WCAH. The
paper includes three sections; 1) Conceptualization and definition of equitable financing;
2) Analysis and exploration in equity in funding provided by donors and LMIC
governments; 3) Three case studies (Nigeria, Senegal, and Lebanon) on financing for
WCAH at national and subnational levels. Based on these analyses, the authors discuss
future areas of research and provide policy recommendations.
The paper addresses the important topic of financing of WCAH, with particular attention to
populations that are worse-off (in terms of mortality, poverty, special vulnerability). These
topics are highly relevant out of concerns for equity and fairness and for policy
development and implementation at national and global level. The paper is well written,
logically structured and provides a thorough examination of the current data and trends,
and the limitations of the current data. It provides clear evidence-based guidance on next
steps, and highlights the need to define what “equitable financing for women’s, children’s,
and adolescents’ health would look like”. The country examples provide relevant
understandings of underlying drivers of lack of financing. While these contributions are

important, I think the paper miss out one some important opportunities and raise these
concerns below:
1. Defining concepts and understandings of equity and need:
o The first section of the paper examines equitable financing for WCAH and asks what it
would look like. While the section provide a good an coherent overview of current efforts
to measure equity, as well as a beneficial explanations on financing how equity links to
horizontal and vertical aspects of equity, the paragraph is not clear about why equity
matters and for whom equity matters. While the paper is not intended to be a
philosophical paper on equity and equality, the paragraph and paper would benefit from
clearly spelling out why equity matters and for whom (beyond that it is a policy goal).
o Related; the authors do not clearly define what “those most in need” mean or “who” can
be considered a vulnerable population. Is the focus on need based on WCAH on general
(as compared to other groups), the needs of people in low income countries, the needs of
subpopulations with high mortality, the needs of subpopulations in low income countries?
While the paper later discuss (page 14, from line 183) that need should defined according
to ability to pay, mortality rates and “to include the poorest countries with the worst
health outcomes, and those facing shocks” the paper should early set out how and why
they understand “need” as important for equity, and whether it applies to individuals or
populations (e.g. poor countries vs poor people)
2. WCAH versus other (global) health financing
o The authors conclude that “countries reporting financing data for priorities specific to
WCAH is limited, those countries with data only report for a limited number of years, and
no data are available on out-of- pocket expenditure for WCAH, which severely limits any
assessment of equity of financing”. While this paper is focusing on WCAH, it seems
relevant to ask whether data and their monitoring are worse or better than for other areas
of global health? From the text it seems as WCAH is particularly bad, but data on NCDs or
mental health may (or may not) be even more dispatched? It would be helpful to know if
WCAH data are particularly bad or if this is general problem system for health systems
(and their funding).
3. Recommendations:
o The authors urge donors to increase contributions in the poorest countries and
populations at risk of falling behind, and call upon LMIC governments to increase efforts to
curb OOP expenditures. Further, they support greater investment in data and monitoring.
While these conclusions are important and in line with the findings from the study, similar
claims have been made earlier. Would it be possible to expand (based on their findings)
on:
The trends in financing from figure 1-3 seem to be driven by domestic spending, but many
of the recommendations seems to focus on the international responsibility? Clearer
recommendations targeting at external vs domestic financing mechanisms (could also be
added as a table) would be helpful. It seems vital to link the first paragraph (where
taxation is highlighted as key to address OOP), and how one define equity, and perhaps
highlighting even clearer countries where progress has been made (positive examples).
External/international support: Should the focus be on high mortality populations
(absolute or relative, poor populations/poor countries, or other vulnerable populations
(given resent shifts in demography and economic development, see literature building
upon Sumner
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0305750X1100229)4
Other concerns:
4. Title: The title of the paper asks whether those most in need are being left behind.
Related to my comment on conceptual understanding, I encourage the authors to take a
clearer stand on what their answer is to this important question.
5. Figure 1-3 include useful information, but are data-intense and challenging to interpret.
The figures are of great interest, but they might be easier to interpret if less data were

presented, or if these were presented in a more simple way, e.g. excluding “external
expenditure” in Figure 2 and 3 (potentially also domestic government expenditure).