This was an area of great interest to me a decade or so ago and its really nice to see the
newer methodology of network meta analysis being applied. I have no concerns at all
about the methodology of the network meta-analysis.
I commend the authors on a nicely conducted review and a very well presented paper.
These 15 trials are well known to me as I carried out the earlier Cochrane review and led
the individual patient data meta-analyses in the mid 00s. I see there is one new one.
The findings are pretty clear and I think the NMA has a very clear statement to say on this
in its three findings.
Not much to choose between them on symptom control but T&T likely highest rank.
Patients prefer Gastroscopy, but its not cost-effective.
Its perhaps a shame that the IPD data was not available, but it would have been an
extensive effort to recontact all the authors after almost 2 decades in some cases. In any
case, the have the pair-wise comparisons for that and we mainly used it to standardise the
economic outcomes and to separate predominant symptom (reflux or epigastric pain).
I agree with the authors of this analysis that it does offer new insights of clinical utility over
and above what we did a decade ago.
- We are able to rank the strategies
- we can use indirect comparisons
- There is a clear reduction in gastroscopy use.
- Test and treat is clearly preferred to PPI alone.
- Test and treat is marginally likely to be better than endoscopy.
- The effect of acid suppression would not be underestimated by pooling on demand and
continuous therapy arms.
One minor point that might improve the paper.
There is of course the issue that the prevalence of H.pylori infection alters the likely
cost-effectiveness of testing strategies. Some of these trials are more than 15 years old
now and its likely that H.pylori infection rates have fallen further in western populations.
There is an simulation model that might make an interesting counterpoint in the
discussion:
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0272989X07309644
The model suggests that in low prevalence of H.pylori test and treat is unlikely to be
cost-effective, although confidence intervals are wide.
Brendan Delaney