The honesty and exceptional directness of the article about the pricing strategies and
ruthlessly capitalistic stance of pharmaceutical companies truly surprised me. I recommend
the article for publication with some changes that I outline below.
The most important comment to begin with is that the article, curiously, completely misses
out on the patients’ perspective, and also on mentioning all the work that patient
organisations have been doing in the field of medicine pricing, access and affordability. I
admit that these movements may be somewhat weaker in the US than in Europe. But then
the article itself argues against using models originating from the US and forcing them onto
other countries (page 11, lines 36 and onwards).
Uninvited or invited, smaller and larger patient advocacy groups have been involved in
influencing medicine prices, and this trend is gaining momentum with the increasing
introduction and acceptance of health technology assessment (HTA) mechanisms and bodies
that regularly include patient representatives. Some key initiatives to drive down medicine
prices have been launched and are maintained or operated by patient advocacy groups, such
as buyers’ clubs for HCV DAAs, parallel import, the fight for biosimilars and generics in some
cancers (CML, breast cancer, metastatic breast cancer, melanoma). But the same is true for
more systemic approaches that concern the understanding, deconstruction and changing of
global intellectual property protection regimes. Doctors Without Borders, the Medicines
Patent Pool, the DNDi initiative, patient registries run by patient organisations, HIV vaccine
research initiatives, the access and affordability portfolio of ACT-UP Paris and of the
Deutsche AIDS Hilfe come to mind.
Importance and relevance of the topic:
The topic is relevant and pressingly important. Unfair medicine prices lead to growing
inequalities in healthcare, and also directly lead to a great number of preventable deaths.
Does the article cover the topic adequately, and in some depth?
Yes, but as mentioned above it fails to reflect on the role or position of patients in the global
equation of pricing and affordability. With the emergence of large and powerful patient
organisations, patient groups are not always in need of being represented by researchers or
the government, which in turn is intended to lead to greater transparency.
Do the authors make their case rigorously through reasoned argument or through drawing
reasonable inferences from available data?
The arguments may appear as single-sided in that they uncover the perverted and purely
commercial, non-transparent nature of medicine pricing mechanisms used by pharmaceutical
companies. However, it is very rare that anyone would talk about this issue with such
openness and frankness as most authors and publications are scared to fall out of grace with
major pharmaceutical funders. The inferences drawn from data are in line with the analyses
of the civil society (patient organisations) about the impact and perils of non-transparent
pricing mechanisms and the lack of affordable medicines. It is even more surprising then
that this perspective is missing from the article. Another shortcoming is that the possible
role and impact of HTA is not discussed at all.

Does this Article stimulate discussion, debate and air controversies?
By all means. I am quite convinced that the article will generate plenty of debate, and that
pharmaceutical companies will be lobbying intensively to defend their interests.
Detailed comments:
Page 1, line 23 - I laude the authors for acknowledging that the right to health is a
fundamental human right.
Page 1, line 34 - Despite several hints, the article does not give a precise definition of what
is “fair” or “unfair” pricing.
Page 3, lines 9 to 23 - We all KNOW that this is the situation, but it would improve the article
tremendously if the authors could give more detailed evidence for these statements.
Page 3, lines 27 and onwards - The authors mention two concerning trends: (1) lack of
transparency and (2) lack of access. But there is a third one, especially in low and
middle-income countries: the risk of corruption. With the crumbling of healthcare budgets
around the world, and exorbitant pharmaceutical prices that need to be decided upon and
approved by government officials, the risk of corruption in healthcare has increased
tremendously. Even though this is probably a separate topic that merits an entire article, it
should at least be mentioned in this one, too.
Page 7, lines 20 and onwards - I recommend to consider and mention the implications of
mandatory licensing of SOF in India, the ensuing system of buyers’ clubs that now supply
patients across the globe, and also rigorously document and publish pharmacovigilance data
of generic DAAs. Yes, Gilead’s HCV story is unique - but so it the response of civil society to
it: from buyers’ clubs to patent contestations to direct actions against the company.
Page 7, lines 45 - This is perhaps the single most important statement in the article that will
be a welcome argument for patient organisations.
Page 11, lines 3 - 8 - No, this is not the state’s role only, and especially not outside the US.
This is exactly where patient advocacy groups and civil society in general do and should play
a role. Please consider patients. They are the ultimate stakeholders in this process, and have
been assuming this role actively for years.