This analysis focuses on the potential for low-barrier, self-care interventions such as HIV self-testing and
community-based long-acting reversible contraception to be implemented within humanitarian contexts.
The authors make a compelling case for how these approaches have strong potential to improve access
to greatly-needed health services in humanitarian contexts, particularly for marginalized sub-populations
such as adolescents and gender and sexual minority populations. The analysis of case studies and
literature presented suggests that these innovative service delivery models are an untapped and
potentially high-impact intervention that could be considered in humanitarian programming, particularly
within the MISP that currently comprises the basic package of sexual and reproductive health services to
be offered within humanitarian contexts. The article is well written and nicely organized, and has
excellent potential to make a valuable contribution to the peer-reviewed literature on SRHR services and
health service delivery in humanitarian contexts.
A few questions that the authors may wish to consider addressing include:
1. LGBTQ populations are often over-represented within displaced and refugee populations due to
enhanced fear of persecution on the basis of their sexual/gender identity. Similarly, a large proportion of
conflict-affected populations are young people, who face very unique concerns and have large potential
for severe life course impacts of unmet need for SRHR services. If there are any data on the proportion
or overrepresentation of each of these key populations within conflict-affected or displaced populations
or camps, this information could be added to the background (e.g., page 5 section on intersectional
identities) to make an even more compelling case for the focus of the article on these two populations.
2. Regarding the recommendation on community-based DMPA implementation, it may be worth
considering adding some discussion of or reference to evolving guidelines and literature discussing
potential links to HIV transmission, and how this should be taken into account in implementation
decisions and counselling regarding contraception options.
3. There is an important and well-justified focus on intersectional identities in the article, and further
clarity could be provided on how self-care interventions such as those highlighted in the case studies
(boxes 1 and 2) could be adapted or implemented in a way that is sensitive and responsive to the needs
of young people, LGBTQ communities, or other marginalized populations. This could nicely tie together
some of the main themes presented in the analysis.