Many thanks for asking me to review this manuscript describing the SCIPI trial
assessing the impact of pump therapy immediately after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes
in children, compared to an intensified multiple dose injection regimen.
The paper is well-written, comprehensively referenced, and clear. The study is
important and the protocol mostly well designed. One of the fundamental issues, as
the authors acknowledge, is the absence of a curriculum-driven education
programme delivered to all participants. The forest plot for sites suggests that this
may not have made a difference but it is a major weakness of the design.
The other issue is that participants were managed according to local policies and
protocols which may have differed in their intensification schedules and procedures
for optimising basal rates, and bolus settings. For example, did centres support
basal rate testing, were ICR and ISF reviewed the same number of times with
similar adjustment policies? Again, the sites appear to not differ greatly but the
potential homogeneity of approach risks a potentially important signal being lost.
Additional comments:
1. In the 'What is already known about this topic?' box the authors state that 'An
adequately powered RCT and economic evaluation was required to compare the
effectiveness, safety and cost utility of CSII with MDI.' That may be true but SCIPI is
not that study as it only assesses the first year after diagnosis. It is important that
the data, manuscript and conclusions do not imply that the reported benefits outside
of the defined time window are absent. SCIPI is interesting and important but the
wider reporting of the REPOSE study showed that careful wording is required.
2. What proportion of MDI participants were on glargine and levemir. Were they
different? Was the levemir used twice daily? The adult data (in the network
meta-analysis in NG17) suggest that they are not equivalent and, while SCIPI is not
powered to assess this, CSII may differ from one basal regimen but not another. It
is a further weakness that the basal insulin was not standardised.
3. The abstract states ' CSII is not cost-effective in patients representative of the
study population treated in the NHS.' as a standalone sentence. Again, it is
important to note that this is only true in the first year after diagnosis and
differences after that point may remain.
4. The number of education sessions was standardised but not the quality or content
5. The methods states that advanced pump features were taught. Which were
taught? From pump downloads which were used? How often? How many basal rates
did the CSII participants use at 12 months? The benefits from pump therapy accrue
from variable basal rates and adaptation of these in real time, along with the ability
to utilise smaller and more granular doses of insulin. If these features were not used
the absence of between group differences may not be surprising.
6. The authors report in the stats section that 0.5% is equivalent to 18.03mmol/mol.
I think that is incorrect. A 0.5% DCCT absolute reduction is, I think, around
5-6mmol/mol (IFCC).
7. Recruitment took a very long time - did all participants use the same devices?
8. As the authors note the insulin usage signal is in the opposite direction to that
which may be expected with large amounts of missing data in the MDI arm, I
wonder if this should be removed?
9. The conclusion is that 'The findings of our study raise important questions
regarding the widespread adoption of an expensive treatment within a resource
limited health care setting, with no robust evidence of superiority.' I don't think they
do. I think they support initiation and education with MDI and progress to CSII after
the first year in line with the evidence for people with T1DM that are likely to benefit
- SCIPI does not tell us anything about later glucose, hypoglycaemia, QoL or cost.

Overall this is an interesting study but issues with standardisation, CSII feature
utilisation, and missing data mean that the conclusions may not be as robust as the
authors assert and additional data along with revisions would improve the
manuscript.