The subject of this study is important and of practical importance. This study gives new
information of this field. The data is impressive and the analyses are adequately done. This
paper is worth to publish after minor revision and I would like to pay attention to some
points, which need corrections.
Firstly, there are some concepts which should be explained more clearly:
”Common” mental disorder and ”serious” mental disorder are used and mentioned widely
in abstract and in introduction, but these terms are not explained in methods. In the
categorization of the disorders should also be explained, which diagnostic groups belongs
to serious and which to common disorders.
In Statistical analysis the abbreviation ”CAPRI” should be considered to leave out. In some
points it is a little bit confusing for the reader to remember what does this CAPRI means.
However, if it is used, it should be explained where do these letters come from and the
term CAPRI should be used systematically also in tables.
The authors claim that injuries are preventable harms. The concept of preventable
concerning this study should be expalained (are all injuries preventable?).
In Demographic characteristics page 6 : Living with one parent. Are they single parent
family or are the blended family included?
This amount of analysis and reported results are not needed. In Statistical analysis I
suggest to leave out from this study the analysis of distribution of injured children by
calendar month. The seasonality could be an own separate study.
Figure 1 indicates, that mothers / fathers had more than one children. It would be worth to
report the range of number of children.
In Table 2 in all Yes and No columns the number of children must be added. This comment
concerns also supplementar Table 1.
In the first row of the Table 2 person-years should be reported
In Supplementary Figure 1 the term Exposure should be explained, what does it mean. For
example Exposure to parental mental illness .
Supplementary Figure 2 does not give any added value to this manuscript and is not based
on the findings of this study. I suggest to leave this figure out.
Supplementary Figure 3 seasonality of the injuries does not give any added value to this
manuscript and I suggest to leave it out.
In Supplementary table 2. in column titles the words parental, maternal and paternal may
confuse readers, because the number of cases after them are the number of children.
Better place for these terms is to use them as subtitles above the first column. Same
concerns supplementary tables 3,4,5 and 6.
In discussion, in the row 21, the claim that ”perhaps surprisingly for some”, I suggest to
leave it out. What is the explanation that it surprises some?
Large sample size gives easily statistically significant results. Because of that, clinical
significance from this point of view should be discussed.
The finding that depression and anxiety had a greater influence on the risk of injuries than
exposure to schizophrenia is an important finding also from the point of view of
stigmatization of severe mental disorders. Very often the patients with psychotic disorders

are regarded to be unable to take care of their children, but according to this study it is not
necessarily as a rule so.
In conclusion is mentioned that there is need to increase accessibility to parental support.
In addition to this, children´s needs should be also recognized. For example following
article of this area would be worth to refer: Niemelä M, Kallunki H, Jokinen J, Räsänen S,
Ala-Aho B, Hakko H, Ristikari T, Solantaus T. Collective Impact on Prevention: Let's Talk
About Children Service Model and Decrease in Referrals to Child Protection Services.
Frontiers in Psychiatry. 2019;18;10:64. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2019.00064.
