The authors present a systematic review of triple vs. quadruple cART for people living with
HIV. From a methods perspective, the review is reasonably well performed except for a few
minor limitations listed below. I do not think that the question is all that important for
front-line clinicians who care for people with HIV or for people who are living with HIV. If
anything, there is now a movement to see if two rather than three drug regimens are
adequate for some patients in an effort to reduce adverse effects. Regimens with four
antiretrovirals are limited to exceptional circumstances with highly drug-resistant virus.
The authors say that the purpose of their study is to definitively answer the question so
that further studies of quadruple therapy do not need to be performed. However, there
have not been any recent trials except with maraviroc (the only CCR5 inhibitor), for which
the authors had hoped for impacts on outcomes other than those investigated in this
review (e.g., reduction in immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, cognitive
benefits).
A major limitation is that the study was not pre-registered.
The reviewers present 5 effectiveness outcomes but chose to combine the safety outcomes
together into a single outcome, including all clinical and laboratory AEs. The use of a
composite safety outcome is very likely wash out any real increase in adverse events with

statistical noise. Further, the type of adverse events are probably specific to the additional
antiretroviral chosen (eg., diarrhea from protease inhibitors; myelogenous effects from
NRTIs).
How was the standard error for the difference in mean change calculated?
I2 and Cochran Q by themselves, while helpful, are not good measures of inconsistency.
Especially when arbitrary thresholds are used to decide whether heterogeneity is
important.
Further, the decision to test subgroup hypotheses should not be dependent on some
arbitrary I2 threshold.
The citations in table 1 don’t line up with the citations in the reference list.
The van Leth, 2004 and INITIO, 2006 studies both favour quadruple ART for suppressed
viral load. It is interesting that both studies tested the NFV and EFV vs. either alone.
The cumulative meta-analysis adds very little if anything to this particular study.
The conclusion that quadruple cART appears to increase the risk of AIDS defining events
and death is simply not supported by the evidence presented, nor does it have any biologic
basis if quadruple therapy does not increase the risk of virologic failure, lower CD4 counts,
or increase the risk of adverse effects. The authors suggest that ‘stable’ cumulative
meta-analyses support their conclusion, but do not justify why that might be the case.
Isn’t it more likely that there are so few events in most trials that the confidence intervals
invariably substantially overlap?
I suggest using a more affirmative term such as ‘people living with HIV (PLWH)’ rather
than HIV-infected, which is generally preferred by people living with HIV.