The authors should be complemented for this significant research effort and skillful use of the MINAB
database. The study compared real life patients from national databases to those included in PEGASUS
randomized clinical Trial . Not surprisingly, real life and target populations were older and more likely to be
women as demonstrated by previous investigations. Actually, female sex is exactly twice as common in the
general population compared to the Trial, demonstrating the challenge of comparisons. These findings in a
contemporary setting, do highlight some of the challenges we face when implementing Trial results into
clinical practice and when writing clinical guidelines. The use of medications associated with improved
survival in patients with ischemic heart disease was less than observed in the clinical trial highlighting the
problem with defining human conditions not captured in databases such as compliance and frailty.
Interestingly, both the primary end point as well as the primary safety endpoints were 2-fold increased in
the studied real world, target, and high risk populations. Of note, there was little difference among the 3
"real-life" cohorts in term of both the efficacy and safety end-points.
Please explain the term and consequences of the term "transfer out of the general practice". Were these
lost to follow-up cases?
Please discuss further the confounder by indication issue in this real world dataset. This reviewer would
challenge your final conclusion that there is an potential underuse of P2Y12 inhibitors in this population.
The potential could well be overestimated given the underuse of Aspirin, ACE-i etc in the real world
population. This needs to be discussed further. a propensity matched analysis could be one means to
address this issue. Actually, the real world population is undertreated at all 3 time points.
One of the strengths of using real world datasets is "higher numbers", however one of the limitations of the
current study is the rather small comparative group. The "target groups" of the population study is <1/3 of
the placebo arm of the randomized trial. Please relate to this limitation.
Was the observed trend in increased IC bleeding risk from Real world to Target population significant for
trend (Anova)? Could this be explained by the enrichment by renal impaired patients?
In SF1, I would suggest displaying the PEGASUS all-cause mortality