This is a very well-done analysis seeking to determine if the change in alcohol intake among
postmenopausal women relates to their subsequent risk of breast cancer or coronary heart
disease. It is a large study, based on a dataset that provides a very good opportunity for
ascertainment of disease outcomes. At baseline, the women averaged 62 years of age, with a
range in age of up to 73 years. The follow-up period began, appropriately, after the second
alcohol assessment, and extended up to 11 years.
Extensive and appropriate sensitivity analyses were carried out, and did not show any major
effects on the overall outcomes. The effects of changes in alcohol intake appeared to be
independent of the level of consumption at baseline.
There were too few abstainers to evaluate the overall effects of lifetime alcohol use or the
effects of changes in alcohol to judge potential differences between abstinence and light
drinking, as all subjects reporting < 7 drinks/week were included in the lowest category of
intake.
The comparisons of cubic spline analyses of change in alcohol consumption and those based on
changes in category were reassuringly consistent, and strengthen the results of the study. The
trends were more persuasive for effects related to an increase in alcohol intake than for a
decrease in intake between the two assessments.
Among the weaknesses of the study (as noted by the authors) is the lack of information on the
pattern of drinking among moderate drinkers (regular versus binge drinking). Further, while
previous research has given mixed results, the lack of information on the type of alcoholic
beverage consumed may be considered a weakness of the study.
Further, it should be noted (as did the authors) that the outcomes in these analyses are for
incident disease, with no data presented on the effects of alcohol on disease-specific or total
mortality. Indeed, any advice to the public on drinking must be based on both the negative and
positive effects of alcohol consumption.
There is no reference to the number of women who may have died between the baseline and
second assessments of alcohol consumption. (Given that the women were aged up to 72 years
at baseline, it can be assumed that there were some deaths before the subsequent assessment
of alcohol intake.) The authors do not present a discussion of competing risks during this period
or during the follow-up period.
Overall, the results of this study support limited previous research on the effects of change in
alcohol intake, and strengthen the suggestion that alcohol may be a causal factor in breast
cancer (increasing risk) and coronary heart disease (decreasing risk).