I am all too aware of the common use of statins in people with diabetes and the positive traits the use has
shown in such patient groups. However, details outlined in this journal in terms of numbers of patients and
the typical groups who stop and restart is never mentioned to patients. You tend to only be informed of the
positive traits and given instructions on how to take the medication – possible side effects (especially on
impacts upon glucose control), outcomes in people who cease to take it and those who stop-start is not
something mentioned to you. The suggestions outlined in this paper as to why patients stop-start, nonadhere etc are plausible, but it would be worthwhile considering a lack of education/lack of information on
the purpose of statins, direction of use, possible side effects and outcomes to date as a possible
explanation for non-adherence and discontinuation of statin use in certain medical groupings.
Are the study's aims and the issue and questions that the paper addresses relevant and important to you
as a patient? Do you think it would be relevant to other patients like you? What about carers?
The main objective to the study is not directly important to oneself as a patient, but it is to the
doctor/medical professionals the patient is under. It is worthwhile having this information at the back of the
mind to be able to assess whether the patient they are seeing is likely to fully discontinue, non-adhere or
be one who is likely to follow instructions without any qualms. Having this in mind, the necessary approach
by the doctors should be taken to ensure the patient is receiving the best possible care for their own
individual needs – if they are in a high-risk group of CVD and use of statins would significantly reduce the
likelihood of further complications, this should be pointed out to them; if they are in a low-risk group and
use of statins has no significant effect, this should be pointed out to them and freedom of decision
mentioned. If the patient can have all the necessary information outlined in this study for the grouping they
fall in to, as well as the other group, then patients who commence statin use may be more co-operative
and adhere. This is where the importance to me as a patient comes in.
Are there any areas that you find relevant as a patient or carer that are missing or should be highlighted?
The possible interference in blood glucose control and therefore A1c should be highlighted to the patient on
a few occasions, so the patient can keep a closer eye on their blood glucose levels and reduce the likelihood
of additional problems.
Would the treatment, intervention studied, or guidance given work in practice? Is it feasible? What
challenges might patients face that should be considered?
Not all patients would be able and willing to listen to someone relaying all the data outlined in this paper, it
would not be feasible to cover so much in such a short time frame (consulation). Nonetheless, it would be
feasible and very relevant to the patient for the data of the group that they fall in to, to be relayed to them
so the patient can consider for themselves whether statin use would be beneficial to them, rather than
simply have their doctor tell what to do.
Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper to make it more useful
for doctors to share and discuss with patients?
Pg 18 mentions “…it is also possible that as the symptoms of dementia worsen….and care to improve the
quality of life than to prolong it” – is there any supporting evidence for this, or is it an idea?