what predicts intergenerational change in anthropometry?

it is a truth universally acknowledged, that children
now are taller, heavier and fatter than their parents
and grandparents were. trends in adult height over
the past 100 years have recently been documented in
detail by the ncd risk factor collaboration, comparing
mean adult height by sex in 200 countries between 1896
and 1996 [1]. some countries have seen height increase by
up to 20 cm. in addition, the pace of growth in childhood
has accelerated, so that adult height is now reached at an
earlier age. this has the effect of inflating the apparent
increase in height during childhood, as children of a
particular age are both taller and more advanced in
developmental age [2]. weight has also been increasing in
line with height; but over the past half-century, it has
outstripped height, and this has led to the secular trend of
rising body mass index (bmi) and the public health
concerns of increasing obesity.
documenting these secular trends in child growth
usually involves comparing anthropometry in crosssectional studies at different times; for example national
surveys carried out every 10 or 15 years [3,4]. it is unusual
to be able to make a direct comparison of the growth of
children with their parents.
the article by sinha, et al. [5] in this issue of indian
pediatrics uses an interesting and unusual
intergenerational study design to do just that – the growth
patterns of children born around 1970 and recruited to the
new delhi birth cohort were compared with those of their
own children as measured more recently. the comparisons
focussed on the age groups 0-5 and 5-10 years, where the
outcomes were the intergenerational z-score changes in
height, weight and bmi, adjusted for age and sex. the
findings were striking – over the follow-up period, the
children increased in height by a whole standard deviation,
corresponding to 3.9 cm in the younger children and 6.4
cm in the older. weight increased similarly, by 1.3 and 5.4
kg in the two age groups; while bmi changed only in the
older children, by 1.9 kg/m2, and in the 0-5 year group it
remained the same. the authors concluded that children
tend to “grow up” before they “grow out.”
this is one surprise, that the younger children were not
fatter than their parents were at the same age, despite the
steep rise in obesity prevalence that has occurred over the
period. but the intergenerational study design also
provided other interesting insights, some of them counterintuitive: the increases were greater for smaller and older
parents, with poorer sanitation and higher education, and
for older children. it is instructive to consider each of these
associations in turn, and to explore their relevance to
health policy. by far the strongest association was with
parental size – the secular increase was appreciably greater
for shorter parents. the authors provide three potential
explanations for this: “statistical regression to the mean,
narrowing of socio-economic inequalities and greater
biological response among deprived strata”, and they are
optimistic that it represents a reduction in height inequity.
however, they are perhaps over-optimistic, in that the
most likely explanation is the first of the three, regression
to the mean, which is a statistical not a social or biological
construct. it states simply that extreme measurements (e.g.
height) are on average less extreme on remeasurement; so
shorter parents tend to produce somewhat less short
children, and vice versa for taller parents and children. it
was first described by francis galton, working in the same
context as here, with the heights of parents and children
[6]. as a statistical phenomenon, regression to the mean is
substantial and ever-present; so it tends to dwarf any other
factors that may be operating.
the next strongest association the authors found was
with parental age; the children of older parents tended to
be relatively taller. the authors speculate that the parents
being older meant they were exposed longer to improved
living conditions, and passed this on to their children.
however, there is another more likely explanation; the
parents were all born around 1970, so if they were older
when their children were born, the children must have been
born later and hence experienced more of the underlying
secular trend. in this sense, parental age is simply a
measure of passing time, and the child’s year of birth
would have been similarly predictive.
the child’s age was another important predictor of
secular change, which was appreciably greater in the older
age group. the authors view this as a proxy for exposure
duration, but again it is more likely to be structural,
reflecting the advanced developmental age of the children
compared to their parents; so they reach milestones
relatively earlier than their parents and hence appear taller.
this effect increases with age until puberty and then
disappears once adult height is reached [7]; so one would
expect it to be greater for age 5-10 y than age 0-5 y.
the secular change in developmental age may also
explain why bmi did not increase in the 0-5 year group.
the bmi curve typically rises steeply in infancy, peaks just
before 1 year, then falls until adiposity rebound at age 4-5 y
when it rises again [8]. the advance in developmental age
shifts this pattern to the left, with both the age at bmi peak
and the age at adiposity rebound getting earlier [9,10],
independently of any secular increase in bmi. because of
its shape, the age-shifted curve is slightly lower than the
original curve at some ages (fig. 1), and this generates an
apparent fall in bmi that partially compensates for the
secular bmi rise. so, in this sense the authors are right that
children tend to “grow up” before they “grow out.”
the wash (water, sanitation and hygiene) score, was
the one socio-economic factor to have a measurable effect
on the secular change in height, weight and bmi. it
presumably means that the children brought up in better
conditions than their parents grew better as a result. weight
and bmi were also relatively greater in children whose
parents were more educated; this though looks more like
greater obesity than improved growth, as there was no
associated height effect.
in summary, the study confirms intergenerational
increases in height, weight and bmi, and identifies several
factors that predict them. however, most of the factors
reflect either statistical or biological associations that may
not be very relevant to policy. in terms of policy relevance,
only sanitation in the parent cohort impacted significantly
on the secular height trend, suggesting that improved
sanitation is a worthwhile policy goal. sanitation in the
child cohort did not show an effect, but this may be because
it has improved materially in 30 years, making its impact
harder to detect.

<|EndOfText|>

abstract
background: james tanner emphasised the “tempo” of growth, i.e. the adolescent spurt as summarised by its timing (age at peak velocity or apv) and intensity (peak velocity, pv).

aim: the paper applies the sitar growth curve model to pubertal growth data with the aim of clarifying the growth pattern across multiple measurements and the spectrum of apv and pv.

subjects and methods: data for 7–20 years on ten anthropometric measurements in 619 children from the harpenden growth study, and on height in 10410 children from the alspac study, were analysed using sitar (superimposition by translation and rotation). sitar models pubertal growth as a mean curve with apv and pv fitted as subject-specific random effects, and a random measurement intercept.

results: mean apv for harpenden girls and boys averaged 12.0 and 13.9 years across the ten measurements. pv expressed as percent per year lay in the narrow range 4–8%. splitting the alspac subjects into 9 by 5 apv and pv groups and fitting separate sitar models to each group confirmed sitar’s good fit while highlighting the spectrum of growth patterns.

conclusion: sitar works well to summarise pubertal growth. the disappointment is that tanner did not live to see it in action.
introduction
the human adolescent growth spurt is a remarkable phenomenon seen in few other primate species. occurring towards the end of the growth period, after height velocity has been falling steadily since early infancy, the velocity suddenly increases to a peak of around 10 cm/year in boys and 8 cm/year in girls, a growth rate not seen since late infancy. then, just as suddenly, the rate falls to zero and growth ceases (tanner 1962).

the pubertal growth spurt is unusual not only for its intensity but also for its timing. peak height velocity in individuals can occur as early as 10 years of age in girls or as late as 17 years in boys. on average boys peak two years later than girls, and this, coupled with their greater peak velocity (pv), explains the sex difference in adult height – the two sexes are very similar in height at 10 years (tanner 1962). the combination of the sharp change in velocity and the peak’s variable timing leads to an apparently chaotic pattern of height growth across individuals during puberty.

james ‘jim’ m tanner (1920–2010) was an eminent british auxologist (a term that he invented), whose contribution to the study of human growth throughout the second half of the 20th century was remarkably wide-ranging. he was perhaps most famous for his work on growth at adolescence, which was the title of his first of many books on growth (tanner 1962). in it he explored pubertal growth in depth, comparing the changes in the different organ systems in the two sexes, and discussing how to measure the progress of puberty in individuals. he emphasised the concept of the tempo of growth, a measure of passing time in individuals relating to their pubertal status as quantified by their developmental age.

developmental age is a measure of maturation and can be based on the appearance of the individual child’s bones, teeth or secondary sexual characteristics, including menarche in girls. they are all markers that over time progress through a series of consistent and well-documented developmental stages. the tanner stages of pubic hair, breast development and genitalia have proved popular for assessing developmental age, as they can be assessed on a single occasion and require no specialised equipment (unlike the radiographic images required for bones or teeth) (marshall and tanner 1969, 1970).

alternatively, developmental age can be based on the timing of growth landmarks such as peak height velocity. this however cannot be measured on a single occasion; it requires longitudinal data, with individuals measured repeatedly over time. the data then need to be analysed to generate the individual velocity curves and extract the ages at pv. thus, as tanner (1962) pointed out, there are two requirements to study growth: a cohort study of individuals followed over time and a trained anthropometrist to make the measurements.

in 1948 tanner’s developing interest in growth led him to set up the harpenden growth study, recruiting as his experimental officer reginald ‘reg’ h whitehouse, straight out of the royal army medical corps (tanner 1988). whitehouse quickly established himself as an anthropometrist of the highest calibre, making hundreds of thousands of growth measurements (by tanner’s own estimate), using equipment he himself designed, until his retirement in 1976.

whitehouse also proved himself indispensable in analysing the growth data, meticulously plotting the points and drawing smooth curves through them. this work led to the seminal two-part 1966 tanner, whitehouse and takaishi paper on height and weight growth reference charts, which has set the example for many subsequent studies on growth references (tanner et al. 1966).

later tanner and whitehouse (with statisticians marubini and resele) analysed the adolescent growth spurt in 55 boys and 35 girls from the harpenden growth study, fitting logistic curves to height, sitting height, leg length, shoulder width and hip width for each individual (tanner et al. 1976). the curves fitted well overall, and the ages at pv were highly correlated across measurements, but the corresponding velocities less so.

analytical methods for growth data have advanced since these papers were written. however the underlying aim remains the same: to summarise mean growth as a smooth curve and to express individual growth patterns relative to the mean. a recently described growth curve model, superimposition by translation and rotation (sitar) (cole et al. 2010) is well suited to growth in puberty. based on a group of individuals it estimates a mean growth curve and defines the individual curves relative to it in terms of their size, timing and intensity of growth. in particular, timing corresponds directly with the individual’s age at pv (apv), while intensity equates to pv, which means that applying sitar is a simple way to categorise individuals in terms of their “tempo of growth”.

tanner’s simple but elegant vision of pubertal growth was that individual growth patterns could be summarised largely by the timing and intensity of pv. conveniently, the sitar model makes this same assumption, and at the same time it assumes – as tanner did – that conditional on timing and intensity, the underlying velocity curve is essentially constant in shape.

the aim of this paper is to celebrate the legacy of tanner – and whitehouse – by using sitar to explore the adolescent growth spurt from two distinct perspectives: how it varies across ten distinct linear measurements from the harpenden growth study, and how in detail the shape of the height velocity curve depends on timing and intensity, using data from the much larger avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac). the first perspective builds on tanner’s paradigm whereas the second tests it, by seeing just how invariant the height velocity curve is to differences in timing and intensity.

subjects and methods
harpenden growth study
the harpenden growth study consisted of 701 white british children, 282 girls and 419 boys, born between 1929 and 1965 (median 1949) and recruited from the highfield children’s home, harpenden, uk between 1949 and 1969 at ages between 0.9 and 20 years. they were predominantly children of manual workers or the lower middle class (tanner 1981).

they were measured 6-monthly outside puberty and 3-monthly during puberty, up to 35 years of age, on a total of 8097 distinct measurement occasions, 95% of them at ages between 4 and 19 years. figure 1 is a lexis diagram for the study, with a slanting line for each child showing the date and their age at the time of their first and last measurements.

figure 1. lexis diagram for the harpenden growth study, showing the ages and dates of measurement for 701 children. each line represents one child, with their first (□) and last (▪) measurements marked.

whitehouse made all the measurements, including weight, height, other linear measurements and skinfold thicknesses. here ten linear measurements are selected for analysis, ranked by median size: height*, sitting height*, leg length* (by difference), thigh circumference, shoulder width*, foot length, hip width*, arm circumference, knee width and elbow width (the asterisked measurements were also analysed by tanner et al. (1976)). note that the technical names for shoulder, hip, knee and elbow width used by tanner were respectively bi-acromial, bi-iliac, bi-epifemur and bi-epihumerus width. all measurements were recorded to the last complete 0.1 cm. to focus on puberty the age range here is restricted to >7 to <20 years, during which period 619 children (248 girls and 371 boys) were measured on 6670 distinct occasions.

avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac)
the avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac) consisted of over 15,000 children from bristol uk recruited antenatally in 1990–1992 and followed up to age 20 (boyd et al. 2013). height was measured, to the nearest 0.1 cm, annually up to age 13, then at ages 15 and 17, by trained researchers. the present analysis involves 5183 girls and 5227 boys with 33122 and 31776 measurements aged from >7 to <20 years.

data cleaning
the two datasets had already been cleaned. for further cleaning sitar models (see below) were fitted, and outliers were identified with standardised residuals exceeding 4 in absolute value (only 0.006% of data are this extreme based on a normal distribution). there were very few outliers in the harpenden study, and they were inspected individually and either corrected (based on the context) or excluded. for the numerically larger alspac models the outliers were excluded. individuals with at least one measurement were included.

statistical methods
sitar is a mixed effects growth curve model featuring a cubic spline mean curve and three subject-specific random effects that adjust the mean curve to best match the subjects’ own curves (cole et al. 2010; cole et al. 2014). the random effects are called size, timing and intensity, and each represents a simple transformation of the mean curve. size indicates an up/down shift of the mean curve (in measurement units), reflecting how tall/short the individual is relative to the mean; timing reflects the individual apv (in age units e.g. years), seen as a right/left shift in the curve, positive for a later peak than average and negative for earlier; and intensity reflects the rate of passage through puberty as measured by pv (in fractional units), positive for faster than average and negative for slower. the degree of intensity shows itself by shrinking/stretching the age scale, which can be visualised as follows: imagine the image of a growth curve projected onto a half-open door. the effect of further opening the door is to make the curve appear narrower and steeper, corresponding to higher intensity, while closing the door makes the curve wider, shallower and lower intensity.

algebraically the sitar model is given by
yij=αi+h[(tij−βi)eγi]+εij
(1)
where i=1…n subjects, j=1…n measurements, y and t are length (or other outcome) and age respectively, h[.] is a cubic spline function, α,β,γ are the normally distributed random effects size, timing and intensity, and ε is the residual assumed distributed as n(0,σr2).

the smoothness of the natural cubic spline mean curve is controlled by the number of degrees of freedom (d.f.), each corresponding to a spline fixed effect, with the number chosen to minimise the bayesian information criterion (bic). in addition, there are fixed effects for size, timing and intensity, which ensure the corresponding random effects have mean zero. in nearly all the models here age was fitted after natural log transformation, to improve the fit, which effectively measures age differences in percentage units rather than years (cole and altman 2017). all the results were back-transformed to age for presentation purposes.

the output from each sitar model consists of the mean curve as defined by the fixed effect coefficients, plus fixed effects for α,β,γ, subject random effects for α,β,γ summarised by their standard deviations and correlations, the residual standard deviation ε and the percentage of variance explained by the model, calculated as 100(1−(σr2/σf2)) where σf2 is the residual variance of the model fitted without random effects, i.e. with just the cubic spline mean curve. for models fitted with log age, the timing random effect sd was multiplied by median age to give units of age. the intensity random effect sd is age-invariant and essentially unaffected by age transformation.

the mean velocity curve was derived (in units of cm per year) as the first derivative of the mean curve plotted against age. in addition, four outputs were estimated from each mean velocity curve: the mean ages of pv and takeoff velocity (the minimum velocity prior to the peak), and the corresponding mean velocities. note the mean curves are all plotted as length versus age, whether the sitar model used age or log age. standard errors for the outputs were obtained using the bootstrap.

for presentation purposes the curves were also compared in terms of percent velocity (i.e. in units of % per year), to adjust for the size differences between the measures. this was achieved by plotting length versus age with length on a 100 × natural log scale, and the first derivative of the curve is velocity measured in percent units (cole and altman 2017).

the aim of the alspac analysis was to test the sitar assumption that the underlying mean height curve is essentially the same shape for all individuals after adjusting for the timing and intensity of their growth spurt. to this end separate (global) sitar models were first fitted for boys and girls, with log transformed age and 6 d.f. for the spline curves. then individuals were split by sex into nine equal size groups based on the value of their timing random effects, i.e. apv, and separate “local” sitar models were fitted to each group. as a second stage each apv group was split into five equal size groups based on individuals’ intensity random effects (pv) from the local apv model, giving 45 groups by sex, where in each group individuals were closely matched by timing and intensity. again, separate local sitar models were fitted to each group.

the group mean curves (either nine groups by apv or 45 groups by apv and pv) were then compared with the corresponding mean curves predicted from the global models, based on the mean timing and intensity random effects for each group. the numbers of nine apv and five pv groups were chosen to provide similar numbers per group of around 100, give more emphasis to timing than intensity, provide a median group by using odd numbers, and compromise between group number and group size. the models grouped by timing were fitted with 5 d.f. and the timing random effect was omitted as it was already adjusted for. the models grouped by timing and intensity also had 5 d.f., with both the timing and intensity random effects omitted as they were adjusted for.

all the analyses were carried out in r version 3.5.3 (r core team 2019), with sitar fitted using the sitar package version 1.1.1 (cole 2019).

results
harpenden growth study
figure 2 illustrates the anthropometry for one of the most intensely followed-up subjects, female 2113, born in 1947, with ten measurements on 36 occasions from age 3 to 20 years. the measurements vary in size from height (median 140 cm) to elbow width (median 5.9 cm), but all of them demonstrate a growth spurt at around 12 years. the regularity of the individual curves is striking, testimony to whitehouse’s skill. note that the curves for arm circumference and thigh circumference are noisier than the length curves, reflecting their soft mass component. note also that leg length increases faster than sitting height prior to puberty but has a smaller pubertal growth spurt.

figure 2. data for one girl (id 2113) from the harpenden growth study between 3 and 20 years.


mean growth curves
separate sitar models were fitted to the ten measurements by sex, a total of twenty models as summarised in table 1. the number of measurement occasions per child ranged from 1 to 32 with median 8. the sitar mean spline curves had between 3 and 7 d.f., with generally fewer for the smaller measurements. figure 3 shows the fitted spline curves for the models grouped by sex, emphasising the broad similarity in shape, though the growth spurts for the smallest measurements are hard to see.

figure 3. mean curves for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex.

the models used a log age transformation for all except the four smallest female measurements, and the variance explained by the models ranged from 91% to 99.5%, again less for the smaller measurements and the circumferences. the residual standard deviations (sd) were largest for the large measurements, e.g. 0.5 cm for height, but divided by the median to give residual percent coefficients of variation (cv) they were the smallest (0.3% for height).

table 2 summarises the random effect structure of the models. the sds reflect the population variability in size, timing and intensity. the size sd is given in both absolute (cm) and proportional (%) units, using size at age 19 as denominator. on the percent sd scale the two sexes are very similar, with that for leg length (5.4%) unexpectedly larger than for sitting height (3.2%), while that for height (3.8%) is intermediate. the timing sd (variability in apv) is close to one year for all measurements. the intensity sd is generally around 0.1 to 0.2 (corresponding to 10% to 20% variation in pv), but somewhat larger for the smaller measurements and appreciably larger for the circumferences. the correlations in table 2 are nearly all positive, with median values of around 0.4 for size-timing and timing-intensity, and 0.5 for intensity-size, indicating that larger individuals tend to have a later and more intense pubertal spurt. however the correlations are misleading as most are based on log age not age, which affects the correlations. for example, if boys height is refitted using age, the timing-intensity correlation of 0.28 changes to −0.28, indicating that timing and intensity are inversely correlated. thus the true correlation between timing (as based on age) and intensity is negative not positive, and this applies quite generally in table 2.

the model mean curves in figure 3 are replotted in figure 4 on a log 2 scale, i.e. constant rate of doubling, which scales the curves to be similar in shape, and in particular allows them to be compared across measurements by sex. for example, the height and shoulder width curves are seen to be very similar.

figure 4. mean curves for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex, with length on a log 2 scale to highlight the similarities in curve shape.

mean velocity curves
however, the best way to compare the growth spurts is via the corresponding velocity curves, as seen in figure 5 by sex. each measurement facet has its own scale, which enlarges the smaller measurement spurts. the corresponding apvs are highlighted as vertical lines, and the girls’ peaks are consistently about two years earlier than the boys’ (mean apvs across measurements 12.0 se 0.18 and 13.9 se 0.12 years for girls and boys). pv is generally slightly greater for boys than girls, with the striking exceptions of thigh circumference and to a lesser extent hip width.

figure 5. mean velocity curves (cm/yr) for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex (girls left, boys right), with the ages at peak velocity indicated by vertical lines.

figure 5 is useful for comparing velocity curves in the two sexes, but less so for comparing across measurements, as the scales differ. the slopes of the curves in figure 4 are directly comparable across measurements, being on a log scale, and as explained in the methods, the slopes of these curves correspond to growth velocity measured in percent units. the corresponding percent velocity curves are shown in figure 6, which make clear that peak percent velocity is not related to size; it is largest for boys arm circumference and girls thigh circumference, with both exceeding 8% per year, while the smallest velocity is for girls knee width (3.7% per year), a factor of just over two difference compared to the thirty-fold difference for linear velocity (boys height 9.3 cm/year versus girls elbow width 0.27 cm/year, table 3). for the other measurements pv is consistently around 5% per year and slightly greater for boys than girls.

figure 6. mean percent velocity curves for the harpenden growth study sitar length models by sex (girls left, boys right), with the ages at peak velocity indicated by vertical lines.

as well as pv, a second landmark on the velocity curve is takeoff, the point where velocity is at a minimum immediately prior to the peak. table 3 summarises the means for pv and takeoff velocity and their corresponding ages, both on the linear (cm per year) and proportional (% per year) scales as seen in figures 5 and 6. the ages at takeoff/peak are very similar whether calculated on the cm or % scale, so those on the % scale are omitted. bootstrap standard errors for apv range from 0.07 years for height and leg length up to 0.3+ years for the smaller measurements and the circumferences. for pv the standard errors are 0.12 cm per year for height and sitting height, 0.06 for leg length, and in between for the other measurements. mean age at takeoff is two years earlier than mean age at peak, and earlier still for the circumferences. the takeoff velocities are about half the peak velocities on average, varying from a third or less for the circumferences to near equality for foot length in girls. the correlation across measurements between linear velocity at takeoff and at peak is high at 0.94, but for percent velocity the corresponding correlation is small and negative at −0.2. so the two are effectively unrelated when the scale differences are accounted for, showing that each measurement has its own distinct profile from takeoff to peak.

random effects
an obvious question is whether individuals tend to be consistently large/small, early/late or fast/slow across all their measurements, and this can be tested for by looking at the correlations between the random effects. across the ten measurements there are 45 correlations for each of size, timing and intensity in the two sexes, the median correlations being 0.49 (size), 0.46 (timing) and 0.37 (intensity) for boys and 0.45, 0.50 and 0.23 for girls. so within individuals, timing is conserved across measurements just as strongly as size is, while intensity is less so.

the order of measurements in each correlation matrix can be rearranged so the largest correlations migrate towards the diagonal – a process known as seriation – and this ranks the measurements in terms of their strength of association with their neighbours (see supplementary table 1). it effectively ranks them by their median correlation with the other measurements. across the three random effects in the two sexes, height and leg length are consistently the most closely associated, followed by foot length and sitting height, while thigh and arm circumference are consistently the least associated, with the other four measurements in between. for example, the boys’ size random effects for height and leg length correlate at 0.87, whereas those for height and arm circumference correlate only at 0.16. similar contrasts in correlation apply for boys’ timing and intensity random effects, and also for girls. so in terms of individual growth patterns, foot length is surprisingly similar to height and its two components, while the circumferences are very different.

alspac
figure 7 shows the height data for 5183 girls and 5227 boys in alspac, where the nine data sweeps are clearly seen. the final sweep provides data from 17 to 20 years where the coverage is relatively sparse. figure 8 illustrates the sitar mean height curves and height velocity curves fitted to the data. on average girls are taller than boys between 10.8 and 13.5 years, while mean height velocity at age 19 is <0.1 and 0.4 cm per year in girls and boys, respectively. table 4 summarises the two sitar models, showing residual sds twice those in harpenden and correspondingly less variance explained. mean apv is earlier than in harpenden by 0.4 and 0.7 years (girls/boys), while pv is 0.0/1.3 cm per year greater and predicted height at age 19 is 2.1/4.9 cm greater. the bootstrap standard errors for mean apv and pv are around 0.02 years and 0.05 cm per year, respectively.

figure 7. height data for 5227 boys and 5183 girls in alspac, collected over nine data sweeps between 9 and 17 years.

figure 8. sitar mean height and height velocity curves for alspac by sex, with the ages at peak velocity indicated by vertical lines (girls left, boys right).

tables 5 and 6 explore how age at peak height velocity affects the mean growth pattern. for this, individuals were split into nine equal size groups according to their timing random effect, and sitar models were fitted to each group by sex. thus the groups represent the spectrum from early to late puberty. table 5 shows that the groups all have the same number of ∼580 individuals, but the early and late groups have consistently more data points and are also consistently more variable (with less variance explained, larger residual sds, and larger size and intensity random effect sds) than the central groups.

table 6 confirms that the groups are clearly ranked by mean apv, with 2.5 to 3 years between the earliest and latest groups. age at takeoff shows a weaker trend, particularly in boys, but velocity at takeoff is strongly and inversely related to apv in both sexes. pv also falls with increasing apv. those maturing late are consistently taller at age 19, by 4 cm in girls and 5 cm in boys compared to the earliest maturers.

figures 9 (girls) and 10 (boys) visualise the mean height and height velocity curves for the groups in tables 5 and 6. they are derived in two distinct ways – a) as predicted by the global sitar models based on the group mean random effects for size, timing and intensity, and b) as fitted by the local group-specific sitar models.

figure 9. sitar mean height and height velocity curves for alspac girls, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity. the left panels are predictions from the global model, while on the right are the group-specific mean curves.

the global and local height curves in figures 9 and 10 are very similar in shape, indicating that sitar has done a good job of predicting mean height by age across the spectrum of apv. however the height velocity curves are less so; the global curves are very consistent in shape and show a clear trend downwards with increasing apv (this trend arises from the use of a log age transformation, and had age been used instead predicted pv would be essentially the same across groups). the local curves, in contrast, vary considerably in terms of velocity and curve shape near the peak, but also in the shape of the curve prior to takeoff.

figure 10. sitar mean height and height velocity curves for alspac boys, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity. the left panels are predictions from the global model, while on the right are the group-specific mean curves.

the global velocity curves show velocity falling slowly until takeoff, whereas with the local curves velocity prior to takeoff falls dramatically in girls and rises then falls in boys. this subsidiary peak in boys around age 9 years can also be seen in the height curves, where there is an upward “bulge” for the later groups. the reason why these patterns are not reflected in the global curves is because they feature in only some of the groups, and averaged across groups they disappear.

it is possible that the differences in velocity, particularly prior to takeoff, arise from sampling error and are not biologically meaningful. to test this the nine apv groups are each split into five further groups by individual intensity random effects i.e. pv, so splitting them into independent groups of faster and slower growers with the same apv. figures 11 (girls) and 12 (boys) show the local velocity curves for these 9 × 5 = 45 groups by sex, where to aid navigation, each facet shows the global mean velocity curve in grey. the figures confirm two things; that mean pv is greater in those whose intensity random effect is greater, and that velocity prior to takeoff does indeed vary systematically in shape according to apv. this is particularly marked for boys, where the facets for the first two apv groups show no sign of a pre-takeoff peak, whereas the later facets show an increasingly obvious peak at around age 9 years, largely independent of apv. for girls there is just the hint of a pre-takeoff peak in the latest maturing facet. each of the 45 models in these figures is based on ∼115 individuals, providing strong independent evidence for the existence of a “midgrowth” spurt at age 9 in later-maturing boys.

figure 11. sitar mean height velocity curves for alspac girls, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity (apv) and in turn five groups by peak height velocity (pv).

discussion
study findings
the study has confirmed the complexity of linear growth in puberty, driven as it is by individual variation in – tanner’s term - the “tempo of growth”. this shows itself as variability in the intensity and timing of growth, i.e. pv and the age when pv occurs. the results show that the sitar growth curve model works well with growth in puberty, because it explicitly estimates these two parameters in individuals, along with a third parameter representing their mean size. simpkin et al. compared several alternative growth curve models for height in puberty, and they also concluded that sitar was useful in providing unbiased estimates of age at peak height velocity (simpkin et al. 2017).

but that said, the more detailed alspac analysis has brought to light the existence of a midgrowth spurt at around 9 years in the later-maturing boys. by its nature it is hard to see unless the data are sufficiently numerous to disaggregate.

harpenden growth study
the harpenden growth study is an important resource, not only for the biological insights arising from the data, but also for the way they demonstrate reg whitehouse’s auxological skill. the lexis diagram (figure 1) shows how tanner and whitehouse set about obtaining the study children they needed, with many recruited at the outset in 1949 and followed up for 10 or more years, while other older early recruits dropped out soon afterwards. tanner and whitehouse continued to recruit children steadily over the next twenty years, typically at ages between 4 and 13 years, and tanner went on to use the study data in several seminal papers (tanner et al. 1966; marshall and tanner 1969, 1970; tanner et al. 1976).

mean growth curves
the good fit of sitar is demonstrated by the proportion of variance it explains. taking as a baseline the data treated cross-sectionally, i.e. ignoring the repeated measures component, and then adding the three sitar random effects, explains over 90% and up to 99.5% of the variance (table 1), leaving a small component corresponding to the residual sd. in harpenden the residual sd ranges from 0.5 cm for height down to 0.08 cm for knee and elbow width, while proportionally height is the least noisy of the measurements, its residual cv being only 0.3% versus 1.3% for knee and elbow. this reflects the fact that variability consists of two components: biological variation which scales with the measurement (i.e. the sd is proportional to size), and measurement error which is scale-invariant (in cm units) and hence relatively larger for small measurements. for height in alspac the residual sd was 1.0 cm, twice that in harpenden, reflecting the trade-off in measurement quality between a small study with a single (excellent) auxologist and the necessarily larger-scale and hence noisier measuring regime in a cohort the size of alspac.

an obvious strength of the harpenden study is the opportunity it provides to compare the growth patterns of ten distinct linear measurements, ranging in size from height (median 148 cm) to elbow width (6 cm), a thirty-fold range (see tables 1–3 and figure 3). tanner also analysed five of the measurements in 55 boys and 35 girls (tanner et al. 1976), tabulating mean (sd) age at takeoff, apv, pv and final size by sex. despite the smaller sample size his results were very similar to those in table 3; final size agreed to within 0.3 cm except for boys’ height (0.5 cm), and similarly for apv to within 0.3 years. however, his correlations between the apvs of the five variables were implausibly larger – median 0.92 and maximum 0.97 - than the equivalent correlations for the timing random effects in supplementary table 1.

mean velocity as a percentage
it has already been noted how variability scales across the measurements, but comparing the growth curves is complicated as the peak velocities are so different (table 3). plotting the data on a log scale (figure 4), which converts velocity to percentage units, is a simple way to adjust for the differences in scale and allows the growth curves to be compared directly. the spacings between the measurement curves are similar in boys and girls, the one obvious exception being thigh circumference which is relatively larger for girls after puberty.

figure 6 compares velocity in percentage units in the two sexes. expressing velocity this way is novel, the more usual units being cm per year, but it is particularly useful here for comparing measurements on the different scales.

figure 6 and table 3 show that peak percent velocity is strongly conserved, with all except arm and thigh circumference in the narrow range of 4–6% per year, on average about 0.5% greater for boys than girls. however figure 6 and table 3 also show that the shapes of the velocity curves differ in detail between measurements, with sex differences in pv, apv and age at takeoff making each measurement profile unique.

sitting height and leg length provide an interesting contrast in growth pattern. prior to puberty, leg length grows fastest and sitting height slowest in both sexes. so during this period leg length increases progressively as a proportion of height. the two are similar in pv at around 4/5 cm per year in girls/boys, but at takeoff sitting height velocity is 1 cm per year lower than for leg length (figure 5). figures 3 and 5 show that sitting height continues growing well after leg length growth has ceased, and in boys it continues to age 19 and beyond. also the size random effect sd is appreciably larger for leg length than sitting height (5.4% vs 3.2%, table 2), so there is greater variability in leg length. thus the two components of height grow in rather different ways during childhood.

the two circumferences, thigh and arm, behave differently from the eight lengths and widths. they have the largest percent peak velocities (for arm in boys and thigh in girls) and amongst the smallest velocities at takeoff. so the intensity of the circumference growth spurt (i.e. the increase in velocity from takeoff to peak) is particularly high, presumably due to the fact that it measures not just bone but also soft mass, which accumulates faster than bone. this fits with the residual cvs and the intensity random effect sds for the circumferences being more than twice those for the other measurements (tables 1 and 2).

comparing random effects
thus far the discussion has focussed on the shapes of the sitar mean curves and velocity curves. the other component of the sitar model is the set of subject random effects that indicate how the growth curves of individuals differ from the mean curve. table 2 shows that the sd for the size random effect is more uniform when presented as the percent cv rather than the sd in cm units. this represents the variability of each measurement once timing and intensity have been adjusted for, so it reflects the variability when growth has ceased i.e. in adulthood.

this population cv is equivalent to that estimated for growth references using the lms method (cole and green 1992), where the cv is the “s” in “lms”. thus for height in the british 1990 reference (cole et al. 1998) the s value at age 19 is 3.9% for boys and 3.7% for girls, closely similar to the 3.7%/3.8% in table 2. the corresponding alspac values are 3.7% and 3.6% (table 4). dangour’s leg length and sitting height growth references (dangour et al. 2002) give s values at age 19 of 5.4% for leg length and 4.6% for sitting height (averaged by sex), agreeing well with the cv for leg length but not for sitting height in table 2 (5.4% and 3.2%). tanner’s analysis of a subset of the harpenden data gave cvs for adult size broadly similar to the size cvs in table 2 (tanner et al. 1976). in harpenden sitting height is by far the least variable of all the measurements, whereas leg length is amongst the most variable (excepting the circumferences).

the timing random effect sds in table 2 are all (again with the exception of the circumferences) close to one year, the median being 1.0 years. for height they are 0.86/0.87 years in the two sexes, matching closely tanner’s experience – “the sd of age at phv is a little less than 1 year in nearly all published series; we have taken the value 0.9 years” (tanner and davies 1985). in alspac the two sds are slightly more varied at 0.81 and 0.89 years (table 4).

the intensity random effect reflects the individual’s proportional difference in pv relative to the mean. so the intensity sd is effectively the cv for pv, or multiplied by 100 the percent cv for pv. the values for the intensity sd in table 2 show it to be related to size, with the smallest values for height and leg length (0.12–0.13) and the largest (excepting the circumferences) for knee width and elbow width (0.2–0.3).

with multiple measurements available, it is obvious to ask if individuals tend to be similar in their random effects across measurements, i.e. do they tend to be consistently large/small, or early/late, or fast/slow in their growth pattern. this is addressed by looking at the correlations between measurements for each random effect by sex, as seen in supplementary table 1. the variables in the correlation matrices are sorted to put highly correlated measurements next to each other, which has the effect of migrating large coefficients towards the diagonal and small correlations away from it. the most strongly associated measurements are height and leg length (unsurprisingly, as leg length is a component of height) but more surprisingly the next most associated measurement is not sitting height but foot length (it ranks third three times and fourth twice in supplementary table 1). why such a distal measurement should be closely correlated with height is something of a mystery – perhaps it represents a link between leg length and foot length. as expected from what has gone before, the two circumferences are consistently last in the rankings, being similar to each other but different from all the other variables.

alspac
the alspac study design involved nine data sweeps spaced one to two years apart (figure 7). this has been shown to be close to the optimal design for studying pubertal growth, as annual or biennial measurements minimise the data collection while retaining relevant information on the mean curve and subject random effects (cole 2018). on these grounds one could argue that the 3-monthly measurement regime used in harpenden was unnecessarily intensive.

the sitar models for alspac by sex appear in figure 8 and table 4. they can be compared directly to the sitar models described by frysz et al. (2018) which were fitted to a selected subset of alspac data from age 5 to 20 years. thus they had 45,065 measurements on 2688 boys and 3019 girls, as against 64,898 points, 5227 boys and 5183 girls here (table 4). despite the disparities in sample size their mean (sd) apvs were very similar to those here: girls 11.7 (0.8) and boys 13.6 (0.9) years, as against 11.7 (0.9) and 13.5 (0.8) years (table 4). and similarly for pv: 7.7 (0.8)/10.0 (1.1) there and 7.7 (0.8)/10.6 (1.2) here (table 4). the percentage of variance explained was close to 98% in all four models, and the two sets of random effect sds were also very similar. frysz et al. restricted their sample to individuals with at least one measurement in each of the age groups 5-<10, 10-<15 and 15 < 20 years. the fact that the results are effectively the same without applying this filter indicates that the filtering is unnecessary, and that results based on the whole sample are unbiased. in addition, the increased numbers allow for a mean curve with 6 d.f. rather than the 5 used by frysz, which may explain the greater boys pv here of 10.6 cm versus 10.0 cm per year.

comparing mean predicted adult height in alspac and harpenden demonstrates the secular trend in height from 1949 to 1991, a period of 42 years between their median dates of birth. height at age 19 increased by 5 cm in boys and 2 cm in girls over that time, corresponding to trends of 1.1 and 0.5 cm per decade respectively. however the harpenden children were of lower social class than in alspac, and this may have exaggerated the trend. for comparison trends from the flemish 2009 growth reference were 1.2 and 0.8 cm per decade (roelants et al. 2009), and for the finnish 2011 reference 0.6 cm per decade in both sexes (saari et al. 2011).

a strength of sitar is its ability to sort individuals by apv (simpkin et al. 2017). thus it is easy to use the global model to split the ten thousand alspac children into nine groups by sex, based on their timing random effects, and then analyse these local groups separately. the results in tables 5 and 6 and figures 9 and 10 confirm that the local group curves (top right in each figure) are not only correctly ranked by mean apv, but are also very similar in shape to the curves predicted from the global models (top left).

table 5 shows that despite having equal numbers of subjects, the central groups have fewer measurements and are generally less noisy than the more extreme groups. this is due to the group membership being based on individual timing random effects, and individuals with relatively few points have their random effect shrunk towards the mean of zero (in the extreme case of an individual with just one measurement, their timing random effect is zero). thus the central groups have fewer measurements per subject on average, and also less opportunity to generate residual variation.

it is noticeable with the predicted velocity curves (figures 9 and 10, bottom left) that pv falls steadily as apv rises; this is due to the sitar model using log age rather than age, which provides a better fit as apv is negatively correlated with pv as previously discussed (cole et al. 2014). tanner also documented a negative correlation between apv and pv in his harpenden analysis (tanner et al. 1976). this same trend can be seen with the locally estimated velocity curves (bottom right), particularly in boys, though the curves are more ragged. note that in girls the agreement between the global and local velocity curves is generally close.

however for boys two features of the local velocity curves are absent from the global curves – the later apv groups show a peak in velocity at around 8.5 years that the earlier apv groups lack, and several of the curves dip below zero velocity approaching age 20, indicating predicted mean adult height falling over time. the early velocity peak is also seen in the height curves (top right, figure 10) as an upward bulge at age 9, restricted to the older apv groups. the two features occur at the extremes of age and show that sitar is less effective at modelling these extremes.

the negative velocity curves may arise from the timing of the final data sweep at age 17. it is clear from figure 7 that the data are sparse after age 18.5, and it would require only slight downward bias to tip the mean curve slopes negative.

figures 11 (girls) and figures 12 (boys) show each apv group split into five pv groups. the individual girls curves are generally similar in shape, although a few dip below zero velocity at age 19. however the boys curves show a remarkable spectrum of curve shapes, ranging from the earliest and fastest growing (top curve, top left facet) to the latest and slowest growing (bottom curve, bottom right facet).

the peak in velocity at age 9, seen consistently in the later apv groups of figure 12, looks like a midgrowth spurt, but this term has already been applied to a spurt documented as occurring nearer age 7 than 9 (tanner and cameron 1980; gasser et al. 1985; remer and manz 2001). the data analysed here start at age 7 and so are not able to detect a spurt that early. whether this age 9 peak is just a delayed version of the age 7 peak, or whether it is novel, would need further analysis to unpick.

figure 12. sitar mean height velocity curves for alspac boys, split into nine groups by age at peak height velocity (apv) and in turn five groups by peak height velocity (pv).

to demonstrate the spectrum of height growth in boys, figure 13 shows the individual growth curves in the two extreme timing-intensity groups of figure 12, each representing 2.2% of the cohort total. their mean curves are also shown superimposed (with solid lines for the local mean and dotted lines for the predicted global mean). because they are filtered by apv and pv the individual curves are essentially parallel to each other. mean apv in the two groups is 11.5 and 15.0 years respectively, i.e. 3.5 years apart, while mean pv is 10.4 and 5.4 cm per year, a factor of two different (figure 12). yet despite these differences sitar does a reasonable job of predicting the two growth patterns from the global model (dotted lines), although it infers a growth spurt in the late curve where none exists.

figure 13. height growth curves for alspac boys with two contrasting patterns of development; left) early and fast - apv group 1 and pv group 5 (n = 116), and right) late and slow – apv group 9 and pv group 1 (n = 117). the corresponding sitar mean curves are shown as solid black lines, and the dotted lines are predicted mean curves (based on mean apv and mean pv) from the global sitar model.

this ability of sitar to identify groups of individuals with early or late apv could be exploited in cohort studies to construct specialist growth references for early and late developers. it could be done for example using all the data for the first and last groups, respectively, of figures 9 and 10 (n > 4000, table 5), and fitting growth reference centiles to them using the lms method (cole and green 1992). this would be most useful for the clinical management of constitutional growth delay, where the chart would document the growth pattern of the 11% most delayed normal children. it might also be reassuring to parents to see just how late the growth spurt can be.

however figure 13 makes clear that the late developing boys are still growing at age 19, so there would be insufficient data to extend the centiles to final height. and it should be acknowledged that tanner staging could be used instead of apv to identify the early and late groups. however apv is likely to be more accurate, being based on a growth curve rather than a single clinical assessment, and measured on a continuous rather than a five-point scale.

strengths and limitations
the study has some obvious strengths. the harpenden growth study is an important resource of very high quality growth data containing information on ten separate measurements in a cohort of children born seventy years ago, while alspac provides high quality height data on a very large number of individuals born thirty years ago. given this richness of material it is hard to identify limitations in the study design, and the analysis was thorough, though it could obviously have been extended in a number of ways.

conclusions
the analysis of growth data during puberty is greatly simplified using sitar, as the subject random effects of timing and intensity accurately characterise the tempo of growth of individuals. the analyses of data from the harpenden growth study and alspac have shed light on the growth patterns of a range of linear measurements and on the spectrum of height growth as seen in early, average and late developers.

<|EndOfText|>

randomised crossover trial of rate feedback and force during chest compressions for paediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation 

outcome measures primary: compression rate. secondary: compression and residual forces.

results rate of chest compressions (compressions per minute (compressions per minute; cpm)) varied widely (mean (sd) 111 (13), range 89–168), with a fourfold difference in variation during session 1 between those receiving and not receiving feedback (108 (5) vs 120 (20)). the interaction of session by feedback order was highly significant, indicating that this difference in mean rate between sessions was 14 cpm less (95% ci −22 to −5, p=0.002) in those given feedback first compared with those given it second. compression force (n) varied widely (mean (sd) 306 (94); range 142–769). those receiving feedback second (as opposed to first) used significantly lower force (adjusted mean difference −80 (95% ci −128 to −32), p=0.002). mean residual force (18 n, sd 12, range 0–49) was unaffected by the intervention.

conclusions while visual feedback restricted excessive compression rates to within the prescribed range, applied force remained widely variable. the forces required may differ with growth, but such variation treating one manikin is alarming. feedback technologies additionally measuring force (effort) could help to standardise and define effective treatments throughout childhood.

what this study adds?
this form of visual feedback reduced excessive rates and brought performance into the prescribed range.

the study revealed more than a fourfold variation in compression forces used by professionals to treat one manikin, independent of the rate of chest compression.

in the clinical scenario, the highest compression (770 n) and residual (50n) forces may have deleterious effects, suggesting value in measuring the efforts required throughout childhood.

introduction
since 2010 the international resuscitation guidelines have promoted paediatric compression rates of 100–120/min, depressing the chest by at least one-third of its anteroposterior diameter and allowing minimal interruption to compressions.1 ,2 however, evidence suggests that, even among health professionals, chest displacement during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) is variable, compression rates often do not meet the guidelines, and the physiological effects of different patterns of cpr vary.3–9 guideline-compliant chest compressions (≥51 mm) appear to be associated with longer 24 hour survival in children compared with shallower depths.7 others have highlighted the need for further scientific debate regarding effective compression depth in children.10 ,11

feedback devices can improve cpr performance.12–15 however, commercial devices measuring chest compressions are often not suitable for use with babies and young children.14–18 many are rigid in composition, which reduces feedback on the chest movement received through the rescuers' hands. chest compliance reduces with growth, and tactile feedback on full chest recoil may be particularly important in young children, with compliant ribs.16 quantifying the effort (the force) required for effective chest compression and offload in children of different sizes may offer additional growth-related comparative data to aid paediatric cpr training and performance. loads simulating ‘leaning’ during cpr have been shown to prevent full chest recoil in anaesthetised children, decrease coronary perfusion pressure, and elevate intrathoracic and right atrial pressures.16 the authors of that study reported that these clinically important haemodynamic effects warranted further study. we are aware of no subsequent paediatric publications on chest compression force.

we therefore devised a technique to measure dynamic force and provide feedback on the rate of chest compressions for paediatric cpr. we conducted a randomised, crossover trial to examine the impact of visual feedback on the rate of chest compressions and to explore any secondary effects of rate feedback on the load profile (compression and residual forces). we hypothesised that visual feedback would bring performance closer to international guidelines, secondarily reducing any variation in force.

methods
creation of appropriate technology
the researchers defined the specifications of a sensor-mat system to measure and provide visual feedback on the rate of chest compressions for cpr in children. the commissioned device measured dynamic pressure and force using 143 individually calibrated capacitive sensors, each sensor measuring 10 mm×10 mm (pliance x-32 analyzer, novel gmbh, munich, germany) (figure 1). the lightweight mat was ∼1.5 mm thick, conforming fully to the convexity of the chest, sampled at a frequency of 100 hz over a range of 0–400 kpa, with a drift of <5% and minimal hysteresis. the sensor-mat was calibrated daily with incremental step increases of known air pressure to each sensor using the novel calibration device. system performance and accuracy have been reported.19

descriptive variables (figure 1) of the chest compression were identified as:

compression force: peak force applied (n)

residual force: force remaining on decompression (ie, ‘lean load’ n)

rate: number of compressions per minute (cpm)

the feedback system for rate comprised a digital display (here, 107 cpm) and a colour-coded horizontal sliding bar of the real-time compression rate, symbolising performance within and outside the prescribed range (figure 1).

study measuring chest compressions for paediatric cpr
the study was conducted in a tertiary hospital and approved by the national research ethics service committee, bloomsbury, london (registration number 12/lo/1700, protocol v.1). written, informed consent was obtained from all participants. rescuers were informed that all data were anonymised.

recruitment
fifty staff (10 men) were recruited to a randomised, crossover trial between january and july 2015, figure 2. nursing, medical and paramedical staff who had received hospital training in cpr in the last year were eligible. individuals were excluded if they refused to give consent or were not in a fit state to perform chest compressions—for example, because of back pain. recruitment occurred either by direct invitation on the ward (conducted by rkg) or by approaches to staff after their hospital resuscitation training (conducted by dw).

consort diagram summarising the randomised rescuers' protocol progression.

equipment
a paediatric manikin (laerdal medical, new york, usa) with an estimated age of 6 years was secured supine on an akron hi-low plinth (hne akron, ipswich, uk, figure 1). chest compressions were applied directly through the sensor-mat which was taped in a standardised position to the lower half of the manikin's sternum. the measurement system included the sensor-mat, an electronic interface and a laptop computer for data acquisition and feedback display.

protocol
rescuers applied compressions to the paediatric manikin for two sessions. they were informed that this was a compressions-only resuscitation simulation, requiring no airway management and that the researcher would prompt each phase using ‘start’ and ‘stop’ voice cues. using a computer-generated code list, each rescuer was randomised to receive visual feedback during either the first or the second of the two sessions (rkg). henceforth, those receiving feedback in the first session will be called the ‘feedback first’ group and those receiving feedback in the second session the ‘control first’ group. the rescuers were given two sets of information. first, they were to continue chest compressions without interruption during each of the three 2 min phases per session, resting for 2 min between phases and for 5 min between sessions. they were reminded of the recommended rate (100–120 cpm), and advised to offload fully between compressions. rescuers practised five chest compressions on the manikin and were encouraged to adjust the plinth to suit their height. separately, immediately before each rescuer's feedback session, they were instructed in the visual feedback system. a beat-on-beat, colour-coded three-dimensional (3-d) dynamic pressure profile was also demonstrated. it was emphasised that, since no recommendations exist on the most effective forces to be applied to children, they should deliver what they considered appropriate for a 6-year-old child to depress the chest according to the guidelines.1

outcome measures
the primary outcome measure was the rate of compressions, expressed as cpm. secondary outcomes were the compression and residual forces.

statistical analysis
statistical analyses were conducted with spss, v.21. data were collected in the three phases per session (300 recordings); the phases were then averaged by session, resulting in 100 measures, two per rescuer. the effect of providing feedback on rate was estimated using univariable and multivariable linear mixed-effects models, with fixed effects for session number and randomisation order (and their interaction) plus a random effect for rescuer. secondary analysis estimated the effect of rate feedback on force. the trial was reported according to the consort 2010 statement, paying attention to numerical presentation.20 ,21

sample size
comparing the results of a group of 50 rescuers would allow detection of a between-subject difference of 0.6 sd with 80% power and 5% significance. assuming a between-subject sd of 13, 0.6 sd equates to a difference in rate of 8 cpm.

for the within-subject comparisons based on 50 rescuers and focusing on the interaction between feedback condition and order of presentation, the study was designed to have 80% power at 5% significance to detect an effect size of 6 cpm.

results
the age, gender and general characteristics of the two randomisation groups were similar, as shown in table 1.

view inline view popup
table 1
characteristics of the two groups defined according to intervention allocation

all the rescuers completed the protocol phases, from recruitment through randomisation to data analysis (figure 2).

primary outcomes
table 2 summarises the results for chest compressions by session and feedback order.

view inline view popup
table 2
summary of rate and force of chest compressions for cpr according to session and intervention order

the rate varied widely (mean 111 cpm; sd 13; range 89–168), with a fourfold difference in sd during session 1 between those receiving and not receiving feedback. of the results in the two sessions for the two groups, in session 1 the control first group (receiving feedback second) stood out, with both mean and sd raised, while feedback in session 2 normalised the rates (table 2 and figure 3a). the interaction of session by feedback order was highly significant, indicating that this difference in mean rate between sessions was 14 cpm less (−22 to −5, p=0.002) in those given feedback first compared with those given it second.

variability in (a) rate and (b) force of chest compressions applied to the same manikin by 50 rescuers. (a) effect of visual feedback on rate, randomised by order, and (b) compression and residual forces. (a) the horizontal broken lines represent the feedback limits set to indicate the desired rate.

secondary outcomes
figure 3b demonstrates the wide variation in compression force applied to the manikin (mean 306 n (sd 94); range 142–769), a more than fivefold difference. before averaging, the highest recorded force exceeded 800 n.

as summarised in table 2, forces were greater and more variable in session 1 among those receiving feedback compared with those not (337 (90) vs 262 (66), p=0.001). overall, those receiving feedback second (control first) used significantly lower compression force (adjusted mean difference −80 (95% ci −128 to −32), p=0.002). the mean residual force of 18 n (sd 12, range 0–49) was the same in both groups.

discussion
statement of findings
rate
use of visual feedback ensured cpr performance within the prescribed rate range. without feedback, many rescuers exceeded the guidelines, which could result in poorer outcome. this is shown by the wide sd of the control first group in session 1 (table 2). their median rate was above 120 cpm (figure 3a), demonstrating that more than half of these rescuers exceeded the upper prescribed limit. the control first group in session 1 were the only rescuers behaving ‘naturally’, as in the other three sessions, rescuers were, or had just been, exposed to feedback. since all rescuers were reminded of the guidelines before ‘treating’ the manikin, this finding suggests that judging compression rate is difficult and rescuers ‘over-try’ to meet the recommendations. when external chest compressions were first promoted in the 1960s, it was suggested that ‘anyone, anywhere’ with ‘two hands’ could perform effective chest compressions for resuscitation.22 however, our research suggests that, without real-time feedback, it is difficult to deliver appropriate chest compressions for children.

force
strikingly, the forces delivered to a single manikin showed unexpectedly large variation. in the control first group, as their rate slowed with feedback in the second session, so the residual force maintained between compressions decreased. while the most clinically effective range of forces in children has yet to be determined, both extreme loading and incomplete offloading of force may adversely impact outcome.16 ,17 as chest compliance varies greatly with age, lower treatment forces would be expected for babies compared with teenagers. precise force categories required for effective sternal depression are likely to be influenced by both the child's clinical condition and their age and body size.23 young children and the elderly are two groups of patients likely to be vulnerable to chest injury and inefficient external chest compression.10 ,11 ,24 ,25 the ability to measure and compare the effort required throughout childhood is integral to optimising the training of paediatric healthcare professionals, creating appropriate instincts and reflexes through immediate feedback both in hospital and outside.

feedback effect
in the control first group, their compression force appeared to be established in that first ‘natural’ session, unlike the feedback first group whose force increased in session 2. while no feedback system for force was provided, a 3-d pressure profile of real-time data was displayed on the computer screen. the rescuers were told to focus on the rate feedback display, applying whatever force they felt was clinically appropriate for a 6-year-old, as no guidelines exist for force. the mere presence of the pulsing 3-d display may have motivated some in the feedback first group to push harder on the manikin from the outset, as shown in table 2. just as different feedback systems have been shown to produce varying responses, these extraneous data may have been distracting.12

comparison with published literature
this study concurs with others showing performance of chest compressions at variable and excessive rates.4 ,5 ,13 ,26 valuable paediatric data have been published regarding differing compression depths, patterns of cpr and patient survival.4 ,7–9 ,17 ,27 outcome is often related to treatment duration rather than force application.28

paediatric force
few data exist regarding forces required throughout childhood, specifically in younger children.2 ,29 a hospital-based study of eight children aged below 8 (four children in each arm, non-randomised) demonstrated that, even in an experienced paediatric centre using an audiovisual feedback facility, their cumulative assessment measure of ‘excellent cpr’ was achieved in 28% of the treatments with feedback and 0% without.4 feedback resulted in 80% of chest compressions falling within the recommended rate. as was the case here, most benefit was derived from slowing excessive rates. there was no direct measure of compression force but ‘quality cpr’ included the measure of residual lean load <2.5 kg, equating to approximately 25 n. residual forces exceeding 25 n were recorded in this study.

in an earlier study, the group determined paediatric thoracic force-deflection characteristics for cpr.30 chest compression forces of 309 (sd 55) n were recorded in 18 subjects aged between 8 and 22 years. the researchers combined these data with their earlier results, reporting age-related changes in thoracic mechanics, the stiffness of the thorax increasing from youth to middle age and decreasing in the elderly. they highlighted a need to increase the sample size and age range studied. their results concur with equivalent values of 306 (sd 94) n recorded here, this study recording greater extreme forces of almost 800 n. the earlier publication was conducted in older subjects, in whom proportionately higher forces might have been expected, to depress their stiffer chests.19

compression variables and feedback
cpr measurement systems often derive chest compression variables—for example, effective compression ratio and fraction, and duty cycle (the ratio of compression to relaxation).31 ,32 researchers have examined the effects of different duty cycles on cerebral and aortic perfusion, in animals, by modelling and latterly in human subjects.33 ,34 both duty cycle and residual force (or lean load) would appear to be physiologically important variables. audiovisual feedback has been used in isolation and in combination with post-event debriefings.35 ,36 in children and adults, adhering to the 2010 international guidelines-recommended depth of at least 51 mm could improve outcomes from cardiac arrest.4 ,6 however, the use of accelerometers may result in overestimation of chest displacement and may be influenced by variables such as the composition of the underlying surface on which cpr is performed.9 ,18 ,37 ,38

study strengths
each of the 50 rescuers performed a total of 12 min of chest compressions on the manikin, providing robust results from, on average, over 1300 compressions. the thin sensor-mat conformed exactly to the manikin and to children's chests.19 it allowed the rescuer immediate feedback through their hands regarding the child's chest depression and recoil responsiveness, unlike other more rigid feedback systems used for older subjects.14 ,15 ,39

study limitations
this was not a crisis scenario and the research was conducted on a manikin, which cannot be considered an ideal replacement for an unresponsive child. however, it was important to standardise the subject in order to examine variability in rescuers' performance. it is both unethical and impossible to apply chest compressions for cpr to healthy children.

clinical implications
direct measurement of manual forces applied to children's chests could yield valuable insight when used in combination with simultaneous recording of clinical response. such studies should help clarify the profiles required to increase intrathoracic pressure and achieve effective coronary perfusion pressure for children of different ages.33 there is heterogeneity of outcomes used to date in such clinical trials.40 while measures such as arterial blood pressure and end-tidal co2 are useful in high-tech environments, it has been proposed that definition of the specific physiological markers of most use in children may suggest a unique direction for paediatric cpr studies.29

conclusion
this study highlights the variability of chest compression profiles for paediatric cpr. while visual feedback reduced excessive rates to ensure performance within a prescribed rate range, applied force showed alarming variation. incomplete offload between compressions was also recorded. feedback technologies that measure the force required to reverse cardiac arrest could provide the tools to define the inter-related details of paediatric cpr. understanding factors promoting effective chest compressions from birth to adulthood could help to optimise performance and thus improve children's survival.

<|EndOfText|>

fifty years of child height and weight in japan and south korea:
contrasting secular trend patterns analyzed by sitar

abstract
objectives japanese and south koreans have traditionally been shorter than europeans, but have recently become appreciably taller. the aim was to quantify the
secular trend patterns in height and weight growth in the two countries over 50 years
using the sitar growth curve model.
methods data on mean height and weight by sex in 1-year age groups from 1 to 20
years were obtained by decade in south korea (1965–2005) and japan (1950–2010).
the data were analyzed using sitar (superimposition by translation and rotation), which estimates a mean curve and three adjustments–size, timing and
intensity–reflecting how the individual surveys differ from the mean. a sensitivity
analysis compared results for the japanese data based on cohort as well as period.
results growth patterns in the two countries changed dramatically over the study
period, affecting not only height and weight but also developmental age, in that the
growth period advanced in timing and shrank in duration. sitar fitted the data well.
the trends were larger in south korea than japan, and puberty timing in japan stabilized by 1970. most of the height increment seen in adults had already accrued by
age 1.5 years, whereas the adult weight increment accrued throughout childhood.
conclusions the secular height trend in these countries represents increased growth
in the long bones during infancy, so it can be viewed as the inverse of stunting. there
are striking country differences in growth pattern, but they are not easily explained
by differences in national income, diet or lifestyle.
1 | introduction
the japanese have traditionally been much shorter in height
than their european counterparts, particularly scandinavians,
though they have experienced a dramatic secular increase
in height since world war ii (matsumoto, 1982). tanner,
hayashi, preece, and cameron (1982) showed this to be due
primarily to an increase in leg length, possibly arising from
the shift from rice to a dairy-based diet during the 1970s.
south korea is another east asian country whose inhabitants are materially shorter than in the west—indeed in 1978
south korean children were shorter even than the japanese (y.
s. kim, 1982). however they, like the japanese, have
experienced a steep increase in height in recent decades, and
they are now taller than the japanese (j. y. kim et al., 2008;
mori, 2017). furthermore, south koreans are among the tallest
peoples in the asian continent (schwekendiek & jun, 2010),
and south korean women are 20 cm taller now than they were
a century ago, a larger increase over the period than any other
group (ncd risk factor collaboration, 2016).
it is of interest that these two neighboring countries have,
over a similar period of time, experienced remarkable secular
increases in height, and yet in detail the patterns of change
have been very different, with the south koreans “leapfrogging” over the japanese, by starting out shorter and ending up taller.

the secular trend in height as seen in children combines
two distinct processes: not only does height itself increase,
but the age at peak height velocity in puberty gets earlier,
due to accelerated maturation. thus, over a period of time,
the curve of mean height plotted against age shifts upwards,
and at the same time it shifts to the left.
the recently developed sitar growth curve model provides a way to examine these components of the secular trend
in more detail (cole, donaldson, & ben-shlomo, 2010). it
does this by explicitly modeling the two separate components
of the growth curve: increasing size and accelerating maturation. it can also be applied to “growth curves” based on mean
height by age in representative cross-sectional samples, where
“individuals” correspond to particular surveys.
the way sitar works is to summarize the pattern of
growth in individuals as a mean growth curve plus a set of
adjustments for individuals that transform the mean curve to
match their individual curve. the three transforming adjustments reflect differences between individuals in size (mean
height), timing (or tempo, similar to age at peak height
velocity), and intensity (similar to peak height velocity).
when modeling the secular trend, the adjustment of size
represents the change in adult height, while the adjustments
of timing and intensity reflect the change in rate of maturation. thus, the secular trend can be decomposed into three
separate components. the technique represents an extension
of the approach by ali, lestrel, and ohtsuka (2000) who
analyzed growth curves of japanese height over eight decades using kernel regression, and identified turning points on
the curves reflecting age at take-off and age at peak velocity.
this article aims to decompose the secular trends in height
and weight among japanese and south korean children and
young people over long periods of time (40 years in south
korea, 1965–2005, and 60 years in japan, 1950–2010), and to
show how the trends can be explained in terms of countryspecific changes in sitar size, timing, and intensity.
2 | methods
2.1 | data
mean values of height (cm) and weight (kg) for boys and
girls, tabulated in 1-year age groups from 1 to 20 completed
years, were obtained from national samples of child anthropometry. half a year was added to each year group age to
reflect mean age. the data represent periods, i.e., children
measured in particular years, not cohorts of children born in
the same year. south korean data were available only for the
years 1965, 1975, 1984, 1997, and 2005 (j. y. kim et al.,
2008), while the japanese data came from annual national
nutrition surveys carried out between 1949 and 2011 by the
japanese ministry of health and welfare (latterly ministry of
health, labor and welfare)—see funatogawa, funatogawa,
nakao, karita, and yano (2009) for details. the south
korean surveys were very large, with each age group mean
based on 15,000 to 60,000 children, while the japanese samples were much smaller, ranging in size from 500 to 3500
for all ages 1–20 years. to make the two datasets more similar, the japanese data were merged in 3-year groups at 10–
year intervals as follows: 1949–1951, 1959–1961, 1969–
1971, 1979–1981, 1989–1991, 1999–2001 and 2009–2011.
supporting information tables s1–s4 give the mean values by age group, sex, country and year of measurement,
and figure 1 shows the corresponding period growth curves
for height and weight (discussed in more detail later).
2.2 | sitar growth curve model
sitar (superimposition by translation and rotation) is a
shape-invariant mixed effects growth model (cole et al.,
2010). it fits a mean curve to the data as a natural cubic bspline, on the assumption that the growth curves of individuals (i.e., individual surveys here) differ from this mean curve
shape in just three ways, corresponding to three subjectspecific transformations. the three transformations are size,
i.e., how tall individuals are relative to the mean; timing, i.e.,
their relative timing of the pubertal growth spurt based on
the age at peak velocity, and intensity, the relative rate at
which they pass through childhood and puberty. intensity is
effectively a measure of accelerated developmental age, in
that biological time passes faster when development is
advanced and slower when it is delayed.
the geometric impact of the three sitar transformations on individual growth curves, reflecting how they differ
from the mean curve, is as follows: they are shifted up/down
(size, reflecting the curve being above or below average size)
or left/right (timing, corresponding to early or late timing),
and the age scale is stretched/shrunk (intensity, this transformation having the effect of making the curve respectively
shallower or steeper, a positive value indicating advanced
growth). the transformations are in units of cm or kg (for
size), years (timing) and percentage (intensity). so for example a height curve with size 15 cm, timing 20.5 years and
intensity 14% indicates that the individual is 5 cm taller as
an adult, peaks in velocity 6 months earlier and completes
growth 4% faster than the mean curve. using their fitted
transformations, individual curves can be back-transformed
to match the mean curve; if the model fits well the adjusted
curves will all be superimposed (hence the name sitar).
the sitar model was fitted in the statistical language r
version 3.3.2 (r core team, 2015) using the sitar package
version 1.0.9 (cole, 2016). four separate models were fitted,
for height and weight in boys and girls, with the seven surveys by decade for japan and five for south korea treated as
12 individual growth curves. the sexes were analyzed separately due to their differing mean curve shapes.
the transformations size, timing and intensity were estimated as random effects, with zero mean, included in the
model along with corresponding fixed effects. for presentation intensity was multiplied by 100 to convert it to a percentage. the goodness of fit was measured as the percentage
of variance explained by adding the random effects to a simpler model fitting just the mean curve (cole, pan, & butler,
2014).
2.3 | optimizing the sitar model
the sitar models were optimized by choosing the degrees
of freedom for the cubic b-spline curve to minimize the
bayesian information criterion or bic (schwarz, 1978). the
fitted curves had either 6, 7, or 8 degrees of freedom, with
knots placed at the corresponding age quantiles.
other models were explored, optimized by transforming
the age and/or size scales. the main model summarizes the
differences between surveys on the age and size scales in
absolute terms, e.g., shifting the height growth curve
upwards by say 5 cm, or shifting it left by say 0.5 years;
these adjustments are the same at all ages. if instead age and/
or size are logarithmically transformed, then the predicted
effects at each age are proportional rather than absolute, e.g.,
shifting the curve up or shifting it left by say 4%; in absolute
terms these adjustments are smaller at younger ages. the
square root transformation is intermediate between linear and
log, and hence is midway between absolute and proportional
effects. all three transformations were explored in sensitivity
analyses, with the fitted curves back-transformed for presentation purposes.
2.4 | velocity curves
the first derivative of the (back-transformed if necessary)
growth curve shows the difference in size by year of age, a
measure of growth, which for convenience is here termed the
“velocity” curve (although based on cross-sectional rather
figure 1 growth curves for height (left) and weight (right) by country and year of measurement, boys (above) and girls (below)
than longitudinal data). the area under the velocity curve
corresponds to the total increment in size, and so the curve is
useful to illustrate how the sitar effects of timing and
intensity impact on size at each age. sensitivity analyses
explored which transformations of the measurement and age
scales best captured the secular changes in the velocity
curve.
2.5 | cohort versus period
height and weight in the two countries were tabulated by
age and year of measurement. analysing the data in this
form assumes that the growth pattern depends only on the
period, the time when the measurement was made. however,
the time when the children were born—their birth cohort—
could also be relevant, so that both year of birth and year of
measurement may affect the growth curve’s shape.
the japanese data being available annually allowed
growth curves to be constructed both by cohort (i.e., successive years of age for a given year of birth cohort correspond
to successive years of measurement)—see funatogawa,
funatogawa, nakao, karita, and yano (2009)—as well as by
period. (note though that this was not possible for the
korean data, which were available only by decade of measurement, so the primary country comparison here is necessarily based on period.)
if one assumes that the secular trend in growth is monotonic (i.e., that it does not change direction at any point),
then the cohort and period approaches will lead to broadly
similar results—children of later-born cohorts and later measurement years will be taller and heavier than for earlier
cohorts and measurement years. however, it is not clear how
the trends in the corresponding sitar parameters might differ when viewed the two ways.
as a sensitivity analysis the japanese growth curves
were analyzed both by period and by cohort, to see how the
sitar growth parameters were affected; to do this the
“period” curve for a given measurement date was compared
with the “cohort” curve for the birth cohort born 11 years
earlier (e.g., those born in 1939 were compared with those
measured in 1950; this ensured that in mid-1950 the mean
age of the cohort was 11.0, matching that for the period dataset). the cohort data were inevitably incomplete for the early
and late years.
3 | results
3.1 | height and weight in japan
and south korea
figure 1 shows the growth curves for height (left) and
weight (right) in boys (above) and girls (below). each
quadrant contains 12 curves, i.e., the seven surveys in japan
(solid lines) and five in south korea (dashed lines). there
was a clear secular trend to increasing height and weight
over time, with japan shortest and lightest in 1950, and
south korea tallest and heaviest in 2005.
there was also an obvious secular trend to earlier maturation, with the curves shifting to the left over time. to
express these differences in terms of size, timing and intensity, separate sitar models were fitted to each quadrant of
figure 1.
figure 2a illustrates the model fit for height in boys and
girls, where the 12 boys’ curves are shown in black and the
12 girls’ curves in red, and the two countries are indexed by
line type. the individual curves by sex are all superimposed,
with 97% of the variance in figure 1a,c explained, indicating
that the models fit well. the mean curve shapes for the two
sexes, with the girls (red) spurting earlier but ending up
shorter than the boys (black), are clearly visible.
the other three quadrants in figure 2 illustrate the random effect estimates of sitar size, timing and intensity for
each of the 12 surveys, indicated by the year label and country color (japan black, south korea red), and joined by lines
to indicate the temporal trend. the values for boys and girls
are plotted against each other, and the diagonal line of equality demonstrates that the values for the two sexes are very
similar.
mean height size (figure 2b) increased by about 8 cm in
japan and 5 cm in south korea (for both sexes) over the
period of study. note that this is after adjusting for concurrent trends in timing and intensity, so it reflects the increase
in adult height. however, the bulk of the increase occurred
before 1980 in japan and after 1984 in south korea (in
1980/1984 the two countries were similar in height). in addition japan showed no change from 1990 to 2010, an indication that the secular trend had stopped, whereas in south
korea mean height increased slightly from 1997 to 2005.
figure 2c compares the timing of puberty in the different
surveys, where again the two sexes were in close agreement.
however, there was a dramatic difference between the two
countries in that japan showed virtually no change in timing
after 1970, whereas in south korea puberty occurred 6
months earlier in 2005 than in 1997. ali et al. (2000) also
found that in japan, age at peak height velocity plateaued
after 1970.
finally figure 2d compares growth intensity in the two
countries, where the sexes are again almost identical. intensity increased by 15% over the period, this indicating by how
much the duration of growth had shrunk. however, the
increase was more rapid in south korea, occurring over a 40
year period as against 60 years in japan.
the results for weight are shown in figure 3. again the
sitar models fitted well (figure 3a), with 97% of variance
explained. there was more sexual dimorphism than for
height, with the size, timing and intensity effects in figures
3b-d less close to the line of equality. boys increased in size
over the period by twice as much as girls (6 vs. 1.5 kg in
japan, 7 vs. 4 kg in south korea). for timing (figure 3c) the
results again showed a greater effect in south korea than
japan, an advance of 2.5 years, and within japan the effect
was greater in girls than boys. weight intensity (figure 3d)
showed a similar pattern to size, increasing more in south
korea than in japan, and in boys more than girls.
3.2 | height and weight increment by age
figure 4 explores the increments in height and weight by age
and sex in the two countries over the period of study, i.e., 60
years for japan and 40 years for south korea. the increments are strongly age-dependent, depending as they do on
the underlying changes in size, timing and intensity; thus,
the maximum increments occurred in puberty, at around 14
years in boys and 12 years in girls. figure 4 shows both the
observed increments and those predicted by the sitar models, and the two agree well. the increments at age 20 indicate the adult secular trends, and the adult height increments
were appreciably greater for japan than south korea, reflecting how short the japanese were in 1950. conversely the
weight increments were greater in south korea.
there is a particular interest in the size of the height increment in early life, as it has been suggested that the size increment as seen in adults is accrued as early as age 2 (cole,
2000a). the youngest infants (mean age 1.5 years) were 5 cm
taller at the end of the period than at the start (figure 4a,c).
this is the same as the adult increments in south korea, but
slightly less than in japan (10 cm in boys and 7 cm in girls).
so in south korea the 5 cm increment in adult height
had already been accrued by 1.5 years, whereas in japan an
extra 2–5 cm in height was gained during childhood after
infancy.
figure 2 sitar summary of height growth by sex, country and year of measurement: (a) sitar-adjusted height curves (boys black, girls red);
(b) changes in size (cm) for boys plotted against girls (japan black, korea red); (c) changes in timing (years) similarly; and (d) changes in intensity (%)
similarly. see text for details
with weight, the adult increments were much smaller for
girls than boys in both countries. the early life increments
were all considerably smaller for weight than for height. for
japanese girls the adult weight increment matched that in
early life, while for south korean girls, and boys in both
countries, it was greater.
3.3 | secular trends in height velocity
figures 2–4 confirm the good fit of the model to changes in
size over time. a more subtle aspect of model fit is the shape
of the predicted velocity curve and how it changes over time.
this is explored in figure 5 for height velocity in south
korea, and in figure 6 for weight velocity in japan.
figure 5 contrasts two alternative sitar height models
(left and right) for boys (above) and girls (below). the models on the left are those for height versus age as already discussed, while on the right are better fitting models with age
on the square root scale, where the bic is 30–50 units
smaller (and hence better fitting). the figures contrast the
predicted height velocity curves in 1965 and 2005, showing
how puberty advanced over time.
the simpler models (left) imply that before age 10 velocity
was greater in 2005, whereas the optimal models (right) show
it was unchanged from 1965. this reinforces the impression
from figure 4 that height velocity after infancy did not change
over the period. the corresponding figure for japan (not
shown) indicated that height velocity up to age 10 was slightly
greater in 2010 than in 1950, which accords with the observed
secular increase in height in japan beyond 1.5 years.
figure 6 looks at weight velocity in japan similarly. it is
clear in all four quadrants that weight velocity before age 10
was considerably greater in 2005 than in 1965, thus explaining the observed secular trend in weight. however, the better
fitting models (log weight and square root age, bic 80
units less, on the right) show that this applied much less to
figure 3 sitar summary of weight growth by sex, country and year of measurement: (a) sitar-adjusted weight curves (boys black, girls red);
(b) changes in size (kg) for boys plotted against girls (japan black, korea red); (c) changes in timing (years) similarly; and (d) changes in intensity (%)
similarly. see text for details
peak weight velocity in puberty, which did not change
materially.
3.4 | cohort versus period
as a sensitivity analysis, figure 7 compares the japanese boys
height growth curves as defined by cohort and by period.
figure 7a contrasts the two mean curves, where the
cohort curve (solid red line) is lower than the period curve
(solid black line) at younger ages but higher at older ages.
this is because within each cohort, the younger and older
ages correspond to earlier and later measurement dates,
whereas the corresponding period data are all measured at
the same time. the net effect is to make the mean cohort
curve steeper, so the peak height velocity for cohort in
figure 7a (dashed red line) is greater than for period (dashed
black line). this is equivalent to increased intensity for the
cohort curve, i.e., the age scale is foreshortened.
figures 7b-d compare the corresponding trends over time
in the sitar effects for size, timing and intensity by cohort
and period. although there are differences, the size and timing effects are broadly similar the two ways, lying close to
the dotted line of equality. however, the intensity trend is
much steeper for period, the range of values being twice that
for cohort (15% vs. 7%). a similar though less extreme pattern was seen for girls height and boys and girls weight (data
not shown). this confirms that the main difference between
cohort and period curves lies in the sitar intensity parameter, the secular trend in intensity for the cohort curves being
as little as half that for the period curves.
4 | discussion
the results demonstrate the dramatic secular trends in child
height and weight that have taken place in japan and south
figure 4 increments by age for height (left) and weight (right) in japan (1950 to 2010, black) and south korea (1965 to 2005, red), boys (above)
and girls (below). the increments are shown observed (solid lines) and predicted by sitar (dashed lines)
korea during the past 40–60 years. the trend has been
appreciably greater in south korea, where the children were
shorter and lighter than in japan in 1965, but taller and heavier in 2005.
the results also show how well sitar summarizes the
secular changes in growth pattern, with over 97% of the variance between surveys being explained by differences in
mean size, growth timing and intensity. this emphasizes that
the secular changes over time that occurred in height and
weight, which one might think were simply a reflection of
increasing body size, were also driven by similar changes on
the developmental age scale—earlier puberty and faster
passage.
the results demonstrate in three distinct ways how well
sitar represents the changing growth patterns in the two
countries. in figures 2a and 3a, the individual survey growth
curves are all superimposed after sitar adjustment, with
the curves for the two sexes clearly distinct. in figure 4 the
increments over 40 or 60 years are well characterized by the
sitar models, and in figures 5 and 6 the changes in velocity curve shape over time are convincingly captured.
the sitar analysis adjusts mean height and weight for
differences in the timing and intensity of growth. for this
reason the mean size results in figures 2b and 3b directly
reflect the corresponding secular trends in adult size, i.e.,
after growth has stopped. for height, they show that in japan
the growth pattern did not change after 1997, whereas in
south korea it continued changing up until 2005.
a similar picture emerges for weight, with much larger
secular changes in growth pattern among south koreans
than japanese. however weight, unlike height, is still
increasing in japan. there is also sexual dimorphism in the
weight growth patterns, with girls changing less than boys
in terms both of size and intensity. this confirms the
figure 5 changes in height velocity curve shape for korean boys (above) and girls (below), from 1965 (red dashed lines) to 2005 (black solid
lines). the curves are predictions from sitar models of height on age (left) and height on age (right), where the latter models have lower bic and fit
better
observation by maruyama and nakamura (2015) that the
japanese gender difference in bmi secular trend was due to
a difference in the weight trend not the height trend.
tanner et al. (1982) pointed out that the japanese secular
height trend from 1957 to 1977 was driven almost entirely
by an increase in leg length. ali et al. (2000) studied secular
changes in japanese leg length for birth cohorts from 1943 to
1978, showing a steep rise in leg length as a percentage of
height from 1943 to 1968 but a plateau thereafter. in addition
they showed that this percentage increased with age until
puberty, i.e., 13 years in boys and 11 years in girls, and then
either stabilized (girls) or fell slightly (boys). thus, in terms
of length (cm) the trend in leg length was greater than the
trend in height (and even greater than the trend in sitting
height) up to puberty (though not thereafter). so the height
trend was until puberty primarily a leg length trend.
the secular increment in adult height (i.e., at age 20)
amounted to 8–10 cm in japan and 5 cm in south korea
(figure 2b). figure 4 shows how this increment developed
through childhood, and the pattern is striking; 5 cm of it, i.e.,
the majority, was already apparent at age 1.5 years, the mean
age for the youngest age group. the increment appeared to
be greater at later ages, but this reflected only more advanced
maturation. in south korea the peak increment was at age
12–14 and exceeded 15 cm, but by adulthood it had shrunk
to 5 cm, the same as at age 1.5. so there was no net increase
in height after infancy. by contrast in japan the adult increment of 8–10 cm was greater than the 5 cm increment at age
1.5, showing some growth in childhood after infancy, so the
two countries differed in this respect. the secular increment
in length at birth is known to be very small; in shanghai for
example mean birth length increased from 1985 to 2005 by
just 0.2 cm (zhang & li, 2015). so, it is reasonable to state
that in south korea the secular increase in adult height
occurred during the first 18 months of postnatal life, driven
primarily by extra growth in the long bones of the leg, which
confirms and refines the previously suggested 2 years (cole,
2000a).
figure 6 changes in weight velocity curve shape for japanese boys (above) and girls (below), from 1950 (red dashed lines) to 2010 (black solid
lines). the curves are predictions from sitar models of weight on age (left) and log weight on age (right), where the latter models have lower bic and
fit better
this, it should be noted, is the exact opposite of the malnutrition state of stunting, where infants in the first 1000
days of prenatal and postnatal life fall behind in terms of linear growth (dewey, 2016). it is tantalizing to think that the
beneficial changes over time that have driven the secular
trend to increased stature may well be the inverse of the factors that are driving linear growth retardation in millions of
poor infants.
the secular increase in adult weight was also substantial,
but rather greater in boys than girls and in south korea more
than japan (figures 3b and 4). in addition the increase
accrued throughout childhood and puberty rather than being
restricted to infancy (figure 6b,d). it is for this reason that
the best data transformation for size (as seen in figures 5
and 6) was linear for height and log for weight; the absolute
increment in height was the same in early and adult life
(figure 4), whereas for weight the proportional increment
was closer to constant—this corresponds to the log transformation (cole, 2000b).
the best data transformation for age was the square root
(figures 5 and 6). in principle one would expect differences
in developmental age to be multiplicative, corresponding to
the age scale being stretched or shrunk, and this in turn corresponds to the log age scale, as seen in the original sitar
publication (cole et al., 2010). conversely the linear age
scale would imply the whole growth curve being shifted left
or right, which could fit poorly in infancy with age becoming
negative. the square root scale is a compromise between
figure 7 sitar summary of japanese boys height by year of measurement, with growth curves constructed by period and by cohort: (a) mean
curves (period black, cohort red; height solid, velocity dashed); (b) changes in size (cm) for period plotted against cohort; (c) changes in timing (years)
similarly; and (d) changes in intensity (%) similarly. see text for details
linear and log, implying that differences on the developmental age scale are somewhere between multiplicative and
additive.
the sensitivity analysis showed that secular trends in the
sitar size and timing parameters were broadly the same
whether based on cohort or period curves. however, the
cohort-based intensity parameter changed over time only half
as fast as the period-based intensity. this can be explained
by reference to figure 7a, where the mean cohort curve
(solid red line) is slightly steeper than the mean period curve
(black). this is because within each cohort, the younger and
older ages correspond to earlier and later measurement dates,
whereas the corresponding period data are all measured at
the same time. expressed the other way round, the period
curves include some cohort information as their data are
spread across 20 birth years, with the younger children born
later and the older earlier. the net effect is that the secular
trend in intensity based on the period data is up to twice that
for the cohort data, and hence provides a biased estimate of
the cohort-based trend.
however, it is important to emphasize that the sitar
analysis, in summarizing the secular trend, does not claim to
provide any extra insight as to whether the trend is driven by
cohort or period differences. probably both apply, in that
children’s individual growth patterns are inherited in early
life (i.e., a cohort effect) but are subsequently influenced by
the changing environment (a period effect). the two effects
can be distinguished in figure 4, which shows the agespecific increments in height and weight over the period of
study. thus, it contrasts growth in children born 40–60 years
apart. in south korea, the height increment for boys and girls
was 5 cm both in infancy and in adulthood, which means
that the growth pattern did not change during childhood.
this corresponds to a cohort effect, not a period effect. however, the weight increment for south korean boys was much
greater in adulthood than in infancy (13 vs. 2 kg), indicating
a strong period effect in addition to the cohort effect. note
that these inferences could have been based either on the
observed increments in figure 4 (solid lines) or the sitar
modeled increments (dashed lines), so the sitar analysis is
useful here but not essential.
as noted at the outset, europeans have historically been
much taller than asians. the dutch are recognized as the
tallest nation, and their secular increase in height has recently
stopped (sch€onbeck et al., 2013). figure 3 of sch€onbeck
et al. (2013) shows how height in the netherlands has
increased since 1955, equivalent to figure 4 of the current
article. the adult increment amounted to 7 cm in both sexes,
but the pattern by age was quite different from figure 4. the
increment increased linearly from birth to 15 years in boys
and 11 years in girls, when the increments were respectively
10 and 8 cm, after which they fell back to 7 cm at age 20; so
there was no infant increment at all. however, the dutch in
1955 were already taller (175 and 164 cm by sex) than the
south koreans were in 2005 (sch€onbeck et al., 2013), so
both the nature of the secular trend and the factors driving it
were clearly different in the two countries.
what factors might have caused japanese and south
korean children to grow so differently from each other?
there are several possibilities: genetics (e.g., different height
potential), economic status (e.g., per capita gross domestic
product or gdp) and diet (e.g., per capita national food supply). grasgruber, sebera, hrazdira, cacek, and kalina
(2016) explored many factors that might explain the differences in male height in 105 countries. they found that gdp
was a strong predictor but national health expenditure was
stronger, as was the mortality rate for children under 5 years.
this obviously relates directly to living conditions in
infancy, when long bone growth is important. among the
strongest predictors was the human developmental index
(hdi), which had a correlation of 0.80 with adult height
based on 100 countries.
several dietary factors were predictive, notably animal
protein in the form of dairy, eggs, meat and fish, while a rice
diet was generally associated with shorter stature (grasgruber
et al., 2016). the strongest single positive influence was
dairy protein (r 5 0.79 for 93 countries), while rice had a
strongly negative effect (r 5 20.74).
so how do japan and south korea compare in terms of
these predictive factors? gdp was considerably higher in
japan than south korea, as was the hdi, while child mortality was slightly lower in japan. (however, the reviewer
points out the very different development paths taken by the
two countries—japan achieved a miracle of economic development but then stagnated after 1995, whereas korea was
initially poorer but developed and maintained strong growth,
its gdp now matching that for japan. this may well be
relevant.)
in terms of diet, south koreans ate appreciably less animal protein than japanese (17 versus 23 g/person/day protein
from dairy, eggs, pork and beef). so in all these respects
japan looks healthier than south korea, and the japanese
ought to be the taller, as predicted by grasgruber et al.
(2016) (their figure 12). schwekendiek and jun (2010)
emphasized the impact of primary school feeding programs
set up by the south korean government after the korean
war, which have continued until now. however, mori compares in detail the national income and dietary intake in the
two countries over time, and shows that as recently as 1995,
both per capita gross national income and milk intake were
three times higher in japan than in south korea (mori,
2017). mori (2017) also highlights the recent striking
increase in south korean intake of fruit and vegetables, at a
time when japanese intake has fallen, particularly among the
young, and this may explain the recent increase in south
korean height.
in conclusion, child height and weight have increased
dramatically over the past 40–60 years in japan and south
korea. the changes have affected both size (i.e., cm and kg)
and developmental age, in that the growth period has
advanced in timing and shrunk in duration. most of the
height increment seen in adults has already accrued by age
1.5 years, indicating that the secular height trend in these
countries (though not in the netherlands) represents
increased growth in the long bones during infancy. the
trends have been larger in south korea than japan, but there
are no convincing differences in national income, diet or lifestyle to explain them.

<|EndOfText|>

after the rct: who comes to a family-based intervention for childhood overweight or obesity when it is implemented at scale in the community? 

methods the mend 7–13 (mind, exercise, nutrition…do it!) programme is a family-based weight management intervention for childhood overweight and obesity implemented at scale in the community. we compare the characteristics of children referred to the mend programme (n=18 289 referred to 1940 programmes) with those of the population eligible for the intervention, and assess what predicts completion of the intervention.

results compared to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more children who started mend were: obese rather than overweight excluding obese; girls; asian; from families with a lone parent; living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances; and living in urban rather than rural or suburban areas. having started the programme, children were relatively less likely to complete it if they: reported ‘abnormal’ compared to ‘normal’ levels of psychological distress; were boys; were from lone parent families; lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances; and had participated in a relatively large mend programme group; or where managers had run more programmes.

conclusions the provision and/or uptake of mend did not appear to compromise and, if anything, promoted participation of those from disadvantaged circumstances and ethnic minority groups. however, this tendency was diminished because programme completion was less likely for those living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances. further research should explore how completion rates of this intervention could be improved for particular groups.

introduction
overweight and obesity has been described as the primary childhood health problem in developed nations.1 in 2011, estimates from uk data showed that a third of children aged between 2 and 15 were overweight or obese, with prevalence among those living in the most deprived circumstances double that of those living in the least deprived.2 while prevalence may be plateauing,2 ,3 the costs for children and families, health services and society remain substantial.4

research on weight management programmes for children who are already overweight or obese has tended to focus on the effectiveness of interventions under research conditions. these studies suggest that family-based interventions may result in moderate reductions in body mass index (bmi).5 however the population impact on health and health inequalities of such interventions, when implemented at scale, depends not only on how effective the intervention itself is, but also on who receives it.6 ,7 for example, families living in more favourable socioeconomic circumstances may be more likely to access and adhere to services which support behaviour change.8 ,9 to understand whether implementation is successful, evidence is needed about who is referred to, who starts and who completes potentially effective interventions delivered at scale in the community in relation to the population in need.10 ,11

recent work mapping weight management interventions for overweight or obese children12 identified approximately 50 schemes operational around 2008 in england. in this paper we examine the largest of these schemes, mend 7–13 (mend—mind, exercise, nutrition do it!) in order to achieve two objectives: first, to explore whether the sociodemographic characteristics of mend participants match those of the population eligible for the intervention; and second, to estimate what characteristics of children, their families and neighbourhoods are associated with completion of a mend programme. further objectives13 on the differential outcomes14 and economic costs of attending mend, and its salience and acceptability to families and commissioners15 are reported elsewhere.

methods
mend intervention
mend is a multicomponent family-based community intervention which aims to support families of overweight or obese children (hereafter referred to as overweight, defined as exceeding the 91st centile of bmi (weight/height2) of the uk 1990 growth charts16) to adopt and sustain healthier lifestyles. the intervention was demonstrated to be effective in reducing bmi of obese children after 6 and 12 months in a randomised controlled trial.17

the intervention addresses diet and physical activity through education, skills training and motivational enhancement. owing to the importance of family involvement for behaviour change, the intervention requires a parent or carer to attend all 20 sessions and the mend intervention was developed to be delivered in community settings such as schools or leisure centres.17 children are eligible if they are aged between 7 and 13 years old and overweight although those aged 6 (n=298) when they were referred were included in the analyses.

mend had two operating arms in the uk: mend central, a limited company, and mend places, a not-for-profit company originally set up to provide a route for donations to subsidise places for families on the mend programme. when the data for our study were collected, mend central described itself as a social enterprise—an ethical business which aims to benefit society in general. all those commissioning mend between 2007 and 2010 placed funding through mend central. families did not pay to attend the programme, places were funded by a variety of organisations including: the uk big lottery fund (n=8972); nhs primary care trusts (n=4373); non-governmental organisations (n=617); and other non-profit making organisations and a private company (n=36).

between 2007 and 2010, the mend intervention was implemented on a large scale, with programmes rolled out across all regions of england (see figure 1 for more details). families referred to the programme contacted mend (‘referrals’)—whereupon mend logged the child's age and sex, and the family postcode, collecting no other data. families who went on to attend one or more sessions (‘starters’) also had sociodemographic and other data collected.

the intervention was delivered in local programmes by ‘delivery partner’ organisations. intervention content and training was provided to delivery partners by mend central. the height, weight and psychological distress of participants were measured at the first and penultimate sessions of each mend programme. delivery partners were trained to measure height and weight (which was used to calculate bmi) and also recorded individual attendance of each participant at each session. psychological distress was reported by parents using the strengths and difficulties questionnaire (sdq).18 parents also reported the participant's ethnicity (white, asian, black and other) and family socioeconomic circumstances including: family structure (lone parent/carer, couple parents/carers); housing tenure (owner occupied, social rented, private rented); and employment status of the ‘primary earner’ (employed, unemployed). delivery partners recorded data in an online database collated by mend central. for this study, a copy of this database for the period january 2007 to december 2010 was transferred to university college london (ucl) institute of child health for analysis.

the full unit postcode of each mend participant's residential address was used to assign each address to its respective lower super output area (lsoa). each lsoa was then linked to a measure of neighbourhood deprivation (deciles of the income deprivation affecting children index (idaci) 2007).19 idaci measures the percentage of income-deprived households (those in receipt of means-tested benefits such as jobseekers allowance or child tax credits) with children aged 0–15 in the lsoa. deciles of the index were calculated relative to the deprivation ranking of all english lsoas; participants in decile 10 live in the 10% most deprived areas in england. we also linked a national urban/rural status (urban, suburban, rural) classification20 to each lsoa. mend data were used to derive how many children attended each mend programme (hereafter referred to as ‘programme group size’) and the number of programmes which a local programme manager had managed.

in the absence of an agreed definition of completion for family-based interventions for childhood overweight,21 children were considered to have completed the programme (‘completers’) if they had attended more than 75% (more than 15 out of 20) of sessions.

data were complete for bmi, postcode (and so all variables related to residence in lsoas) and programme level variables. starters and completers were missing data for the following variables (percentages reported for starters): baseline sdq (7%), ethnicity (33%), family structure (36%), housing tenure (35%), employment status (63%) and percentage of sessions attended (42%). we followed the guidelines of sterne et al22 for the analysis and reporting of missing data. full details are given in the supplement and summarised here. first, those with complete and incomplete data were statistically different, although differences were small. second, missingness varied between mend programmes. third, excluding all those with any missing data from the mend data would have reduced the sample (and therefore the statistical power to estimate proportions) from 13 998 to 2787. to minimise bias, adjust for multilevel missingness, and maximise power, we used a multilevel multiple imputation model. the model assumed that data were missing at random; the rationale for this is described in the supplement along with the variables included in the model and the reasons for their inclusion. ten imputed data sets were produced, analysed separately and results combined using rubin's rules.23 to test whether our findings were influenced by using imputed data we also conducted sensitivity analyses, including analysis using complete case data with and without the variable describing parental employment status, where missingness was particularly high.

statistical analysis
we described the population eligible for mend (‘the mend-eligible population’) using the health survey for england (hse), an annual, nationally representative cross-sectional survey of english children and adults.24 we did this by pooling the data from the 2007 to 2010 surveys for 6–13-year-olds (n=13 468) who were overweight (n=2799, after exclusion of those where valid bmi data was missing (n=1577). all analyses accounted for the hse complex survey design and sample weights.

the sociodemographic characteristics of children participating in mend were compared with those in the mend-eligible population. differences in percentages, and their statistical significance levels were calculated (mend-eligible subtracted from mend). the social gradient of residence by idaci was compared graphically and tested using linear regression with an interaction term included to test the statistical significance of differences between slopes.

we estimated multilevel (participants clustered within programmes) poisson regression models25 to assess whether completion was associated with baseline (ie, at the first session) age, sex, ethnicity, psychological distress, bmi, family structure, housing tenure, parental employment status, idaci and urban/rural status. unadjusted relative risks (urr) of completion were first estimated in a set of single variable models. where urrs were significant at the 5% level, these variables were retained in a multivariable model to allow estimation of adjusted relative risks (arr).

the following software was used: realcom-impute26 (multilevel multiple imputation model), mlwin27 and runmlwin28 (multilevel poisson regression models), and stata 12.1 (all other analyses).

parents gave informed written consent for their child to participate in the mend programme and for their data to be used after anonymisation. approval for the transfer of the anonymised data from mend to researchers at the ucl institute of child health, and for the secondary analysis of these data was granted by the ucl ethics committee in october 2010 (ref 2677/002).

results
between january 2007 and december 2010, 21 132 referrals contacted mend, 18 289 of whom had complete data (see figure 1). a total of 13 998 of these were starters (attended at least one session) and of these 8311 were completers (attended more than 75% of sessions).

compared to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more mend referrals were girls and from urban areas while fewer were from suburban or rural areas (table 1). as would be expected, given the social gradient in childhood overweight, proportionally more of both mend-eligible children and mend referrals lived in more deprived compared to less deprived areas but this social gradient was significantly more pronounced for mend referrals (test for interaction p<0.01: figure 2).

social gradients of those referred to mind, exercise, nutrition do it! (mend; grey dots and line) and mend-eligible population (black dots and dashed line) by idaci 2007 (neighbourhood deprivation) deciles. trends were tested for differences (p<0.001). idaci, income deprivation affecting children index.

compared to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more mend starters were: obese rather than overweight but not obese; girls; asian; from families with a lone parent; living in social or private rented accommodation; living in a family where the primary earner was unemployed; or resident in urban areas (table 1). proportionally fewer were children whose ethnicity was reported to be white or ‘other’. similar sociodemographic patterns were seen in those who completed a mend programme (table 1). comparisons of both mend starters and completers with the mend-eligible population by neighbourhood deprivation deciles showed similar differences in slopes to the differences for mend referrals (data not shown).

for sensitivity, the differences in percentages between the mend-eligible population and mend starters and completers were also calculated: excluding children who were 6 years old; and separately for those mend children who were obese and for those who were overweight but not obese. results were similar to those reported in table 1 for all mend participants (data not shown).

single (unadjusted) variable models showed that, having started a mend programme, completion was significantly associated with psychological distress at baseline, sex, family structure, housing tenure, employment status, idaci 2007, programme group size and the number of programmes per manager (see urr in table 2). these variables were retained in the multivariable model. age, baseline bmi, ethnicity and urban/rural status were not significantly associated and therefore not retained.

table 2
unadjusted (urr) and adjusted relative risks (arr) of completion of a mend programme by sociodemographic characteristics of participants (n=13 998)

in the multivariable model, the arr (see arr in table 2) showed that children who had started a mend programme were significantly less likely to complete it if they: were reported by parents as having ‘abnormal’ rather than ‘normal’ levels of psychological distress; were boys; were from lone parent rather than couple parent families; lived in social or private rented rather than owner occupied accommodation; lived in a family where the primary earner was unemployed rather than employed; were resident in lsoas in more deprived idaci 2007 deciles rather than less deprived; participated in a relatively large mend programme group; or participated in a programme led by a manager who had run a relatively high number of programmes.

in the absence of an agreed definition of completion we re-estimated the multivariable model with completion defined as attending more than 60% of sessions. findings were similar to those observed for completion defined as attendance at more than 75% of sessions (data not shown).

we repeated all analyses with complete case data to test sensitivity of findings to imputation and specifically to the high proportion of missing data on employment status. findings were similar to those using imputed data (see online supplementary section g12).

discussion
our results showed that in comparison to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more children who started or completed mend lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances (indicated by employment of primary earner, family structure and housing tenure). relative to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more of those who started or completed a mend programme were girls, asian and urban dwelling and proportionally fewer were of white or ‘other’ ethnicity. finally, relative to the mend-eligible population, proportionally more mend participants were obese rather than overweight but not obese. these differences may have arisen from differential uptake or differential provision of mend but we did not have data to investigate this further.

in contrast, for those who started a mend programme, those living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances were less likely to complete it, as were boys and those reporting ‘abnormal’ levels of psychological distress at baseline. completion of a mend programme was also less likely if the programme group size was relatively high and if the programme manager was more experienced. completion was not associated with baseline bmi, age or ethnic group. however, these relative differences in completion rates were not sufficient to remove the tendency for starters and completers overall to be less advantaged than the mend-eligible population.

strengths and limitations
we used data from a family-based intervention for childhood overweight which had been implemented at scale in the community. this was an unusual opportunity to assess how an intervention which has been found to be effective in a research setting is provided and accessed in the ‘real world’. in addition, the large scale implementation meant that the data set was sufficiently large to precisely estimate proportions for each sociodemographic group and factors associated with predictors of completion of the programme. the mend data were collected for service rather than research purposes and, as is common in service data, data quality was variable, with considerable missing data. we carried out extensive data cleaning procedures to maximise the quality of the data that we analysed. we also used imputed data obtained from a multilevel multiple imputation model to mitigate systematic bias and increase the precision of estimates. we also ran analyses with both complete case and imputed analyses to show that the overall conclusions we drew were the same.

we used a robust, nationally representative survey (hse) to estimate the population of children in england who would theoretically be eligible for the mend intervention, and compare the characteristics of this population ‘in need’ with those who were referred to, started or completed a mend programme. the lone parent and employment status variables were not coded identically in mend and the hse. however, our results using the lone parent and employment variables were consistent with those using the idaci 2007 measure which was standard in both mend and hse data sets.

we repeated our hse-mend comparison, substituting two other contemporaneous nationally representative data sets in turn in the place of the hse. the millennium cohort study sweep four29 was nationally representative for overweight children in england aged 6–8 years old in 2008 and, when compared to mend participants of the same age, findings were similar to the hse-mend comparison (eg, proportionally more children living in less favourable circumstances among the mend participants than in the millennium cohort). the national child measurement programme30 was nationally representative for overweight children in england in school year 10 (10–11 years old) in the years 2007–2010 and, when compared to mend children of the same age, findings were again similar to the hse-mend comparison. these sensitivity analyses (data not shown) showed that our findings were robust to how we assessed the population who would be eligible for mend.

comparison with other studies
differential provision or uptake of interventions both have the potential to generate, maintain, widen or decrease health inequalities.7 ,8 we found no research which compared the sociodemographic characteristics of participants in a family-based community intervention for childhood overweight with the population in need, although a similar analysis has been outlined in an evaluation framework for an australian weight management scheme for adults.31 our findings that the sociodemographic characteristics of mend participants marginally over-represent families living in more deprived areas are consistent with previous work on smoking cessation6 and coronary heart disease treatment.32 however, we are not aware of similar work in services for children's health.

relatively few published studies have considered who ‘drops out’ or completes children's weight management interventions, and a review of this work suggests that study designs (including intervention type) and findings are heterogeneous and typically based in research or clinical settings.33 this study adds to this evidence base because it was based on a large data set who received a family-based community intervention for childhood overweight following implementation at scale in the community (as opposed to in a research setting).

consistent with smaller scale studies of attrition in paediatric weight management interventions delivered predominantly in clinical settings, we found that completion was less likely among participants living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances.9 ,34 ,35 no families had to pay for the mend programme and so direct financial costs of participation would not explain differential completion by socioeconomic status. however, indirect costs of participation to families and the amount of time available to parents to take children to programmes may have explained some of these differences.33 this reinforces concerns that the acceptability of, or adherence to, services is worse for those from less advantaged circumstances and may indicate that services still need to develop and adapt to meet the needs of these families.

conclusions
the provision and/or uptake of mend did not appear to compromise and, if anything, promoted participation of those from more disadvantaged circumstances and from ethnic minority groups. this suggests that participation in mend, when it was implemented at scale across england, had the potential to make a contribution to tackling health inequalities. however, this potential was diminished to some extent because; having started a programme, completion was relatively less likely for those participants living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances. it was also less likely for boys. further research should explore why this occurs, and investigate how completion rates could be improved for these groups. approaches to this may include using survival analysis to examine critical points where exit from the programme is more likely.

mend programmes have been implemented across a number of income rich countries beyond england, including wales, denmark, australia, new zealand, usa and canada and so the results from this study may be generalisable to these countries. we do not know to what extent our findings are generalisable to other weight management or community interventions. assessment of the reach of interventions (of any kind) when implemented at scale is likely to be based on service or routine data, and such data are likely to have higher levels of missingness than research data. we hope that the publication of these findings will stimulate further exploration of such data to determine what happens when research is put into practice in community settings.

what is already known on this subject
differential referral to, participation in and completion of interventions have the potential to generate, maintain, decrease or widen inequalities in health.

childhood overweight and obesity are already socially patterned so the potential for interventions to widen inequalities is of particular concern.

the sociodemographic characteristics of participants in weight management randomised controlled trials may not reflect those of the population who would be eligible for the intervention if it was implemented at scale.

 what this study adds
compared to those eligible for the intervention, proportionally more girls, children who lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances and asian children started and completed mind, exercise, nutrition do it! (mend).

in contrast, having started a mend programme, children were relatively less likely to complete it if they lived in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances and were boys. there were no differences in completion by ethnic group.

participation in mend, when it was implemented at scale across england, had the potential to make a contribution to tackling health inequalities. however, this potential was diminished to some extent because, having started a programme, completion was relatively less likely for participants living in less favourable socioeconomic circumstances.

<|EndOfText|>

commentary: methods for calculating growth trajectories and constructing growth centiles

abstract
this commentary rounds off a collection of papers focusing on statistical methods for analysing growth data. in two papers, anderson and colleagues discuss growth trajectory models in early life, using data on height and weight from the hbgdki initiative, while two papers from ohuma and altman review methods for centile construction, with data from the intergrowth‐21st project used to provide worked examples of centiles for birthweight and fetal head circumference. anderson et al focus on four growth trajectory models: quadratic laird‐ware, sitar, brokenstick, and face, where the latter two fit better than the former two applied to length data in individuals. on this basis, they recommend brokenstick and face for future work. however, they do not discuss the timescale on which the growth models assess growth faltering nor the relevance of this timescale to later health outcome. models that best detect short‐term fluctuations in growth (brokenstick and face) may not necessarily be best at predicting later outcome. it is premature to exclude the quadratic laird‐ware or sitar models, which give a parsimonious summary of growth in individuals over a longer timescale. ohuma and altman highlight the poor quality of reporting in fetal centile studies, and they provide recommendations for good practice. their birthweight centiles example illustrates both the power of the gamlss software and its capacity for misuse. the longitudinal fetal head circumference centiles are biased such that 5% of infants are below the 3rd centile and 5% above the 97th.

1 anderson, hafen, sofrygin, ryan, and hbgdki community
the two papers from dr anderson and colleagues are among the first published outputs from the healthy birth growth and development knowledge integration (hbgdki) initiative, a major project funded by the gates foundation.1 its aim is to reduce the global burden associated with poor nutritional status and impaired cognitive development in young children, by assembling data on growth and development from nutrition studies worldwide and by meta‐analysing the individual data.

the aim of the first paper is to describe and compare modern methods for analysing longitudinal growth trajectories of length/height and weight, with a view to making recommendations for future practice. the scale of the initiative is impressive—the project has so far collected data on over 100 studies, and the first paper here focuses on 21 studies involving over 120 000 children and almost 800 000 measurement occasions. (in parenthesis, one difficulty with the project lies in its name—the acronym hbgdki is unmemorable and easily confused with the deceptively similar hbdgki, which also appears several times in their paper.)

1.1 growth trajectory models
six growth trajectory models are considered: linear and quadratic versions of laird‐ware,2 my own sitar,3 brokenstick,4 multilevel spline,5 and functional pca or face.6 all the analysis is done in r, with the code available in the hbgd package,7 a very powerful software resource. to explore the findings in greater depth, it is useful to understand in broad terms how the growth models differ. they are all mixed models, with random subject effects, and as the authors say “there exists an overall mean curve for a particular population, and the differences between children can be explained as deviations from this mean curve.” the models differ in terms of the smoothness of the mean curve and also the smoothness of individual deviations (departures) from the mean curve. smoothness here is quantified in terms of degrees of freedom or d.f., reflecting the order of a polynomial or the number of knots in a spline curve.

the d.f. for the laird‐ware models are two (linear) and three (quadratic) for the mean curve and, similarly, two and three for each subject's deviations. the d.f. for the sitar mean spline curve are user‐selected, though the authors do not state what they used. then, each subject has three d.f. to summarise departures from the mean curve, reflecting transformations of the mean curve corresponding to shifts on the measurement and age axes, plus a scaling of the age axis. thus, in this sense, sitar and quadratic laird‐ware are similar, each having three d.f. for deviations and around three d.f. for the mean curve (depending on the exact choice for sitar).

the remaining three models all involve specifying a number of knots for spline curves (the brokenstick is a linear spline model, while face fits cubic splines), and in this analysis, the software defaults were used, though again, we are not told what the defaults were nor how they were determined. among other things, the required number of d.f. will depend on the size and age range of the data, which extended from birth to 6954 days or 19 years in the most longstanding studies (table 1). a height trajectory from birth to 19 years is complex in shape and requires at least eight d.f. to fit adequately, but only two studies lasted this long and the median upper age across studies was 3 years; for such early life studies, the curve shape is much simpler, requiring only three or four d.f.

1.2 comparing model trajectories
the models are first applied to the content dataset (children aged 0 to 2 years from a low income country), and the results are summarised in figures 1 and 2, showing the data and fitted curves for 11 distinct growth models as applied to “a single randomly selected child” (quotation marks mine—see later). figure 1 contains results for the six models applied to height, while figure 2 has the equivalent results for five models with height z‐score (haz), where sitar is omitted as it lacks biological sense on the z‐score scale.

the differences between models in figure 1 are quite subtle, with the exception of linear laird‐ware where the fitted curve is a straight line. quadratic laird‐ware is very similar to sitar, and both fit reasonably well; this implies that both are using three d.f. for the mean curve and three for subject deviations. however, the authors feel that the laird‐ware models “are not flexible enough to model a sensible growth curve,” while sitar and the other three models “do a reasonable job.”

the brokenstick and face curves are appreciably less smooth than the other four, reflecting more d.f. to play with. each curve represents the sum of the model mean curve and the subject deviations, so the extra d.f. may be allocated to either or both. figure 1 does not give the mean curves, so it is not possible to tell how smooth they are.

figure 2 shows the analogous results on the haz scale. the multiple correlation is much smaller than in figure 1, and the plots considerably noisier, because the age trend in height has largely been removed by the z‐score transformation. when applied to the who reference sample, the mean z‐score curve is given by haz(t) = 0 in an obvious notation, a horizontal straight line through the origin, so the mean curve is the simplest possible. in practice, the study mean curves will not be so simple, but haz in lme countries is known to fall during the first year and then plateau, a much simpler pattern than seen in figure 1. thus, the models in figure 2 ought to allocate fewer d.f. to the mean curve than to the subject deviations, though again, there is no information on this. the authors acknowledge (on pages 4 and 9) that fewer d.f. are needed on the z‐score scale, but it is a shame that they do not expand on the statement.

what is curious about figure 2 is the child's trajectory; haz increases monotonically with age, from −1.5 at birth to +1.0 at 2 years, ie dramatic length gain, in stark contrast to the early fall then plateau that one would expect for a low income country. it is hard to believe that the child was randomly selected, though equally, it is puzzling why such an extreme trajectory might have been chosen.

the two laird‐ware models perform poorly in figure 2, ie, they are too smooth (inflexible) to pick up short‐term variation in haz. the other three models are less smooth and broadly similar in terms of flexibility. with the increased detail, it is possible to see that the brokenstick curve consists of five segments, ie four d.f., and the two spline model curves are similar in shape and probably have a similar number of d.f. (though smoothed with cubic rather than linear splines).

1.3 comparing model fit
on the back of this analysis, the authors decide to focus on the penalised spline, brokenstick, and face models. the laird‐ware models are dismissed owing to their poor fit, while sitar is overlooked because its convergence can be a problem with larger datasets, and it does not fit naturally on the z‐score scale. the cross‐validation analysis for the three remaining models is extended to all 21 studies, and the results are shown in tables 2 and 3.

the mean squared errors (mses) vary considerably from study to study, probably reflecting differences in age range. face fails to fit for 8 of the 21 studies, and mses are smaller on the z‐score scale than the height scale, where brokenstick and face perform best. figures 3 and 4 confirm that brokenstick fits better on the z‐score scale, though the figures would work better with the mse axes on log scales.

the better fit on the z‐score scale is probably due to the extra d.f. available for subject deviations, given that the mean curve is simpler and the models all use the default d.f. tables 4 to 6 explore this by varying the number of knots in the three models applied to dataset e (presumably content, and presumably on the z‐score scale). what they demonstrate, at least for brokenstick and face, is a simple truth—using more d.f. for subject deviations improves the fit.

however, it is striking that unlike brokenstick and penalised spline, face performs very similarly on the height and z‐score scales. this is surprising, and it challenges the authors' recommendation to always work on the z‐score scale.

given the massive amount of work involved in assembling tables 2 and 3, it would be interesting to explore them in more detail by predicting the mse in terms of study‐specific factors such as the numbers of children and observations, distribution of time gaps, age range, etc. this would, for example, evidence the authors' statement that brokenstick performs better with fewer observations per child.

1.4 growth faltering, time interval, and smoothing
overall, the authors conclude that brokenstick and face are useful and work best on the z‐score scale. but, this leads to the bigger question: how should the results of the analyses be exploited?

the aim of characterising growth trajectories is to relate growth faltering to later outcome. the authors suggest three examples of relevant growth indicators based on the trajectories: “mean growth over a particular time period, number of days in a particular growth state, or indicators relating to growth derivative.” they all involve specifying a time period, which can be short or long. for example, they particularly mention the mean derivative, ie, the increment, over the first year.

this dependence on the time scale is fundamental to growth assessment, and it relates directly to the smoothness of the growth trajectories. for example, the brokenstick curve in figure 2 has five segments spread over 700 days, each segment corresponding on average to 140 days or 4.6 months. this is the timescale on which growth faltering will be detected: on a shorter timescale, faltering is smoothed out, while on a longer timescale, the noise obscures the growth signal. this means that the brokenstick model is tuned to growth assessment over this period of  ∼5 months. conversely, the quadratic laird‐ware or sitar curves are smooth across the whole age range and hence apply on that timescale, which could be 2 years or longer.

the example given of growth increment over the first year is instructive. face and brokenstick are tuned to shorter timescales than this, so they may not predict first year increment any better than quadratic laird‐ware or sitar. if the analysis were to be repeated using just the first year data, then quadratic laird‐ware or sitar would provide exactly the required individual growth summary—an intercept corresponding to their length, and a slope corresponding to their length increment. in addition, sitar is unique in providing an estimate of the individual's age at peak length velocity, which occurs in the first month or two after birth and which is a useful summary statistic of early growth intensity that the other models lack.

1.5 conclusion
in summary, i am impressed by the colossal amount of work that has been put into the project. the recommendations to use brokenstick or face on the z‐score scale are reasonable and well evidenced, demonstrating that the two models quantify growth faltering on a timescale of a few months. against that i am slightly disappointed that the results are not more extensive, given the vast amount of data available.

but the key issue, which the paper does not address, is whether such a timescale is optimal for predicting later adverse outcome. it is assumed that, since brokenstick and face explain the most variability, then the timescale on which they operate must be optimal for prediction. but this does not follow at all; short‐term haz variability may be less relevant than long‐term variability for predicting later health outcome. it is important that the models be compared, not only on their ability to predict early growth but also on their ability to predict later outcome. such a comparison will need to include quadratic laird‐ware and sitar, as they provide parsimonious and unambiguous summaries of early growth in individuals that the more complex brokenstick and face do not and cannot provide.

2 anderson, xiao, checkley, and hbgdki community
the second of the two anderson papers aims to simplify the comparison of measures of weight or height at two ages in the same individual. the rate of change in size over time represents growth velocity, and the child's expected velocity depends on their two ages of measurement. to quantify the expected velocity requires a growth velocity reference, analogous to the fetal size references of ohuma and altman (see later). however, velocity references are complex to construct because each velocity measurement involves two ages not one, and hence two measurement errors, which interact with the time interval between measurements in a complex way.

an alternative approach, which avoids the need for a velocity reference, is to switch from the measurement scale (ie, kg or cm) to the z‐score scale. the z‐score (or standard deviation score) is the measurement transformed to a normal equivalent deviate, so that when applied to the reference population, it has mean 0 and sd 1 irrespective of age or sex. anderson et al use the world health organization growth standard as reference.8

the properties of z‐scores make it much easier to compare two measurements in an individual9 and lead to equation (3) of anderson et al that measures growth velocity conditional on the first of the two measurements, or conditional velocity for short. the equation involves the two z‐scores and the correlation between them, ie, the correlation of measurements obtained at the two measurement ages. in general, this correlation is not known, and the aim of the paper is to provide a meta‐analytic estimate of the correlation for a two‐way grid of measurement ages. in this way, it becomes possible to calculate conditional velocity for any pair of z‐scores simply by looking up the correlation for the two measurement ages.

there is, however, a tension between individual ages and age groups. the age scale needs to be discretised to provide groups of measurements, which can then be used to calculate the correlations across age groups. but, these correlations then relate to the age group, not a specific age. anderson et al address this by analysing the data in weekly age groups (n = 940, ie, from birth to 18 years), which provides useful granularity close to birth but considerable redundancy at older ages. note that 940 cells2 for the correlation matrix is a large number, and many of the cells will have few or no data. so, it would have been interesting to explore reducing the number of age groups by letting them vary in width, while preserving the detail of the correlation structure. an even neater approach would be to develop a way to calculate the correlations based on individual ages rather than age groups.

to combine the correlation matrices across studies, the authors consider two alternative approaches, ie, univariate and multivariate. the univariate approach combines studies by applying a meta‐analysis to study correlations for each cell of the correlation matrix and then smooths the resulting matrix, while the multivariate approach smooths each study's correlation matrix as a surface and then combines the surfaces. in practice, the univariate approach turns out to be easier. the meta‐analysis works with fisher‐transformed correlations, and it estimates study‐specific random effects assuming that all the cells of each study's correlation matrix are larger or smaller than the mean by the same amount. in practice, this may be unrealistic because studies will have different measurement error structures at different ages, with some studies having noisier measurements (and hence lower correlations) in infancy due to say an adverse environment; but, the same may not apply at later ages where growth patterns are less susceptible to environmental pressures. to what extent taking this into account might affect the correlation matrix is unclear.

the heat maps showing the age‐varying correlation structure are impressive. in general, they show that correlations for measurements close in age are high, but that the correlations fall as the time gap increases. also, the rate at which the correlation falls with increasing time gap is greater in infancy than later in childhood. what the heat maps do not show is the value of the correlation near the diagonal at different ages; this is of interest as its difference from unity reflects the measurement error at that age (or nugget). the smoothed heat maps in figures 4 and 5 show several circular patches of dark red along the diagonal, indicating peaks in the correlation, and it would be interesting to know if they reflect biological landmarks.

one practical problem with the heat maps is that they are not transferable. researchers wanting to use them to calculate growth velocity do not have access to them, so that making the information available online will be important.

3 ohuma and altman 1
the two papers by dr ohuma and professor altman describe the statistical methodology behind the fetal and neonatal growth references produced by the intergrowth‐21st project, funded (like the hbgdki) by the gates foundation. similarly to anderson and colleagues, they focus primarily on growth in early life, but unlike anderson et al, who assess individual postnatal growth, they quantify the distribution of normal fetal and neonatal size and growth by gestation.

their first paper reviews design considerations for such references, in terms of data collection, handling, and analysis, while the second describes the statistical analysis for two of the references presented as worked examples. i refer to the papers as oa1 and oa2, respectively.

the design review in oa1 is comprehensive and highlights deficiencies in current practice and includes recommendations for improvement. to quote the abstract, “important design features such as inclusion and exclusion criteria, ultrasound quality control measures, sample size determination, anthropometric evaluation, gestational age (ga) estimation, assessment of outliers, and chart presentation are seldom well addressed, considered or reported.” those familiar with altman's work will recognise the tone, reflecting his longstanding concern with poor reporting practice. below, i respond to some of the points raised, grouped using section headings taken from their review.

the key feature of the intergrowth‐21st project is that it provides prescriptive rather than descriptive growth references, based on reference samples of fetuses and infants from eight countries selected to be “healthy.” this matches the design of the world health organization growth standard,8 which was based on infants and young children from six countries born at term and selected for health. however, the concept of “health” is harder to apply to infants born preterm than to those born at term, since being born preterm is clearly not healthy. intergrowth‐21st draws a distinction between healthy and unhealthy preterm infants by applying carefully chosen selection criteria.

3.1 cross‐sectional, longitudinal, or mixed study designs
study design for growth references relates to the nature of the data, cross‐sectional or longitudinal, ie, whether individuals are measured once or repeatedly. the former leads to charts of size, ie conventional growth centile charts, while the latter assesses growth velocity. ohuma and altman point out that, in practice, longitudinal data are often used to construct size charts, by ignoring the repeated measures in the data. this is effective though inefficient, as the centiles are, in general, unbiased but less precise; repeat measures are unbiased so long as they are independent of the way they are collected.10

linked to this, the authors also draw a clear distinction between size charts and growth charts, the phrase “size and growth” appearing several times in the paper. however, they do not make clear that growth charts monitor change in size over time in the form of growth velocity charts, which are quite different in appearance from size charts. they discuss growth velocity charts hardly at all.

3.2 multiple centres
an important design issue that arises for a multicentre study such as intergrowth‐21st is whether or not the data from particular centres can validly be included. intergrowth‐21st used data from multiple countries to obtain an international growth standard, though the countries inevitably differed in detail from each other. the advantage of a prescriptive international standard is that growth statistics based on the standard can be compared directly across countries, whereas with locally representative descriptive growth references such comparisons cannot be made. conversely, local descriptive references can—so long as they are up‐to‐date—provide unbiased assessments of centile position in individual children, because the centiles are representative of the target population, and an international prescriptive reference cannot do this. thus, there are pros and cons with both approaches.

3.3 quality control
the paper's focus on fetal and neonatal charts makes the assessment of gestational age particularly important. ohuma and altman describe how best to estimate gestational age, using the last menstrual period combined with the ultrasound dating scan. they emphasise the need for quality control, checking for variability both between and within ultrasonographers, in the same way as for anthropometry in postnatal growth studies. to control for variability, the intergrowth‐21st study scans were all carried out in triplicate, which could then be averaged or modelled in the fitting process.

incidentally, another way to summarise the triplicate measurements would have been with the median rather than the mean, as it is more robust if the error distribution has heavier tails than normal.11 the median also corresponds directly to one of the triplicate measurements, and it needs no calculation.

later, oa1 discusses the issue of single versus repeated measurements in terms of variability. using the mean or median of replicate measurements reduces measurement error, but it can also introduce bias. the issue is how the centiles are used in clinical practice—if single rather than repeated measurements are routinely used, then the data will be noisier than the centiles reflect.

linked to quality control is the question of data management—the identification and handling of data outliers. oa1 mentions outliers in passing, but without any discussion about data cleaning. this is the important first stage in the statistical analysis process, and it needs to be formalised in the protocol.

3.4 sample size
the topic of sample size for growth studies is surprisingly complicated, for both size and growth charts, as the authors note. i discussed the topic at length in 2006 and it appears to have hardly advanced since then.12 if the sample size calculation is based on the precision of the extreme chart centiles, as is logical, it is not obvious how precise they need to be nor how the precision should depend on gestational age or the degree of smoothing. a particular difficulty with neonatal size references is their dependence on gestational age, such that the vast majority of infants are born at term (37 to 42 weeks), while the numbers born preterm become progressively smaller with increasing prematurity. sample size considerations for growth velocity charts are further complicated by the need to incorporate the correlation between successive measurements.

the intergrowth‐21st birthweight reference was based on 20 302 neonates,13 but 19 280 of them were born at term (oa2, table 1). preterm births were poorly represented, particularly at the earliest gestations, and there were just 113 and 51 infants, respectively, at 34 and 33 weeks gestation (33 weeks being the study's start gestation). these numbers are clearly very small to model centiles adequately, particularly when split by sex. the lack of data for extremely preterm neonates born before 33 weeks gestation is another weakness, since birthweight assessment in the extremely preterm is particularly important for management.

this fact was belatedly acknowledged by the later publication of intergrowth‐21st centiles for very preterm neonates,14 based on 408 infants from 24 to 32 weeks gestation, although they included the health warning that “centiles below 28 weeks should be interpreted with caution given the small sample size.”15

for comparison, the england and wales birthweight centiles from 24 to 42 weeks gestation recently published by norris et al16 in were based on 1.2 million births, of which 4954 were born before 32 weeks. with numbers like these, one has confidence in the accuracy and precision of the extreme centiles at the earliest gestations, which, to be honest, one does not with the intergrowth‐21st centiles.

3.5 routinely collected versus research data
the key difference between the norris paper and intergrowth‐21st is the use of routinely collected rather than research data. oa1 discusses the pros and cons of using routine data and concludes that, with certain caveats, they can be a valuable resource. they also note that routinely collected birthweight data are generally accurate, which raises the question as to why intergrowth‐21st did not make use of them to increase their sample size.

3.6 statistical methodology
ohuma and altman's (oa1) main requirements for the statistical construction of growth centiles are that they should change smoothly with gestation, provide a good fit to the data, rely on the simplest statistical model necessary, and allow calculation of z‐scores. the chosen model should test for goodness of fit, including the normality assumption, and estimate both mean and standard deviation (sd) as functions of gestation. in addition, they expect to see reported a raw data summary and the fitted centiles by gestation, a graphical comparison of fitted centiles superimposed on the raw data, and regression equations for the mean and sd.

4 ohuma and altman 2
the second paper by ohuma and altman provides two worked examples of centile construction, chosen to illustrate the different methodologies for cross‐sectional and longitudinal data. the first covers birthweight and the second fetal head circumference.

4.1 birthweight centiles
when constructing birthweight centiles, the first stage of the analysis is to choose the regression model. the aim is to estimate the gestation‐varying distribution of birthweight in terms of smooth gestation‐specific curves for the distribution moments: the mean, sd, and possibly skewness and kurtosis. then, if the moment curves are smooth, the centiles curves based on them will be smooth too.

ohuma and altman (oa2) consider fractional polynomials, first described by royston and altman;17 the lms method of cole and green;18 and two extensions of lms, the lmsp19 and lmst20 methods of rigby and stasinopoulos. all these models are members of the gamlss family (generalised additive models for location, scale, and shape),21 which can be fitted using gamlss software.22

gamlss specifies each model in terms of its frequency distribution and the smoothing technique used. commonly used distributions (there are over 70 to choose from!) include the normal (no), box‐cox cole‐green (bccg, as used by the lms method), and the lms extensions box‐cox power exponential (bcpe) and box‐cox t (bct) as used by lmsp and lmst. the models differ in terms both of how many distribution moments they have (respectively 2, 3, 4, and 4 above) and of the simpler distribution they are based on (respectively normal, normal, power exponential, and t). so, lms, lmsp, and lmst all model skewness, and in addition, lmsp and lmst model kurtosis. oa2 also use three other distributions, power exponential (pe), skew power exponential type 3 (sep3), and skew t type 3 (st3), where pe models kurtosis while sep3 and st3 model skewness and kurtosis.

like the distribution family, the specification of the smoothing technique in gamlss is enormously flexible. common choices are a polynomial (eg linear or quadratic), or a fractional polynomial, or one of the many forms of spline curve. the basic oa2 fractional polynomial model is actually a fractional polynomial with a normal distribution, while the lms method as originally described was a cubic smoothing spline with a bccg distribution. similarly, lmsp and lmst are typically fitted using cubic splines. figure 2 of oa2 illustrates the gamlss taxonomy, though it mixes up fractional polynomials—a smoothing technique—with lms models that represent distinct distributions.

after this preamble, we now look at the birthweight centiles analysis in table 2 of oa2. there are 10 models for each sex, which can be most simply compared via the aic and bic. both criteria fall with rising model complexity, and the values for lms, lmst, and lmsp are all smaller than for the corresponding fractional polynomial models in both sexes (the bic of 62 for sep3 in girls should presumably be 162). this indicates that cubic splines are better than fractional polynomials for fitting the moment curves.

the best fractional polynomial fits are with the st3 distribution, and ohuma and altman select this as their “best buy”, on the basis of centile appearance and linearity of the worm plots and q‐q plots (note that worm and q‐q plots are identical apart from a 45° rotation). this is surprising, given that the fractional polynomials fit worse by aic and bic, and it is a pity that the authors provide no evidence to support the statement that the fit is better in terms of centiles and residuals.

figure 3 compares three predicted centiles (3rd 50th 97th?) from four models ( for boys?)—fractional polynomials with no, bccg, and st3, and cubic splines with bccg. it is striking that the centiles for the four models agree closely for 36 to 41 weeks gestation, and the material differences between them are restricted to 33 and 34 weeks, where the data are sparse. the fact that elsewhere the model centiles match well indicates that the differences between the models are nothing to do with the distribution, and all to do with the curve shape—ie, the smoothing technique—at the extremes.

but, there is a further wrinkle. ohuma and altman state repeatedly that the chosen model should be as simple as possible, and figure 3 shows there is little to choose between four of them. six of the 10 models in table 2 adjust for kurtosis, yet there is no sign in figure 3 that the kurtosis adjustment makes any difference—the no (mean and sd) and st3 (mean, sd, skewness, and kurtosis) centiles are almost identical.

kurtosis reflects heavy or light tails to the distribution, as shown by the s‐shape in the worm plots of figures 4 and 5. for the normal distribution (figure 4), the worm is near linear between −2 and +1.5, whereas for the st3 distribution (figure 5a), the linearity extends from −3 to +3, clearly far better. so, if kurtosis is so much better with st3, why does not it show in figure 3? the reason is that the centiles there are not extreme enough to show it; ±3 corresponds to the 0.1th and 99.9th centiles, so centiles that are less extreme than these are unaffected by kurtosis. the outer centiles on the intergrowth‐21st charts are the 3rd and 97th, which are far less extreme than the 0.1th and 99.9th; for this reason, there is no point in modelling kurtosis—a simpler model with mean, sd, and skewness would perform just as well.

this example highlights the care needed to model with gamlss. the plethora of available models and smoothing techniques can seduce the analyst into trying them all and selecting the best. but, as we have seen, the six kurtosis models could have been ruled out at an early stage, since the kurtosis adjustment was never going to affect the centiles.

another general modelling principle would be to exploit the data structure by “borrowing strength”. the two sexes are modelled separately here, yet it is known that their distributions are very similar, with girls slightly lighter than boys on average at all gestations. thus, fitting a model with the sexes combined and including a sex effect would simplify the model to advantage, particularly at the early gestations with few data. this was the approach used to model birthweight in very preterm uk infants,23 fitting the lms method with a log link for μ, where the mean sex difference in birthweight was 6.6%.

4.2 fetal head circumference centiles
fetal head circumference in intergrowth‐21st was measured longitudinally during pregnancy,24 with a mode of 5 measurements per subject (range 1 to 6) (oa2 table 3). thus, the data structure of measurements at level 1 and subjects at level 2 implies a hierarchical (multilevel) model. in addition, each measurement was made in triplicate (actually, three separate images were each read three times24), which can be viewed as an extra level 0. ohuma and altman fit four alternative hierarchical models reflecting this structure, as summarised in oa2 table 4.

they assume a normal distribution for all and model the mean and sd with fractional polynomials. based on the deviance, there is evidence of heterogeneity between subjects in the intercept and slope, but the most interesting columns in the table are the percentages of observations outside the 3rd and 97th centiles. nominally these should be 3%, and the values for the simple random intercept model are close to 3%, but with increasing model complexity, this tail area increases, reaching 5% with the three‐level model.

somewhat surprisingly, this latter model is the one chosen as optimal. it is a surprising choice because the model is severely biased in the tails, with 5% of observations below the 3rd centile and 5% above the 97th centile. neonatalogists expect to see 3% not 5% of infants in the tails and are likely to be both surprised and confused to know there are 67% more than expected.

what if anything could have been done to avoid this bias? the seminal paper by royston25 showed how to model longitudinal fetal data to produce unbiased centiles, and his method could be applied here. it involved transforming both the measurement scale and the gestational age scale so as to make the mean curve linear, which could then be modelled with random intercepts and optionally random slopes. in this case, the variance is a function of the level‐1 and level‐2 variances. because the mean curve is linear the subject random effects do not introduce bias in the centiles.

5 conclusion
the statistical analysis of the intergrowth‐21st reflects a major undertaking by the authors. however, i feel that the outcome could have been better with a more nuanced approach to the analysis and with a greater awareness of how the resulting charts are used in clinical practice.

<|EndOfText|>

using super-imposition by translation and
rotation (sitar) to relate pubertal growth to
bone health in later life: the medical research
council (mrc) national survey of health and
development
abstract
background: to explore associations between pubertal growth and later bone health in a
cohort with infrequent measurements, using another cohort with more frequent measurements to support the modelling, data from the medical research council (mrc)
national survey of health and development (2–26 years, 4901/30 004 subjects/measurements) and the avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac) (5–20 years)
(10 896/74 120) were related to national survey of health and development (nshd) bone
health outcomes at 60–64 years.
methods: nshd data were analysed using super-imposition by translation and
rotation (sitar) growth curve analysis, either alone or jointly with alspac data.
improved estimation of pubertal growth parameters of size, tempo and velocity was assessed by changes in model fit and correlations with contemporary measures of pubertal
timing. bone outcomes of radius [trabecular volumetric bone mineral density (vbmd)
and diaphysis cross-sectional area (csa)] were regressed on the sitar parameters, adjusted for current body size.
results: the nshd sitar parameters were better estimated in conjunction with
alspac, i.e. more strongly correlated with pubertal timing. trabecular vbmd was associated with early height tempo, whereas diaphysis csa was related to weight size, early
vc the author 2016.
tempo and slow velocity, the bone outcomes being around 15% higher for the better vs
worse growth pattern.
conclusions: by pooling nshd and alspac data, sitar more accurately summarized
pubertal growth and weight gain in nshd, and in turn demonstrated notable associations between pubertal timing and later bone outcomes. these associations give insight
into the importance of the pubertal period for future skeletal health and osteoporosis
risk.
puberty is a time of dramatic change in body size and composition, driven by a complex hormonal cascade that results in rapid weight gain and height gain, the timing of
which varies widely between individuals.1 studies using
questionnaire-derived data on recalled age at menarche, a
discrete event during late puberty in girls, indicate that the
timing of puberty is influenced by both genetic2 and nongenetic factors, and that it has important relevance to later
health outcomes.3 however, the regulation of pubertal
changes in weight and height, and in particular the relevance of these growth traits to later outcomes, is difficult
to study, for two reasons: the need for serial growth measurements over much of the second decade of life, and the
need for a suitable methodology to model and summarize
the pattern of pubertal growth to relate it to later outcome.
an example of this arises in our recent report on the associations between childhood growth and bone outcomes
at 60–64 years4 in the medical research council (mrc)
national survey of health and development (nshd), a
birth cohort born in one week in march 1946 and followed
up over the subsequent 70 years.5,6 we found that greater
height and weight growth during ‘pre-puberty’ and ‘postpuberty’ were positively associated with bone size, a
predictor of fracture risk, at 60–64 years. yet, given that
30–40% of skeletal mineral is accrued within two years of
peak height velocity, it was surprising not to find stronger
associations with growth during ‘puberty’. whereas
nshd has more frequent growth measurements than
many subsequent studies, the analysis was limited by the
infrequent time-points around puberty (with just three
sweeps at the ages of 11, 15 and 20 years) which were too
sparse to easily test for associations with pubertal growth.
furthermore, the shape of the pubertal growth curve is
complex, and summarizing it in a way that is suitable to relate to potential determinants or later outcomes is not
straightforward.
in a life-course context, most studies have treated adolescent height and weight as exposures, either as single measurements (i.e. size) or as change over time (i.e. velocity), and
few have considered the maturational clock (i.e. tempo, the
timing of puberty) as an exposure, which may be confounded with size and velocity. recently, the superimposition by translation and rotation (sitar) growth
curve model has been shown to efficiently summarize pubertal growth based on these three parameters: size, velocity
and tempo.7–9 like most growth curve models, sitar
works best with frequent serial data, and this limits its use
in cohort studies that have only sparse anthropometry. the
purpose of this paper is to apply sitar to nshd growth
data, and to explore whether the sparse nature of the data
can be compensated for by augmenting them with data
from another cohort of comparable size but with more frequent measurements—the avon longitudinal study of
parents and children (alspac) cohort.10 to test whether
the sitar parameters, particularly tempo, were biologically
meaningful, we related them to contemporaneously
collected measures of pubertal timing in nshd.
a companion paper relates the timing of puberty (reported menarche for girls and clinically assessed pubertal
key messages
• super-imposition by translation and rotation (sitar) growth curve analysis is effective at summarizing pubertal
growth.
• for cohorts with infrequent measurements, modelling jointly with a second cohort can improve the fit.
• bone health at age 60–64 years is strongly associated with greater size, earlier timing and slower growth in puberty.
stage for boys) to later bone outcomes in nshd and, in
the same sample, compares these associations with the association with height tempo derived from our sitar
model.11 the current paper documents the process for augmenting nshd with alspac data in the sitar analysis,
and then tests the hypotheses that (i) this augmented model
improves the correlations with reported pubertal status in
nshd and (ii) that the sitar effects of size, velocity and
tempo in nshd in the full sample are associated with key
bone health outcomes measured some 50 years later.11
methods
nshd
the nshd is a socially stratified birth cohort of 2547 men
and 2815 women of white european descent born during
one week in march 1946 and followed with repeated data
collections since then.5 heights and weights were measured
using standard protocols at ages 2, 4, 6, 7, 11 and 15 years,
and self-reported at ages 20 and 26 years.
pubertal timing was recorded at age 14–15 years.
mothers were asked their daughter’s age at menarche (in
months) and, where it had not yet occurred, it was imputed
(n ¼ 94) from reports of the subjects themselves who at 48
years were asked to recall their age at menarche.12 the
school doctor assessed boys for genital development, voice
breaking, pubic hair and axillary hair, leading to the fourpoint maturity scale prepubertal (1), early (2), advanced
(3) and mature (4). for this analysis, the scale was reversed, so that a lower score corresponds to earlier puberty
in both sexes.
at age 60–64 years, 1355 study members (658 men and
697 women) had a peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pqct) scan of the radius.4 among others, the
following two bone outcome measures were derived: trabecular volumetric bone mineral density (vbmd, mg/cm3
)
at the distal 4% site, and diaphysis cross-sectional area
(csa, mm2
) at the 50% site.
the study received multi-centre research ethics
committee approval, and informed consent was given by
cohort participants.
alspac
the alspac is a study of children born to 15 247 pregnant women living in bristol with an expected delivery
date between april 1991 and december 1992.10 detailed
information has been collected using self-administered
questionnaires, data extraction from medical notes, and
linkage to routine information systems and at research
clinics.
childhood weight and height were measured annually
up to age 13 years, then at ages 15 and 17 years at dedicated alspac focus clinics by a trained research team.
parent-reported heights and weights were also included.
height was measured to the nearest 0.1 cm and weight to
the nearest 0.1 kg. for the present analysis, data were restricted to the age range 5–20 years.
ethical approval for the study was obtained from the
alspac law and ethics committee and local research
ethics committees.
data management
the data were examined for obvious outliers, and were
further cleaned after preliminary fitting of the sitar models by excluding points with standardized residuals exceeding 3 in absolute value.
data analysis
the analysis was performed in two stages. first, the height
and weight data were analysed using sitar growth curve
analysis.7 this is a shape-invariant growth model such that
all individuals are assumed to have the same underlying
shape of growth curve, subject to three simple transformations. this mean curve is estimated along with three
subject-specific parameters termed size, tempo and velocity
that transform the mean curve to fit individual growth
curves. the size parameter for each child shifts the fitted
curve up/down, reflecting differences in size; the tempo
parameter shifts it left/right, reflecting differences in puberty timing; and the velocity parameter stretches/shrinks
the underlying age scale to make the curve shallower/
steeper, reflecting differences in growth rate. the model
fits the mean growth curve as a fixed effect natural cubic
regression b-spline with specified degrees of freedom, and
the parameters size, tempo and velocity are estimated as
fixed effects and subject-specific random effects. the
model was fitted with the nlme package13 and the first author’s sitar package in the statistical language r.14 the
sitar formula is
yit ¼ a0 þ ai þ h t  b0  bi
ec0ci
  þ eit; (1)
where yit is the measurement for subject i at age t; ai, bi
and ci are, respectively, size, tempo and velocity random
effects (along with corresponding fixed effects a0, b0 and
c0); h(.) is a cubic regression spline curve; and eit are independent normally distributed errors.
each model was fitted to the sexes separately. initially,
the models were fitted to the nshd data alone (age 2–26
years), and then again with the alspac data added (age
5–20 years). for the combined analyses, fixed effects were
included in the model to distinguish between the two cohorts, allowing the cohort differences in mean size, tempo
and velocity to be formally tested, leading to the extended
formula
yit ¼ a0 þ aalspac þ ai þ h t  b0  balspac  bi
ec0calspacci

þ eitnshd þ eitalspac; (2)
where the cohort fixed effects have subscript alspac.
this assumes that the mean curves for nshd and
alspac are the same after adjusting for the cohort fixed
effects.
in addition, different residual variances were estimated
for nshd and alspac, so that the reported residual variance refers to nshd explicitly, whether or not alspac
data were in the model. the models were found to fit better after log-transforming age, and the resulting coefficients can be multiplied by 100 and viewed as percentage
differences.15 similarly, the standard deviations (sds) of
the tempo random effects are effectively coefficients of
variation; the tempo random effects and sds are here converted to units of years by multiplying by the geometric
mean age.
the output from each sitar analysis consisted of a set
of subject-specific random effects for size, tempo and velocity, plus the corresponding fixed effects and (for the joint
models) the cohort differences, along with fixed effects for
the mean curve coefficients.
the second stage of the analysis involved just the
nshd subjects, with sitar random effects from the joint
models. their two bone outcomes were each regressed in
turn on the six sitar random effects (three for height and
three for weight), including sex as a main effect (this is
termed model 1). the outcomes were in addition adjusted
for body size: height and weight at 60–64 years (model 2).
models involving subsets of the six sitar parameters
were also fitted where the full results justified it, and sex
interactions and quadratic terms were explored, though no
clinically important effects were found. for all analyses,
the bone outcomes and weight and height at age 60–64
years were log-transformed prior to analysis for allometric
scaling purposes.
it is important to assess the potential impact of pubertal
growth on outcome, analogous to attributable risk. in the
simplest case, a model with a single sitar parameter, this
impact can be obtained directly by multiplying the regression coefficient by four times the parameter sd. this corresponds to the difference in outcome predicted for
individuals with extreme growth patterns 62 sds from the
mean for that parameter (i.e. comparing the third and
ninety-seventh centiles). as the outcomes are logged, this
difference can be multiplied by 100 and viewed as the percentage difference in outcome attributable to the contrast
between the two growth patterns.15
however, it is less obvious how to measure impact
when the model contains more than one sitar parameter,
as the parameters will be correlated, some of them highly,
and the individual coefficients cannot be interpreted in isolation. to assess the impact of multiple sitar parameters,
the following method was used: the linear predictor corresponding to the sitar parameters was derived as the sum
of the parameters after multiplying each by its regression
coefficient. this linear predictor shows how the predicted
outcome varies across the spectrum of growth as represented by the combined sitar parameters, adjusted for
other covariates in the model, and the corresponding impact is summarized as four times the sd of the linear predictor. this is a multivariate extension of the simple case,
and is the appropriate way to express the impact of the
sitar parameters as a single summary statistic.
results
sitar pubertal growth parameters in nshd
cleaning the nshd height and weight data for outliers
excluded 331 (1.1%) of 30 335 measurement occasions
from age 2 to 26 years. the remaining 30 004 measurements, for 2574 boys (15 652 measurements) and 2327
girls (14 352 measurements), were fitted to sitar models
with 5 degrees of freedom. the analyses were then repeated with the nshd data augmented with alspac data
for 5499 boys and 5397 girls, with respectively 36 560 and
37 560 measurements. the inclusion of alspac allowed
6 degrees of freedom for the mean curves in the two height
models. figures 1 and 2 show the fitted growth curves.
figure 1 compares the nshd mean curves for height
and weight by sex, estimated alone (sole—dashed lines)
and with alspac (joint—solid lines). the joint curves are
generally smoother than the sole curves, with fewer bumps,
and the sole and joint height curves are very similar in
shape, though the joint curve for boys dips slightly after
age 20 years. however, the weight curves differ materially
after age 10 years, with the sole curves steeper before age
15 years and shallower after. this implies a real difference
in the growth pattern between the two cohorts during and
after puberty, even after the sitar adjustment, with
greater weight gain in alspac.
figure 2 shows the height and weight data by sex for
alspac (grey) and nshd (black), illustrating the sparsity
of the nshd data during puberty. note that, in two of the
nshd sweeps, the measurement ages were not recorded,
and ages 2 and 20.5 years were imputed. figure 2 also
shows the mean curves for each cohort separately, as estimated with the joint model, where alspac is above and
to the left in each case (and stops at age 20 years). these
differences make clear that, in the 45 years between 1946
(nshd) and 1991 (alspac), there was a clear secular
trend to greater height, greater weight and earlier puberty.
in particular, weight in both sexes was greater for
alspac at age 19 years than for nshd at age 26 years.
cohort comparisons of sitar parameters
the differences in mean curve shape between alspac and
nshd shown in figure 2 arise from differences in the
underlying sitar size, tempo and velocity parameters,
estimated as fixed effects comparing the two cohorts.
table 1 summarizes these fixed effects, confirming that, in
general, alspac children were on average taller, heavier,
earlier into puberty and faster-growing than nshd children. the apparent exception is for girls’ weight, where the
tempo effect (corresponding to age at peak weight velocity)
was slightly later for alspac.
the velocity effect was dramatic, with growth in
alspac 7% faster for height and no less than 30% faster
for weight. it reflects sitar’s attempt to reconcile materially different curve shapes in the two cohorts. the weight
increase in alspac compared with nshd was relatively
greater during and after puberty than before, and to model
this sitar had to shrink the age scale (i.e. increase velocity) but also postpone puberty in alspac. thus, the
tempo effects probably underestimate the true differences
in puberty timing.
table 2 shows the fit of the nshd models, in terms of
the residual standard deviations (rsds) and the sds of the
sitar parameter random effects, without and with the
figure 1. mean nshd growth curves as estimated by sitar: height (above) and weight (below) in boys (left) and girls (right), estimated alone
(dashed lines) or jointly with alspac (solid lines).
alspac data, sexes pooled (n ¼ 4901). in the joint models, the rsd for height was 1.6 times larger in nshd than
in alspac for both sexes, whereas for weight it was 1.1
times larger. compared with height, the tempo sd for
weight was larger and the velocity sd three to four times
larger in nshd. the results for the sole and joint
models in table 2 are broadly similar, showing that
adding alspac did not have a dramatic effect on fit. it
slightly reduced the rsd for height, but increased it for
weight.
correlating the sitar random effects in the sole models with those in the joint models, all but one of the six correlations exceeded 0.94, so the addition of alspac had
little effect. however, for weight tempo, the correlation
was much lower at 0.68, showing that adding alspac affected weight tempo quite substantially. adding alspac
also increased the correlations between height tempo and
weight tempo, from 0.45 to 0.60 in boys and from 0.24 to
0.56 in girls, implying improved estimates, since the two
are known to be strongly correlated.16
figure 2. raw data (height above, weight below, boys left, girls right) for nshd (black) and alspac (grey), and jointly fitted sitar growth curves for
the two cohorts (alspac ending at age 20 years and nshd at age 26 years).
table 1. mean cohort differences in sitar growth parameters, alspac relative to nshd (coefficient and 95% confidence interval)
height (cm) weight (kg)
male female male female
size (cm, kg) 2.3 (1.9 to 2.6) 3.4 (3 to 3.7) 3.4 (3.1 to 3.7) 4.5 (4.1 to 4.8)
tempo (years) –0.40 (–0.44 to –0.37) –0.12 (–0.16 to –0.08) –0.25 (–0.31 to –0.19) 0.14 (0.08 to 0.20)
velocity (%) 6.8 (6.0 to 7.5) 6.5 (5.8 to 7.3) 28 (26 to 30) 36 (34 to 38)
the random effects for size and velocity in each model
were very strongly correlated with each other (sole models:
0.85 for height, 0.99 for weight; joint models: 0.76 height
and 0.97 weight). these are much larger than found in a
previous sitar analysis, and probably reflect the instability of modelling nshd with sparse data.7 in contrast, the
correlations of tempo with size and velocity were all <0.2
for height, and for weight in the joint model, but for
weight in the sole model they were both much higher at
0.7. so adding alspac enabled the weight-tempo effects
to be separated from weight size and velocity. this latter
contrast probably best explains the differences between the
sole and joint models.
comparison of sitar tempo with puberty timing
table 3 shows the correlations in the nshd boys and girls
between the measures of puberty timing and the sitar parameters from the sole nshd and joint nshd–alspac
models. as expected, puberty timing correlated positively
with sitar tempo, with correlations of around 0.5
(p < 0.0001). the addition of alspac consistently
increased each correlation, only weakly for height but dramatically so for weight, where the correlation doubled,
though it was still less than for height. thus, despite the apparently small impact on the random effects of including
alspac, it appreciably improved the estimate of puberty
timing, particularly for weight. by contrast, the correlations
of puberty timing with sitar size and velocity were weak,
particularly with the joint models, as would be expected.
relation between sitar growth parameters and
bone outcomes
the influence of pubertal growth on later bone outcomes
is explored in table 4, where the outcomes are regressed
on the sitar height and weight parameters, adjusted for
sex, and in addition for height and weight at the time of
the scan. the analysis is restricted to 1321 subjects (642
men, 679 women) with complete data on sitar parameters, bone outcomes and anthropometry at age 60–64
years.
in summary, the pattern of pubertal growth has a material impact on later bone health, with or without later
body size adjustment. however, in detail, the relationships
between pubertal growth and bone health vary by
outcome.
for trabecular vbmd, height tempo is very strongly
associated (p < 0.001), its negative sign indicating that earlier puberty is associated with greater vbmd. model 1 explains 16% of the variance, and the difference in predicted
outcome for the extremes of growth represented by the
model (i.e. þ2 vs –2 sds of the linear predictor—see the
‘methods’ section) is a substantial 17.5% (table 4).
table 4. significance (t-values) of regression coefficients of
nshd bone outcomes on sitar parameters, without and
with body size adjustment, sexes combined (n ¼ 2321)
bone outcome trabecular vbmd diaphysis csa
model 1a 2b 1 2
height size –2.4 –1.3 2.6 –1.6
height tempo –3.4 –3.6 –0.2 –0.1
height velocity 1.0 0.8 1.3 1.2
weight size –0.1 0.0 5.2 5.2
weight tempo –0.5 –0.1 –2.2 –2.5
weight velocity 0.5 –0.3 –2.7 –2.9
female sex –15 –4.1 –47 –11
height @ 60–64 –0.4 4.0
weight @ 60–64 4.6 2.9
adjusted r2 (%) 15.9 17.1 65.8 66.4
growth impact (%)c 17.5 17.9 25.8 15.3
a model 1: sitar height and weight parameters plus sex.
b model 2: as model 1 plus height and weight at age 60–64 years.
c impact on outcome attributable to growth pattern—see text.
bone outcomes, height and weight are all log-transformed. sitar
parameter coefficients significant at p < 0.02 are shown in bold.
table 2. comparisons between sitar growth parameters in
nshd derived without (sole) and with (joint) alspac data,
sexes combined
height (cm) weight (kg)
sole joint sole joint
residual sd (cm, kg) 2.6 2.5 2.2 2.6
sd of size (cm, kg) 5.6 5.7 4.4 4.2
sd of tempo (%) 5.3 5.5 12.4 8.5
sd of tempo (years) 0.44 0.46 1.03 0.71
sd of velocity (%) 8.3 9.0 34 26
table 3. correlations of nshd sitar parameters with nshd
puberty timing based on menarche questionnaire (girls) and
school doctor examination (boys), as obtained from the sole
nshd models and joint nshd–alspac models
male female
sole joint sole joint
height size –0.10 –0.11 0.05 0.06
tempo 0.48 0.55 0.58 0.58
velocity –0.25 –0.20 0.03 –0.02
weight size –0.08 –0.05 –0.13 –0.11
tempo 0.24 0.45 0.18 0.46
velocity –0.09 –0.04 –0.13 –0.11
omitting the other sitar parameters from the model reduces the impact attributable to growth to 15% (not
shown), so that vbmd is 15% less in those with late as
opposed to early puberty, adjusted for sex. [this 15% figure corresponds to 4 sds of height tempo (table 2) times
its regression coefficient of –0.65 se 11.] adjusting for current body size (model 2) increases the variance explained
to 17% but hardly alters the growth impact, whereas the
growth impact attributable to height tempo alone (refitting
the model omitting the other sitar variables) is a still impressive at 13%. the sd of vbmd is 26%, so this corresponds to a half sd effect size.
conversely, for diaphysis csa, the important sitar
parameters are weight size (p ¼ 0.0002), weight velocity
(p ¼ 0.008), height size (p ¼ 0.01) and weight tempo
(p ¼ 0.05), together indicating a strong effect of pubertal
body size (table 4, model 1). the outcome is sexually dimorphic, as shown by the high t value for sex which accounts for 56% of the variance on its own, and 64%
including current body size (not shown). the impact of
growth on the outcome is 26%, falling to 15% adjusted
for current body size (model 2). the negative coefficients
for weight tempo and weight velocity mean that greater
weight, and to a lesser extent earlier puberty and slower
growth velocity, are positively associated with csa. thus,
pubertal weight growth and current body size have separate and independent effects, the former amounting to
three-quarters of an sd of csa (which is 21%).
discussion
statement of findings
the study shows that pubertal growth in nshd can be
summarized compactly in terms of subject-specific sitar
parameters, and that the addition of alspac data to the
model provides smoother mean curves and more robust estimates of the weight-tempo random effects in nshd. the
resulting sitar parameters are strongly associated with
bone health outcomes measured 50 years later; vbmd is
13% less in late maturers compared with early, and 15%
of the variance in diaphysis csa is explained by the pattern
of pubertal weight gain. the growth pattern corresponding
to later bone health is summarized by greater weight size,
earlier weight tempo and lower weight velocity (table 4).
as a subsidiary finding, the mean differences in the
sitar parameters between nshd and alspac (see
table 1) reflect marked upward secular trends in height
and weight, in terms of both size and velocity, and earlier
puberty for boys but less so for girls. indeed mean weight
tempo for girls was seven weeks later in alspac.
however, the mean curves in figure 2 show that puberty
was consistently earlier in alspac in both sexes, indicating that the large velocity effect swamped the tempo effect.
the greater robustness of the joint weight-tempo estimates is demonstrated in two ways: they are more highly
correlated with height tempo (r  0.6) and they correlate
more highly with contemporaneous questionnaire responses to puberty timing. some example r code is provided as a supplementary file.
in detail, the modelling is imperfect. the height rsds
of 2.5 cm are appreciably larger than for two other
sitar published models,7 where both rsds were
<0.8 cm. however, these other studies started at age 9
years whereas nshd started at age 2 years, and this will
have inflated the error. looking at the sds of the random
effects, those for height are all smaller than in previously
published studies (6 cm for size, 1 year for tempo and
20% for velocity7,8
). in addition, the nshd mean
curves, though improved when estimated jointly with
alspac, are still lumpy (see figure 1), and the weight
curves are forced to be steeper after puberty when
alspac is added. this is because pubertal weight gain is
greater in alspac than in nshd, and it violates the
sitar assumption that the curves can be made the same
shape by suitable choice of sitar parameters. however,
this does not apply to the height curves, where the assumption holds and the curves for the two cohorts are essentially
the same after sitar adjustment.
an important design question when piggy-backing data,
as done here with alspac, is getting the right mix of original and supporting data—if the added data are too few,
they make no difference (as was found by initial experimentation with a much smaller growth study than
alspac8
), whereas, if they are too many, they may
swamp the original data. it was important here to allow
the rsds to differ for the two datasets, showing that height
was more noisy in nshd than in alspac. this may be
due partly to the missing age of measurement at age 2
years.
the results of the regression models relating bone outcome at age 60–64 years to pubertal growth as summarized by sitar demonstrate the complexity both of
pubertal growth and its relationship with bone status 50
years later. trabecular vbmd relates to age at peak height
velocity,11 whereas diaphysis csa is affected by all three
facets of pubertal weight growth. these findings illustrate
the extra information derived from the sitar model, with
its tempo, size and velocity parameters, over and above reported pubertal timing, even in studies like nshd where
the reports are prospectively obtained and clinically assessed.11 each parameter represents a different aspect of
growth. for a bone to be ‘fit-for-purpose’, it must appropriately adapt to longitudinal growth11 and to the loading
it undergoes, which will change with the timing, speed and
mean weight gain, and it is consistent with the findings for
csa. for vbmd and csa, the risk attributable to pubertal
growth, i.e. the difference in predicted outcome for those 2
sds below as opposed to 2 sds above the mean of the linear predictor based on the sitar parameters, is substantial and clinically important, at around 15% adjusted for
current body size, which would translate to a clinically
relevant increased risk of fracture.11,17,18 given that a 1-
sd reduction in bmd17 results in a doubling of fracture
risk, the differences in the current study represent a 1.5- to
2-fold increased risk of fracture between the two extremes.
strengths and limitations
strengths of the study are the large sample size, the long
period of follow-up and well-characterized bone outcomes in
nshd,11 plus the large number of height and weight measurements from alspac through puberty. the use of pqct
enables the investigation of multiple aspects of bone strength,
which no other bone densitometry technique can provide.
thus, it has been possible to understand how the different aspects of growth may influence skeletal health in later life.
a limitation is that sitar assumes the same underlying
growth curve for all individuals, after adjusting for size,
tempo and velocity differences, yet the mean curves for
weight in nshd and alspac are systematically different,
with weight rising faster through puberty in alspac than
in nshd. this affects the shape of the mean curve, and
probably the velocity random effects as well, but the size
and tempo random effects are likely to be relatively robust.
conclusions
in conclusion, individual patterns of pubertal growth in
nshd, summarized by subject-specific sitar parameters,
are better estimated when the relatively sparse nshd data
are augmented with more frequent alspac data. relating
the sitar parameters to bone outcomes in later life shows
that pubertal growth, particularly earlier puberty, greater
weight and slower weight gain, has a long-lasting effect on
bone health, which is to a large extent independent of contemporary body size.