Post Rebuttal: Thank you to the authors for their comments. I still believe that the discussion of the proposed transductive method should cite previous work in self-training methods for semi-supervised learning, as this is essentially what the authors have proposed for taking advantage of unlabeled query data. I am happy that the authors are committed to releasing the code for their method.  Before Rebuttal:  Summary  This paper proposes a modification of embedding-based few-shot learning methods, where instead of embedding support and query set items independently, each prototype embedding is computed conditional on a query item and each query item is computed conditional on a prototype. Specifically, the conditional embedding takes the form of an attention module which is computed using a correlation layer and a fusion layer. The idea is that this type of attention allows the embedding to highlight specific objects with respect to another input. Classification is done via distance computed using this conditionally-computed embeddings and additionally a global classification layer, which classifies each query set item to a class label in the training set independent of the current episode. Lastly, a method for transductive inference is proposed, which involves taking the top-t classified query items and adding them to the support set with the predicted label and re-calculating the embeddings and repeating for a certain number of iterations. The method is evaluated on the mini-Imagenet and tiered-Imagenet benchmarks. Additional ablation studies are conducted to study the effects of different parts of the proposed model.  Strengths  1. Paper is well-written and describes the proposed model well. 2. Experiments involve more than just pure results, as ablation studies validate different parts of model. 3. Achieves state-of-the-art results for Mini-Imagenet and Tiered-Imagenet (larger margin on Tiered-Imagenet)  Weaknesses 1. Proposed model involves a lot of complicated moving parts - it is not clear whether it'll be easily reproducible given that it is so complicated. 2. I don't believe the proposed transductive method is very novel as I believe its related to a common way to incorporate unlabeled data in semi-supervised methods (see self-training methods in semi-supervised learning).