In this paper, mainly theoretical in nature, the authors study the invertibility of ReLU (and LeakyReLU) networks, as generative priors for eg denoising or compressive sensing. They recall that a single-layer network can be inverted by a simple Linear Program, and then prove that a two-layers networks is, on the other hand, NP-hard to invert even in the realizable case. They then study the invertibility of networks with random weights one layer at a time, and provide several types of stability bounds in the noisy case, with slightly weaker hypotheses compared to previous results. Finally, they demonstrate that their simple approach can outperform simple gradient descient in some case, for both synthetic and real data, and random and (small) trained network.  I enjoyed reading this paper. It is clearly written, and although none of the idea are new here, they are well expressed and some results might be new (the NP hardness, weaker hypotheses to invert random networks). One critic would be that some of the large literature on inverting random networks might be missing, as well as a slightly more thorough comparison with previous results. For instance, the authors prove their result by the classical RIP condition in both l_infty norm (Assumption 2) or l_1 norm (Assumption 3), which has been the case in previous works eg "Towards Understanding the Invertibility of Convolutional Neural Networks" by Gilbert et al., which is not cited. By the way, this is indeed the RIP that is used in both cases, although the authors strangely mention it only in the second case; in compressive sensing the RIP now refers to this property for all general norms (even if the l_infty case is arguably less studied) and has been shown to be equivalent to the existence of a stable decoder in these norms, see eg "Fundamental performance limits for ideal decoders in high-dimensional linear inverse problems" by Bourrier et al. Overall, although the particular results are very probably new, they could be a bt better related to existing works on inverting random neural nets.  My other main comment concern the hypothesis that m_i coordinates needs to be bounded away from zero, which is not very natural. Since the matrices are random, it means that the theorem is applicable only for a (random) subset of signals ? If this hypothesis cannot be simplified, it deserved at least to be discussed a bit more: what it the size (whp) of the set of acceptable signals ? If signals are random with a density, is this hypothesis satisfied with high probability ? In the current formulation, it is difficult to know if the theorem is broadly applicable, of assume a shape of signals that is not guaranteed to exist.  Minor typos / comments: - l 42: minimima - concerning the NP-hardness, is the non-convex pre-image an entirely separated result, or is it used in the proof ? - l 79-80: the "for any p-norm" is weird, since they are all equivalent - l 101: "in the previous section", I do not believe it was in the previous section ? - l 102 and further: eq (11) is referred numerous times even though it is in the appendix, it is eq (4) instead  **EDIT after feedback** I thank the authors for the feedback. I still believe that the "coordinates bounded away from 0" could be further explained, or even suppressed entirely from the statement of the theorems and hidden in the proof, which would be much cleaner in my opinion. I stand by my initial score.