Summary: The paper “Metric on Nonlinear Dynamical Systems with Koopman Operators” proposes a general metric for nonlinear dynamic systems using the Koopman operator useful for learning with structural data and an approximation for finite data. The general metric is shown to contain as special cases established metrics for ARMA models and dynamic systems such as Martin’s and Binet-Cauchy metric. This contribution seems to extend the papers “Koopman spectral kernels for comparing complex dynamics: Application to multiagent sport plays” and “Dynamic Mode Decomposition with Reproducing Kernels for Koopman Spectral Analysis” while also unifying related metrics from Vishwanathan et al. and Martin. The metric shows good discriminating behavior used in Szegö and Guassian kernel demonstrated on synthetic rotation dynamics on the unit disk and 3 real world one-dimensional time series taken from sensor and device data.   Qualitative Assessment: Since metrics for kernelized analysis of dynamic system trajectories gains increasing interest in the community this contribution is generally interesting. There is no comparison between alternative ML methods for structural data such as HMM or recurrent neural networks, but I see that this paper is meant mainly as theoretical basis and not a thorough investigation of its inclusion in ML algorithms yet as indicated in the outlook. I found the paper extremely hard to read. There are a lot of spaces where some simple sentences accompanying the mathematical notion might help. For example this is the first time I see the logical and operator ^ in context with a trace operation and I am not sure what it exactly means … probably it is denoting the subspaces together with m which is just introduced as a natural number in line 89. If the paper is written in a more accessible way I can imagine it can gain a lot of citations.  Furthermore, it would be useful for practical application in the experimental section to mention the sampling of the finite data in the experiments and on the rotation example one could also compare the influence of the sampling density on the metric quality.   References: - [21] Williams et al. “A data-driven approximation of the Koopman operator: Extending dynamic mode decomposition.” is mentioned in the experimental section wrt the data which is used, but it is not discussed how it relates to this work. - missing: Steven et al. “Koopman invariant subspaces and finite linear representations of nonlinear dynamical systems for control,” 2015 - Kernel Mean Embedding might be interesting as well: A. Smola, A. Gretton, L. Song, and B. Schölkopf, in Algorithmic Learning Theory: 18th International Conference, 2007  Minor comments: - Line 179 (C 2 .A 2 , I q ) → . instead of , - Line 188 the trace kernel k_tr seems to miss the trace - Line 264 means Figure 3 instead of 2 - Line 269 … discriminated compared → discriminated better compared  The authors addressed the points raised by the reviewers, promised to improve the readability and add experimental investigation of the proposed metric on examples.