SUMMARY The authors introduce a new method for solving optimal transport on d-dimensional histograms for separable cost. They exploit this separability to reduce the original linear problem of size n^(2*d) (where n is the number of bin per dimension) to a linear problem of size d*n^(d+1). The resulting algorithm behaves much better than solving the original linear program and becomes de facto the state-of-the-art method for solving exactly optimal transport problem on regular grids.  QUALITY Strengths: the paper proposes a new, simple and very efficient way to exploit separability of the cost for solving exactly optimal transport problem.  Weakness: apparently, the authors are unaware of "convolutional Wasserstein distances" (see Solomon et al. 2015 and subsequent works) which is the "entropy regularized" counterpart of their approach to *approximately* solve optimal transport in the same setting. There is a nice parallel between these two approaches (factorizing the problem as a sequence of 1-D problems, by only considering "intermediate" marginals of transport plans) that, if mentioned, would further improve the final version of the paper. A comparison to this approach in the numerical section would be fair.    CLARITY The article is well written and straight to the point without unnecessary technical details.   ORIGINALITY To the best of my knowledge the method is entirely new and is not a simple adaptation of existing methods.  SIGNIFICANCE This paper will serve as a reference method for solving optimal transport problems in this setting.  COMMENTS - l.46 I'd suggest to end the "previous work" paragraph with a comment that explains what is different in the present contribution. - l.79 do you have a reference for this definition of EMD? Is the denominator used to deal with unbalanced cases? - l.101 this is mainly a matter of taste, but I find that the choice of the indexing variable in Eq.(7) does not help the reader (for instance, I would have opted for mu_(i,j)/nu_(i,j) or mu_(i,a)/nu_(j,b). - l.122 what is a geodetic? did you mean geodesic? In case this is not correct. A mathematical interpretation of the intermediate configuration is as follows: a transport plan pi has 4 indices (a,j,i,b): G1 corresponds to its marginals on (a,j), G2 to its marginals on (i,j) and G3 to its marginals on (i,b). It is a property of separable cost that the total transport cost only depends on these marginals (as you show in Thm.1). - l.186 : Sinkhorn's method can be adapted to separable costs, I suggest to compare with this algorithm for fairness. - l.211 : out of curiosity, why is the bipartite approach so much faster than the EMD code? - l.224 : used *to* study   [UPDATE AFTER REBUTTAL: I am still confident that this paper is a good contribution to NIPS. I am glad that the authors chose to include experiments using Convolutional Wasserstein Distances for a fair comparison to "entropy regularized" approaches.] 