Main comments: On the positive side, the results appear interesting, and the heuristic derivations seem highly plausible. Overall the proposed approach could be an appealing solution for community detection. On the negative side, the paper is not very easy to parse, leaving a lot to the reader to guess about notation and details of explanations. The derivations are quite sketchy, and the case for the proposed approach would be much stronger if i) additional arguments were provided to justify these derivations, and ii) additional numerical experiments were reported to support the claims (eg of gaussianity of eigenvector entries). Also, a comparison with not just (spectral methods based on the) initial version of the Bethe Hessian and adjacency matrix were reported, but also with alternative methods, eg regularized Laplacians.   Further comments: -derivation of eq(5) is very quick, some justification of the iid nature of 0-1 variables summing to d_i in the DC-SBM would help. -l120, 'with the expectation still for...': do you mean you are taking a conditional expectation? If so then better use the mathematical symbol E( . |A,d_i) instead. -l180-181: is nu_i(r) the i-th smallest eigenvalue of H_r? I could not find the definition of this quantity earlier in the text. -l214-215, 'the vector u^(p)... is then associated with the p-th smallest eigenvector...': why is that? Is is explained in the supplementary material? If so, provide a pointer to where the explanation is given. -supplementary material A, evaluation of P(A|sigma, theta): you are missing an asymptotically constant multiplicative term due to non-edges. This does not matter in the end as it is absorbed in the normalization constant, but that should be corrected anyway. -supplementary material B: statement tilde(beta)=O(beta_i) does not make much sense. More generally the whole justification of approximate gaussianity of eigenvector entries in this section is too sketchy, and more arguments are needed to make a convincing case.  -I did not understand how to read figure 2(b); footnote number ^4 in the caption of figure 2 does not point to anything apparently.  