The authors propose two statistical tests that can be used to testing goodness-of-fit for samples coming from two distributions. The proposed tests are combinations (and some generalization) of the work in Jitkrittum 16, 17b. The tests are then evaluated on toy datasets for their power and rejection rates, followed by their application to comparing different GANs. There is merit in the proposed models however the paper in its current form needs work.   Presentation: Firstly much of the content in the section 2, specifically 88-104 and 110-130 needs to be wrapped up as prepositions or corollaries. It is confusing to follow through the text in its current form to arrive at the expressions for UME and FSSD, and the implicit MMD. Second, what is the summary of Theorem 1 and Theorem 2? To a statistical audience, the theorems themselves would ring bells, however, nips is also computer science and applied machine learning. Hence, the technical results needs to be summarized in few remarks. Lastly, a lot of time has been spent with the toy datasets. It is understandable that the authors want to portray the power of the tests on 'interpretable' datasets. However, much of this can be moved to the supplement, specifically later half of page 6.   Evaluations: Isn't Rel-UME and weaker test than Rel-FSSD by definition? If so, then why are the rejection rates higher for the Rel-UME in some cases in Figure 4? What is the reasoning for choosing toy datasets 2 and 3? In the sense, do we expect the two tests to show different behaviour?  Why does the saturation happen in Figure 4c) as sample sizes increase? Isn't  FID-Diff a good criteria already (the magnitudes in the last columns in Table 1)?  Application: This is the main issue. The technical results and their generalization of UME and FSSD are good, however the authors motivated the problem keeping in mind the application of GANs' comparison. However, section 4 is not suggesting if in fact the proposed tests are good to be deployed -- for problems 3-5, the baselines KID and FID are doing as well, one pair of GANs (and one setting) is used.   Improving the presentation/evaluations and showing evidence on few GANs' comparison would surely boost the paper. 