After reading the rebuttal and the other reviews, my score stays the same. Please add the discussed clarifications to the paper.  ========  Overall I liked the submission, mostly for the well thought-out experiments that highlight an interesting and useful phenomenon: that the linear scaling rule for batch size extends farther when momentum or preconditioning are used. The theory also led to intuitive, well-presented results that were predictive of the experimental behavior. This is a new, significant result for the community, and overall I recommend acceptance.  There are a couple of changes that would substantially improve the paper:  First, in trying to motivate their co-diagonalization assumptions, as well as their theoretical assumption that they precondition by a power of the Hessian, the authors frequently conflate the Hessian and Fisher matrices. This conflation also appears in the study of the eigenvalues of the Fisher (in the appendix but referenced in the main text), which they pass off as eigenvalues of the Hessian. As a result some conclusions are misleading as currently stated. This would be remedied by formally defining each and changing the language around the two terms to make it more clear they are different. (To be clear: I think it is perfectly fine to make the assumptions the authors make here, since they do not rely upon the results theoretically, but rather treat them as predictions of what may (and apparently does) happen in practice)  Second, the authors should be more clear about the precise forms of the algorithms they study. In particular, the authors state and prove results regarding momentum without actually stating what SGD with momentum is. Yes, this is common knowledge, but still imperative to have in the paper for the reader to follow precisely what you are doing. The same goes for later on in the experiments where preconditioning and momentum are studied together -- without an explicit algorithm, it is impossible to know e.g. in which order momentum and the preconditioned are being applied.