In this manuscript, the authors study the highly relevant problem of pedestrian trajectory prediction. Identifying several shortcomings of prior work in the area, they propose Social-BiGAT, which combines generative adversarial network approaches with a graph attention network (GAT) core, demonstrating strong results on a variety of established benchmarks, along with a visualisation of the interpretability in the model's learnt latent space of trajectories. I think the motivation is strong, the architecture is very sensible, and the results are strong, both from a quantitative and qualitative standpoint. I would vote for acceptance.  Two suggestions for improving would concern the clarity and interpretability of the writeup:  - Generally, I find the paper very well-written, and likely to invite interest from graph neural network practitioners into this application domain (which I think would be very important for further improvements). The idea of modelling the interactions between pedestrians in a scene explicitly using a GAT model is very clear and easy to motivate.   ** However, I find that the architectural description of the model might be somewhat lackluster -- as the equations are not always clear to someone inexperienced in GANs or GATs, and the figures might involve too many things going on. This might make it harder for the paper's results to be appropriately reproduced or improved on. I would, in the very least, invite the authors to clearly specify in Figure 2 which arrows correspond to which variables in the equations.  - As the attentional mechanism learns interaction coefficients between pedestrians, it could be highly interesting to include a qualitative study on these coefficients -- i.e. what kinds of features about pedestrians influence the attention's focus the most. I would assume that (Euclidean) distance would probably play some part, but it would be relevant to see if any additional insights can be gained from this.  --- After rebuttal --- I thank the authors for their careful consideration of my review and the provided qualitative study of the attentional coefficients. This provides even further substantiation that the GAT coefficients are a useful addition to the model.   With confidence that the authors will update their architectural description's clarity accordingly (keeping in mind the limited space for the rebuttal text), I am increasing my score to 9.