1. In the preliminaries, it is not clear whether the discount sequences of the buyer and the seller are public information or not. In the later section, in my understanding, the discount sequences are known for both buyer and seller. But I think this assumption is slightly unrealistic, since this means the seller knows the extent of impatience of the buyer. A more reasonable assumption might be that the seller knows the distribution of the discount parameter of the buyer.  2. In line 100, “A*’s ESR is maximal”, is it “maximum”? 3. In section 3, when the seller is less patient, the result in the paper indicates the repeated game is meaningless since the best algorithm is a “once-for-all” deal. It does not seem to match the real case. The reason might be that the seller does not know the exact discount of buyer, which is related to the first comments.  4. In section 4, the results require that the discount is regular. Should the discount also decrease geometrically? 5. In section 4, about the CA algorithm, I understand that any algorithm can be transformed to be a CA algorithm, but I am not quite sure about the intuition behind the CA algorithm. For a CA algorithm, does it mean (in some sense) that there is no “stupid” buyer strategy where any strategy is optimal for at least one valuation?  6. In line 231, “which is piecewise linear”, according to the following argument, is it “piecewise constant”? 7. In section 5, the approximation algorithm looks weak and straightforward. The paper shows that it is a good approximation to consider only finite steps. But the algorithm for t steps needs poly(2^t) times which seems unrealistic in the practice. Is it possible to show some hardness result for the case of t-step pricing algorithm? Such result might be a good justification of the approximation algorithm  After the feedback,  1. In the feedback, the authors answer the question about the discount knowledge and provide further explanations about the unknown buyer discount. I think the explanation is good and should be add into the full version of paper.  2. But the feedback about the time complexity is unsatisfying. Since the space complexity is exponential on \tau, the time complexity is also exponential which means only very small constant \tau is tolerable. Then the authors should justify why it is reasonable in the practice.  