This paper considers the problem of learning a generator mixture to capture all the data modes under an interesting formulation. Different from existing work which is mainly based on global statistical distance, this work focuses on the local pointwise coverage which also guarantees of the global distance in a loose way. Based on the multiplicative weights update algorithm, the authors proposed an algorithm to learn the generator mixture and theoretically proved its complete mode coverage guarantee. The proposed method works well on both synthetic and real datasets, achieving better mode coverage compared to existing methods while maintaining good learning of the global distribution. On the other hand, the manuscript is not very easy to follow, especially Section 1.1 and Section 3. The introduction of the (\delta,\beta)-cover is not very intuitive even though it would eventually become clear in Section 3.2. Some intuitive discussion of the motivations might be helpful.  The proposed method, Algorithm 1, has a flavor of the non-adaptive boosting algorithm where the weight of data points would be reduced if we got thing right and an simple average of the individual weak leaners is outputted. The existing boosted density estimation methods, additive (AdaGAN) or multiplicative ([1,2]), all have a flavor of the adaptive boosting algorithm. It is interesting to see if the adaptive version has certain guarantee in terms of the introduced mode coverage or examples of the failure cases. The empirical results suggest that the proposed method performs better than AdaGAN in terms of both mode coverage (in Table 1) and global distribution matching (in Figure 5). But AdaGAN is directly trying to minimize the global statistical distance while the proposed method only has a loose guarantee in the global sense, it would be better if the authors could provide some insights here.  The experiments are relatively weak. The authors proposed a mode coverage metric and checked the global distribution matching all based on trained classifiers which is somewhat ad-hoc, and it would be good to also look at the coverage metric introduced in the AdaGAN work. The precision and recall metrics introduced in [3] are another interesting candidates. There is only mode coverage results for a fixed T value. Plots of the coverage metric against T might shed more light about the learning process. Another question is about the mode bias measure introduced towards the end of Section 4. It could be computed in Figure 4 mainly because the mode itself is known, but it is unclear how to compute this measure in practice where the modes are generally unknown beforehand.   [1] Grover, A. and Ermon, S. Boosted generative models. In AAAI, 2018. [2] Cranko, Z., and Nock, R. Boosted density estimation remastered. In ICML, 2019. [3] Sajjadi, M.S.M., Bachem, O., Lucic, M., Bousquet, O., and Gelly, S. Assessing generative models via precision and recall. In NeurIPS, 2018.  After rebuttal: Thanks for the detailed rebuttal.  I do not fully agree with the argument provided for why AdaGAN can not guarantee full mode coverage. "In the next iteration, the weight of the major 25 mode may still be large, and thus prevents AdaGAN from learning the minor mode". AdaGAN would also diminish the weight for the well-fitted part in an exponential way similar to the proposed method. As pointed out by other reviewers, the quantitative results are limited, especially on real data. But I would maintain my score as 7 since I do think the theoretical contribution is novel and interesting. 