1) Originality  The authors do a very good job at describing how their method fits within the family of building blocks of flow-based models. The literature review is, in my opinion, very thorough and well-written.  2) Quality  The spline-based proposal of the authors for modelling makes a lot of sense, and the experimental results support show that using these rational-quadratic splines improves the flexibility of flows. A way of improving the paper would be to discuss more the computational cost implied by their method compared to simpler ones (e.g. affine transformations).  3) Clarity  The review of flow-based models is extremely well-written (Sections 1 & 2). The final discussion is also very interesting. However, I think the authors should explain more clearly what monotonic rational-quadratic splines are (Section 3.1). Indeed, I think that understanding the paper without reading Appendix A is quite difficult, and some of the results form this Appendix could be moved in the main paper in future iterations. A few sentences are a bit vague:  - l. 127: "Rational-quadratic functions are easily differentiable, more flexible than a polynomial in that they have an infinite Taylor-series expansion". There are families of functions with infinite Taylor-series expansions that are arguably not very flexible (like exp(-alpha*x))  - l. 136: "We [...] set the boundary derivatives to 1 to match the linear tails, which we found to be important for stable training." An experiment (for example in the appendix) would be nice to understand what you mean by "stable training". Also, do you have an explaination for this phenomenon?  - l. 157: "Unlike the additive and affine transformations, which have limited flexibility, a monotonic spline with sufficiently many bins can approximate any continuous monotonic function on the specified interval" Could you add more details, and/or back the result by a citation?  4) Significance  I'll repeat what I wrote in the contributions box: while the papers has essentially a single contribution, I think this is not a bad thing at all. Indeed the authors thorougly study (and, arguably, improve) a very specific and important part of flow-based models, which is valuable. It is an "incremental" paper in the good sense of the term. I would therefore recommend acceptance.   --------- Post-rebuttal edit -------------  I've read your reviews and the rebuttal. I'm happy with the clarifications provided by the authors. This will be a nice contribution to the quickly growing field of flows.  