Quality:  This paper has a number of appealing features.  There is a novel model of how the brain learns relational structure.  The model consists of both an interesting probabilistic generative model as well as a neural recognition model, which together represent a plausible idea of how the grid cell and place cell representational systems cooperate to represent structured knowledge. The model makes a novel prediction: that there should be a consistent relationship between place cell and grid cell tunings across remappings between different environments.  Then the paper presents an analysis of neural data claiming to show that, indeed, this prediction is borne out.   On these grounds alone I lean towards acceptance. However, several considerations prevent me from giving it a higher score.  I would be interested to hear from the authors on these points during the rebuttal phase and am open to changing my score.  I confess I am not an expert in this area, but I have long found the topic interesting from a distance and suspect that the authors' basic approach is on target.  Issues I would like to see addressed in a revision:  * The simulations in Section 4 and illustated in Figure 4 seem highly abstract, and not closely to connected to the actual phenomena of grid cells that we see in the brain.  Aren't the grids supposed to be hexagonal, rather than checkerboard-like as in Fig 3b?  * The analyses of neural data seem reasonable to me, but pretty coarse-grained.  Is this really the best one can do in linking up the model to neural data?  Is this an in-principle limitation given the current data the authors analyze, or a51re there experiments one could do to establish a tighter link?  * The figure captions were less helpful than I would have liked.  I realize space is tight, but could you explain more clearly what is going on in Figures 4-7 and how they support the argument you are making?    Clarity: The paper is reasonably clear apart a few typos.    Originality:  To my knowledge, both the model and the experimental data analysis are novel.  But I am far from an expert.   Significance:  To the extent that this model and its key predictions are well supported by experimental data, the paper's significance is very high.  Not being an expert I couldn't assess this well, but I would not be surprised to see a paper of this sort appearing in a high-impact neuroscience journal such as Nature Neuroscience or Neuron.  Maybe for reasons of space limitation, or maybe because NIPS encourages submission of very recent, novel, but less than fully baked work, I felt that the argument presented here was not as strong as one would expect to see in a journal like Nature Neuro.  Yet the work feels important in that way.  If the paper is not accepted to NIPS, I would encourage the authors to refine it and submit it to a high-impact neuroscience journal.  ---------  Update after reading authors' response:  Thanks to the authors for a thorough and thoughtful response.  It was too compact for me to get very much out of, but I feel like they addressed several of my main concerns in a positive way, so I have raised my score accordingly.    If the paper is not accepted at NIPS, I would urge the authors to submit to a neuroscience or computational neuroscience journal.  The papers at NIPS are too short, and the review-response process too low-bandwidth, to do justice to this kind of work.  