* Originality: The work builds off of previous work in a simple, but non-trivial way. The simplicity of the idea is appealing. Related work is adequately cited.  * Quality: The proposed methods appear to be technically sound, and the bounds on the rates of convergence are useful. However, the experiments do little to shed light properties that the authors claim to be important. How does the compute/wall-clock time of the Poisson--Gibbs method compare to vanilla Gibbs and other mini-batched methods? How many potential functions are being evaluated at each iteration? Are there problems on which vanilla Gibbs would be prohibitively expensive for which Poisson--Gibbs would be useful (e.g., very large N for a highly connected graph)? Are there problems on which Poisson--Gibbs might fail (e.g., poor initialization and/or parameter settings; or strong dependence between variables in the graph)? These types of experiments are more useful than the current experiments.    * Clarity: Overall, the main text of the paper is clearly written: the development is easy to follow, and the text proposes the main ideas in a simple manner that is consistent with the simplicity of those ideas. The text in the Sections 3 and 4 could use some cleaning/tightening. The proofs of the convergence rate theorems could be presented in a more reader friendly way, and should be checked for errors (for example, there appears to be a typo going from the equation after line 374 to that after line 378).  * Significance: The ideas in the paper appear to be of moderate significance: the models to which the methods are applicable are somewhat limited, and no new technical or theoretical methods were introduced.  * A few detailed comments on typos/technical points:  - I did not review all of the proofs of the convergence rate theorems in detail, though on line 379 of the Supplemental Material (proof of Thm. 1) the authors suppose that the $s_{\phi}$ are iid Poisson random variables. Can the authors please explain why this supposition is ok/justified for the purposes of establishing the necessary bound?  - The maximum local energy is a maximum taken over the entire set of variables, so 'local' seems a misnomer. I think the relevant property (as opposed to the total maximum energy is that it's not aggregated.   - There's a stray ')' on line 82.   Thanks to the authors for their thoughtful feedback to the initial reviews. In particular, the experiments showing wall clock and factor evaluation comparisons enhance the original submission. I have updated my review and score accordingly.