In many scenarios, the causal relationships considered over a set of variables vary across groups and at the same time share some common causal relationships. So it is better to find different causal graphs for each individual. This paper solves this problem by first dividing the set of agents into a number of groups and then finding a causal graph for each group.   The authors propose a model over m variables that includes both instantaneous effects and time-lagged effects. Ideally, we would have to estimate this model separately for each user, but that might be impossible with a small number of samples. So the model assumes a mixture of Gaussian prior for the effects. The number of components in the mixture is the number of clusters and the goal is to estimate the prior probabilities over the clusters and individual components of the mixture.   Subsequently, the authors use EM algorithm to estimate the parameters of the model. However, computing the posterior exactly is intractable, so they use Monte Carlo integration and stochastic approximation for the E step. Both the simulation and experiment on real-world dataset show that the proposed method performs better than various existing methods in terms of F1 score, clustering, and approximating the true model.  I have some suggestions and questions for the authors: 1. Theorem 1 proves an identification result for the degenerate distributions. What breaks down for the general case even if we consider just the instantaneous effects? It would have been nice to see a discussion in this regard. 2. How did the authors choose the parameter l_p the number of time-steps considered for time-lagged effects? 3. Why did the authors choose the threshold of 0.1 for converting the weights to the presence / absence of edges in the graph? Is there a systematic procedure to guide this choice?  Originality  This paper makes a significant contribution in terms of proposing a new model for sharing causal relations. The proposed algorithm seems to recover individual specific causal graphs and will be of immense interest to researchers working in the field if it can be scaled across a large number of clusters and a large number of variables.  Quality  I thought the paper makes several significant contributions and will be really helpful for the researchers working in the field of causal modeling and causal discovery.  Clarity  I thoroughly enjoyed reading the paper. Both the model and the experiment section was clear to me. However, I thought that the paper might benefit from a brief discussion of SAEM algorithm before deriving the steps of the algorithm.  Significance  The modeling contributions of this paper are sound. The proposed algorithm is interesting, seems to perform better than the existing methods and will be significant if it can be scaled for a large number of variables and a large number of clusters. 