The contribution builds on the recent work on Poisson Gamma Dynamical Systems by Schein et al. and its deep variants albeit departing from the standard PGDS formulation and required augmentation scheme by introducing alternating chains of Poisson and Gamma latent state variables. This expanded construction offers closed-form conditionals via the relatively unknown Bessel distribution and the authors defined SCH distribution whose MGF is derived.  The paper offers significant novelty and extends the state of the art in the area. A nice characteristic of the contribution is that although the latent structure is expanded (in relation to PGDS) in the model (and hence its complexity and any identifiability issues), the induced sparsity in the latent states and the closed form conditionals from the Poisson-gamma chaining simplifies inference and helps (?) with identifiability.  The paper is well written, the experiments are convincing and demonstrate improvement over the PGDS and a simple dynamic baseline (GP-DPFA). I appreciate the accompanying code for both PGDS and PrGDS and the expanded material in the appendix.  My only minor concerns are: - Identifiability: There is little mention (if any) of this in this line of work and more complex constructions of latent state chaining will suffer further on this aspect. Is the model identifiable and to what extend? Does the induced sparsity help? Is that shown anywhere?And how does that relate to the observations made in Sec. 4 of the appendix? - Computational complexity: please provide this in comparison to PGDS - MCMC: Any evidence of convergence of the chain?any rates? - MCMC: Since you have a Gibbs sampler you should be able to also derive an SVI or EM variant?  - hyper-parameters: why is \epsilon_0^{(\lambda)} kept at 1 and would a 0 induce further sparsity on the component-weights? - "perplexity": This is mentioned from the start but only defined in experiments section. A pointer to that would help in the start. More importantly: Is this the right measure to be using for a probabilistic model like this? wouldn't you be interested in more Bayesian measures like the coverage you are offering? See for example:   Leininger, T. J., Gelfand, A. E., et al. (2017). Bayesian inference and model assessment for spatial point pat- terns using posterior predictive samples. Bayesian Analysis, 12(1):1–30.  **Post author response** The authors have clarified and responded to my questions for MCMC convergence and time complexity, and also supported their use of perplexity. It is not clear if alternative metrics that focus on UQ like coverage will be offered in the manuscript or if any identifiability discussion will be offered though. I retain my accept score of 7 and encourage the authors to consider in the final submission the 2 topics above.