I believe the phenomenon identified here seems interesting and worth considering. The authors point out the work of Jacobsen et al. which addresses a similar topic, but as concurrent work this does not diminish the originality of the paper here. (And moreover Jacobsen et al. address network invariance from the perspective of the classification boundary and not necessarily with respect to the internal features.)  The paper is easy to follow in most parts. The introduction in particular very clearly defines and unpacks the phenomenon of interest. The Method section would benefit from slightly more care in its technical details. For instance, possible edge-cases occur to me in the claim that "the intersection of all the sets listed above is a convex polytope in at least a d-n_p dimensional subspace". I believe this would not hold for instance in the case that several (w_i, b_i) define parallel but distinct hyperplanes?  Likewise, the implications of the objective function (3) are not clear to me. Is the true minimizer of this always necessarily a corner of the polytope, or do we simply hope it is close to one? From the comment on line 159 that the "intermediate activations of the polytope and the target are similar", i.e. not *exact*, I suspect the latter, but it isn't obvious. In any case, the clarity of this section could benefit from some small Propositions in the appendix that address these and similar points.  I was also not completely clear on the methodology used for the experiment in Section 4.1. Is the same database of patches that is extracted from the original dataset used to define the possible patches at each location in the new image? E.g. would the softmax described in lines 203-204 have 37011074 outputs? Or do you only consider patches drawn from the same locations in the original images?  In summary, the paper explores an interesting phenomenon that has potential practical implications for neural network robustness. However, it could benefit from some points of greater clarity, particularly in sections 2 and 4.   === UPDATE ============ Having read the authors' response and the other reviews, my opinion is largely unchanged. I believe the topic is potentially of some interest to the community, although I agree with the other reviewers that it is a bit incremental. I also still think it would benefit from greater clarity - the authors have at least promised to address this, although without seeing a revised version I can't confirm that this is not still an issue.  Overall, my score is still at a 6 (weak accept). I would give the paper a 5.5 if I could.