This paper introduces a likelihood-free inference algorithm for estimating the parameters governing vesicle release in a ribbon synapse. This is based on a mechanistic model of exocytosis that involves several stages of nonlinear stimulus filtering and synaptic vesicle movement, docking, and release. Bayesian inference in this regime is challenging: due the great number of model components and biophysical constraints, even evaluating the likelihood function can be intractable. The authors address this problem by adopting a likelihood-free (also known as approximate Bayesian computation, ABC) approach, where, by repeatedly sampling from a prior distribution, the forward model is simulated many times and the parameters that well-describe the observed data are retained and used to update the prior, and the process repeats. The modelling work is interesting and to a high standard. The writing is clear and motivates the problem well. This work appears to be a novel application of ABC to the problem of vesicle release modelling, although it's not clear if the approach is actually better than previous methods as no comparisons are performed.  Major comments: - The parameter k is often underestimated (Fig 3B and Fig 8) yet seems to have a minimal effect on the resulting nonlinearity. It would be beneficial to mention why the slope of the nonlinearity is difficult to obtain in the main text. - What are the different colours in the density plots in Figure 2? Presumably one is the updated prior. - Should p_d in the equation after line 110 be p_{d_t}? This was confusing on a first read as I was searching for p_d among the p_t, p_{d_t}, p(d_t | D_{t - 1}) etc. - It would be helpful to state something along the lines that the summation in the equation after line 113 is to ensure the probabilities sum to 1, as this was not immediately clear to me. - I'm aware that selection of summary statistics is something of an art in ABC methods, but are the results very sensitive to the scalings (line 377)? The different release counts are scaled differently. Is that to account for the more infrequent release counts?  Minor comments: - Line 73: Is it that the likelihood function cannot be evaluated at all, or more that evaluation of the likelihood function is inefficient/intractable? - Figure 4A caption: releaed -> released - Figure 6 caption: hold constant -> held constant - Appendix line 362: Detailes -> Details - Line 376: "for for" -> for  Update following rebuttal: The authors have addressed all of my concerns and I maintain my support for accepting this paper.