Comment before rebuttal/discussion: The idea is interesting and potentially useful, though it is not obvious to this reviewer whether the optimal transport metric is the right one in this case. Given to isomorphic graphs, the W-L embedding is not exactly the same vector, but the corresponding permutation will send one into the other one. The Wasserstein distance is actually very sensitive to permutations on the labels so it seems to me that something like the Gromov-Wasserstein distance should be more amenable for the purpose of comparing graphs. The point the authors make in lines 71-80 is that the W-L kernels (that use measurements based on walks and other permutation-invariant features) are too weak and that's why the Wasserstein distance is a better candidate. I may be missing something but I'd like to see a theoretical justification for the Wasserstein distance in this context. Is it true that if two graphs are isomorphic then the WL embeddings are usually essentially the same, and therefore the Wasserstein distance is a relevant metric? Or is the algorithm taking this into consideration in a way I am missing?   Comment after rebuttal/discussion: Now I see where my confusion was. I think the notation is a little unusual for W-L. If you look at the outcome of the iterations of W-L as distributions in R^{H+1} (supported in N points where N is the number of vertices in the graphs), then it works (the distributions don't care about the permutation). [Following the W-L algorithm it is intuitive why it works, the sequence of vectors for each node is equivariant with respect to permutations on the original labels]. Before I understood that the authors were computing Wasserstein distances between the different iterations of the W-L algorithm (in that case it'd be distributions in R^N supported in H+1 points). In that case the invariance doesn't hold. The authors may want to clarify this point, and say that they are computing a distance between distributions in R^{H+1}. In particular it may worth mentioning that the distance is 0 whenever two graphs are isometric. Maybe in line 158, right after the statement "While not constituting a test of graph isomorphism..."   Originality. This reviewer believes the idea of the paper is interesting. I am not familiar enough with this literature to comment on the originality of the paper.  Quality. The paper is very well written and very clear. The only issue I had is what I mentioned in the point above. The rest of the comments were addressed by the response of the authors. Thank you!  Feedback on the code:  Since I was confused about the embedding in the pair of isomorphic graphs setting, I actually used the code to understand what was going on. The code computes the W-L embedding and then the optimal transport on the embedding. It reads a file with some specific format with many graphs. I think a better interface that should be easy to add is a simple python function that takes two matrices (adjacency of the graph) and computes the embedding and the Wasserstein distance. It's not necessary but it would make it much easier to use. (Actually the implementation is very easy, but I had to look at it in order to understand what the embedding and concatenation of different iterations of W-L was doing).    Clarity. The paper is clear except for the point I mention above. 