Major comments:  This work examines GANs by comparing it to a simple mixture of factor analyzers (MFA) using NDB (a score based on sample histograms). The NDB computes the number of statistically different bins where the bins are obtained via Voronoi tessellation on k-means centroids. The key result is that the GMM/MFA is better able to capture the underlying distribution compared to GANs. When the MFA is combined with a pix2pix model, it generates sharp images comparable to the GAN model.   Overall, this is a well-written paper with interesting results that question the overall utility of GANs. Its value lies is in its simple, accessible approach and extensive experimental results on a variety of generative models. However, the proposed techniques do not appear substantially novel and I have several concerns/questions that I hope the authors can address:  The results hinge on the effectiveness of the NDB. As such, emphasis should be given to establishing the consistency of the measure across initializations and sensitivity to parameters (K, significance-level, # of samples). The authors do state that the method is consistent and robust to initialization (lines 177-180), but some evidence would help bolster confidence in the score, especially since it is a primary contribution of this work.   How does the NDB score fare on complex natural image datasets such as CIFAR and/or ImageNet? Some discussion would help clarify the generality and limitations of the score.   One attractive aspect of the GAN model is that it learns using an implicit likelihood, as compared to prescribed models (such as GMMs). Mohamed and Lakshminarayanan (2016) give an in-depth discussion of the two approaches. Potentially, the GMM model is able to score high NDB scores since it is optimizing a L2-like score across the pixels?   The observation that GMMs can outperform GANs (on standard log-likelihood, MODE/Inception scores), was previously reported in Grover, Dhar and Ermon (2017). Some discussion on what is new in this work would help to clarify the contributions.    Sec 4.1: What is the NDB of the random samples from the MFA+pix2pix model? Is it higher than the MFA or comparable?   Minor comment: NDB: Is there a good reason for reporting the number of bins rather than proportion? The latter seems more comparable across different K?   -- Post-Rebuttal Comments -- Thank you for your responses, particularly for the sensitivity analysis and for clarifying the differences in metrics. 