Summary: This work uses existing supernet based one-shot architecture search methods and uses them to search for backbones for the object-detection. The paper motivates the need for searching backbone architectures by noticing that backbone architectures used for object detection tasks are mostly off-the-shelf classification networks and may not be the best for object detection. The authors use ShuffleNet v2[1] based block and use a one-shot supernet search technique similar to the one proposed in [2]. The paper used an Evolutionary algorithm to search for child networks in the supernet. The authors conduct experiments using a one-stage detector (RetinaNet) and a two-stage detector (FPN) and make the following observations: a) The searched architecture performs better than the ResNet and ShuffleNet based backbones while consuming fewer FLOPs. b) The architectures optimized for detection perform better than the ones optimized for classification. c) There are qualitative differences between architectures optimized for classification as opposed to detection.   Originality: The paper has used a previously known supernet based one-shot architecture search technique and applies it to the domain of object detection. For the purpose of object detection, the technique makes the necessary change in the formulation to initialize the weights from a classification task. The paper has noticed qualitative differences between architectures optimized for detection v/s classification as found by their search method.   Quality: The paper has conducted the experiments necessary to show the benefit of their technique. The ablation studies also help identify the performance impact due to optimizing for classification tasks and the effect of the search space. Compared to time taken train modern object detectors, the search method is also very computationally efficient taking only 20 GPU-days. Although the effect of searching an architecture is clear, there exist much better mAP numbers in literature with hand-tuned architectures. For example, the best 2 stage mAP in the paper is 42.0 whereas [3] achieve 45.1 with an hourglass backbone and test-time augmentations. This limits the utility of this approach. The paper also does not report FPS achieved by their final architecture, which is an important consideration for many applications. Another limitation is that the backbone search-space by itself was designed for the classification task which may limit the final performance.  Clarity: The paper is well-written for the most part. Sections 3.2 and 4 can use some work to make what is being done more clear. Particularly, the details of how the final search on the trained supernet is performed is not clear by reading the paper itself. The detail that the child networks have to be only trained by updating batch-norm statistics is not emphasized enough and requires careful reading of the algorithm in supplementary. The experiments and ablation studies themselves are explained well and it is clear what is being measured.  Significance: This work shows that the common practice of pre-training detection backbones for classification is sub-optimal and deserves to be revisited. The paper shows that one-shot supernet based methods are promising research directions to find better detection backbones. If the detection algorithms used were better, the proposed technique could be more useful for practitioners in the field as they could just use the found architecture off the shelf, which they currently would not prefer doing since the mAP performance on datasets are sub-optimal.    References: [1]: N. Ma, X. Zhang, H.-T. Zheng, and J. Sun. Shufflenet v2: Practical guidelines for efficient cnn architecture design. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages 116–131, 2018. 5, 7 [2]: Zichao Guo, Xiangyu Zhang, Haoyuan Mu, Wen Heng, Zechun Liu, Yichen Wei, and Jian Sun. 315 Single path one-shot neural architecture search with uniform sampling. abs/1904.00420, 2019. [3]: X.Zhou, D.Wang, and P.Krahenb ¨ uhl. Objects as points. ¨arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.07850, 2019. 1  Post-Rebuttal: The rebuttal has conducted experiments to address my major concerns. It is clear that the algorithm is competitive with modern detection approaches while not compromising on speed.