This paper explores the problem of feature collision in ReLU networks --- where examples contained within large polytopes in the input space all map to the same (or approximately the same) feature space. The paper shows that this is driven by the characteristics of the ReLU function, namely that they are many-to-one over negative activations. The existence of such large polytopes is an interesting and complimentary result to the recent work on adversarial examples (i.e. excessive invariance versus excessive sensitivity).   In terms of methodology, the paper gives a well reasoned and executed solution for finding the polytopes. The proposed method enables one to quickly find polytopes that all map to approximately the same feature space for (what empirically appears to be practically any) arbitrary input examples.    Overall, the paper is very well-written and the approach is interesting and novel. Though the analysis of this behavior and the findings regarding the ubiquity of these invariant polytopes is stimulating in its own right, my only concern is that I am still slightly unsure of the significance of these results.  This doesn’t seem to be a goal of the paper, but I didn't find the discovered polytopes to be that convincingly distinctive. They still seemed visually similar (albeit at low human frequencies) or have clear artifacts (even in the image-patch-constrained experiments), so adversarial generation doesn’t quite seem to be a clear next step.  Additionally, though a qualitative observation, it’s not completely obvious that the polytopes given in the figures should even be considered distinctly that bad for mapping to the same class/~features. Clearly there are artifacts of the target image in the polytope corners (even in Table 5). However, I do agree to some extent that in general it can be quite undesirable behavior for them to have the same confidence scores.  Finally, I wonder if some additional analysis into the polytopes could be useful for interpretability or deriving rationales (particularly in the case of natural language, where using words instead of image patches might lead to very distinguishable results).  Minor comments: line 32: in fact, there could be a line 91: I would move the comment in parentheses to a footnote line 174: "the polytope that even larger relative" needs fixing line 216: the colliding polytopes found  === After Response ===  Thank you for your response and clarification. The suggested possible ramifications of these findings (data representation, regularization) indeed seem reasonable (if a bit optimistic).