Summary: The authors develop a Gamma-Poisson factorization model that includes metadata and models user preferences and item attractiveness in a dynamic context.  They develop a variational inference algorithm and demonstrate that their approach outperforms other methods on five data sets.  Quality: The technical quality of this work appears to be sound.  For evaluation, the metrics used are in line with the way these systems are actually deployed (e.g., rank-based instead of just RMSE of the ratings). [Thank you!!]  I do have three notes, however:  1. I think the authors sell Gaussian MF a little short.  While I really like Gamma-Poisson models, the MF-only part of the collaborative topic regression model (http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~blei/papers/WangBlei2011.pdf, has source code available) outperforms PF (using the code associated with [19]) on similar held-out prediction tasks shown in the submitted paper.  This indicated that the PF > Gaussian MF isn’t as crisp as indicated in [19] or the submitted paper.  2. The conjugate relationships of the Gamma variables (using one gamma variable as the rate of another gamma variable) appear to be primarily for convenience in inference.  There is nothing inherently wrong with this other than the terms used to describe the variables won’t always match with a reader’s naive intuition.  For example, we draw the weight of the metadata for users hu_m and this is used as the shape parameter to draw user preferences.  A reader might naively think that a higher weight hu_m would lead to higher user preferences, but the inverse is true since we are using the shape/rate parameterization.  There’s also a complicated relationship with the variance.  It might be worth justifying these choices a bit better and perhaps being more explicit about nomenclature and the relationships between variables for the sake of the reader.  3. There are more example of incorporating different kinds of metadata in PF, e.g.,  - Do, Trong Dinh Thac, and Longbing Cao. "Coupled Poisson Factorization Integrated with User/Item Metadata for Modeling Popular and Sparse Ratings in Scalable Recommendation." AAAI2018 (2018): 1-7. - Chaney, Allison JB, David M. Blei, and Tina Eliassi-Rad. "A probabilistic model for using social networks in personalized item recommendation." In Proceedings of the 9th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, pp. 43-50. ACM, 2015.  Clarity: The submission is dense, but generally clear.  Fonts on the figures should be larger.  Originality: The proposed model is new, but the authors’ general approach is fairly intuitive and in line with previous work.  Additionally, since the model is conjugate, the inference algorithm is relatively straightforward to derive.  Still, for such a complicated model, there is merit in formalizing the model, executing the inference derivations, and validating the model.  Significance: The submission addresses a difficult task and provides evidence for the superiority of their approach.  The application domain is narrow in some sense, but still broad enough for this work to have real-world impact by being incorporated into live recommendation systems.  The significance of this work would be greater if source code was released alongside the paper.  Confidence score: I rarely like to mark that I am “absolutely certain” about a paper, but I have expertise in both the application domain as well as the modeling and inference approaches.