Relation to the Batched bandit problem: the authors claim that the relationship between the switching cost constrained MAB problem and the batched bandit problem as described in lines 143-154 is somewhat surprising. While the two problems are indeed different, this relation is not really that surprising. In fact there is a well known relationship between mini-batched bandit algorithms and bandit algorithms with switching costs in the adversarial setting. In particular, showing a lower bound for the MAB with switching costs for a certain type of mini-batched algorithms goes through a lower bound for the adversarial MAB with switching costs (see for example Bandits with Switching Costs: T^{2/3} Regret).  The main idea behind the algorithm is to carefully divide the T rounds of the MAB game into segments. Before each segment a set of active arms is pruned according to a UCB/LCB strategy and then the arms from the active set are played an equal amount of times in the segment. The crux of the proof is choosing the length of each segment according to the bound on number of switches and number of arms. While the batch sizes induced by each segment might be novel, the proof seems standard. The main technical contributions begin with the lower bound proof of Theorem 2. The proof seems non-trivial and the use of stopping times according to when each arm has been pulled for the first time to my knowledge is novel. Since the proof of the lower bound is an important contribution of this paper, the paper might benefit from a lengthier explanation about how the proof works exactly or at least some more intuition as the paragraph in between lines 194-204 is not really helpful when reading the Appendix. For example the authors might want to explain more carefully how the stopping times come into the proof, as a case by case analysis and how the auxiliary policy \beta is constructed to show the lower bound.  While the discussion about the Phase transitions and Cyclic Phenomena is insightful, the space in the main paper might be better used to expand on the proof of Theorem 2. The main paper will also benefit from a lengthier discussion about Algorithm 3 which is deferred to the appendix and the proofs of Theorems 3 and 4 as the proofs of these theorems seem non-trivial and a good contribution.  Can the authors also clarify, how the bounds in Theorem 3 will change if the shortest Hamiltonian path is only approximately computed in Algorithm 3, instead of exactly?  Overall the contributions of the paper seem significant and especially the proof of the lower bounds seem novel. The relation between arbitrary switching costs and the shortest Hamiltonian path is also maybe surprising. The paper’s presentation can be improved if the authors spend less time discussing implications of Theorem 1 and Theorem 2 and focus more on the proof techniques and Algorithm 3, which are currently deferred to the appendix.   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  I have read the response by the authors and other reviews. I am mostly satisfied with the rebuttal and the proposed reorganization of the paper. While I agree with the comments of other reviewers and it would definitely be nice to have a more thorough treatment of the phase transitions, I find that the rebuttal addresses most of the raised concerns and will keep my current score.