Summary: The paper proposes to modify graphs in order to improve the quality of spectral partitioning on them. The quality is governed by the graph spectrum, and the proposed approach is to change the spectrum while approximately preserving cut values. This is achieved in two steps: first use Racke's embedding of the graph into a cut-preserving tree with extra nodes (this step apparently improves the spectrum), then remove the extra nodes by computing the graph Schur complement, an operation which fully preserves the spectrum including the cut values. The resulting graph has approximately the same cut values and improved spectrum.  Since both operations are too costly to be considered practical, the paper proceeds to suggest a heuristic variant of the method. Finally several small experimental visualizations are shown to display the advantage of the proposed method.  Evaluation: Ultimately the main idea paper is a direct "black-box" invocation of two known techniques (Racke's tree cut sparsifiers and vertex sparsification by Schur complementation), but it seems potentially useful, and the examples provided in the paper give a clear and crisp proof-of-concept for its advantage.  The main weakness of the paper is the lack of empirical evaluation. Given that the paper concedes that the theoretical variant of the method is impractical, and suggests an alternative heuristic version, it seems unfortunate that there is no principled experimental evaluation on even moderate-sized graphs. The few examples given in the paper are small, qualitative and somewhat arbitrary (as opposed to using standard benchmark input graph, comparison to baselines and other methods, principled choice of parameters, numerical evaluation of performance, etc). Put simply, it is not quite clear what to make of an algorithm that has neither firm theoretical guarantees nor certified empirical advantage.  In conclusion, the paper suggests a nice and simple way to enhance the quality of spectral partitioning and makes a case for its advantage, then discusses practical considerations, but stops short of substantiating the empirical usefulness of its method.  Update post-rebuttal: I thank the authors for their detailed response. I do not find it adequately addresses the concerns raised about empirical evaluation. It argues that their theoretical analysis renders thorough experiments unnecessary; however, as previously noted, their primary algorithm is at present supported by neither proofs (only intuition) nor experiments (only proof-of-concept). As a result, I maintain my score.