Update after rebuttal: Thanks for clarifications on SGD and other baselines. Please make sure to add these experimental results in future versions of the paper. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Most of my comments are on the empirical results: 1) Experiments in Section 5: While the experimental results in Section 5 suggest that the proposed technique is fast compared to direct optimization of the original objective, it is not clear how much it improves over the baselines such as oblivious Gaussian sketching. Since classification accuracy is used as the error metric (and not parameter recovery error), it could be possible oblivious sketching will have similar performance as adaptive sketching. So the authors should compare their approach with other sketching baselines and Nystrom method.  The authors also point out that SGD didn't work well for adaptive sketching. This sounds slightly concerning because, for really high dimensional problems, where one has to use a large sketching dimension, Newtons method would be slower than SGD. So, it'd be great if the authors perform more experiments on the robustness of other baselines and the proposed method to the choice of optimizer used.  What value of lambda is used for synthetic experiments in Figure 1? It looks like lambda = 0 is used. If this is the case, logistic regression on separable data wouldn't have a minimizer (the norm of its iterates diverges). So shouldn't the relative error keep diverging as well?    2) While the theoretical results look interesting, it is not clear why this particular form of adaptive sketching works. So it'd be great if the authors provide some intuition for why the proposed approach works.  3) Clarity: I feel the organization of the paper could be slightly improved.  Some parts in the paper which are not so important (e.g., remark 1) can be pushed to the appendix and more discussion can be added to section 4. It'd be good if the authors provide some discussion on how the proposed method compares with other techniques for accelerating kernel methods such as random fourier features, nystrom methods.