1. Originality: The method is a combination of existing techniques, the attention has been well explored in GNN, which solves a simiilar to the point cloud analysis. Actually, point could is a kind of graph data. The contextual representation is just a fusion of neighboring features with the central one, which is quite straightforward. Meanwhile, the choice of fusion operations (equ 2,5,7) is not well explained and motivated. Local information has been explored in the point cloud community. Some related works are not cited and discussed. For example,  Dynamic Graph CNN for Learning on Point Clouds, Relation-Shape Convolutional Neural Network for Point Cloud Analysis, they all offically accepted by peer-reviewed journals/conferences, and have papers on arxiv before NeuIPS submission deadline.  Mining Point Cloud Local Structures by Kernel Correlation and Graph Pooling Pointwise Convolutional Neural Networks  2. Quality: The paper is technically sound. Some designs are not well supported by   experiments or not well motivated, as I mentioned above. No results on running time complexity.  3. Clarity: The paper is well written and easy to follow.  4. Significance: The paper is incremental to previous work. While considering both global and local information is benefical for point cloud segmentation, to my opinion, the method does not show its advantages over previous work. For example, both the DGCNN and PointNet++ incorporates contextual information to enrich the point feature either by feature space(DGCNN) or geometric space(PointNet++, if we do not use the sampling to reduce the point number in the original PointNet++, it is a kind of feature extractor by considering neighboring information), the method does not show its advantage over these method. Actually, the method only shows that by combining many factors it can achieve better performance, however, it is unclear what will happen if we replace the proposed module with the existing technique. This could be more interest to readers to know the advance of the proposed method.