Overall, I found this paper a joy to read. The problem is explained clearly, adequate context is given in the related work section, and the main paper focuses on assumptions, intuition and take-aways rather than getting bogged down in techincal details.  I'm not a world-expert on learning with auctions, and rather partially aware of the literature, but that did not hinder me. Given the wide range of interests at NeurIPS, I think that this paper is of interests to those for whom auctions and strategic behavior is not their primary focus.  I have a few minor comments: - I'm not particularly convinced by the motivation for buyers using a discount factor, i.e. being less patient than the firm (Paragraph starting at 248). For example, in the targeting example it seems to me that the user who shows up today is not the same as the one showing up tomorrow. Whether a user just visited the site of the buyer seems better modeled by the context rather than by a discount factor. Similarly, I feel that the context should capture the value of using cloud computing capacity rather than a discount factor. I think one can reasonably defend the modeling assumption, and I think the paper could do a better job.  - I like the discussion of important features (line 289 and beyond) a lot, and would suggest adding a heading to guide readers to this content; currently, it's easy to overlook.  - Given that the discount factor plays such a big role in the results of the paper, it would be nice to have the results explicitly depend on the discount factor (Theorem 4.1).  - Footnote 5 raises an interesting question whether a firm can do better by committing to some strategy that does not explicitly try to maximize it's own revenue (for example, by attracting more buyers to the platform). Stated less paradoxically; how does the strategy of the firm relate to the number of buyers on the platform, rather than the number of buyers considered fixed.  --- Post rebuttal --- Overall, I think the authors addressed concerns raised in initial review well and incorporating their response into the paper seems beneficial.  I'm not fully convinced yet by the justification for the discount factor though (to be clear, I don't mind the assumption but just think the justification is a bit shaky). E.g. in cloud computing the authors write that opportunity costs exists because many tasks are time-sensitive. That makes sense if the same task persists over time (I rather get the task done now than in the next time period). But tasks are different each round, and so there does not seem to be a way to capture time sensitivity.  All in all, great job and hope to see the paper accepted! 