This paper presents an approach for automatically extracting video and audio features by training a self-supervised audio-video synchronizing DNN. The authors did an extensive experimental study, the results on synchronizing and multi-modal action recognition showed the effectiveness of the unsupervised learned features.  The language of this paper is articulate, the proposed method is simple and effective, and the references give a broad coverage of the relevant literature. But the paper in its present form has a variety of problems.  Firstly, the learning approach should not be called "co-training"--which is an unsupervised multi-view learning approach that first learns a separate classifier for each view using labeled examples, and then the most confident predictions of each classifier on the unlabelled data are then used to iteratively construct additional labeled training data. Hence the proposed A-V synchronizing approach is not a co-training algorithm.  Secondly, the idea of shuffling original data to automatically construct supervised data sets and feeding them to a supervised learning system is a natural idea, which has been attempted before, for example: Ishan Misra, C. Lawrence Zitnick, Martial Hebert. Shuffle and Learn: Unsupervised Learning using Temporal Order Verification. ECCV 2016. Andrew Owens, Alexei A. Efros. Audio-Visual Scene Analysis with Self-Supervised Multisensory Features. arXiv:1804.03641, 2018.  I was also confused by the structure of the paper. Although section 3 is about experiments, section 2.6 already talks about the implementation and parameters of the experiments, line 143 (which is also in section 2) even introduces the experimental results.  Minor questions: line 84: "in synch" -> "in sync"? line 250: what are the other self-supervised approaches, are they implemented like the proposed AVTS approach (i.e., construct negatives by wrongly aligning the A-V pairs)? Table 1: Why did the authors choose 75% easy + 25% hard in the curriculum experiments? How to choose the proportion of the hard negatives?  