This paper proposes a computational model to investigate the relationship between place cells and grid cells. Overall, I have an extreme difficulty to follow what is actually done and in the current state the results seem impossible to reproduce. My difficulties are mostly due to vague statements, while concise and precise definition (without jargon) of the methods is missing. In addition the authors provide very little evidence that their approach is doing what it is supposed to do. Finally, I also have difficulty to understand the main claim of the paper. Details comments follow: Methods: Overall I have very little understanding and confidence in what is actually done. Key elements of the model are described with vague sentences such as line 134: “Following [14], we end up with the following per time-step function to optimise, for which we can use the reparameterisation trick and variational autoencoders.” If you use a variational autoencoder please state clearly the architecture in one single paragraph.  Multiple statements about the network are scatter across several pages.  I ask myself the following questions (among others): - What is the circle symbol on line 169 - What are a_t’s in Figure 2 - Where the concept of frequency come from? How quantities at a given frequency are computed - What is there two place cell layers (one in “inference arm” one in “generative arm”), why using an attractor network here? Is it based on the literature? Where can I get information about the properties of this chosen network. - Why state transitions on line 188 are Gaussian distributed (I thought space was discretized). - What does the schematic in Fig 3 (a) represent (compared to variables introduced in the text)?   Results Only the spatial activation maps of few cells is provided. From that the authors claim there is evidence of place cell “remapping”. While remapping as a relatively clear meaning from an experimental neuroscience perspective, it is unclear to me what is meant in the context of these experiments, how it is quantified, and whether the result is non-trivial. I understand there is learning performed when switch from an environment to the other, so to some extend changes should occur in the synaptic weights (can the authors provide information about that?). Whether these changes correspond to a specific “remapping” of one grid cell to another (I assume this is what is meant) would require a detailed analysis of the associated synaptic weight. Moreover, given it was specifically chosen (judging from Figure 2) that place cells simply extract information from grid cells, isn’t such conclusion trivial? Can the authors propose a reasonable alternative hypothesis?  I assume I am missing something, and this misunderstanding extend to the neural data analysis results. It is claimed on line 313 “Our framework predicts a preserved relationship between place and grid cells of the same spatial scale (module).” Do the authors provide evidence of that in there model, or is it and assumptions? How do they articulate the concept of “preserved relationship” with the concept of “remapping” between place and grid cells?  