Originality:  The proposed idea is not very different from other dynamic pruning methods. In my opinion the main contribution is the reduced amount of extra computation needed for the pruning that allows interesting computational gains and the GPU friendly way of pruning based on channels. The use of channel grouping to avoid a biased selection of the channels is also quite interesting. In dynamic pruning authors should also cite: [Convolutional Networks with Adaptive Inference Graphs. Andreas Veit Serge Belongie]. Quality: The proposed contribution makes sense and is justified by interesting experiments on CIFAR10 and Imagenet.  Clarity: Overall the paper is well written and not difficult to read.  Thanks to fig. 3 and 4 it should not be too difficult to reproduce the model. Significance: Conditional computation (in this case dynamic pruning), although in principle very interesting, often does not deliver really effective approaches. Often the theoretical speed-up is already reduced by the fact that for choosing which part of the network to compute it requires additional computation. Additionally, the theoretical gain is then difficult to convert to a real speed-up due to the constraints on the data of GPU architectures. The proposed approach is one of the first to show that conditional computation can lead to real speed-ups by a very light control architecture and GPU friendly pruning. This is the most important contribution of this work.  Additional comments: - Why Knowledge distillation is applied only on ImageNet? - In speed-up evaluation the authors mention that the algorithm should be fast on GPU as for Perforated CNN. However, they do not really evaluate the method speed-up on GPU.  - I think the method should be compared to also other approaches for speeding up convolutions, even if not based on pruning such as  Perforated Convolutions.  Final Evaluation: I read the other reviews and authors feedback. Authors answers were clear and I did not find any important issue that I overlooked. Thus, I confirm my evaluation.  