Positive Aspects 1. The paper is well-organized and written, which can be followed easily. 2. The considered problem is interesting. In particular, instead of generating a new image from the text, the authors pay more attention to image manipulation based on the modified natural language description. 3. The visual results seem very impressive, which are able to manipulate the parts of images accurately according to the changed description while preserving the unchanged parts.  Negative Aspects 1. For the word-level spatial and channel-wise attention driven generator: (1) The novelty and effectiveness of attentional generator may be limited. Specifically, the paper designs a word-level spatial and channel-wise attention driven generator, which has two attention parts (i.e. channel-wise attention and spatial attention). However, since the spatial attention is based on the method in AttnGAN [7], most contributions may lie on the additional channel-wise part. But instead of verifying the impact of channel-wise attention, the paper reports the visual attention maps (Fig.5) according to the integration of channel-wise and spatial attention. Moreover, the visualized maps in Fig.5 are similar to the visual results in AttnGAN [7] and thus cannot prove the effectiveness of the proposed channel-wise attention method. (2) In Fig.6, it seems that the generation image without attention mechanism (SPM only) can also achieve desired visual performance (i.e., the generated image only changes the colour of the bird while keeping the rest). Thus, I am not sure whether the attention mechanism is really necessary for the proposed method. 2. For word-level discriminator: (1) In line 132-133, it mentions that “Additionally, to further reduce the negative impact of less important words, we apply a word-level self-attention mechanism”. More experiments should be conducted to verify the influence of the additional self-attention. Otherwise, it cannot demonstrate whether the self-attention mechanism is necessary for the discriminator and how it impacts the final results. (2) Moreover, to prove the effectiveness of the proposed word-level discriminator, it would be better to conduct an ablation study with and without this discriminator. 3. For semantic preservation model (SPM): The proposed SPM is an application of the perceptual loss [24], where the novelty is also slight. 4. Minor issues: Line 231, “Fig.4 also shows the …” should be “Fig.5 also shows the …”.  Final remarks: For this paper, I have mixed feelings. In positive, the studied problem is interesting and the generated results are impressive. Nevertheless, on the other hand, since there are not sufficient experiments to verify the impact and necessity of each proposed component, it is not clear whether they are significant or not in this task. Besides, the novelty of some proposed parts may be limited (e.g. SPM).  