* Approaches such as DeepProblog are referenced in the Related Works section, where it is stated that "the structures of first-order logical clauses exploited by these systems are assumed to have already existed" and "they could not obtain new symbolic knowledge during their learning process". I think this point would have deserved more attention, since the image-equation experiment was also conducted for DeepProblog. The difference between the two approaches is not entirely clear, since also the proposed setting relies on a given background logic (though this point is shown only in the supplementary material). Moreover, the experimental section does not properly describes which kind of new symbolic knowledge could be obtained from the proposed approach.  * It is clear that fitting the paper within the page limit is not clear, but, in general, many interesting details seem to be in the supplementary material.  * The comparison with the results achieve by humans is too briefly explained in the paper, and it is not clear which is the aim of such an experiment.  * Some references are missing, about the combination of machine learning and symbolic reasoning in the abductive reasoning scenario. For example, see: -- d'Avila Garcez, Gabbay, Ray, Woods, "Abductive reasoning in neural-symbolic systems", Topoi, 2007 -- Hooldobler, Philipp, Wernhard, "An Abductive Model for Human Reasoning" AAAI Spring Symposium, 2011  Minor corrections: - Pag. 2, "Probabilistic Logic Programming[4]" -> space missing before reference [4] - Pag. 4, "which is consist with" -> "which is consistent with" - Pag. 4, "can consistent with" -> "can be consistent with" - Pag. 7, "For each length it containing" -> "For each length it contains"  Originality: moderate, as the novelty with respect to recent neural-symbolic approaches is not entirely clear. Quality: high, sound methodology and experiments. Clarity: high, but could be improved in the experimental section. Significance: moderate, but the research area is very interesting, and this research direction is worth investigating