The main idea of this submission is the new concentration inequality, Theorem 2, proved for analyzing the proposed algorithm. To generalize from bounded random variable X to X that satisfies the mild assumptions made in the submission, the application of a truncation-based estimator plays a crucial role for developing a new concentration inequality.  Another idea is to introduce the linear combination of the mean and CVaR studied in financial community as the optimization objective. This formulation includes the expected reward maximization and the CVaR minimization as special cases.  The proposed Algorithm 1, Generalized successive rejects, identifies the arm with minimum loss and CVaR has bounded misidentification probability shown in Theorem 4. The resulting bounds are discussed and compared to that of non-oblivious settings, including the probability in terms of T (number of pulls), the minimum requirement of T, and the interaction between T and the truncation parameters. The authors also show that when the same information is provided as the non-oblivious setting, Algorithm 1 achieves the same performance as that proposed in the non-oblivious setting. Simulations verifying the performance of the proposed algorithm and demonstrating how truncation parameters affect the performance are provided.  The reviewer has concerns about the submission. Please see Improvements for details.  Originality. The submission relaxes the assumptions on the distributions. A novel concentration inequality is proved.  Quality. The analysis is rigorous. The performance of this work is compared and discussed with the non-oblivious ones.  Clarity. The submission and the analysis is well written.  Significance. Bounds on the misidentification probabilities under milder assumptions on distributions are proved. A new concentration inequality is proved and could be applied to other research.  ------------------------------ Update  Thank you for the response. I am satisfied with the authors' reply, especially the first point clarifying the algorithm actually doesn't need C2.