The introduction is very well written, with a clear presentation of the topic. However, I think that the descriptions of the statistical model and the important definitions are rather unclear (and with many typos).  In general, I think that even though this paper should be very relevant to the ML community, its presentation should be revised by the authors: Some of the concepts should be described more precisely for the readers who are unfamiliar with them; The main ideas of the proofs should be explained in the main text; The reasons for the introduction of the first and second order Stein operators are not very clear in the main text; etc. Some more specific comments are given below.  I have not read all the proofs, but I have not found any major issue.  1. Abstract, line 8: A star is missing twice on \beta. 2. Line 23, has -> have 3. Line 45: Some words seem to be missing... 4. Line 66: has -> have 5. Line 107: I could not understand what the authors meant when explaining that these quantities are pivotal. Actually, to me, the whole paragraph from line 107 to line 113 is really unclear. Also, the epsilon should be outside of f, in all occurrences.  6. Line 125: I do not understand the introduction of the functions \psi. The paragraph in lines 136-143 is really unclear to me. The choice of \psi does not determine f, so I do not understand the use of the words “reduces” and “characterizes” in lines 136-137. Moreover, in the definition of the minimax risk (et. 2.10), there is a supremum over \psi (on which class?), so \psi does not seem to be fixed. Hence, can the results be used, e.g., for the phase retrieval problem? 7. Line 148, just write f_1(u)=u^2+u and f_2(u)=u^2 (or else, use \beta or \beta^* consistently). 8. The notation for the minimax risk in Eq 2.10 is strange, there is a supremum over f_1, f_2, \psi, of a quantity that does not seem to depend on these functions... 9. Line 180: Remove “is” 10. Line 182: Remove the ‘s’ of “functions” 11. Definition 2.3 and the next paragraph: What exactly is r? For somebody who is not used to this terminology (such as “statistical oracle”), the definition is not very clear. It could be useful to provide some examples, maybe. Moreover, the choice of \tau_q seems arbitrary: Does it mean that one allows the algorithm to only make queries that yield sub-Gaussian errors? Why make this restriction in your model? 12. Line 249, replace T with d^\mu 13. I think that the whole paragraph 3.2 could be replaced with a table, which would be much more readable. And Figure 1 is not informative at all. 14. Could the authors discuss in more details the choice of their mixture model (eq. 2.6)? This is not what one usually thinks of a single index model, since here the function f is random (it randomly takes the values f_1 or f_2). 15. I think that the whole paragraph 3.3 could be removed. Maybe one short comment could be made about the estimation lower bound, but estimation requires many more assumptions (just regarding the identifiability issues), so I do not think that this paragraph adds anything deeply relevant to the paper. Moreover, I think that the authors should make some space in the paper in order to address the issues that I pointed out above. 