After author rebuttal: Thank you for your response. I keep my overall score and congratulate you to a very nice written paper that I very much enjoyed reading.  The authors consider using ensembles of control variates rather than the typical approach of using a single one. They provide a coverage of the typical ones used in the literature and how these are constructed. The main contribution of the article is to find the optimal weights of these ensembles, and the authors take an elegant approach that minimizes a Bayesian regret and derive a closed form expression under a simplifying assumption of Gaussianity for all parameters. The value of using ensembles is clearly demonstrated in the empirical section, in which it consistently outperforms single control variates.  General comments: This is a very nicely written paper which applies elegant ideas in a simple and understandable way. I find the discussion of the decomposition of the gradient of the ELBO into different terms and, moreover, how different control variates are constructed to be a perfect textbook-style review.  My comments / questions: 1. Control variates reduce the variance (however you define it, see my Comment 2.) of the gradient estimate. I don't see how this variance comes into the expression and the severity it has on the Bayes regret is not clear. Can you provide a discussion of this, if it is non-trivial?  2. You discuss the variability of the gradient estimate but don't define what you mean by it. The (usual) variance of the gradient estimate should be a matrix (variance-covariance) since the gradient itself is a vector. From a practical point of view, how do you compare variances in this case? Do you say that one is bigger than the other if the difference is a positive definite matrix? Or do you have another variance metric in mind?  3. It seems that you are measuring the convergence by looking at the norm of the gradient estimate and you base your loss function on this. What is your motivation for using  this metric as a "convergence criterion"? Do you think you can obtain similar results by looking at other convergence metrics?   4. When subsampling the data as you describe in Section 3.2, there is another source of stochasticity introduced. Does the implied variance from this stochasticity have the same effect as the usual variance, i.e. the variance rising from that one has to estimate the expectation (even when not subsampling)? Do these variances affect your convergence metric (and hence your optimal weights) in different ways, or can we view them as coming from the same source of stochasticity?  Minor comments: 1. Line 73: typo: "usually are usually lower". 2. Equations are part of sentences and should be terminated by full stop (when applicable) 3. You sometimes use small z and other times capital Z for what appears to be the same expressions. Please check for inconsistencies in the notation. 4. In many places, bayesian => Bayesian, i.e. capital B. 5. australian to Australian