*** UPDATE *** Thank you for your response. Unfortunately I could not easily see where, in the Owen 2017 reference that you suggested, it was shown that the extensible constructions do not need to worry about sub-sequences. Indeed, I am still under the impression that at iteration n of a QMC method, we add on a term of O(1/n), so that the integration error cannot be o(1/n) at all n? This seems to be the position of "A constraint on extensible quadrature rules" (Owen, 2016); see the first sentence of section 2. Hopefully this point can be properly resolved in a revision to the main text. Apart from this, it seems that the paper is good enough for NIPS. ***  This paper is one of several recent attempts to reduce the integration error in the original random Fourier features work. Although I have some reservations about the limited experimental comparison, the authors should be commended for putting well-documented code on GitHub. The main points of concern that I had are as follows:  - I do not understand why the authors restrict to stochastic integration procedures, when deterministic cubature methods (such as Gauss-Hermite quadrature) are simpler and already widely used. Some motivation/justification would be useful.  - on p2, in the definition of \psi(x), I think a_1,...,a_D should be used instead of a,...,a.  - In the definition of stochastic spherical-radial rules, there is a sum over j but the summand does not depend on j. This is probably an error.  - It is unclear where the statement of Proposition 3.2 actually ends; I think the authors have not used the standard latex amsthm environment (so the statement is not in italic font).  - I am concerned about the use of the Halton sequence: It is known that *only* the sequences of length 2^n have good approximation properties for numerical cubature, and it is therefore unfair to implement QMC based on a number of points that is not a power of 2. It looks, though I am not certain, that the authors have not acknowledged that.  - I didn't understand the comment on p7 explaining why QMC and GQ methods cannot be used in high-dimensional problems. At least, if you talk to a QMC researcher, they will say that the main purpose of QMC is to address high-dimensional problems. Perhaps some politically judicious rephrasing would be useful.  - As mentioned above, I was disappointed to see that there was not an empirical comparison with [11]. This was probably the main weakness of the paper. 