This paper takes a unique approach and aims high. In deep learning, there are all these intriguing empirical observations previously known; the road most travelled to understand them is to prove these observations under certain assumptions, while the authors choose to link these observations through a descriptive model that otherwise could have nothing to do with neural networks. I appreciate this unique approach, which is actually a dominant approach in other sciences like physics. The descriptive model in this paper, if more accurate than not, could potentially simplify the conceptual understanding of optimization for deep learning and motivate new algorithms.  There are two reasons why I cannot more enthusiastically recommend this paper.  1) As I'm sure the authors understand, the approach taken always runs the risk of overfitting on the previously observed phenomena. To make a quote, all models are wrong but some are interesting. The authors do a good job at showing that the model fits the previously observed phenomena, but this does not convince me that the model interesting. The authors are unable to propose improvements to current optimization algorithms, or make nontrivial and interesting enough new discoveries, at the same level of, say, large loss for linear interpolation vs. low loss along a curve path. 2) The exposition is messy and difficult to understand. I struggle, for example, to understand how the construction in 3.2 gives rise to the structure described in 3.1 and the radial paths in figure 1. I think this is because the authors use mostly words to describe things that can be more precisely described with mathematics. Expressions such as "Cosines between vector deviations of points on a low-loss connector between optima from a linear interpolation" can be very confusing in words. The experimental figures are also confusing. I am still unclear exactly what procedures are used to make those plots.  Altogether, I think this work has much potential but is limited by the two problems I outlined. In its current shape, I still think it should be published as a poster just in case it inspires someone.