The general spirit of the paper points in a fruitful direction: understanding the implication of deep generative models for solving inverse problems. As the paper notes, these models are increasingly widely used, and often lead to better practical performance compared to more traditional structural signal models (sparsity, smoothness, etc.).   The paper performs a geometric analysis of this problem, arguing that for random, expansive deep generative models, the landscape of optimization is essentially dictated by the scale ambiguity in the BIP (1). This is, in some sense expected, because under the stated conditions, the deep generative models are near-isometric, but showing this through a rigorous analysis is a nontrivial technical problem.   There is some question regarding the relevance of the setup considered here to practical bilinear inverse problems. Models for physical phenomena usually have additional symmetries (e.g., most reasonable models for images are shift invariant), leading to a more complicated landscape of optimization. The paper can be viewed as a first step in this direction: to my knowledge these are the first theoretical results on bilinear problems with deep generative models.  The introduction (e.g., lines 58-70) compares the paper’s results to the literature on e.g., sparse phase retrieval. It is not clear whether a general comparison of this kind makes sense: whether a sparse model or a deep generative model exhibits better dimension-accuracy tradeoffs depends on the signal being modeled.   It is also unclear whether the $n^2 + p^2$ scaling is necessary in this setting. The setting shares some commonalities with deconvolution under random subspace models (ala Romberg). In that problem a quadratic dependence is unnecessary.   A2 and A3 are conditions of the theorem, but are not stated with sufficient precision (what does it mean for “n_i = \Omega(n_{i-1}) up to a log factor?”).  The theorems are not stated as cleanly as they could be. E.g., the theorem statement involves a truncation of the rows of the last layer which on an event of large probability has no effect. It would be cleaner simply to assume all the weights are gaussian and then prove that the norms are bounded by $3\sqrt{n_{d-1}/\ell}$ with high probability.   The paper does not explicitly state a result showing that the proposed algorithm converges to (a neighborhood of) a global minimizer. This seems reasonable on intuitive grounds, and perhaps a simple proof (in function values?) can be given based on the work that is already in the paper. Comments on algorithmic implications would be helpful.   The paper asserts that the correct hyperbolic curve has the lowest objective value. I believe this is true, although it does not show up in theorem statement. Has this been proved?  EDIT: After considering the other reviews and the authors' response, I still rate the submission a 7. The authors will address some clarity issues in the final statement if accepted. The response was not completely convincing on the algorithmic implications of the geometric analysis, but overall there is enough technical contributions to recommend acceptance anyway. 