The problem of hyperparameters tuning in GPs is indeed relevant. Unfortunately, I do not feel that the work is strong enough, in its current state, to provide clear enough results that other researchers could build upon. I am familiar with the analysis of GP-UCB and with Bayesian optimization.  This paper addresses the problem of hyperparameters tuning in Bayesian optimization (e.g. with Gaussian processes). In practice, these hypers are often tuned by maximizing likelihood, at the expense of loosing theoretical guarantees. In this work, the authors propose to tune hypers using data previously gathered on similar (yet different, and independent) tasks and provide theoretical guarantees on the resulting estimators. They use these guarantees to provide examples of regret bounds of known acquisition functions using their techniques.   Quality:  The definition of simple regret (line 124) does not correspond to the definition from the literature (e.g. Bubeck & Cesa-Bianchi (2012): Regret analysis of stochastic and nonstochastic multi-armed bandit problems.). This quantity typically takes into account the error on the recommended arm (action, location to sample) after T rounds, while here it is taken w.r.t. the best sampled location. In this sense, the definition considered here feels weaker. How does this impact the theoretical results, i.e. Theorems 2 and 4?  Questions regarding the case where X is compact: 1) It is assumed that \Phi are given. Does that mean that \Phi should be accessible/explicit? In this case, what would this mean for kernels that that have K = \infty? 2) An assumption is that the number of training points per previous dataset M \geq K. How does this impact on the choice of kernel given that it is possible that K = \infty (e.g. with the RBF kernel)? 3) It is also assumed that T \leq K. Again, how does this impact on the choice of kernel given that it is possible that K = 1 (e.g. linear kernel with X \subset \Real)?  Lemmas 1 and 3 require that the size of the training dataset N \geq T+2. Similarly, Thm. 2 and 4 mention that \eta converge to a constant at rate 1/sqrt(N-T), implying the requirement that N > T. Why is it required that the size of the prior dataset is larger than the number of episodes? It is counterintuitive to me.  Thm. 2 requires that N > M. I would appreciate some intuition on the reasons that motivates that prior dataset size is larger than the number of samples per sub-datasets.  It is mentionned that the proposed approach is similar to the existing BOX algorithm, but that the proposed approach "directly improve on BOX by choosing the exploration parameters in GP-UCB more effectively" (lines 104-105). Where is this shown?   Clarity:  Though it is interesting in practice to consider missing observations, this is not the problem addressed by this work. Therefore, Sec. 4.1 could be alleviated from the related notation (everything revolving around \bar \delta_{ij}), as it is never used later in the paper.  Elements are sometimes referred way earlier than their introduction, which makes the paper hard to follow. This is the case of "the problem shown in Fig. 1" (lines 47-48), which is only described later in Sec. 5.  I guess that the approach referred to as "PEM-BO" in Sec. 5 is the proposed approach? It would be good to state this clearly.  Overlall, the presentation of results is also hard to follow. For example: - Fig. 2a and 2c respectively show the learning curve for T = 10 and T = 5. What about Fig. 2b? - Legends in all subfigures of Fig. 2 should be increased for a better reading. - It is confusing to report experiments results in terms of rewards while theoretical results are provided in terms of regret. - There seem to be four approaches in Figs. 2d), 2e) and 2f), but only three approaches are introduced/dicsussed.   Originality:  The paper addresses a well-known and relevant problem, that is the tuning of Gaussian process hypers while preserving theoretical guarantees. The proposed approach is to tune the hypers using previously acquired observations of functions sampled from the same GP prior. It mentionned that the proposed approach is similar to BOX, but it is not clear how.  The choice of literature to cite is sometimes odd. For example, citing the seminal UCB paper (Auer 2002) as an example of acquisition functions (lines 61-62). I would expect the followings: - PI: Kushner (1964) - EI: Mockus et al. (1978) - GP-UCB/CGP-UCB/KernelUCB: Srinivas et al. (2010), Krause & Ong (2011), Valko et al. (2013) Similarly, the references for GP-UCB (line 41) should be Srinivas at al. (2010) and Krause & Ong (2011).  There may also be a connection with transfer learning that could be explored.   Significance:  This paper addresses an important problem, that is the need to tune GP hyperparameters while providing theoretical guarantees. Theorems 2 and 4 could be of possible interest outside this specific problem. These results are also used to update bounds of known acquisition functions (PI and GP-UCB) that would be using the proposed technique. However, considering the remaining questions regarding the unconventional definition of simple regret considered here, it is not clear how these new bounds would impact the literature.  ====== Update after rebuttal: The only concern that I still have following the rebuttal is regarding the need to have N > T. It is strange to me and not very practical in real life. However, I understand that the theoretical analysis presented in this paper could contribute to the BO field. I updated my rating accordingly.