This is an impressive paper that effectively tackles one of the most important (yet far from the most studied) challenges in neuroscience - characterising complex phenotypes (Krakauer et al., Neuron 2017). Unlike model-based studies (e.g. Corrado & Doya, JoN 2007; Luksys & Sandi, CON 2011; Nassar & Frank, COBS 2016), which focus on employing models to gain insights into animal behaviour, this study employs the model-free approach that perhaps is less insightful in each specific case but can be easily adapted to a multitude of behavioural scenarios and hence can be used much more easily by cognitive and behavioural neuroscientists, and may contribute significantly to understanding behaviour and refining the experiments.  Although it's a strong paper and a clear accept even in the current form, it could be improved further by addressing the following points: - more specific references to behavioural studies where it's particularly relevant could be provided (e.g. paragraph 1 makes very good points but no references), especially given that only one type of experiment is analysed in the paper (which is understandable due to space limitations). - it would also be helpful to mention model-based analysis studies and briefly compare and contrast the approaches. This may also provide a good base for discussing limitations, as for many learning and decision making studies (e.g. Morris water maze) behaviours cannot be directly related to sensory modalities, hence it's unclear how applicable the presented approach can be  - how is simulated data in section 4 created? - although I agree that history can account for part of perceived randomness in actions (as the authors showed in Fig. 4) it's important to emphasize that exploration/randomness is a well established phenomenon (which may be more prominent under low stress), and only in this particular task it doesn't seem to play a major role (although is still non-zero) - I wonder if discrepancy in tone A and B weights in human data (first steady, 2nd noisy) may be some fitting artefact.  --- Thanks to the authors for their responses. It's a nice paper - clear accept, and I look forward to reading the final version.