This paper examines neural circuits for motion detection, which have been extensively modeled and are certainly of interest to the field. A nice connection is drawn with recent work on biologically plausible learning of similarity matching objective functions, which is also of great interest to the field. While the work draws a nice connection on timely topics, some of the conclusions and biological predictions were difficult for me to follow.  While the paper is decently written, the presentation is dense and difficult to follow in several places. This is partly due to space constraints on the manuscript, but I nonetheless think there is room for improvement in sections 2.1, section 3, and section 4.  Section 2.1 and the preceding paragraph would be easily understood by readers with a background in group theory (I imagine this would be mostly limited to physicists), but I don't think this level of sophistication is necessary to convey the main ideas of the paper. It should certainly be mentioned that Lie groups provide an elegant perspective, but I think this is currently over-emphasized, and jargon terms like "generators" are over-used, without much explanation. In reality the model is simply learning something pretty simple due to the linearity assumption on line 113. A greater effort should be made to provide readers with intuition, e.g., "the model aims to learn a small set of canonical, linear transformations A_1, A_2, etc., which may, for example, denote rotations or translations of input images. Formally, these may be viewed as a Lie Algebra..."  Section 3 is a bit long and unclear. I think the main takeaway is that the model learns reasonable transformations corresponding to shifts and rotations. I am unsure why the comparisons to PCA and K-means are important. Perhaps this section could be shortened/streamlined? Perhaps it does not deserve its own section and should be absorbed into section 2 or 4.  Section 4 is maybe the most confusing to me, and could be clarified. Lines 256-262 describe a model very informally (no equations) which would require the reader to do a lot of work to parse and understand. It is not 100% clear to me how things like back-propagating action potentials could support the Hebbian learning rule without interfering with signals flowing from synapse to soma. Making more explicit references to equation 18 would help here (it took me a while to figure out that this was the relevant expression).