Originality: The use of the True Class Probability (TCP) is novel in the area of uncertainty estimation for the task of detecting misclassifications. However, as the TCP cannot be known at test time, the authors use an additional network component to predict this score based intermediate features derived from the predictive model. This is very similar to the task of confidence score estimation in speech recognition (https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.13024, https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.13025) . While the use of the TCP as a target is novel, confidence score estimation is not, thus the work has limited novelty.  Quality: The paper is technically sound, experiments are sensible and in line with standard practice in the area. The authors are generally honest about the evaluation of their work, however, they do not analyse the limitations of the given approach.   Clarity: The paper is very clearly written, easy to understand and pleasant to read. The author place the work well within the context of current work. To address the authors' question regarding use of information theoretic uncertainty measures for misclassification detection (line 158) - it was shown by Malinin and Gales (https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.10501) that they perform worse than MCP for Misclassification detection.   Significance: The proposed method, while sensible and well evaluated, does not seem to provide a significant advantage over baseline approaches as the complexity of the task grows. One of the issues with the proposed approach, which the authors do not discuss, is that the model is trained to predict the TCP on the training data. Thus, if the model is very good and fits the training data well, then the TCP will be, more often than not, equal to the MCP. Thus, there will only be a few cases where the confidence scores predicted by the model will differ significantly from the MCP. Some ways in which this can be remedied is to use some kind of meta-learning style approach and trained the ConfidNet module on holdout data not used to train the predictive model. Additionally, maybe it is possible to balance the loss, such that it is more sensitive to misclassifications than to correct classifications. Another limitation of the proposed approach is that the theoretical guarantees derived for the TCP do not necessarily hold for the confidence scores predicted by the model.   Reasons to accept:  Very well written paper, pleasant to read. Approach is sensible, good experimental evaluation.  Reasons to reject: Limited originality - related to speech recognition confidence score estimation, but such work is not cited. Method does not provide significant gains over baseline approaches.  ---POST REBUTTAL COMMENTS---  I will change my rating to a 7 and this this paper should be accepted. I actually quite liked reading this paper and thought that it was professionally written and executed. Furthermore, the authors have engaged with the reviewers concerns and addressed them/provided new results.  I still feel that the method lacks a certain degree of novelty and the gains and not as great relative to baseline models. At the same time, I am aware that 'predicting your own mistakes' is a rather challenging task. Furthermore, the experiments are extensive and have been further expanded.  Overall, I feel like this paper is a good demonstration of 'good science practice', and thus, I vote accept. 