Thanks for the rebuttal from the authors. I have read the rebuttal. I have adjusted my rating accordingly. =============== This paper addresses the challenge of causal inference under both interference and unmeasured confounding. A classical solution to interference is chain graph; a framework for unmeasured confounding is latent variable DAG. Hence, this work tries to bring together the two to develop latent variable chain graphs. It develops the identification conditions, provides estimation algorithm, and performs experiments.   The paper is nicely written and well motivated. The network example in the introduction is illuminating. The technical content of the paper is also self-contained, especially for reading unfamiliar with segregated projection. One place that could be elaborated is in ADMG. the condition for a double arrow to exist is rather abstract (and a bit hard to parse). Maybe more explanation on Fig. 1 could help.  However, the empirical studies is not convincing yet. The study contains one simulation of different network sizes. The estimates do not seem close to the ground truth values. the confidence intervals also do not contain the truth values. While the paper makes conceptual contribution, it is not yet clear how well the proposed method solve the problem.  Lastly, a few question of interest remains open here:  1. Does unmeasured confounding interact with network interference?   2. Does dependent data exhibit other complications than unmeasured confounding and interference?  3. Chain graphs are known to be computational expensive. Does unmeasured confounding worsen the situation? How expensive is the computation in the simulation studies?  4. This work requires community membership does not directly influence sharing, except as mediated by social network activity of the user. How restrictive is this condition? (Without this assumption, does it imply some form of interaction between unmeasured confounding and interference?)  5. How does dependent data move beyond interference? Does  the dependence exacerbate the unmeasured confounding issue? How?