I have mixed feelings about this paper. On the bright side, I like the idea of relaxing the (sometimes strict) assumptions underlying topic models such as LDA. The differenciable g functions act as a comparator between the topic distribution over words p(w|z) and the vector representation of w. It reminds me some recent works that combine topic models and word embedding (see [1]). It is an interesting way to embed specific preprocessing, such as convolutionnal layers for dealing with images.  On the other side I'm not convinced that this model is just "another view" of the classic LDA. Let's take an example: the authors use a Dirichlet prior to "mimick" the behavior or LDA when generating \pi_d (what I usually call \theta_d), but it's not really motivated here. This prior is usually chosen for calculation purpose, using the conjugacy between distributions. Why following the same path here? Generally speaking, I face difficulties in fully understanding the analogy with LDA. It *looks* similar but I still think we loose the beauty and fundations of probabilistic models.  The paper is probably too short with (too) many appendices, and it is hard to follow the multiple derivations (e.g., parameters inference). The authors chose to add an extension to let their model deal with observed classes. However there is a huge literature for integrating supervision to LDA. sLDA isn't the only model (see for instance labeled LDA [2]). Besides, the assumption is that there is a one-to-one relation between topics and classes. I'm not fully convinced by the experiments that it is a fruitful assumption, which is annoying with the title chosen by the authors. Therefore I suggest to remove this part of the contribution (and fin another title), or to submit to a journal to have room for giving a clear presentation of the work.  Finally I see pros and cons for the experimental section. It's definitively a good idea to vary the kind of datasets, but it also gives arguments against here and there. For instance: - Several topic models have been proposed to deal with short texts, in particular posted on Twitter. See for instance the Biterm topic model [3]. - The authors use two different evaluation measures for classification (see Tables 1 and 2). Why? - I'm highly surprised that we can write that learning a model for 20NewsGroups (~20,000 instances) in 11 hours is fast! I'm highly confident that we can train classification models faster with competitive results. - I'm hardly convinced by the top words given in Table 3 (and in the appendices). Recent papers use topic coherence measures, such as the ones based on NPMI (see [4]).  I spotted some typos, such as: - "Table 11" (line 239) - "embeddigns" (line 269)  ===  UPDATE: I've carefully read the other reviews and authors' response. It wasn't enough to fully convince me on a couple of points (e.g., complexity in time, topic coherence that "will be included"). However I've changed my overall score from 6 (weak accept) to 7 (accept).  ===  References [1] Das, R., Zaheer, M., & Dyer, C. (2015, July). Gaussian lda for topic models with word embeddings. In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers) (pp. 795-804). [2] Ramage, D., Hall, D., Nallapati, R., & Manning, C. D. (2009, August). Labeled LDA: A supervised topic model for credit attribution in multi-labeled corpora. In Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: Volume 1-Volume 1 (pp. 248-256). Association for Computational Linguistics. [3] Yan, X., Guo, J., Lan, Y., & Cheng, X. (2013, May). A biterm topic model for short texts. In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web (pp. 1445-1456). ACM. [4] Röder, M., Both, A., & Hinneburg, A. (2015, February). Exploring the space of topic coherence measures. In Proceedings of the eighth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining (pp. 399-408). ACM.