The authors study the convergence of distributed, synchronous, stochastic gradient descent for Lipschitz continuous (possibly non-convex) loss functions for two settings: 1) only a subset of the components gradients are exchanged in each iteration, and 2) the gradients are quantized at each node before being exchanged.  These variants of the full-fledged distributed SGD were proposed previously because they save on communication costs, but it appears that their convergence properties were not analyzed prior to this submission. The authors derive explicit conditions on the quantization mechanism, as well as the components exchanged to ensure that the convergence rate corresponds to full data exchange.  The authors insights via their analysis also lead to a new variant that combines the two methods of saving on communication cost.   The main body of the paper is well written, and the model and the results are clearly explained. The main negative of the paper is that the proofs in the supplemental material are presented without any structure as a long and tedious chain of inequalities. This makes the proof difficult to parse and verify.   The results seem significant and important to the NIPS community. I request one clarification: Empirically the authors show that the communication efficient variants converge to the true gradient. However, it is not clear from the simulations if these variants would indeed save on communication if the error is fixed, since they need more number of iterations compared with the full-communication counterpart. It will be good if the authors can compare in future versions of the paper through simulations, the total communication for a fixed error threshold, of various algorithms.  ====== I have read the other reviews and the author response. Although there are still some concerns relating providing experimental details (specifically tuning the learning rate for comparable algorithms), the main contributions/novelty of the paper stands in light of the responses. So I stick with my original score. 