This paper formulates the problem of robust graph covering with fairness constraints. Put simply, this problem is to choose a set of nodes to maximize the number of nodes covered by this set (where 'covered' means adjacent to a node in the set) under the assumption that some number of nodes in the cover will fail (hence the 'robustness'), subject to the constraint that the fraction of each group (e.g. race, gender, other protected status) covered is similar. The authors define the price of fairness (PoF) and show that it can be unbounded in general, but they can bound a relaxation of PoF (i.e. the ratio of expected nodes covered in the fair vs expected nodes covered in the optimal policy rather than expectation of the ratio) for the stochastic block model. Actually computing the optimal fair allocation is NP hard, so the authors instead propose an approximation algorithm. The idea is to show that the original problem is equivalent to a k-adaptability problem under certain conditions, which can then be formulated as a mixed integer linear program and solved via Benders' decomposition (using symmetry to mitigate combinatorial blowup in the number of policies).   I believe this is the first formulation of this problem, though it bears similarity to the fair influence maximization problem (which the authors cite as [31]). Since there are real-world instances of graph cover algorithms being used to deploy social intervention, incorporating fairness constraints is an important innovation and may impact people's lives, especially since the authors demonstrate that failing to previous SotA algorithms without fairness constraints can produce unfair solutions.   For the most part, the writing is clear, but much of the interesting and important proofs are in the appendix, hiding how the results are achieved. The paper appears technically sound, but the in-body work hides much of the detail. In particular, Section 4 is not easy to follow. I am not sure how to remedy that, as the proofs and ideas are quite technical and detailed. Still, it would be nice to add proof sketches of e.g. Prop 1 and 2 and possibly Prop 3 and the reformulation in Theorem 1. The experimental evaluation is useful, but could use some additional description as suggested below.   Questions/suggestions: - Your formulation requires that individuals have only one protected attribute, right? That seems to be implied by your assumption that the groups are disjoin but I think this should be made explicit.  - I think it would be good to explicit contrast with  [31], as fair influence maximization on networks seems like quite a related problem  - It would be nice to have some discussion of the form of the worst case network in the body rather than leaving it to the appendix.  - It would be nice to explain why you relax of PoF to ratio of Expected outcomes rather than expectation of ratios. (And if the answer is 'it's analytically tractable', that's better than not addressing it, in my opinion.)  - In Prop 1 and 2, you mean that the worst-case \bar{PoF} Occurs when I is such and such, right? That's what the text suggests, but I don't see where you state that this is an upper bound over possible choices of I.  - How should the reader interpret the upward closure property? I.e. when would it not be satisfied?  - Is there any guidance on choosing k reasonably?  - Is there no way to compress Theorem 1? I think it is overwhelming to the reader, and seeing the particular forms doesn't convey much insight.  - Table 2 was quite hard to interpret. Several issues: first, the point that the 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 1 2 3 4 5 row refers to levels of J was not obvious, even though the title is 'Uncertainty Level J', because that text is too far from the row, and the row doesn't have label in line with the values. Second, the fact that the 0 in both metrics is with respect to the optimum, but the 1,2,3,4,5 is with respect to the greedy heuristic, is not at all indicated in the table, only the caption, and the caption is hard to parse (I suggest a slight rewrite: 'exact optimal coverage for J=0 and greedy heuristic for J>0' - just moving the labels closer to the text describing them). Third, it PoF figures are presented as percentages, at least if I understand the text correctly, but previously we have discussed PoF as ratios. initially I was confused, since the PoF as defined is between 0 and 1 but all these numbers are larger. Fourth, there are two bold numbers that don't seem to be explained - why are these numbers bold and why are they the only bold? Finally, the word 'Size' didn't immediately register as number of nodes for me. I would just call it Nodes or N. - Re Benders' decomposition, as I am not particularly familiar with it, are there any guarantees? The authors state that the 'iterative process continues until a cut-off time is reached'. In practice, does this mean the algorithm can fail, and if so, can the authors speak to when/how often/under what conditions this happens? - In the experiments, it would be nice to have more discussion about your resource assumptions. I.e. if N is 182, and you have I=N/3, that's 60 nodes, so J=5 is assuming that less than 10% of the monitors can fail. Is there any reason to think this is reasonable in that settings? Is I=N/3 reasonable? Also, you never explicitly wrote gamma, and N is not stated in the text, so it is hard to judge how large these monitor resources are meant to be.  Typos: - pg 5 proposition 2 'If I=' - pg 6 'which decide' - pg 7 'adaptabaility'  Update after feedback: I thank the authors for their responses to my questions, and am glad to hear that the authors have incorporated addressed many of my recommendations. I am not sure whether the authors meant to indicate that points II and X would or would not also be incorporated into the paper, but I do suggest they incorporate them (even if with the brevity in this rebuttal). 