- The authors propose a way to perform structured output prediction when the dependence between 'parts' are localized. The model is learned by breaking the structure into parts and performing kernel ridge regression on the parts. They show elaborate convergence rate analysis in the estimation. The theoretical analysis is the strong part of this paper.   - One of my concern for this paper is whether the locality assumption made in this paper is valid in general. In a lot of computer vision and NLP applications the latest research is about capturing long range dependencies. The correlation in Figure 1 is highly concentrated at the central patch because it's the average of many different images, but on individual images the correlation patten can be very different. But the learning method does not capture these dependencies by breaking the learning problem as part-based regression. It would be useful to test this assumption on more real-world applications.    - One difficulty with doing this learning by parts is inference, i.e., how to put the parts back together to make one single prediction during test time. The authors suggest using stochastic gradient in the evaluation of (7). But given the non-differentiability of most structured prediction problem wrt to the output Z, I am not sure this general scheme would perform well. Also, Algorithm 3 given in the Appendix involves projection onto the set of feasible structures Z, which can be very difficult.   - Another concern for this paper is the range of applicability of this model. The method is evaluated on a single fingerprint direction prediction problem, and compared against several kernel ridge regression based methods. It would be more interesting to test on more traditional problems such as sequence learning, segmentation with MRF, etc, to see if the locality assumption used in the new method actually leads to any improvements. Given this is described as a general structured prediction method, more than one example application should be included to illustrate the model. For example, the authors can quite easily implement Example 2 suggested in their paper.    - Given the proposed method is quite new compared to traditional structured prediction approaches, I believe more examples and experiments need to be given to make sure the model is not a just method with nice theoretical properties but limited real-world applications.  