This paper proposes a class of random functions where each member is a spline function with the parameters produced by a neural network from Gaussian noise. The first contribution of the paper is the capability of enforcing non-negative constraints over the splines via the alternating projection method over the output of the neural network.   The proposed set of spline functions are non-negative and smooth, so they are good candidate to model the intensity functions of temporal point processes. The second contribution of the paper is thus to use smooth non-negative splines to model temporal point processes which makes less strict structural assumptions of the parametric form of the intensity function. Exploring new expressive processes is one of the important problems in the domain of point processes, and this paper advances knowledge in this area.  Even though the overall scheme of the paper is excessively complicated, each section of it is well motivated, and I can feel the authors try to articulate it carefully.  Experiments on both synthetic and real temporal event datasets show improvements over three sophisticated baselines.  Since the paper essentially provides a non-parametric approach for estimating the intensity function of point processes, it will be more convincing to compare with existing processes that are also non-parametric but much simpler. For example, in “Learning Networks of Heterogeneous Influence, NIPS 2012”, they temporal decaying triggering kernel can be formulated as a combination of basis kernel so that it can be learned in a non-parametric way. In “Decoupling Homophily and Reciprocity with Latent Space Network Models”, we can use a sin kernel to capture the periodicity of the temporal events. Moreover, since the approach utilizes the neural network to learn representations. It is also important to mention some recent methods of neural network based point processes, e.g., “The Neural Hawkes Process: A Neurally Self-Modulating Multivariate Point Process”, “Recurrent Marked Temporal Point Processes: Embedding Event History to Vector”.  It is also suggested to conduct a goodness-of-fit evaluation by using the QQ-Plot to test how well the proposed temporal point process is able to represent the true observed temporal events.   Finally, can the paper elaborate more about the training and inference scalability of the proposed approach with respect to the number of spike trains, splint knots, hidden dimension m, e.g. as it is expected that large intervals require more knots to keep certain level of accuracy. 