Overview: The paper proposes a geometric constraint that allows to train ego-motion and depth networks on monocular videos. While the resulting approach is relatively simple, it is very efficient and achieves state of the art or near state of the art results. The authors provide extensive ablation studies and simulations to complement their work.  Quality: The quality of this contribution is generally high. Most notably, authors provide extensive ablation studies and use simulations to elucidate the properties of the proposed method.  Clarity: The paper is clearly written and is easy to read.  Originality: The proposed method is certainly novel and the contribution is original enough.  Impact: While other alternative exist that may allow to achieve similar performance, the proposed method is simple, efficient, and does not require expensive-to-obtain datasets. As such, it may prove very useful in practical applications.  Conclusion: This paper tackles an important problem and proposes an original solution that may be useful in practical settings. The quality of the experiments is high. Overall, this paper is above the acceptance threshold.  # In their response, the authors provided additional details and clarified what they meant by efficiency (mainly training time efficiency). In the discussion, R3 mentioned a particular concern that while efficiency is very important for this contribution, it receives relatively little attention in the article. While it is partially addressed in the rebuttal, I believe that it would be beneficial to further elaborate on how much training time different systems take in previous methods, as it is not entirely clear at the moment and requires re-reading specific aspects of previous SOTA works. In particular, it is important to clarify the phrase "iterative training" the authors used in the response. I.e. it would help to delineate what does every iteration consist of, how many iterations are usually required, how much time each iteration takes, etc.    Overall, I agree that these concerns are important, but I believe they could be significantly amended without additional experimentation, by slightly rewriting/expanding relevant parts of the paper. I believe that the authors will be able to do so before the final submission. Moreover, while important, I don't think that those concerns are critical, as they are mostly about how results are presented, not about the results themselves. Therefore, I keep my score unchanged.