Summary:  The paper presents a regularization-based continual learning method, UCL, where during the training of the current task the parameters of the network are regularized based on their uncertainty in the previous tasks (less uncertainty means that a parameter is important and should not be altered in future tasks). Instead of measuring the uncertainty at the parameter level, as done in the earlier works (e.g.) Variational Continual Learning (VCL), the authors propose to measure uncertainty over the neurons resulting in less number of learnable parameters (mean and variances) to store. To compute the neurons uncertainty, UCL imposes a constraint that all the weights going into a neuron share the same/ common variance. To learn the parameters, a variational objective is used where the authors cleverly opened up the KL term in the ELBO and play with it to impose constraints on the variances of different neurons. The results are reported on MNIST benchmarks and RL tasks.   Positives:  1 - The paper is well-written and the final model is well-motivated.  2 - The KL term (Eq. 3) gives interesting insights and the authors exploit the insights carefully to impose different restrictions on the parameters update to avoid forgetting while keeping the network capacity sufficient to learn new tasks.  3 - I quite like the ablation performed on different facets of the objective function in Figure 5.   Negatives:  I overall quite liked the paper. While the method is well-motivated, I am concerned with the experiments (especially the supervised learning experiment). The reporting of results on only MNIST is a growing concern in the CL community and there’s enough literature available showing that the MNIST is not a very good benchmark to test whether a continual learning method is working or not. While most of the other benchmarks that people deploy (e.g.) Split-[CIFAR, CUB, miniImageNet] have their own problems, they at least make the problem setup more complex and interesting. At the very least, I expect the authors to try their method on these benchmarks and see how their method fare compared to others. I am leaning towards borderline pending the requested experiments.    Post-rebuttal: I read the authors' response and they adequately answer my main concern of testing their approach only on the MNIST for supervised learning experiments. As for the novelty, I still believe the proposed interpretation of the KL term in the ELBO is original and gives interesting insights to the online bayesian learning frameworks. I will recommend acceptance. 