Originality: The paper builds on ideas developed by Lacoste-Julien et al. (2011) that were introduced to bridge Bayesian decision theory with approximate inference in a meaningful and useful way. The paper takes these ideas and makes them applicable in continuously-valued settings so long as the losses are bounded. For inference, it uses a variation of 'black box' type variational inference schemes.  Quality: The paper makes an interesting contribution. However, it is undesirable that the losses must be bounded. Is there a fundamental reason why one cannot extend the proposed methodology to unbounded losses? One potential way of extending/adapting the method that comes to mind is using recent advances in loss-based/PAC/generalized Bayesian posteriors, see e.g. Bissiri, Holmes & Walker, '16 or the work on Generalized VI. The idea there would be to side-step the conversion into utilities altogether. Unless I misunderstood something fundamental, I believe this could be possible by designing a kind of compound loss: adding the negative log likelihood (which is in fact a type of loss itself) to a decision-making-driven loss would generate a new compound/additive loss for the parameter of interest. This in turn would produce an exact & coherent (Gibbs/generalized) posterior in the sense of Bissiri, Holmes & Walker, '16. The variational approximation of such a generalized posterior could then be seen as a form of Generalized VI.  If there are fundamental reasons why strategies of this form would be inappropriate/would not be achieving the same goal, it would be good to know what makes them conceptually fundamentally different from utility-based approaches.  Clarity: Overall, the paper is well-written and clearly understandable. For me, the one exception to this is the explanation for why one should calibrate the utilities such that their infimum is 0 (lines 107-116). Even after multiple readings, I could not understand where the conclusion that 'for optimal calibration we should use utilities such that inf u(y,h) = 0' comes from.   Significance: The paper clearly makes a significant contribution by extending utility/loss calibration into continuously-valued settings. The fact that the loss needs to be bounded however is problematic and should ideally be addressed.   EDIT: I was very happy with the reviewer response as it managed to answer my biggest questions convincingly. Accordingly, I am happy to raise my score to a 6 provided that the explanation of the 0-infimum rationale is expanded upon in the main paper in the same way it was expanded upon in the rebuttal -- the extra page will provide the space necessary. Reading your paper once again, I also noticed that using the non-linear loss to utility transformation the authors propose in eq. (3) actually already DIRECTLY corresponds to the kind of compound-loss I was alluding to in my original response. I failed to notice this in my first reading but would encourage the authors to include a short elaboration on this connection in a future version of the paper.