Originality: The methods mentioned in the paper are a novel combination of well-known prior techniques. The method is a combination of the work in Lample et al, 2019 along with the change that this work does not require an embedding for the transfer attribute and uses the Fast-Gradient-Iterative Modification algorithm  to gain a fine grained control over the degree of attribute transfer. It is clearly stated in the paper how it differs from prior contributions and the work is well cited. The tasks used in the paper are well defined in the prior work.  Quality: The submission is well supported by experimental evidence and compares itself with a range of prior work. This is a complete piece of work and the authors have carefully evaluated the working of their approach except for the few point mentioned in the next section which can strengthen the work.  Clarity: The paper is mostly clearly written and has provided clear implementation instructions to reproduce results except for the human evaluation section. It is unclear whether only 3 workers were hired to annotate all the 100-200 samples or 3 workers were hired for each of the test samples and then the majority vote as considered (Line 200). It is also not clear whether the references written by human for BLEU calculation are the original sentences before attribute transfer or there was some test data collected for acquire human references for attribute transfer (Line 186).  Significance: In automated evaluation metrics the results are not as significant as they are in the human evaluation. Hence it is important to understand how human evaluation was performed. Did the same person annotate the same task for all the models? In general it is preferred to use A/B testing for human evaluations as the scale at which each person scores the sentences needs to be normalized. This is also backed by prior work on style transfer which uses this method of evaluation. The significant contribution of this paper comes from the novel approach of demonstrating how we can gain finer control over attributes and how changing the degree of attribute transfer can affect the generations.