Originality:  This work presents a novel variational approach for image denoising.   Quality:  The submission describes a variational approach for image denoising task in the classical blind denoising setting, where both clean and noisy data are available for training. They especially consider the case where the noise is non- i.i.d. Gaussian. The authors have quite careful evaluation of their method compared to related work. For instance, they re-train the compared methods from related work in the same setting as theirs in order to make a relevant comparison.  Clarity:  Could the authors further discuss the choice of the inverse Gamma prior for the noise variance. Additionally G function, that utilizes the p x p window should be discussed further. The authors should discuss the choices of p along with empirical evaluation.  Significance:  The method is novel and the empirical results are good. Improvements over related work are consistent but not huge e.g., in the real noisy data setting. The best results are in the synthetic setting which exactly matches with the setup of the model (spatially varying non-i.i.d. Gaussian noise), but it is not discussed whether this setting is the best for real-world noisy data. It is likely that researchers will take this approach and fine-tune it to other scenarios as well in future work.   The authors mention that the network architectures for S- and D-Nets can be replaced with others, but it would have been important to see what is the effect of the chosen architectures. Since the input and output dimensions are similar for both nets, it would be possible to test all combinations (both with U-Net, both with DnCNN architecture and other mixtures). This would allow to reader to assess the contributions of the network architectures vs. the loss functions used in training.  It would have been interesting to see empirical evaluation of different noise types, for instance signal dependent noise, correlated noise, at least in the synthetic noise setting.   Minor issues:  There are spelling errors in the document that should be fixed. For instance:  - In section 1: The word "implementation" is ambiguous in this setting. Consider something along these lines: “relatively low implementation speed” -> “low runtime speed”, “Needs to be re-implemented” -> “Needs to be re-optimized”. - 3.3 "It’s pleased that all the three terms" -> "Fortunately all the three terms". - 3.3. line 154  and supplementary line 50 "negtive lower" -> negative lower. - 3.6 title “Some Discussions” -> “Discussion”. - 3.6 line 189 “our method is a generative approach” -> “our method is a generative one”.  A minor issue with clarity resides with Tables 1 and 2, namely the second best entry marked with italics is hard to differentiate from normal font, please consider using e.g., parenthesis instead. 