In this paper, a unified view of different teaching models is proposed based on preference functions. It shows that classical teaching models and their corresponding teaching complexity measures can be treated as teaching under preference functions with different levels of flexibility. Even though it is known in the literature that preference functions play a crucial role in teaching, proposing such unified view is still meaningful for inspiring future researches.   Furthermore, the most interesting result in the paper is the study on the family of “local version space” preference function, which relies on both the current version space and the learner’s current local hypothesis. A constructive proof is provided to show that there exists such LVS preference function, under which the size of the optimal teaching set is linearly upper bounded by the VC dimension of the hypothesis space. This is an interesting result since studying the relationship between VC and the teaching dimension is one of the most important problem in machine teaching. As cracking the well-known open problem about the relationship between recursive teaching dimension, which corresponds to teaching with a global preference function, and VC dimension is still difficult, the above result reveals the importance of designing more flexible teaching models. To my understanding, this paper provides a potentially high impact to inspire further researches towards this direction.   Further suggestions: 1) In the proof of Theorem 3, the notion of VC dimension w.r.t. a hypothesis class and a specific dataset is utilized with formal definition. This definition is different from classical VC dimension which involves only on the hypothesis class. Due to its importance in the proof, a formal definition is bettered to be included.   2) The room to improve paper presentation and organization is significant. To my understanding, the current version of the paper is not friendly enough to readers without a good knowledge about previous machine teaching literatures. For example, it is not discussed in detail about the teaching protocols: whether the teacher knows about the learner’s preference function? Will the teacher know the preference function beforehand, or get better knowledge during the sequential teaching process? A more detailed explanation about such stuffs and intuition behand the main results can be beneficial to further improve the potential impact of the paper.  ------ after rebuttal: I have read all the reviews and the author response. I agree with other reviewers that the work is interesting and novel, thus my score remains the same.