Summary: ------------- The paper applies stage-triggered control to discretize ODEs of optimization methods. The approach is applied for the Heavy-ball method where a rate is presented together with empirical illustrations.  Strengths: -------------- -The paper is very original, the techniques used are new and relevant for optimization. - The event triggered step-size is potentially adaptive to values of the function in a principled way. This leads to interesting application of the ODEs interpretations. Though the current work is limited to the strongly convex case, the approach is sufficiently original to appeal generalizations from the community. The real challenges to me in optimization are adaptivity or generalizations to the non-convex case. This paper may provides a principled way for those challenges.  Weaknesses: ----------------- - The paper is hard to parse. - There is a real problem in the bound: dependence of s for the lower bound in the step-size is not explicit. One really needs it to get an actual principled implementation of the algorithm and an understanding of their bound. For the moment it is unclear if the rate is accelerated or not. I think the authors should withdraw the claim that they "preserve the acceleration properties of high-resolution differential equations" as long as they do not provide an explicit lower bound on the step-sizes. - The results for Nesterov acceleration are unclear: there is no need of assumptions in the Hessian a priori.  Conclusion: ---------------- I would accept the paper for the novelty of the approach and the results. This is an interesting direction of work that does not simply attempt to reproduce previous results but explores a new procedure to get step-sizes of accelerated methods.  This may lead nowhere but the present results are sufficient for me to open the discussion in a conference.  After discussion -------------------- I read the author's response and the discussion. Though I agree that the results do not yet match optimal results in the litterature, I think that the idea can open other directions (application for stochastic optimization for example). This paper would not be accepted for a journal obviously but its originality is what a conference like Neurips is seeking in my opinion. Therefore I maintain my score. Yet, if accepted, the authors need to provide an explicit rate. The present work is not complete without it and it would greatly diminish its impact.