The paper is well written and presents an interesting approach to a current and interesting problem.  It overcomes some of the strangeness in NeuralODE in which the network performs a strange combination of smoothing and filtering.  While I am overall positive on this paper, I think it could be improved in a few ways:  1. It might help readers to have a bit more discussion of the relationship of this work to other different, but related problems.  For instance, this paper assumes that the observation times are selected irrespective of the state of the system.  Other papers model the intensity of the observation times (see the papers on point processes).  Both are useful, but to distinguish this work, it would be helpful for many readers to contrast the approaches.  Similarly, there are works on filtering and estimating the parameters of SDEs.  This paper does not follow that line, instead encouraging (but not forcing) the NN to approximate Bayesian updates of a SDE.  Especially given that the first equation is for a SDE (which is never really referenced again), making this distinction (between SDE inference and this approach) would be helpful (perhaps with a reference to something like Sarkka and Solin's text on Applied SDEs?).  2. It is not clear how much of the performance is due to the use of an "ODE GRU" and how much is due to objective function.  I would have liked to see the GRU replaced with a basic MLP to see the difference.  3. While the emperical evaluations involved a couple of real-world datasets, the criteria used might not be the most relevant for those particular domains.  For instance, in the MIMIC III dataset, there are established benchmarks (see Harutyunyan et al., Multitask Learning and Benchmarking with Clinical Time Series Data, 2019, for instance).  If not using those, I would have preferred to see llh on testing data, rather than predicting the next three observations.  Yet, overall, this is a nice paper.  The experimental results are the weakest point, but for a paper focused on introducing a new method for Bayesian filtering of continuous-time processes, this is primarily an algorithms/architecture paper. 