This paper develops a novel method to infer directional relationships between cortical areas of the brain based on simultaneously acquired EEG and fMRI data. Specifically, the fMRI activations are used to select ROIs related to the paradigm of interest. This information is used in a coupled state-space and forward propagation model to identify robust spatial sources and directional connectivity. The authors use a variational Bayesian framework to infer the latent posteriors and noise covariances. They demonstrate the power of joint EEG/fMRI analysis using two simulated experiments and a real-world dataset.  Overall, this is a well-developed paper that presents an elegant new framework for directional EEG analysis, informed by an auxiliary data modality. I also appreciate the rigorous evaluation on both synthetic and real-world data. Directional connectivity is an increasingly popular topic of study in computational neuroscience, and the coupled state-space model is one of the more principled frameworks that I have seen. For these reasons, I would recommend this paper for acceptance.  With that said, there were a few issues that dampened my enthusiasm for the paper. I would suggest that the authors address these points in a future iteration of this work.  === Major Concerns ===  My main complaint is that even though the paper claims to develop a multimodal framework, the fMRI data is not well-integrated into the generative model. Practically speaking, the fMRI information is used to select the ROIs used in the Bayesian model. This process is done a priori, almost like a preprocessing step. However, fMRI has its own forward model (GLM) which mimics the form of Eq. (2). I would have liked to see the GLM folded into the Bayesian framework. For example, this joint analysis can mitigate cases when the fMRI activations are missing or unreliable by adding noise into the ROI boundaries.  My second concern is the relatively small number of ROIs (5-6) assumed in the experimental section. While it may be appropriate for the chosen paradigm, ultimately, we would like to know more about information processing across distributed functional systems, analogous to resting-state data. Given the large number of parameters, it is unclear whether the inference procedure would be robust in the case of a larger state-space. If not, this would greatly limit the generalizability of this work to new applications.   === Minor Points ===  1) I would have preferred more details about the inference procedure (including update equations) and a much shorter discussion of the experimental setup and results.   2) The model initialization in Section 3.2 is very sophisticated. How do the final values differ from this initialization? Does the model produce reasonable results from a simple random intializaton? 3) The Discussion mentions that the ROIs are specific to each subject. While the spatial location may have been guided by the fMRI, as far as I can tell, all subjects had the same number of ROIs. Can this method be applied when the number of ROIs differs across subjects (as is often the case for fMRI activations)?   ** UPDATE: The author response is good, in that it discusses a number of reviewer concerns. It solidifies my opinion that this is a good paper worthy of acceptance. With that said, using the fMRI as a precomputed spatial prior is not particularly innovative as far as multimodal approaches go.   