[Originality] The use of Gaussian mixture as a specific model for causal discovery from data with group-wise causal mechanisms seems novel and interesting.  [Quality] - Considering that the essence of the paper is the proposal of using a mixture of Gaussians, experimental assessment on real-world data is quite important. - I am not entirely convinced by the experiments of the current version of the paper. (Table 1) Without a comparison against plain clustering methods (e.g., k-means), it seems still possible for SSCM to take advantage of other clustering signals such as distinct data regions, not the structural difference. To validate the proposed model, I think it is crucial for the paper to collect convincing evidence that the proposed method really likely conducted a mechanism-based clustering. For example, (1) showing the results of a comparison against a plain clustering method or (2) showing variability of the estimated graphs for each group (to see if the posterior is concentrated well around the MAP or the posterior mean) or (3) providing an interpretation of the estimated graphs based on domain knowledge (similarly to the one in the fMRI experiment) may help. Using a biased sampling from each group to create mock "individuals" may also be an option. - The problem of estimating the number of groups remains to be addressed. It seems to be an essentially difficult problem, but the paper did not specify a concrete method for it, and only used the underlying truth value for the experiments (line 262).  [Clarity] - I think the manuscript is very well prepared. All paragraphs are easy and smooth to comprehend. - The only problem I had with the presentation is in the statement of Theorem 1. The notion of identifiability is often under some form of (hidden) asymptotics. If I understood correctly, for the case of Theorem 1, the identifiability is under the limit of $n \to \infty$. I think it is important to clarify, especially when there is a "sample size" in the statement of the theorem which is quite confusing (because in standard estimation problems, the identifiability of a parameter is under the limit of (sample size) \to \infty). - (Typo) Supplementary material p.9: "Adjusted Random Index" should be "Adjusted Rand Index."  [Significance] Considering the nature of the paper (proposing a specific model), its significance largely depends on the experimental results using real-world data. The experimental results are interesting, providing some insights into the proposed model, but not completely satisfactory for the reasons stated above in the Quality section.