The paper considers Hawkes processes with intensities constructed from generalized gamma process base intensity functions. Many desired properties for dynamic network models (particularly applied to social networks) are shown to be captured.  A strong paper. It runs along a current thread of work on such models that are somehow inspired by, or connected to, the edge-exchangeable models derived from point processes. So it may not be terribly impactful in that sense, but it is still a novel, elegant piece of work, building upon several sophisticated tool sets (Hawkes processes, CRMs in the generalized gamma class, edge-exchangeable models, dynamic network constructions), it is excellently written and the experiments are broad and convincing. The paper has plenty of color and hits all the right spots, making a satisfying NIPS read.  I don't find the inference section very reproducible. Perhaps at the very least you should provide more details in the supplement. You're using a lot of pieces from different pieces of work, so it seems that it would be very difficult for something to get all these elements working well on their own. If accepted, I'm tempted to check back in on the final submission and kick up a fuss if it isn't satisfied...  Other comments:  p. 2, line 79, "...in that specific case...": What specific case? Don't know what you're talking about here.  p. 6, equation after line 174: I don't get the first equality. How can you say these two densities are equal? Surely you're missing a change to the conditioning set or are hiding an integration.  p. 6, inference: Again, I REALLY don't think I could implement inference procedure from just reading this section... and I'd consider myself pretty well-versed on these...  p. 7, "link prediction" experiments: So am I understanding this correctly... You're only predicting the total number of interactions in the test set? So just one number? And table Table 1 just reports RMSE on this ONE number? I would have been a bit more satisfied if you at the very least made multiple train/test splits, perhaps over sliding windows or something. I find the experiments strong in general but this specific point is a bit of let down to me.  p. 7, line 245, "... can uncover the latent community structure...": Well not THE latent community structure; perhaps A community structure. In general this is non-identifiable and not all samples would be intuitively/qualitatively interpretable, I would imagine.  Updated review:  After viewing the author responses, I maintain my strong accept recommendation. I do still believe this would be in the top 50% of accepted NIPS papers. The only element in the author response relevant to my comments were regarding the inference section; I trust the authors' promises to include more detail in the supplementary material. In their rebuttal, the authors state a large amount of the code from Todescini et al. was used... I think this should be emphasized in the paper... A major goal is to present reproducible work, and if a reader knows much of the heavy lifting will be done by an existing code base, I think that would highly encourage someone to pick up your work.