The authors present an improved analysis for the alternative minimization for structured multi-response regression problem. They provide a new way of analyzing the problem and improve on prior work in the domain. The work without the resampling assumption and their analysis work for general sub-Gaussian noise. Moreover, they allow the structuring function to be non-convex and show that the AltMin with arbitrary initialization can achieve the same level of error as the well-initialized one.  Although I'm not an expert in the field, I feel this paper is well written and pushes the boundaries of what is known. Moreover, their analysis pertains to what practitioners actually do in real situations. I do have some concerns and hence I would vote for a marginal accept. My details comments are given below.  1. In the introduction, the authors mention real-world applications but only name a few very wide fields. It would be better if they can give some concrete examples and follow up in the experimental section on those datasets. 2. This might be a general comment, since I am unfamiliar with the field. Do the authors have any idea about how the AltMin procedure maps to the EM algorithm that has proven statistical consistency? If so, it would be good to add in a remark so that it appeals to a wider statistical audience. 3. Line 162-163: The authors have assumed that \hat{\theta} can be solved globally despite the potential non-convexity of f. A little more light on such a statement is warranted and would be helpful especially since the paper they cite does not clearly claim as such. 4. The choice of the distance function on \Sigma seems a bit adhoc. Can the authors explain a bit of the reasoning behind such a choice? 5. Since I'm not too familiar with the domain, the assumption on line 180-181 seems a bit weird. Since \Gamma_v depends on X, how do we guarantee that minimum and the maximum eigenvalues are bounded away from 0 and \infty respectively?   Minor Comments: 1. Typo in Line 112. Please remove "the" before "statistical models" -> under the assumed statistical models. 2. Please use a different notation for a the \psi_2 norm. The ||| \cdot |||_{\psi}_2 is defined for real numbers. For forcing vectors and matrices with the same notation is a bit confusing. Please change the notation on the LHS of eq(14) and (15) so that the definitions remain consistent. 3. Typo in Line 211: Please remove the repeated use of "significant"