Originality: This paper contains several points of novelty: discovery of the continuous nature of trigger distributions, defining a new generative procedure -- MESA -- from an unknown distribution without samples, and applying MESA to defense against backdoor triggers to achieve significantly improved performance.  Quality: The proposed approach is principled and can effectively learn an unknown distribution without samples when given enough computational resources. The assumption that the testing function F is the composition of the density f and a monotonic function g is somewhat idealistic, but this assumption seems to hold reasonably well for the task for backdoor trigger detection.  Clarity: This is the main area of weakness for this paper. The description of MESA (Section 3.1) is very messy and unstructured, and it took several passes for me to understand the method. In particular, I could not fully appreciate why the ensemble was necessary until realizing that each G_i is learning a level set of the true density function. To help the reader understand and appreciate the result, the authors should devote significant effort to clearly explaining the method, e.g. via a step-by-step breakdown of Figure 2(a).  Another minor question is regarding the experimental setting. When randomly sampling the location to apply the trigger, is the location fixed for all triggers or is it also variable? In this case, does F need to randomly apply the trigger to a chosen location and repeat several times to compute the average success rate across locations? If not, I see this as a flaw in the evaluation setting as it is unreasonable to assume that the defender knows the (random) location of the trigger.  Significance: The improvement that MESA makes over prior defense is significant as demonstrated by Figure 4. This work makes several important discoveries central to the testing-stage defense of backdoor trigger attacks. I can foresee an array of future work that proceeds in this direction.  One clear limitation of this method is that the support set of the distribution that MESA models must be small. In particular, the authors limit to 51 patterns in their evaluation as opposed to all 3x3x3 (CxHxW) tensors containing RGB values between 0 and 255. This is reasonable as a first step, but I am concerned that this approach is limited in principle by the size of the support set in that the computation may scale linearly with the number of supported elements.  ----------------------------------------------------------------------  I have read the author response and decided to maintain my evaluation.