Overall, I found this paper to be interesting, clearly written, and it describes an effective denial-of-service (DoS) attack for voice assistant systems.  Topically, it's worth noting that DoS for this kind of system may be a rather "low-stakes" attack, since it (by definition) cannot be used to violate user privacy or execute commands without authorization. However, it may be a technically more interesting attack than a false-positive triggering attack, which could be trivially achieved by playing back the wake-word. The fact that a DoS attack is possible with relatively innocuous-sounding noise ought to be broadly interesting to audio and/or security researchers, though I'm not sure how well that fits the NeurIPS audience.  Quality-wise, the authors have done a thorough job of reimplementing a known, but proprietary model, and evaluating the efficacy of their method in both simulation and physical instantiations.  There are some minor technical errors in the description of the method, but no show-stoppers that I can tell.  The paper is generally clear, though it could benefit from a bit more focus in setting up the problem. The abstract suggests a focus on false-negative (DoS) errors, but this seems to be post-hoc reasoning after trying to generate adversarial noise for two-sided error. It's not surprising that false positives were difficult (impossible?) to achieve with their noise model, and the presentation could be clarified a bit up front to maintain the focus on false-negatives throughout the derivation.  Minor comments:     - Line 43, "It is also revealed that updates..." this claim needs more support or a reference.     - Line 50, "on-pair" -> "on par"     - Line 165, citation needed for Karplus-Strong     - Line 168, "frequency (key) of the ith note" -- incorrect use of "key" here, musically speaking.  "Pitch" would be more appropriate.     - Line 223, since the noise pattern is fixed across all examples, shouldn't the maximum be outside the expectation?     - Line 236, 240, eq 4 & 5: it's unclear how x, x', z, and delta are related in this equation.  Wake-word loss should depend on y.  