Gen-Oja: A Simple and Efficient Algorithm for Streaming Generalized Eigenvector Computation  Principal Generalized Eigenvector computation and Canonical Correlation Analysis in the stochastic setting.  Propose a simple and efficient algorithm for these problems. Overall the approach appears to be reasonable and is scientific sound. The experimental part is however quite limited - the paper is widely a theoretical proposal and it remains unclear if it is really effective in a practical setting.  The paper is also closely linked to streaming PCA and in parts it is not so clear if there is some strong novelty in this proposal or just a lot of  mathematical wrapping.  comments: - how critical is the i.i.d. condition after Eq. 5 - in my view it is a bit   unlikely to assume that a data stream can be sampled in this way under realistic   conditions - so one may only 'hope' that it holds, or it can be applied only    in some scenaria - as the experiments are very limited the i.i.d. assumption is a key problem and   it is not shown in the experiments that this assumption is not a particular problem - related work is discussed but not much addressed in the experimental part   as outlined in the paper there is a lot related work - but not in your experiments - although the theory looks convincing it would be good to show the effectiveness   also in a number of practical application. Numerical problems are common for such   type of 'approximations' and behind theory the practical results may be different - it may also not harm to add some discussions to practical results (--> in the supplementary material) - I have not checked in detail the supplementary material    --> journal submission?  Comments - to author feedback: - thanks for addressing the comments - some points are clarified - I (now) understand that the authors are focusing on a theoretical improvement   -- I think it would be good to adapt the wording in the paper and maybe also in th title to make this more explicit