UPDATE: Thanks for your reply and the clarifications about your work. In an updated version of the paper, I would recommend to compare against related work that does not follow the two-sample testing paradigm.  ---  Summary: The general framework for detecting dataset shift that is considered in this work consists of two main building blocks. The first one is a dimensionality reduction (i) followed by a two-sample test (ii) determining whether source and target data come from the same distribution. The authors consider a number of possibilities for both (i) and (ii). Here, the problem setting is that labeled data from the source and unlabeled data from the target domain is available. Moreover, the authors describe how to use a domain classifier to obtain the “most anomalous samples” to characterize the shift. Lastly, the paper proposes heuristics to determine how severe a shift is.   Originality: The paper builds on a number of well-known techniques and combines them for detecting dataset shift. In that sense, the contribution is not very “original” but still an interesting analysis. I am not aware of previous work that has performed the same analysis.  Quality: The authors themselves state that their ideas on characterizing the shift and determining its harmfulness are preliminary and heuristic. I agree with this judgement. In particular, I would like to see a discussion of the underlying implicit assumptions behind these ideas and the failure cases. For instance, in 3.4 1) the authors propose to look at the labeled top anomalous samples (i.e. those labeled examples the domain classifier predicts to be from the target domain with certainty) and use the black-box model’s accuracy on those as a characterization of the shift. Assuming such labeled anomalous samples exist is of course a pretty strong assumption.  Related to that point, the authors state in line 196: “Since the difference classifier picks up on the most noticeable deviations, the domain classifier’s accuracy functions as a worst-case bound on the model’s accuracy under the identified shift type.” I don’t think this statement is true: if the domain classifier’s accuracy is large would mean that the shift is large and hence the (source domain) model’s accuracy is probably rather low. Could you please clarify the statement?  Regarding the empirical study, the comparison between the different shift detection techniques seems thorough but I wonder why there is no related work or other baselines in the experimental results section. I would also recommend to comment on how the distribution of the p-values changes as the number of samples from the test set increases. Can you characterize in which cases they decrease monotonically with the number of samples and when they do not?   Clarity: The paper is clearly written for most parts but I found some of the experimental details hard to understand. In particular, the results in Table 1 seems to be averaged over MNIST and CIFAR-10 which I find a bit odd. Also, it is not clear to me what sort of intervals are shown in the plots -- is that information given somewhere?  Significance: I do find the considered problem setting important and more work is needed in this area. However, the main doubt I have about this paper is that related work is not considered in the experiments, the weaknesses of the approach are discussed too little and the ideas on characterizing the shift and determining the harmfulness are too preliminary.