==== After Author Response ====  The authors acknowledged that the the bounds become loose with  ρ, ω and I am satisfied with their response.  Regarding the the plots of convergence rate  vs ∊ _x000f_I will encourage the authors to include these in the main bodies. Visually the current plots seem to convey duplicate information. the three plots could be condensed into one by just  noting in the figure caption that the other plots appear similar. On the other hand, the three different rate of convegence, which can again be plotted on a single axis, will show novel information. Also this way you will save save since you'll have two axes instead of three. ====== END  ====   Recommendation: This paper analyses the effect of model-misspecification on the quality and speed of the EM parameter estimation procedure. This analysis is provided for three different types of misspecifications, which are intuitive and plausible. This work is relevant to NIPS, and the numerical simulations corroborates the major claim in the paper that the estimation-error for true parameters decreases as square root of the number of samples.  The main contribution of the paper is a thorough and systematic analysis of different types of model-misspecifications which may lead to more robust models and algorithms in future. However, some of the analysis makes some implicit assumptions (See technical issues) and the experimental results could be improved, therefore I have given a conservative rating of 7. Depending on the author response I may update it to 8 or 9.   Summary: For each misspecification, the analysis proceeds in three steps. First, the sign-invariant absolute difference between the true parameters and the ideal population-EM estimates is bounded. This difference is called the bias and its upper bound  quantifies the worst error that model misspecification can introduce. In the second step, the rate of convergence to the population-EM estimates is established. Depending on the type of mis-specification the exact rate of convergence changes but for all three cases the convergence is  linear. Finally, the third step relies upon the machinery developed in [Balakrishnan et al. 2014] to prove that with high-probability the sample-EM iterates converge to a ball around the ideal population-EM estimates.   Technical Issues: 1. The upper bounds on the Bias, are derived with few assumptions on hyper-parameters such as ρ and ω but these bounds become useless for some of the values of ρ and ω. For example consider the 3-component mixture with Two-close components. Consider the situation where ρ is 2, in that case the true model actually reduces to a two component model, so the bias should go to zero. But the uppper bound does not reflect that. Similarly with 3-component mixtures with small weight for one component, if ω approaches 1 then the true model actually is just a single gaussian distribution located at origin which can be modelled perfectly by two overlapping gaussians. In this case the bias bound actually reaches infinity. Obviously the upper bounds on bias are still valid, since the true bias is zero but this shows that the quality of the bounds deteriorates with ρ , ω and the analysis is not quite as general and useful as stated in the introduction.   2. Regarding the experiments, since you compute the population EM estimate, why not also show the convergence of the population EM and more importantly check that the convergence rate corresponds to the different linear rates derived for different types of model misspecifications. The statistical error rates for all models is -0.5  which is great but it will be even better to show different convergence rates with different model misspecifications. Although the convergence rate involves unknown constants for models 3.1 and 3.2 it is well-specified as (1-ε²/2) for misspecified variance.  Minor Issues and Typos: 118 "we do not assume any knowledge about the number of components in the true model." The analysis depends heavily on the fact that the true model has three components, how is this statement correct? 123 typo, "than the number of components than the actual number of components present in the model." 206 typo "fit the above model -> fit the model below"