EDIT after rebuttal: Thanks for responding to our questions.   I would say the paper is primarily a conceptual one. I view the better regret bounds in the applications as secondary. But application-wise, I agree that it would have greatly helped if they had an application where they give asymptotic improvements better than shaving log factors. But on the flip-side, in one of the applications they give a much simpler proof and replace a log term depending on the horizon with log term depending on the arms which indicates that this connection may have useful applications in the future.  Thus, overall I think this paper should be accepted.  -----  As described above, the core contribution of this paper is to make a connection between OSMD analysis and the upper-bound on the information ratio. This connection by itself is very interesting. The authors further show that this connection helps in three applications: ( a ) giving a new OSMD based algorithm for the adversarial k-armed bandit which is optimal (upto to lower-order terms) ( b ) bandits with graph feedback and ( c ) online linear optimization where they obtain improved bounds as a result of this connection.  Overall, my opinion of this paper is that it is really interesting and technically deep. It answers the open questions in [21] and does so by giving a general connection. Interestingly, now we have optimal algorithms (upto lower-order terms) for the adversarial bandit problem using both Thompson Sampling algorithm (e.g., [21]) and Mirror Descent (this paper)!  I had a few minor comments to the author, which I think the paper may benefit from. First, the paper references to [21] multiple times, but I think it would be better to have the relevant theorem statements from that paper in the supplementary, so that the reader doesn't have to go back and forth. For instance, line 168 on page 5. In fact, this is the only theorem that is critical and the full statement might as well be added. Second, I had trouble seeing why line 186-187 in Page 6 holds. The current explanation says plug the said value of \eta into Eq. (4) and then from the definition of stab, it follows. I think you meant it follows from Eq. (5). Moreover, there is another term involving stab(A) and eta. Why does that go away? Nonetheless, I think some more details are in order in these lines.  To summarize here are the pros and cons of this paper:  Pros: - Makes an important connection between adversarial and bayesian regret. - Establishes optimal OSMD style algorithm for k-armed multi-armed bandit via this connection - Also improves regret bounds for two other problems: bandits with graph feedback and online linear optimization.   Cons: - The paper can do a slightly better job of writing and keeping it independent from [21] - Some details were unclear to me, and more explanation was needed.