This paper addresses the optimization of actions for a set of tasks, in a Bayesian optimization (BO) framework. The metamodels used are Gaussian processes, where to jointly model tasks and actions the use of a non-stationary parametric kernel is proposed. As for the infill criteria, Thomson sampling is proposed, with a theoretical analysis. In addition to several synthetic test cases, a real world application is considered with nuclear fusion in a tokamak.  The paper is clear and well-written.  It could be good to point out to recent overviews on BO, say, for instance: - Shahriari, B., Swersky, K., Wang, Z., Adams, R. P., & De Freitas, N. (2015). Taking the human out of the loop: A review of Bayesian optimization. Proceedings of the IEEE, 104(1), 148-175. - Frazier, Peter I. "A tutorial on Bayesian optimization." arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.02811 (2018).  Thomson sampling is a local criterion, in the sense that it does not take into account the effect of one new design to reduce uncertainty on a given quantity of interest. Since the real objective is (1),  Toscano-Palmerin, S., & Frazier, P. I. (2018). Bayesian optimization with expensive integrands. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.08661 would be a pertinent comparator to add. Especially since it is not clear (P4L159) that the EI-based comparator matches with the references, or if it is a simplification.  Section 4 There are many ways to encode non-stationarity between tasks (multi-output GPs, tasks modeled as categorical variables, warpings,…), is there a specific reason to pick the Gibbs kernel? Learning correlations between objectives is studied, e.g., in  Shah, A., & Ghahramani, Z. (2016, June). Pareto frontier learning with expensive correlated objectives. In International Conference on Machine Learning (pp. 1919-1927), which shares the interest of learning from correlations.  Minor remark: - P3L94: do you mean that those methods could not work with non-stationary kernels?  #### Added after rebuttal #### I agree that the above reference of [Toscano-Palmerin et al.] is not exactly dedicated to the specific setup here, but once there is a GP over actions and tasks, adapting it is doable. Also, the non-stationary kernel is an orthogonal contribution with respect to the infill criterion, hence it cannot be used against other infill criteria. In my opinion, having less naive competitors will make the paper stronger and hence should be done; accordingly I kept the current score. 