This paper uses neural networks to parse visual scenes and language queries, transforming them into a logical representation that can be used to compute the output of the query on the scene. The logical representation is learned via a combination of direct supervision via a small number of traces and fine-tuning using end-to-end reinforcement learning. Advantages of the approach over existing approaches include: Reduction in the number of training examples, a more interpretable inference process and substantially increased accuracy.  The overall approach shows great promise in increasing the performance of neural architectures by incorporating a symbolic component, as well as making them more robust, interpretable and debuggable. So I think this is a good direction for AI research to go in. The two approaches (neural and symbolic) complement each other nicely. The paper is also well-written, researched and executed so congratulations to the authors!  Here are some possible avenues for improvement:  - What are the flaws/shortcomings of this approach? Discussing this both theoretically and in terms of the actual obstacles the authors encountered while doing the research for this paper would be very valuable and a good addition to the paper.  - Also I'd like to get some more insights about what are good techniques to try in this space. While well executed, the authors focus on one architecture that works well, without too much insight into why it works and what would work for harder benchmarks too.  - As a minor comment, the authors claim that this approach can be useful to defend against adversarial attacks (line 57). On a high level, this seems to make sense, but nonetheless I would be very careful about this statement without sufficient research to back it up. It's probably safer to tone down the language some more here.  Again good job and thanks for writing the paper!  After having read the other reviews and the author response, my opinion that this paper should be published in NIPS with the feedback incorporated into the paper.