This paper develops a principle of maximum causal Tsallis entropy (MCTE) and applies it to imitation learning tasks.   Overall, the paper makes a solid contribution to imitation learning in both theory and practice. I favor acceptance, though I have some concerns about the framing and derivation assumptions below.  Compared to the principle of maximum causal entropy (MCE), it provides sparseness in its probability estimates. In part, this can be understood from eq. (8): MCE is a robust (causal) logloss minimizer, while MCTE is a robust Brier score minimizer. Since logloss penalizes (incorrect) sparsity infinitely, while the Brier score minimizes it finitely, sparse solutions are more easily permitted.   Multi-modality is the other main benefit claimed by this approach. First, some of the phrasing (“from a uni-modal to multi-modal policy distribution”) should be clarified, e.g., to “from both uni-modal and multi-modal policy distributions” since it is unclear. Still, the multi-modality claim is hard for me to understand. It seems to be justified by the Tsallis entropy’s analytical expressibility in continuous domains when combined with mixture density networks (Theorem 7) and experimental results. However, this seems like more of a computational nicety than a fundamental difference between approaches. Can this be clarified? Does multi-modality have meaning in discrete action spaces?  Are strictly Markovian policies implied by the Tsallis entropy? There is a noticeable difference in the built in Markovian assumptions of your formulation compared to maximum causal entropy. Line 109 already makes a Markovian assumption about the policy, but if instead the Tsallis entropy is defined over non-Markovian policies (i.e., by conditioning on all previous states and actions), does the solution reduce to a Markovian policy? This would not be a fundamental problem, but could have implications for changes in state-action space representations, and warrant some discussion. ---------  Thank you for your clarifications. Adding some discussion of the Markov assumption and differences from the Shannon entropy in this regard would be much appreciated.