 The paper presents a theory and formalism for new bounds between epsilon-equilibrium of abstracted games to its epsilon-equilibrium in the full game. Compared to previous work, it has slightly different assumptions.  While authors claim these assumptions are more general than previous work (which is technically correct), I found that this is at the cost of having resulting bounds and theoretical results trivial and not interesting.   Quality:  + The submission is technically sound  + Previous work is well connected  - The authors overstate the strengths of their work and the result (mostly in the abstract).  - “We present the first exact decomposition of abstraction error for a broad class of abstractions that encompasses abstractions used in practice.”   Authors do not mention any example of how their results relate to the abstractions used in practice. Clearly any abstraction has some bounds within the theorem presented in the paper, but that does not mean this bound is meaningful nor interesting for the abstractions mentioned in practice.   - My main problem with the paper is that behind all the formalism, Lemmas and Theorems, there is rather trivial result - if there is a bound on the value difference of any strategy pair (and thus strategy in abstracted game and the lifted strategy) - Lemma 1+2, we can bound epsilons for optimal strategies in the abstracted and the full game. (Theorem 1).  - Most of the paper (text, theorem, lemmas etc) seem to be just straightforward machinery to prove trivial result   - Missing conclusions  - line 158 definition of counterfactual value seems to be missing the \sigma_{-i} term  - line 181: > “conditioned on reaching a given information set I versus …. “ Should be "reaching and following action a"?   - The second example in the Figure 2 is nice, but I believe the authors meant Player 2 in the “...but in the full game Player 1 can choose ` (r) in the left (right) information set”    Clarity:  + The high level idea is reasonably well explained  + Paper uses most of the standard terminology  - Most of the clarity of the idea is hidden in the formalisms  Originality:  + New result  Significance:   - The result itself does not seem interesting nor significant.  *****post rebuttal  I acknowledge the authors rebuttal and find it satisfactory and I am increasing score to 6. I still do not see the result very interesting or useful and think the authors heavily overstate the importance and impact of this result. I would appreciate if the authors down-stated these statements, especially related to existing abstraction techniques.