The paper studies the self-normalized importance sampling in two scenarios. First, the authors show that both IWAE and semi-implicit variational inference can be formulated as a special case of auxiliary variable variational inference with self-normalized importance sampling. Second, the authors proposed a generative model based on the self-normalized importance sampling, in which the samples of the posterior distribution can be approximated by drawing from a reweighted distribution based on the samples from the prior distribution. To overcome the limitation of directly reweighting the samples from the prior distribution, the authors proposed to use Hamiltonian importance sampling. In the experiments, the proposed generative model can compared with standard VAE.  The main concerns of the paper:  1. The paper is a combination of two separate topics. Although both topics are about self-normalized importance sampling, they are used in different ways: (1) used as variational posterior for variational inference (2) used to form a generative model. This makes the paper fragmented and hard to read.  2. Most of the findings exist in the literature in the same or varied form, apart from the re-interpretation of semi-implicit variational inference. The authors need to better highlight the original findings vs the existing understanding in the literature.   Originality:  Most of the findings exist in the literature in the same or varied form.  Quality, clarity:  The paper is fragmented and many technical details are omitted, e.g., what is the formulation of the energy functions used in the experiments and why the energy function formulation is better than a standard VAE.  Significance:  If the presentation of the paper is improved, this work can help to improve the understanding about self-normalized importance sampling in the community.  ------  In rebuttla, the authors provide a much clearer explanation of the contributions. The main contribution of the paper is a specific auxiliary variable variational inference formulation that unifies a few previous works. It would be nice if the authors can show how the proposed formulation can be used to improve existing methods such as IWAE in details. 