This paper focuses on the problem of scalably processing long sequences, in particular, processing sequences without requiring O(n^2) space and time complexity. This is an important goal, as many existing architectures consider pairwise interactions (as in the Transformer) or require inputs to propagate one step at a time (as in the Neural GPU), leading to large runtime complexity. To address this issue, the authors take inspiration from computer network routing, using a shuffle-exchange network to route connections between neural network nodes. They then build on top of this idea, adding gates similar to a GRU and other variations, and show that their architecture performs well on a variety of tasks.  ### Originality and Significance  The idea of using computer network routing designs as a basis for neural network connectivity patterns is, to my knowledge, a novel contribution of this work. Their architecture is also notable for the fact that it does not involve any discrete sampling steps, but is instead entirely continuous and thus can be trained using standard backpropagation.  This work is clearly inspired by Neural GPUs, as the authors state in this work. The Neural GPU architecture also avoids discrete choices, instead applying a series of convolutions across the input. However, because of the nature of the convolutions, running a Neural GPU takes a large amount of memory. The architecture presented in this work appears to be a potential replacement for Neural GPUs in situations with long inputs. The authors also show that their architecture can approach the Universal Transformer in performance on a word prediction task, indicating its versatility.  The authors do a good job of surveying prior work in sequence processing architectures. One thing missing is a mention of explicit program-synthesis-based architectures such as the Neural Programmer-Interpreter (Reed and Freitas, 2016) (among others), which can learn very efficient algorithms but often require program traces during training.  The authors mention dilated-convolution architectures such as WaveNet (Oord et al. 2016), but state that "it is impossible to cover a sequence of a varying length with a fixed dilation pattern" (lines 81-82). I'm not sure what this statement means. It seems that a dilated-convolution pattern could be extended similarly to how a perfect-shuffle pattern can be, as long as weight-sharing is set up properly and edges are handled appropriately (i.e., increase the dilation amount by a factor of two for each layer, and share weights across those layers). In fact, a shuffle-exchange network looks very similar to a dilated convolution when you consider only the edges connected to a single input or output. It may be true that the shuffle-exchange network has better inductive biases because of how states are propagated, but simply asserting that a dilated-convolution-based architecture is impossible seems like too strong of a claim.  Another note on related work: the discussion of Divide-and-Conquer Networks (on lines 98-99) may not be quite correct. That paper appears to describe using a neural network to determine how to split up the inputs, so it does not have a fixed algorithm structure (and instead it requires reinforcement learning).  ### Quality  The model itself presented in the paper seems reasonable, although I am not sure I fully understand the intuition for parts of it. The cell equations are modeled after a GRU, but if the update gate is set to 1 (preventing an update) the first half of each input is kept as-is and the second halves are swapped with each other. The authors note that this fixed assignment works better than an additional gate, but it seems strange to to have one part of the input always be swapped and the other part always not be swapped by default.  The choice of experiments seems reasonable, including both a set of algorithmic tasks and a natural-language-processing task. For the majority of the algorithmic tasks, the authors show how performance varies over training for their model, and also how runtime varies with input length compared with other models. However, notably missing is a comparison of how the accuracy of their model compares with the accuracies of the other models (such as the Neural GPU) as a function of training progress, or a comparison of generalization performance between models (i.e. generalization performance of each model as a function of input length). This seems like important information for comparing this architecture to the existing models.   The paper also includes an ablation study, comparing multiple versions of their model for the multiplication task in particular. These results are very interesting, but I think this section could be improved by exploring a few additional variants of their architecture. In particular, the authors mention in section 4 that using an additional gate to determine swapping or not performs worse; this seems like a perfect candidate for an ablation study. (The authors do evaluate using an identity without swapping, but this isn't quite the same.) Also, it would be very interesting to see how a simple fully-connected network with a couple of layers would work when used instead of the gated update equations. This would help clarify how much of their model's performance is due to the shuffle-exchange/Benes topology, and how much is due to the specific architecture design.  ### Clarity  Overall, I felt that the paper was clearly written and well organized. A few things I noticed:  - Line 48: typo "loosing" should be "losing". - Line 116: A less technical introduction to the perfect-shuffle might be nice (i.e. stating that it corresponds to splitting the input in half, then interleaving) in addition to the bit-shift explanation. Also, perfect shuffles are well defined for non-powers-of-two, but the provided description only makes sense for powers of two. Perhaps this would be a good place to mention that you are restricting your attention to sequences of length 2^k, and padding inputs to allow this. - Lines 134-135: I'm not sure what the claim "largely responsible for the power of the unit" is based on. Is there evidence for that? - Lines 143-144: The notation used made me think about binomial coefficients; perhaps use square brackets instead of parentheses. - Lines 160-170: This description would be much clearer if accompanied by a picture. In particular, this would help make the weight sharing and residual connections easier to understand; I initially misinterpreted the connectivity of the residual blocks and was confused when glancing at the provided code. - Figure 3: Perhaps it would be easier to interpret this figure if shown on a log scale (and maybe show 1-accuracy instead of accuracy); most of the graph is empty. It would also be useful to see the accuracy for the length-64 examples, for reference. - Line 255: typo "looses" should be "loses"  ### Citations Reed, Scott, and Nando De Freitas. "Neural programmer-interpreters." ICLR (2016).  Van Den Oord, Aäron, et al. "WaveNet: A generative model for raw audio." SSW 125 (2016).  ### EDIT: After reading author response  The diagram clarifying the weight sharing is very helpful for understanding the full structure of the model, thank you for providing it.  The plots comparing the generalization performance of the Shuffle-Exchange and Neural GPU are very interesting. In particular, I find it remarkable that the two models show qualitatively different generalization curves for the different tasks; Shuffle-Exchange seems not to smoothly generalize for multiplication, but shows remarkable generalization performance for the other tasks, whereas the Neural GPU generalizes better for multiplication but shows a sharp drop-off in generalization performance for the duplication and addition. This suggests that this architecture allows fundamentally different types of behavior in addition to the efficiency gains.  I also greatly appreciate the additional ablation results, which show how the specific architecture choices affect behavior. Adding a swap gate seems to improve accuracy for sorting, which makes intuitive sense to me, but doesn't seem to help for the more challenging multiplication task (as the authors noted in the original submission).  As most of my original concerns have been addressed, I am increasing my rating from 7 to 8. I look forward to reading the final version of the paper.