The authors study graphical games where players play simultaneous 2-player constant-sum games with everyone they are connected to in a graph representation of player interactions. A previous result says that this class of games includes all separable zero-sum games. The authors analyze the dynamics of multiplicative weights updates: all players learn over time by multiplying weights on a strategy by a term exponential in the utility of the strategy, then normalizing over strategies. The continuous analog of multiplicative weights is replicator dynamics: weights update according to a differential equation that in some sense is the limit of multiplicative weights as the step size goes to zero. Despite the analogy, and to some surprise, the authors show that these two update rules lead to very different dynamics, even as the step size goes to zero. Replicator dynamics have properties called permanence and Poincaré recurrence that multiplicative weights do not. Multiplicative weights have a property where at least two distributions spend infinite time above a constant and also infinite time near zero.  The submission seems to fit into the NIPS CFP in the category "Theory: Game Theory and Computational Economics".  The authors show something interesting, surprising, and non-trivial. The paper is dense. Most of the heavy notation is necessary, and I'm glad the authors did not eliminate all proofs from the body, but some more intuition would be useful. For example, I don't really understand what "bounded away from the boundary" means in Theorem 5. What boundary? I would like to see a description in words of what Theorem 5 means.  The work is worth publishing in some venue since it is natural to assume or attempt to show the multiplicative updates can get some of the nice convergence properties of replicator dynamics studied in a different literature. The authors prove a negative result to help future authors avoid this pitfall.  Some questions: What is wrong with adaptive/diminishing step-size from an algorithmic perspective? If multiplicative weights fails to converge to replicator dynamics as epsilon goes to zero, is there another discrete numerical method that has a game-theoretic intuition but that does converge to replicator dynamics in the limit?   Minor comments:   now popular optimization perspective >> now-popular optimization perspective  discrete dialogues >> discrete analogs  line 140: in priori >> do you mean "a priori"?  line 197: focus on... game >> focus on... games  Update after author response: I still feel the paper is good and worth accepting, but I strongly request that the authors tone down claims of novelty regarding the qualitative differences between discrete and continuous dynamics, cite the sources mentioned by Reviewer #2, and make clear what is new compared to the known results references by Reviewer #2.