Overview:  The authors propose an original approach to zero-shot-learning by combining VAEs with EM for inferring the optimal unseen examples. The key idea is simultaneously generating examples of unseen classes and learning from them. The authors run a number of experiments which demonstrate that the proposed method shows competitive performance in a number of ZSL tasks.  Quality:  The work is generally of high quality. The experiments are clearly described, and the model specifications are detailed. What limits its quality, however, is the lack of performance variability estimates. In general, the results are not entirely consistent across metrics, so it seems that adding variability measures is warranted.  I also feel that in the paper may greatly benefit from providing a few toy simulation studies in low-dimensional settings, s.t. the structure of learned classes may be easily visualized.  Clarity:  The paper is generally well written and is a pleasure to read.   It would help to clarify how the class embeddings are constructed (even if they are given in the current setting)    There is also a number of minor typos:  234: outperforms than, 277 attain(s)  Originality: The proposed method is certainly novel and the contribution is original enough.  Conclusion: Overall, the paper proposes a novel approach to zero-shot learning. In my view, it’s a borderline submission. Overall, while there are considerable limitations, I think that this paper is slightly above the acceptance threshold.  ## After reading the authors' response.  The authors partially addressed some of my concerns, providing variability measures for some of the results and an additional low-dimensional visualization. I believe that to further elucidate the behavior of the algorithm, it could still be beneficial to actually train on an artificial low-dimensional dataset, as opposed to using T-SNE visualization on a natural dataset.  At the same time, I partially agree with some of the concerns voiced by the 2nd reviewer in that more experimentation would be helpful to understand the contributions of different parts of the model. This is partially why I think low-dimensional simulations would be helpful.  Overall, I still think that this is a borderline submission, slightly above the threshold and I keep my score unchanged.