The goal of the paper is to “data mine” records of toddlers’ and their mothers’ fixations while playing with a set of 24 toys in order to observe what might be good training data for a deep network, given a fixed training budget. The idea is that the toddler is the best visual learning system we know, and so the data that toddlers learn from should give us a clue about what data is appropriate for deep learning.   They take fixation records extracted from toddlers (16-24 mo old) and their mothers collected via scene cameras and eye tracking to examine the data distribution of infants’ visual input or mothers’ visual input. This study clearly falls under the cognitive science umbrella at NIPS, although they try to make it about deep learning. For example, if they only cared about deep learning, they would not use a retinal filter.   First, they manually collect data recording what  toys the infants and mothers are fixating on (ignoring other fixations). This must have been a monumental task, as they collected 200 minutes of video at 30 frames a second, resulting in approximately 720,000 frames total from mother and child. This resulted in a dataset of 258k frames for the toddler and 217k frames for the parent.   They report two measurements from this data, the size, and the variety. For size, they use a YOLO network to find bounding boxes around the toys in each frame. The mothers’ data has a narrow distribution of size,  with most data around 10% of the frame. The toddler distribution is much wider, with a long tail out to 60 or 70% of the frame. This is, of course, because the toddlers are smaller, and when holding toys, the toys subtend a larger image on their retinas.   The second statistic is the variation in the images, which they use  Torralba’s GIST representation to measure the distance between the GISTs of each pair of frames within the same category, i.e., computing  a measure of within-category variance. The toddler data again has a longer tail than the adult data, indicating that their input, while emphasizing similarly-oriented images, also includes more variation that the adult input.   They then use Perry & Geisler’s code to filter the data according to a retinal model, centered on the gaze location. This is instance of how it is unclear whether they are building a model of toddler visual learning, or something appropriate to a deep learning system. If they really only cared about deep learning, this step would be unnecessary.  They then use transfer learning (with fine-tuning) on a pre-trained VGG16 network to see which set of data is better for training a network to classify the 24 objects. They test on a set of “clean” images of the 24 objects, which were systematically recorded with 128 views of each object on a black background. One issue here is that they use the test data to stop training, a no-no in computer vision, but they appear to think this is ok because the goal is to figure out which dataset is better for training. I’m not quite sure of the logic there. BTW, the images are cropped at 30 to 70 degrees of visual angle.   The toddler data wins, of course, or they wouldn’t be writing this paper. Performance is best on the 30 degree data and worst on the 70 degree data. This is important for their inferences from this data, because they are going to claim that it is the size that matters. However, they never report the size of the images in the test data. Since deep networks are not designed to be size invariant, they gain their size invariance from being trained on multiple sizes of the objects. It seems perfectly reasonable to check whether the size of the toys in the test images are closer to the size of the training data in the 30 degree crops, which would explain why size matters. Unfortunately, they don’t report this potential confound. It could be that the size is smaller than the 30 degree crops, and that the network achieved its size invariance in the pre-training stage, since it was pre-trained on imagenet. They should respond to this criticism in the rebuttal stage. It should be easy to run YOLO on their test images and report the size based on that (just because that was the technique for measuring the size in the eye-tracked frames).   The characteristics of the toddler data is that the toys take up a larger field of view than their mothers’ data. They then take all of the data and do a median split on the size of the objects and train new networks on this data, and again, the larger images work better for generalization. They also note that the quality of larger images is better, since the objects are higher resolution.   They repeat this experiment with variance instead of size, using the quartile with the least variance vs. the quartile with the most variance. The diverse training set wins, but interestingly, training on the toddler-centric data works better than either, so the authors conclude that the toddlers have a good mix of both.  Quality: Strengths: The idea is original, the amount of effort that went into this submission (especially collecting the data!) is incredible. I think the question of the potential relationships between human vision and computer vision are very important.  Weaknesses: The confound mentioned above is worrisome. The actual relation to deep learning systems is tenuous.   Clarity: The paper is very clearly written  Originality: I don’t know of anyone else doing this kind of research. This is highly original.  Significance: To the extent that this work is relevant to deep learning, it could be significant, but this reviewer is not convinced. However, the significance to human visual development is very high. This is just the first steps on a long research project, I’m sure, and I look forward to more work from this group.   Minor comments:  line 92: Plutowski, Cottrell, and White (NIPS, 1993) might be a better reference here, as it is using example selection with neural nets.  line 182: cross-entry -> cross-entropy  I would reverse the bars in Figures 5b and 6c so that they are in the same order as in Figure 4b. Since large objects go with toddlers, and more variability goes with toddlers, it makes sense to put those first. And in 6c, put the toddler-trained bars before the high-variance bar. 