Short summary: In this paper, the authors derive uniformly most powerful differentially private simple and one-sided tests for the parameter $\theta$ of the Binomial distribution with parameters $(n,\theta)$. In this context, the requirement of differential privacy translates to certain regularity conditions on the test as a function. The authors explicitly establish the necessary form of a test which fulfils these conditions (i.e. the in some sense strongest version of them) and express it as the distribution function of a novel distribution they call Tulap distribution. The UMP-property is then asserted through a Neyman-Pearson-type lemma. Later on, the close connection between the test and the Tulap and Binomial distributions leads to a convenient representation of the associated p-value and therefore the test as such. The paper closes with possible applications to situations without a priori Binomial distributions and simulations comparing the empirical type-I error probability and power when using the new test, the classical non-private UMP test and the test based on Normal approximation.   Comments: Since the differentially private UMP tests for the considered problem were unknown and the authors introduce a new distribution as an essential tool, I consider the paper significant and original. Also, this work appears to be technically sound. A final proof-reading would be advisable nonetheless; for instance, there are several typos in the paragraph on the nearest integer function (lines 98-100) and there is a factor $\exp(\epsilon)$ missing in the second equation on page 11. In fact, I would like to mention as my primary concern that I found sections 2 though 4 very difficult to read - fortunately, sections 5 through 7 are well-written and helped clarify my earlier problems. More specifically, Definition 2.1. clearly creates the impression that $X$ is a parameter. Then, in Definition 2.3., $X$ ist the random object and there is a new parameter $\theta$; however, only a few lines after that, $X$ appears as the index of the test, which is very confusing since it is actually the input variable (i.e. you would typically write $\phi(X)$). After section 3, there is no motivation yet to introduce the Tulap distribution and on top of that, you are again confused about the role of $X$ since it seems to be a parameter. I understand that each consideration in these sections is an important preparation for what follows, but the current structure is unsettling, at least for me: For instance, would it not be more natural to place Lemma 5.2 at the end of section 3 and let this be the motivation for Definition 4.1? Furthermore, the notion of post-processing (where the interpretation of $X$ as a parameter is warranted) is only needed in section 7, so would it not be more natural to discuss it only in that section? I realise that many people would dismiss all this as being a question of taste and hence it does not affect my opinion that this significant and original paper should be published, but I would still appreciate a more accessible version (through a revised structure or helpful remarks).    Regarding the rebuttal: I have read the other reviews and the authors' response. Even in light of the points raised by the other reviewers, I still vote for accepting the paper since the authors' response is quite convincing; I particulary appreciate how seriously the authors took my review and which adjustments they announced.