Summary: Catalyst (reference [34]) was a method proposed for taking some iterative algorithm M and producing a new algorithm M' that uses M as a subroutine but converges at an accelerated rate compared to M. That prior work applied to gradient-based methods for convex composite (smooth + non-smooth) problems and regularized empirical risk minimization problems. Catalyst (Algorithm 2 in [34]) uses a particular choice of surrogate function h_k. It appears that the main difference between Catalyst and the proposed "Generic Acceleration Framework with Inexact Minimization of hk" (Algorithm 2 in the current manuscript) is that h_k is no longer fixed and can be chosen from a more generic class of functions that satisfies certain properties. This enables the analysis and acceleration of algorithms that could not be treated with Catalyst, including Accelerated prox gradient method and Accelerated SGD with prox. This results in accelerated rate guarantees that have two terms: the first bounds convergence rates for the initialization-dominated regime, and the second bounds the convergence rate for the noise-dominated regime.  Comments/Questions: 1) The manuscript is clear and well-written, and the literature search is comprehensive. It was a pleasure to read! I did not check the proofs in the appendix in detail, but the results make sense and the parts I did check appeared to be correct.  2) The treatment of different algorithms (lines 200-225) requires different choices of the surrogate function h_k. The authors provide no insight or discussion regarding the choice of h_k. How were these surrogate functions obtained? What happens if a different h_k is chosen?  3) The plots in Section 5 have no legends and are unlabeled. So it's not clear what the different curves represent. The tick labels are cut off on the top row of plots as well. The legends are present in the Appendix versions, but they should be reproduced in the main text as well.  4) The authors comment that the acceleration method may not perform well for very ill-conditioned problems, and show supporting empirical evidence. This is worrisome because there is no explanation of why this lack of performance occurs. Can this breakdown be predicted from theory?