This work propose the application of Kronecker factored online Laplace approximation for overcoming catastrophic forgetting of neural networks.   My main criticism of this paper is its lack of novelty/originality. As mentioned in the paper, using online Laplace propagation for continual learning of neural networks has already been explored in elastic weight consolidation (EWC) with its variants. Also, using Kronecker factored approximation of the Hessian has already been studied by Botev et. al. Hence it was hard for me to find part of the work that did not come from existing works.  Still, I think this work provides a useful contribution to the field by building up on the popular framework of applying Laplace projection with state-of-art Hessian approximations and might be worth accepting to the conference. Especially, it is worth pointing that empirical results show great performance of the proposed result and should be of broad interest.   As a minor question, I am confused by the overall experimental results, in particular that both EWC and synaptic intelligence (SI) seems to underperform by a large margin compared to simple diagonal approximation of Hessians, which is contrary to the experiments in the respective papers. Is there any possible explanations for this?   ------- I have read the author's feedbacks and keeping my score as it is.   However I am still a bit surprised by the online Laplace algorithm outperforming two algorithms in Figure 1, since comparison between EWC and Online Laplace is still in debate. Especially the reference mentioned by authors have been replied in "Reply to Huszár: The elastic weight consolidation penalty is empirically valid", by Kirkpatrick et al.. Further SI was originally reported to outperform both EWC and Online Laplace. However I also believe that this might result from different experimental settings, especially using up to 50 tasks.  Hence, I would like to suggest the authors to add a footnote to describe this symptom and indicating it goes against some of existing works, to prevent the readers' confusion.