The paper is written very clearly, it spends just the right time on giving motivation for the current results, as well as discussing prior work. The derivation of the final algorithm is gradually introduced step-by-step, which for me personally was really important in gaining intuition.  As mentioned above, the algorithm closes a gap as its performance in l1 utility matches that of an existing lower bound, which already earned my attention pretty early on. However, I wish there was a bit more motivation for PrivHist, in comparison with the algorithm that achieves a similar rate for (epsilon, delta)-DP with delta>0. I want to confirm - the algorithm you are referring to in “Pure vs approximate differential privacy” has error O(sqrt{n}/epsilon)? In which case, your solution also improves dependence on epsilon? if yes, I think this should be added when discussing prior work.  The derivation of PrivHist is non-trivial, and goes beyond mere geometric noise addition. However, given that there has been some prior work on differentially private release of anonymized histograms, I would appreciate if the authors commented on whether these existing algorithms used some of the techniques discussed here - like splitting r around sqrt{n} and using prevalences in one regime and counts in another, or the smoothing idea used to zero out the prevalence vector, etc. I think this discussion would be helpful in assessing the novelty of presented ideas.  Another minor question: is there a formal reason why the algorithm splits epsilon across epsilon1, epsilon2 and epsilon3 evenly?  To conclude, I think the proposed algorithm is clearly presented, comes with formal guarantees, and moreover the current work has many potential applications as suggested in the paper. What I also really liked is that on several occasions the authors discussed why “natural” solutions don’t work (e.g. why Laplace noise or adding noise to all counts would give a worse rate). For this reason I recommend its acceptance.  P.S. Here are a few typos/stylistic comments I had while reading: In Corollary 1: “suppose f-hat satisfies” and “let there exist” On page 6: deferentially private -> differentially private In Definition 1: “if and only if” is somewhat unnecessary since you are using this equality as the definition  Post-feedback: The authors addressed my questions and comments in a satisfactory manner, and I think that making the above comparisons with prior work more explicit will only make the paper stronger. I still recommend acceptance.