EDIT: I have read the author's rebuttal and found it to provide convincing answers to questions about the performance and value of their model. Their approach of "(i) build good predictive models, (ii) explore them in-silico to generate experimental predictions where we are not constrained by experimental time and (iii) test these predictions in-vivo." is in my opinion about as good as any in computational neuroscience at the moment. They don't make the tenuous claim that their model is explanatory in virtue of it's predictive power.  Summary and relation to previous work: The submission presents a new deep recurrent architecture to predict neural activity of thousands of mouse V1 neurons, recorded simultaneously with two-photon microscopy. This architecture allows for the prediction of responses to natural video, a more ecologically valid stimulus than commonly used paramterized noise, while taking into account potentially confounding variables that are not related to the stimulus. The authors investigate whether a model trained on natural video can generalize to responses to noise and vice versa. They find that finetuning the last layer on the target domain leads to successful transfer from video to noise, but that the converse is not true.  Quality:  The authors carefully compare the performance of their model to an oracle estimator as an estimated upper bound on the best performance possible. The authors rigorously perform a number of experiments that provide confidence that the filters they found are true properties of the neurons and not artifacts of the data, model or training. In particular, the successful domain transfer from natural video to noise but not from noise to natural video strongly justifies the use of natural videos over controlled stimuli such as parameterized noise.   Clarity:  The writing is clear and well organized. Sufficient details are provided to reproduce the results. However, the data does not appear to be publicly available nor do the authors share their code.   Originality:  To the best of my knowledge, predicting neural responses at this scale (several thousand simultaneous recordings) to natural movies in awake mice, while taking into account confounding animal state variables, is a relatively new task with no successful models. Previous work has focused on subsets of the challenges tackled here.   Significance:  This submission contributes to a much needed effort to develop new methods to perform system identification on thousands of neurons recorded simultaneously. The model is especially significant because it models responses in more ecologically valid experiments involving awake and moving animals watching natural videos, while taking into account confounding variables just as pupil position and animal speed.  This work also adds to the growing body of work showing that V1 filters are much more diverse than the traditionally assumed Gabor filters. Several aspects of this work could be built upon in future work in computational neuroscience.   Minor edits: - There should be a newline before the beginning of paragraphs: line 132, 208, 231, 257, 263, 286 - line 16: ungrammatical, replace "generalizing" with "generalize"