The work seems to instantiate the general setting of combining ML/RL with proof guidance. The instantiation however seems quite different from existing theorem provers and applied to an area typically not considered by the core ATP community.   Perhaps the discussion of related work could mention and compare with theorem proving in algebra with ATPs such as Otter, Prover9, Waldmeister and E, and the work on their ML-based guidance.  It is far from correct that ML-based guidance focuses on tactical systems. Most of the work so far has been done on tableau system and saturation-style systems (leanCoP/rlCoP, E/ENIGMA) that learn guidance of elementary inference rules in their calculi.  Some of the ideas could be explained in a more high-level way. For example, the intuition behind the reward function.  The evaluation could also be made more convincing by including more problems than just stable set.  ---  Reply:   I have read the reviews and the authors feedback. I will keep my score - the method and results are interesting and worth publishing.  I have some additional questions/comments that could be taken into account in the final version:  1. The architecture of the neural net and alternative ML methods    (raised also by Reviewer 3):   1a. Nonlinearity is not an automatic argument for neural nets. For   example, gradient-boosted trees have been used successfully in   a number of nonlinear and symbolic domains, also involving RL.  1b. Comparison/discussion of the custom architecture used here with   graph neural nets (GNN) would be interesting. Also because GNNs have   been used in neural SAT solving (cited here), and SAT could be in   used to attack the stable set problem.   2. Would a neural-SAT/RL architecture be a viable alternative for stable set?  3. In general, more ablation studies showing the influence of the    neural/RL hyperparameters would be useful.  4. ATP References: The common inspiration for the recent multitude of    ML-guided tactical systems is Gauthier's TacticToe -    http://arxiv.org/abs/1804.00596 . 