 This paper is a theoretical study of global stochastic optimization of an unknown non-convex function under smoothness conditions in a local minimax setting under active and passive sampling. The paper is presented in the setting where the noise is (sub-)Gaussian. The references and review of prior work is adequate in the context of black box optimization (particularly in conjunction with the appendix), and is of interest to the NIPS theory community with interests in non-convex optimization (as can be seen in the reference list) and active learning as well as the theoretical statistics community. The main original contribution is a precise analysis of the local minimax setting (by introducing the appropriate framework), and showing that the local minimax rates of convergence can be significantly better than the global minimax setting under a Holder-type smoothness and regularity condition (A1,A2) in Section 3.1. The paper does a good job of presenting some intuition for the results particularly in the context of comparison to the analogous problem for (strongly) convex optimization.   The paper is overall well written, with minor typos and formatting issues. The paper could do a better job at pointing to the appropriate appendices in the body of the paper, rather than having to scan the entire appendix (e.g. for Appendix B).  For example, Line 33, the footnote should be moved to avoid confusion. Line 83, continuum armed vs continuous armed. Line 113, the ball should be noted as closed. There is a weird bold n on line 201. Some additional proofreading will likely illuminate these. Shrinkt in Fig.1, etc.  While the proof technique used for showing upper bounds is algorithmic, it remains theoretical (this is not a detriment to the paper; just something to be noted).   Due to time constraints, I have not gone through the entire proofs in detail, but as far as I can tell they appear to be reasonable.    Some technical comments: Local Minimax rate definition (143-164): Expansion on point (1) on how the additional less restrictive assumptions are useful would improve this point. These might be shortened a bit in order (with a bit of expansion in the appendix) in order to provide some more technical proof sketch details in the body of the paper. For the intended audience, I feel that may be more useful.  Example 1,2 (243,244): It seems like condition (A3) is the condition of proposition 2. Remark 1 (212): There is something missing in the last part of the sentence; the violations of the conditions can't be too severe in order for the argument to work. This may be worth expounding for another sentence or two. Theorem 1: It would be useful to give some sketch on the ingredients of the algorithm in the body of the paper at a high level. 