The paper presents the building blocks for a complex valued recurrent neural network with a very well written background and motivation. The background on complex arithmetic and calculus was concise making it readable for people from different backgrounds. I have the following concerns:  1) How does this compare (architecturally) to associative LSTMs (Danihelka et al) without their associative retrieval mechanism? The first claim is that this is the first gated complex RNN, making this distinction with associative LSTMs is important in justifying that claim.  2) “finding evidence countering the commonly held heuristic that only bounded non-linearities should be applied in RNNs.” - Listing this as part of your contributions seems misleading since unbounded non-linearities have used in RNNs in the past.  3) Are gains coming simply from better weight sharing (leading to deeper/wider architectures with the same parameter budget) as in the computer vision experiments in Trabelsi et al 2017, norm preservation or complex parameterization  4) Trabelsi et al and Parcollet et al (this is work appears to have been published after this submission so comparisons are obviously not expected) demonstrate the effectiveness of complex/quaternion models in speech applications, I think exploring real world applications that would directly benefit from a complex parameterization would be interesting. Along the same lines, I think it would also be interesting to show that such a model can learn much faster or with far fewer parameters in settings where learning the phase of a signal is a necessary inductive bias such as in model sin waves.  Overall, I like this paper for the well written motivation and concise explanation and background on complex valued calculus. However, my primary concerns are with the experiments, the copy and addition tasks are good sanity checks for the promise of norm preservation, but I think this work needs better real world task evaluations especially with speech datasets. 