The paper is clear and seems correct as far as I can tell, but I found it may not be very accessible to those who are not familiar with the double machine learning approach.  The paper proposes an extension of the two-stage least squares method (DMLATEIV) that allows arbitrary models. The extension itself seems quite straightforward, and the significance of this contribution is limited.  The authors show that DMLATEIV does not satisfy the Neyman orthogonality, meaning that it is sensitive to the errors in the first-stage estimation. To mitigate the weakness, the authors suggest modifying the estimator by the doubly-robust approach and show that the loss for the modification is Neyman orthogonal, and the resulting estimator is robust to the estimation errors of the nuisance estimators. This seems to be a very important and useful result. However, the application of the doubly robust approach to instrumental variable regression is not totally new, and the resulting estimator is known to be Neyman orthogonal according to [V. Chernozhukov, D. Chetverikov, et al. 2017. Double/Debiased/Neyman Machine Learning of Treatment Effects. arXiv 1701.08687]: "Neyman-orthogonal scores are readily available for both the ATE and ATTE – one can employ the doubly robust/eﬃcient scores of Robins and Rotnitzky (1995) and Hahn (1998), which are automatically Neyman orthogonal." Nevertheless, I could not find any previous work on this topic for the heterogeneous setting.  The proposed method is applied to a real-world treatment effect problem and other datasets. The results look great, but there is no comparison with other methods, which is a weak point of the paper.   ===== Update after the authors' response: The authors' response has addressed my major concern with the novelty and the significance of the technical contributions. As the authors claim, the paper in fact presents a solution to an open question raised in [Xinkun Nie and Stefan Wager, 2017. Quasi-Oracle Estimation of Heterogeneous Treatment Effects.]. The authors are encouraged to report the results for the experimental comparison with DeepIV mentioned in the authors' feedback.