In general, I liked this approach.  It is a new an interesting take on the problem and one that seems obvious in retrospect (which is often a sign of a good idea).  I was happy to read the paper and feel that the idea should be generally communicated to the field as a whole.  I am concerned that the paper fails to give the CT-LSTM model of [7] its full due, however.  The introduction states that the hazard (or intensity) functions of previous work are either constant or have a rather fixed form (such as an exponential asymptote).  [7] is a noteable exception to this. The hidden state does exponentially decay, but it is multi-valued (ie a vector) and a intensity is a non-linear function of the hidden state and therefore can have mroe complex behavior.  While the introduction, as written, is true, it does not acknowledge this fact.  Further, in Section 3 (Related works), this work is set to the side, stating that it performs very similarly to the RNN model of Du et al.    This may or may not be true (my own experience is more mixed), but it is notable that the experiments do not compare to this single other method that could produce more complex intensity functions.  If the authors had backed up such a statement (that CT-LSTM does not do as well) with experimental results showning it, this paper would be *significantly* stronger.  As it is, I am left wondering if the other non-exponentially decaying method (CT-LSTM) would do as well as the proposed method in this paper.  Secondly, I am concerned about the training procedure for the "exponential" model in the experimental results.  This uses the intensity function of Equation 6.  This can exactly model a single exponential kernel Hawkes process. Even for a HP with a kernel that is the mixture of two exponentials, the single exponential can often do reasonably well.  Yet, these results are worse than for the piecewise constant model and Figure 3 suggests it has not fit the parameters of the exponential properly (although this is hard to tell, as this might be a testing example).  That the exponential model *can* fit these models well does not, of course, state that in practice it will.  However, if this comes down to a matter of the training/fitting procedure and whether one method is more robust than another, we need more detailed experimental results demonstrating this.  As it is, I am left worried that the authors did not try "hard enough" to get the competing models to fit. 