This paper advances a line of work exploring how to approximate the Nash equilibrium of a game that's too large to compute directly. The idea is to create a smaller abstraction of the game by combining information sets, solve for equilibrium in the smaller game, then map the solution back to the original game. The topic relates to NIPS since this is a state-of-the-art method to program game-playing AI agents like poker bots. The authors prove new bounds on the error of the approximation that are very general. The authors provide the first general proof that an e'-Nash equilibrium in an abstraction leads to an e-Nash equilibrium in the original game. The proof requires that the abstract game is acyclic. The authors show that under a further condition that the reach of nodes is the same in the two games, then the new bounds equal or improve all prior bounds. They show by couterexample that the condition about reach is necessary for prior bounds but not for the authors' new bounds.  The paper makes a solid theoretical contribution. The authors prove a general and natural approximation bound and the proof appears nontrivial. It's hard to say the practical value of the bounds. I would have liked to have seen some empirical analysis of the tightness of the bound, even on synthetic data. Does the bound help in deciding which lifted strategy profile to choose? In general, to what extent is the bound constructive so that it helps guide how to merge information sets and form abstractions?  The paper appears hastily or sloppily written with repetitive phrasing and many parenthetical statements. I believe the prose could benefit from some more attention.  In Section 6, what is the reach of a leaf? Is it the nodes that can reach that leaf (i.e., the leaf's "basin of attraction")? So is reach a bidirectional concept? I had thought reach was a forward concept, going from root toward leaf only.  The paper is heavy with notation. I admit some of this can't be avoided but it can be hard to absorb all the notation. The paper becomes extremely dense with math starting in Section 4 with less description, explanation, and intuition than I would like. I'd also like to see more of the motivating connection to NIPS -- I believe it's there but it may not be obvious to every reader.  In Theorem 1, e is used for the abstract game and e' is used for the original game. In lines 231-232, and Corollary 1, the usage is reversed.  Minor comments:  repetitive: specific to various specific  avoid huge number of citations after one sentence & put citations in numerical order: [36, 4, 15, 16, 19, 20, 18, 21, 22, 24, 14, 10, 34].  This sentence is hard to understand because it uses two meanings of "similar" and I'm not sure the precise meaning of either: "Payoff and chance-outcome similarity is similar to what good practical abstraction algorithms seek to obtain."  Update after author response: Thanks for your response. Your response and the other reviews, especially review 3 were helpful. I think I understand my confusion about reach. There is a notion of reach probability, which is the probability that a node or leaf is reached. This depends on the node's ancestors. But there seems to be another concept in the paper of "reachable sets". These are the set of nodes that can be reached from some information set. Line 104: "set of leaves or information sets that are reachable from some given information set I belonging to Player i". The variables C_I, D_I, Z_I, etc. seem to define sets of nodes that are reachable from an information set. I take this to mean descendants of the information set. By definition, the set of nodes reachable from a leaf is empty. So in Section 6, when you say "if the reach of leaf nodes and child information sets in the original and abstract game are the same", are you talking about the reach probabilities or the reachable sets? At first I assumed it was the latter, but now I think it must be the former. So do you require the reach probabilities to be exactly the same, e.g. 0.01245 for leaf L? That seems like a very strong condition. In any case, please clarify the statement to say "reach probability", not "reach". Unless I am missing something.