Originality:  The WDR-LR problem is timely and important as it can offer advantages over other logistic regression formulations, as demonstrated by previous works.  The proposed framework for wrapping an ADMM method in a line search method to address this problem appears to an appropriate and novel approach. It is also a nice motivation for the development of the new LP-ADMM method variant.  The main novelty of the LP-ADMM method is that the y variables uses a first-order instead of second-order approximation, which is justified by the strong convexity of that subproblem. While the change may appear somewhat minor, this leads to a more aggressive/robust strategy with demonstrated benefits based on the numerical experiments.   The authors do a good job for the most part on the literature review, although they may want to discuss some more works on applying first order methods to different types of DRO problems than those studied herein, see [1] below for example.  Clarity:  The paper is for the most part written well and is well organized.  Quality:  To the best of my knowledge, the mathematical analysis and proofs are correct. Although the O(1/K) convergence rate does not improve on other types of related ADMM methods, the numerical experiments justify its superior performance for the WDR-LR problem. In particular, the authors demonstrate improved performance over both off he shelf YALMIP solver as well as other existing first order/ADMM methods for solving the beta subproblem.  Significance:  The WDR-LR problem is timely and important as it can offer advantages over other logistic regression formulation, as demonstrated by previous works. Still, since the problem is somewhat narrow and the formulation is more complicated than ridge logistic regression for example, it may be difficult for this work to have a very strong amount of practical impact and/or follow up works. Nevertheless, this paper appears to be an important first step in addressing Wasserstein DRO type problems with large-scale optimization algorithms.  [1] Namkoong, Hongseok, and John C. Duchi. "Stochastic gradient methods for distributionally robust optimization with f-divergences." Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 2016.