I read the authors feedback and they clarified some ambiguities and they mentioned that they will be updating the paper with more details and updating my score based on that. ------ The focus of a paper is text to image generation and they achieve this in the VAE framework. The core part of the model is the compositional generation of latent z by dynamically using reusable aggregator modules.   Pros -A very interesting approach in constructing an informative latent code for complicated scences using modular components -Good abstract overview and discussion -Interesting and good results  Cons -While the abstract description is great, the model section fails to transmit the ideas clearly.  -A lot of details is missing from the model description -No information is given regarding network acthiciteure and training schemes  Details: There is a formatting error for the title of Sec 3.  Figure 3: What is the difference between dashed and solid lines in the tree? And why transform and describe are merged into single node?  Eq 2: I think the gating mechanism is an important aspect that makes the PoE work, but even in appendix it's not quite justified why the gating helps. A figure on a simple toyish example could be beneficial.  Each concept consists of two distribution, one for appearance and one for location/scale, are the aggregation operators applied to both elements in parallel?   I don't think I quite understand how the tree structure is constructed from a given a description text.  Authors mentioned, learnable prior p(z), what is the structure of the network for prior?  My understanding is that CLEVER dataset comes with questions, are the authors converting the questions into statements manually?  The paper mentions that the proposed method should results in a disentangled latent code, hence it would be very useful to have some experiments showing that is the case.   While the included detector scores are very useful, it would be interesting to see more detailed analyses of the learned latent code.    The reasoning for the overall score: This paper potentially could be a good paper when some of the details are more clear. Looking forward to hearing authors feedback and then being able to have a better evaluation.  The reasoning for the confidence score: As mentioned earlier, due to some ambiguities and missing information I have not quite understood the paper in detail.