The paper is fairly clear and proposes a novel biologically inspired model for spike localization.  Largely, it is well-down, and provides new paths for exploring the link between individual neurons and electrophysiological properties. It could be used later on for identifying properties of subtypes of neurons and their biological role, for instance, by matching multiple sensing techniques.  However, there are a few issues.  1. To me, it's unclear why the data augmentation is truly necessary.  Under the model, I feel like it would work without this step.  An ablation analysis of what it actually accomplishes and a clear, precise description of why it is helpful would be beneficial.  2. The spike sorting analysis is frustrating for a number of reasons.  First, the authors sweep over the number of clusters to report the results.  The fact that the number of clusters is unknown a priori is one of the biggest issues, so this is unrealistic.  Second, there is a complete lack of comparisons to state-of-the-art methods.  Many, many methods are available with publicly available code for such datasets, including more useful evaluation metrics (e.g., [1]). The claim that combining location estimates and waveform estimation was introduced in 2017 is somewhat tenuous; this is implicit in nearly every dense MEA sorting method.  Because of this, it is unclear to this reader whether the approach would actually contribute to a state-of-the-art sorting package.  3. The scalability here is through time, but does not appear to directly address scalability in channels.  Specifically, a neuropixels device is a good current dense MEA, but several research groups are building and evaluating devices with >10,000 electrodes. Since the current VAE takes all channels as inputs and the number of detection typically scales linearly with the number of channel, I estimate this method would be quadratic with the number of channels.  While certainly not an issue for most devices today, it would be useful to comment on.  [1] Barnett, Alex H., Jeremy F. Magland, and Leslie F. Greengard. "Validation of neural spike sorting algorithms without ground-truth information." Journal of neuroscience methods 264 (2016): 65-77.  The author feedback was reasonable to address my criticisms, and I have revised my score appropriately.