The main idea of this paper is to develop a sketching Newton algorithm for a class of strongly convex and Lipschitz gradient functions in local norms, which has been studied in [20], but for proximal-Newton-type methods. The proposed algorithm converges to the solution of the problem at a global linear or sublinear rate. Such a rate depends on the choice of sketching matrix.   The following points are my concerns: -- The efficiency of the method depends on the choice of sketching matrix S. While Theorem 2 shows a linear convergence rate, it depends on \rho(x), a strong condition, and the authors did not show when it is strictly positive. It is also interesting to see a theoretical trade-off between the dimension of the sketching matrix and the contraction factor in Theorem 2 (at least on a particular class of functions).  -- Clearly, the linear convergence stated in Theorem 2 is not surprised under Assumptions 1 and 2, which is similar to gradient methods. This has been stated in [20] as an inexact/quasi Newton method, though not thoughtfully discussed. This certainly makes the contribution of the paper to be minor. The authors should carefully discuss this point.  --- The main technical proofs of the paper appear to be correct. I have checked the main proofs in the supplementary.  -- The paper is generally well-written and clearly structured. There are some small possible mistakes. Firstly, in equation (52) all norm should be replaced by square of norm. Secondly, the second equation of (76) doesn’t look right to me because Pˆ(x) = H1/2G(x)H1/2 by definition.  -- The paper provides only one class of experiment on a regularized logistic problem. This problem satisfies the assumptions studied in other subsampled and sketching methods such as [6,28]. Why the authors do not compare the proposed method with these existing ones?  -- The proof of Lemma 3 can be simplified as: f(xk+1) = minλ T(xk +Skλ;xk) ≤ T(xk;xk) = f(xk).  -- The result of Theorem 2 is not perfect. There is no theory to gurantee that rho > 0. In addition, it is not clear why rho <= 1. The author should also indicate how the sketch size influences rho.  --The assumption (17) of Theorem 3 seems to be too strong. A clear explanation is needed.