The manuscript presents a new method for modelling physical interactions in molecules, which builds on recent developments in covariance/equivariant neural networks. It is well-structured, and provides a good introduction to the most common physical interactions, and uses this to provide a clear motivation for their model. Although the paper is partially an application of earlier theoretical results, it is a novel way to apply the theory, and the resulting method, in my opinion, represents one of the most clear demonstrations of the potential benefits obtainable when encoding the relevant symmetries directly into neural architectures.  Although I am generally positive about the paper, I have some concerns that should be addressed before the paper can be published.  The paper would benefit from making stronger connections to earlier work, in particular for making the methodology more accessible to the community. Since slightly different notation and concepts are used in the different prior work, it would be enlightening if the authors in this paper clearly explained how the the presented network differs from that of the Tensor Field Networks paper by Thomas et al and the SE(3) net paper by Weiler et al. More precisely, section 4.1 and 4.2 should both be concluded with a brief description of these architectures compare to these earlier works. For instance, it seems that the covariant CG layers corresponds fairly closely to these earlier efforts, except the connectivity between nodes - where the current work ensures that contributions are attributed to individual atoms and uses a mask on the edge functions instead of convolutions to encode locality. Such similarities should be clearly stated, and the differences clearly motivated - so that it is easier for the reader to understand how these papers are related.  I was a bit confused about the notation in line 209. It would seem that s in the layer index. However, in that case I do not understand that the OUTPUT sum operation in line 212 is over the layers s=0...S rather than the activations, i, in the last layer. Is this a mistake, or are you operating over activations from all the layers at once (in which case it in unclear how you aggregate over i)? It would help the reader if the manuscript contained a figure describing the architecture of the network.  "Only at higher layers, when the features F_i are well constructed is it likely that a clear mapping to a physical degrees of freedom be possible". Why would it correspond to a physical degree of freedom?  Do you mean that it corresponds to a physical n-body interaction?  Line 307: "With the exception of R^2, which is much larger than the competitors". Do the authors have any insights into why this particular target is difficult to predict for your model?  The authors could perhaps comment on what the difference is between the QM-9 and MD-17 cases, that might explain the considerably better results obtained on the latter data set.  I encourage the authors to remember to upload their source code for the final camera-ready version of the paper, as they stated in their Reproducibility Checklist. In particular since there is a considerable theoretical barrier to entering the field of the equivariant/covariant networks, it would be very helpful of the code was available.  Quality:  The submission is of high technical quality. However, as mentioned above, the manuscript would benefit from a clearer description of how the methodology connects with earlier work, and a brief reflection on why the approach fails on some of the experiments (and works on others).   Clarity:  The manuscript is clearly written, and motivated the problem and methodology well. I have a few minor suggestions that could improve the clarity further: 1. line 41 and 409: The "Weiler and Welling" citation includes less than half the authors of the paper, and no description of the venue where it was published. Please check other references as well. Gilmer et al for instance also seems incomplete. 2. line 202 "discuss the generalization of convolution the action of compact groups". Missing "to" after "convolution"? 3. line 210 "possibly a scalar function of relative positions". What does "possibly" refers to? When is this possibility exercised? 4. line 262 "We use the ... serve as a starting point". "use"->"let"? 5. line 275 "followed and projecting". Remove "followed"? 6. line 302 "(See the Supplement for more details, including units.)". I could not immediately find this in the supplement (but the units are already in Table 1). 7. line 323 "by the fact all actions" Missing "that" before "all"?  Originality:  While the manuscript is partially an application of earlier methodological contributions on equivariant networks, it is definitely an original contribution. As mentioned above, earlier work is cited, but more could be done to highlight similarities and differences to earlier work.  Significance: The methodology described is a fundamentally new way of describing molecular interactions, and could have substantial impact within the molecular force field community. The modelling approach itself could find applications more broadly within the ML community.  Update after rebuttal: The authors have addressed my concerns. I have updated my score to 8.  