# Overview This paper proposes a new technique to reconstruct entire white matter fasciculus directly from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) data. Moreover, that technique doesn't rely on an iterative process to generate the fascicles as classic tractography algorithms do. Instead, it learns a sparse 3D tensor that encodes the location (i.e. voxel) and orientation of all (relevant) white matter fascicles in a brain subject. Fitting such tensor can be done with gradient-based optimization. However, because it has so many parameters (i.e. ~10 billion for 823 fascicles, 1057 discretized orientations, and 11,823 voxels) and it is a highly sparse problem, the authors propose to use a screening algorithm to select a plausible set of orientations for each voxel based solely on diffusion information. To do so, they propose a modification of the Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP) algorithm where the orthogonality constraint is relaxed in favor of having high multiple correlations and ensuring each orientation itself is useful at explaining the diffusion information. In addition, the author also proposes a group sparse regularizer to ensure biologically plausible fascicles, i.e. locally, fascicles should be smooth and continuous.  The authors validate their approach to two major white matter structures in the brain that were extracted by a connectome expert. They show the proposed technique can learn those two structures efficiently and results in low reconstruction error with smooth fascicles. The authors also show their proposed screening algorithm is more suitable than the original OMP algorithm in this context.  Overall, I found the paper is well written, the proposed technique interesting and the motivation is clear. To the best of my knowledge what's proposed in this paper is novel. Moreover, the authors do mention this is preliminary work and focused on providing a sound formulation and providing an initial empirical investigation into the efficacy of the approximations.  # Major concerns Even though the authors claim it is efficient, I wonder how well the proposed method scale with the number of tracts and voxel resolution? Traditional whole-brain tractography can easily have many hundreds of thousands of tracts. That said, one could easily argue those techniques oversample the number of tracts. I'm curious to know if the authors have tried to learn a smaller Phi (i.e. reducing the size of the 3rd dimension) and see at what point there aren't enough tracts to properly explain the diffusion signal.  Visualizing the resulting Phi is essential for any practical use of this technique. As mentioned in the Appendix, it requires a whole other optimization process in order to place and connect the segments of the tract together. I'm concerned about how reliable that process is, and what impact the greedy algorithm has on the result.  # Minor concerns From the main paper, it is not clear how you limit the tractography to only a particular fasciculus. From Algorithm 3 in the Appendix, it seems you have a set of masks.  From the text, it is not clear how D is obtained.  In Figure 6, it is not clear how corresponding ground truth tracts were determined. If I understood correctly, the solution obtained for Phi could have permutation in its 3rd dimension compared to the ground truth. So, to establish a correspondence between a predicted tract and the ground truth, did you rely on the lowest reconstruction error?  Since source code availability is not mentioned in the paper (but included in supplementary), I'd invite the authors to release their code.  # Typos line 238 and 239: l1 -> $\ell_1$