This paper presents a generative model of layered object representation where a generator synthesizes a foreground object, a foreground mask and a background to compose an image at the same time while a discriminator tells the composite's realism. To prevent the generator from cheating, i.e. generating the same foreground and background with a random mask, this paper proposes to add random shift to the generated foreground object and its mask. The rationale behind this is that the generated foreground object and its mask must be valid to allow such random shifts while maintaining the realism of the scene. In other words, the foreground can move independently on the background in a valid layered scene. As a result, this paper discovered that a high-quality foreground mask emerges from this layered generative model so that an encoder is trained to predict the mask from an image for object segmentation.   --Originality A series of layered generative models have been proposed such as Attend-Infer-Repeat (AIR) (Eslami et al., NIPS 2016) and Generative Modeling of Infinite Occluded Objects (Yuan, et al. ICML 2019) but they can only handle synthetic scenes. The "Attribute2Image" model (Yan et al. ECCV 2016) proposed a similar layered generative model but its mask is supervised. To my knowledge, this paper is the first layered generative model that can synthesize real images without mask supervision. A thorough survey on this topic would improve the originality of this paper. This paper discussed some of weakly-supervised/unsupervised object segmentation models but it is not clear how well it compares with.   --Quality This paper clearly states the basic assumption of 15%-25% support of an object and formulates a corresponding loss to it (Equation 3). The proposed generative model is trained based on state-of-the-art GAN algorithms and yields high-quality samples on a few object categories. The generated masks in Figure 2 have impressive details. A detailed evaluation of image generation quality, especially comparing with the generative models without layered representations would be very helpful to improve this paper's quality. This paper did a fairly good ablation study on different parameters, but it is not clear to me why it uses the segmentation masks computed from Mask RCNN as ground truth. Why not use the actual ground truth and compare with those supervised results? I believe \eta in Equation 3 is a pretty important parameter that decides how many foreground pixels the model is expected to generate. It would be useful to perform an analysis by varying its value. I'm curious if this paper has considered other priors, e.g. mask connectivity, for unsupervised segmentation. This paper is closely related to the work by Remez et al. in ECCV 2018 as stated, so an experimental comparison with it and other baselines, e.g. grab cut would be useful to improve the paper quality.   --Clarity Overall, the clarity is good. As this paper uses 2 generators for foreground and background separately, it will be good to make it clear in Figure 1.   --Significance This paper presents a nice step forwards towards unsupervised learning of layered generative models, which have been shown to have the potential for high-quality image synthesis and scene understanding. Unsupervised segmentation is also an interesting problem in computer vision towards reducing human annotations/labors.  Overall, I like this paper but also believe it has large room to improve in terms of literature review, experiment setup and evaluation.   ======After rebuttal======= I'm mostly satisfied with the rebuttal and request the authors to add literature and baselines as promised. 