The work proposes the use of streamlining in the context of survey inspired decimation algorithms---a main approach alongside stochastic local search---for effciiently finding solutions to large satisfiable random instances of the Boolean satisfiability (SAT) problem.  The paper is well-written and easy to follow (although some hasty mistakes remain, see below). The proposed approach is shown to improve the state of the art (to some extent) in algorithms for solving random k-SAT instances, especially by showing that streamlining constraints allow for solving instances that a closer to the sat-unsat phase transition point than previously for different values of k.  In terms of motivations, while I do find it of interest to develop algorithmic approach which allow for more efficiently finding solutions to the hardest random k-SAT instances, it would be beneficial if the authors would expand the introduction with more motivations for the work.  In terms of contributions, the proposal consists essentially of combining previous proposed ideas to obtain further advances (which is of course ok, but slightly lowers the novelty aspects). The proposed changes are not very deep, but the empirical results are quite good and the experiments seem well-performed. I find it especially interesting that the state-of-the-art  Dimetheus solver benefits from the proposed idea.  More detailed comments:  Lines 48-49: The claim is not totally correct; DPLL and CDCL algorithm could in principle easily be made to branch on more complex Boolean combinations, the challenge is more in coming up with effective heuristics for doing this.  Line 81: "most" solvers is claiming too much. More traditional stochastic local search is also a n active area of development, and it is not entirely clear which approach currently prevails and when. In fact, the newest results from the SAT Competition will be available in a week or so, and the authors can check the situation and perhaps comment on this in the paper.  http://sat2018.forsyte.tuwien.ac.at  Line 107-108: reference are broken!  Section 3.1: The authors should comment on the claim that increasing length of streamlining constraints is a "straightforward extension". The number of such constraints is exponential in the length, I to me it is not at all evident how to go about choosing from such an exponential set when increasing the length? I wonder if there are more practical reasons for restricting to length 2 ...  In the beginning of Section 4.2 it would be good to explicate whether the alpha reached is the best one that has ever been reached, or has this been done before?  Line 239: $T$  Many of the plots are semi-unreadable on a black-and-white printout. The resolution of the images should be improved and the plots made larger (or otherwise more readable).  As a final comment, I would encourage the authors to submit the solver to the random SAT track of the next edition of the SAT Competitions.  AFTER AUTHOR RESPONSE:  Thank you for the constructive author response. I maintain my positive view on the work. It will be very interesting to see the results for Sparrow2Riss.