 Global Averaging Pooling (GAP) and Higher-order Pooling (HOP) assume a unimodal distribution, which cannot adequately capture statistics of convolutional activations. This paper proposes a Gated Mixture of Second-order Pooling (GM-SOP) to improve the representation capacity of deep CNN. GM-SOP represents the feature distribution by a weighted sum of component pooling models, and weights are sparsely determined by Sparsity-constrained Gating Module [32]. For the component model, this paper proposes a parametric version of square-root normalized second-order pooling (SR-SOP)[26] which inserts two 1x1 sequential convolution layers before SR-SOP, which can be viewed as an iterative reweighted estimation of covariance matrix of a generalized multivariate Gaussian distribution. The experiments on the downsampled ImageNet-1K and Places365 showed the effectiveness of the proposed method.   Strengths:  + The ideas to improve the second-order pooling by mixture models with gating functions seems to be reasonable.  + Extensive experiments which justify each component of the proposed method.  + The performance is better than other methods with the same dimension.  + This paper is well written.   Weaknesses:  -The proposed idea is a bit incremental, which is a combination of sparsity-constrained Gated Module[32] and SR-SOP[26].  Comments:  The parametric SR-SOP is justified by the iterative reweighted estimation of the covariance matrix of generalized multivariate Gaussian distribution with zero mean[42]. However, I could not find Eq.(7) in [42]. I would like to know if this citation is correct.   The experiments of parameter analysis (\alpha, N, K) were conducted using the GAP as the component model. I wonder if the same trend can be seen when the proposed parametric SR-SOP is used for the component model.   Rebuttal response:  The rebuttal addressed the concerns about parameter analysis and the Eq.(7). I expect that the authors will add the mathematical details of the relationship between the proposed parametric SR-SOP and iterative estimation of generalized Gaussian distribution in the supplemental material.    