Post-feedback update: Thanks for your update. Your additional explanations and results will help improve the paper, and I definitely think this work is strong and should be accepted. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Originality: This paper draw upon a lot of previous work studying losses within structured prediction, all of which is cited throughout in appropriate places. The framework itself is new, and the authors make it very clear how prior work fits into the framework as special cases. At the same time, a good case is made for why this framework is useful to have and how it can be better to use than prior losses.  Quality: this paper makes a compelling case for the framework it introduces. It explains how previously developed structured prediction losses fit into it as well as providing examples for additional losses that can be derived and how they might be better to due to their ability to be computed more cheaply. A consistency bound is proven, indicating that using this framework is a sensible thing to do. A tradeoff between computational cost and statistical efficiency is mentioned at several points throughout the paper; however, the experimental results do not reflect on these tradeoffs, as runtime comparisons for both training and inference are not included. The experiments do adequately demonstrate, though, that the use of some of the losses introduced by this framework that are not subsumed by older frameworks can lead to improved models.   Clarity: Overall, the flow of ideas in this paper is quite clear. Background material is described in sufficient detail for the reader to understand necessary concepts and how they relate to what is presented here. Section 3.2 is very helpful for understanding examples of the sorts of losses that can be constructed using this framework. There are a few minor typos (for example, in line 101, the first Psi function definition is missing its argument), but these do not significantly impede the clarity of the work.  Significance: the provided empirical results demonstrate that practitioners of structured prediction should consider thinking about developing losses using this framework, as they may lead to training models with better performance. Because no information is provided on the relative runtimes of the compared approaches, the tradeoffs between model performance and training/inference time are not as clear as they could be. 