This paper proposes a formalism for understanding and guaranteeing generalization in extreme regions of feature space. On the applied side, it is a very welcome and timely contribution, as it touches upon the safety and robustness of learning. On the methodological side, machine learning is bound to benefit from the years of experience of probabilists in extreme value theory.  I generally like the paper quite a bit. I only have minor comments.  - The paper omits any discussion of slowly varying functions, which is mostly okay, but worth mentioning (say at L92). - Worth pointing out after L130 that the \Phi also have the same additive form. - My most specific criticism is the following. In light of Remark 2, one sees that we need to assume the +/- case \alpha to be the same. But it is less clear whether we can have the asymptotic scaling (b) chosen to be the same. In particular, the standardization of the marginal of X (as in Algorithm 1) will not necessarily standardize the conditionals given Y=+/-1. Is there no repercussion to this? It seems to me that we are implicitly assuming equivalent scales. Please clarify. - L170, for clarity, use \theta instead of x. - L172, replace G, H with F+, F-. - I think on L231 you mean the norm of \hat T (of X^{train}_{(k)}). Otherwise it wouldn't make sense to switch to the standardized version on the test set, would it?  Finally, this line of work would not be complete without mentioning some earlier work that is concerned with the same issue in spirit, even if the framework is slightly different (more discrete) by Roos, Grunwald, Myllymaki, and Tirri. "Generalization to unseen cases" (NIPS 2005). Even that case could benefit from extreme value theory, as is treated for example by Ohannessian and Dahleh. "Rare probability estimation under regularly varying heavy tails" (COLT 2012).  [After author feedback]  Thank you for your clarifications. I hope you include them in the paper, especially those pertaining to the common scaling assumption. I keep my assessment unchanged.