One of the primary challenges in fMRI datasets is the slow hemodynamic response. This paper proposes to employ a Gaussian Process Factor Analysis (GPFA) approach for dealing with the mentioned problem. In practice,  GPFA is applied to slowly sampled fMRI features provided by the Human Connectome Project for mapping the neural activities to a lower-dimensional space and then extracting smooth latent dynamics. This topic is interesting, and the experiments show some improved accuracy. However, the machine learning novelties and the contributions of this paper is ambiguous. The primary concerns and the minor comments are listed in the following:  1. Although extracting a new lower-dimensional feature space from neural activities (by using GPFA) can increase the accuracy of analysis, there is no causal effect to demonstrate that this improvement is related to fixing the slow hemodynamic issue!  2. Another concern here is the number of data resources. Although the number of samples is acceptable, these data are provided from the same resource. How will the performance of the proposed method be changed if we have batch effects such that fMRI datasets are collected from different machines or locations?  3. The proposed method must be clearly formulated. While this paper in the current format provided a long story (in both the original article and the supplementary material), it is hard to follow the main idea.   4. The limitations and applications of the proposed method must be discussed in details.  5. While noisy features are mentioned repetition through the paper, there is no empirical study to demonstrate what the effect of noise on the performance of the proposed method is?  6. Table S1 in the current format is not informative-rich.  === Update after reading rebuttle ===  Currently, the author(s) address the main concerns in the rebuttal letters, including comment 1 and 2. That is the reason that I have updated the score. However, they must present the revised version of Sections 1 and 2 (answer to comment 3). The presented answers to comments 4 to 6 also must be added to the final version of the paper.