The paper shows surprising results that the simpler modular latent factor models can show better performance in covariance estimation than the more expressive latent factor models (e.g. PCA / factor analysis).  I think this result is interesting and deserves more attention for future research.    The experiments in the paper are extensive.  They include a large number of data sets and two data sets for specific illustration.  They also include an acceptable selection of methods for comparison.  The experimental results are sufficiently convincing.  The presentation is good in general.  On the other hand, the paper is dense and therefore there may be difficulty in making a good selection of content.  In the experiments, the synthetic data sets were generated from modular latent factor models or ones with similar structure.  Therefore, it is not surprising that the proposed method could achieve the best results.  As such, I think those experiments may not deserve so much space.    The modular latent factor models under consideration are somewhat similar to latent tree models (such as the pouch latent tree models in [3], latent tree graphical models with continuous variables in [15], and the model in [*]).  Hence, the experiments would be more interesting if those methods can be included for comparison.  Those models may have different structures, or the latent variables may be discrete, but they should still be able for use in covariance estimation.  Although the experiments with stock market data show some interesting results, it is not clear whether the methods used in comparison are those commonly used for such data.  It would perhaps be better if the authors can cite related work in this area.  The section on fMRI data may be too brief and it is not easy to appreciate the usefulness of the proposed method.  The correlation explanation method seems to have been proposed by the authors of [40] and [41] before.  The authors may explain the relation between the proposed method and the previous correlation explanation method(s) with more details (in contrast with the single sentence used in section 5 currently).  Minor comments:  1) Why the two models “admit equivalent information-theoretic characterization”?  The caption may explain this or what information-theoretic characterization refers to and also the meaning of TC. 2) The paper should cite [32] when it first discusses blessing of dimensionality (provided that the current paper is not the first to discuss this concept). 3) Lines 119-120 on page 3 may not be necessary. 4) The paper may state more clearly how many latent factors are used by the proposed method on the stock market data.  [*] G. Galimberti, G. Soffritti, Model-based methods to identify multiple cluster structures in a data set, Comput. Statist. Data Anal. 52 (2007) 520–536.  