 This paper studies the finite sample complexity of identity testing and closeness testing under the constraints of differential privacy. The paper introduces a technique based on probabilistic coupling useful to prove lower bounds on the sample complexity of some statistical tasks. It uses this technique to show lower bounds on uniformity testing which implies a lower bound on identity testing, and on closeness testing. The paper also provides upper bounds.   Pros: +the general technique that the paper proposes, using probabilistic coupling to prove lower bounds, is neat and interesting and it could be applied to many other statistical tasks beyond the scope of this paper, +the paper finite sample complexity results clarify the picture both respect to the non-private setting, and with respect to previous works in the private setting, +the result showing that the reduction from identity testing to uniform testing in the non-private setting extends to the private setting is an interesting observation, +the paper is well written and gives enough details to understand the main results.   Cons: -this is not the first paper using probabilistic coupling arguments in the setting of differential privacy and few related works are missing: [1] gives a lower bound proof for confidence intervals using a coupling argument, [2,3] characterize differential privacy through a coupling argument and use this characterization in program verification, [4] uses an implicit coupling argument in one of their main results.    [1]Vishesh Karwa, Salil P. Vadhan: Finite Sample Differentially Private Confidence Intervals. ITCS 2018 [2]Gilles Barthe, Noémie Fong, Marco Gaboardi, Benjamin Grégoire, Justin Hsu, Pierre-Yves Strub: Advanced Probabilistic Couplings for Differential Privacy. CCS 2016 [3]Gilles Barthe, Marco Gaboardi, Benjamin Grégoire, Justin Hsu, Pierre-Yves Strub: Proving Differential Privacy via Probabilistic Couplings. LICS 2016 [4]Cynthia Dwork, Moni Naor, Omer Reingold, Guy N. Rothblum: Pure Differential Privacy for Rectangle Queries via Private Partitions. ASIACRYPT (2) 2015  #After author rfeedback Thanks for your answer. I agree with Reviewer #2, it would be great to have a description of the tests in the main part of the paper. I updated the list of references above on coupling.