This paper studies a learning task of Erdos-Renyi graph with edge detecting queries. Each query or test is given as a set of input (a set of nodes) X representing a set of nodes and output Y(X)=0 or 1 representing the absence or presence of at lease one edge in the node set X. The authors derive the theoretical and algorithmic bounds of the number of tests required for achieving the perfect reconstruction of the graph in the asymptotic limit where the number of nodes $n$ tends to be infinity, using three known algorithms: COMP, DD, and SSS. The derived analytic form is tight up to the asymptotic constant. A new algorithm is also invented based on GROTESQUE algorithm, achieving a sublinear computational time in the decoding step which is near optimal compared to the derived bounds.  Originality: The task is new and the novelty of the contribution is clear.  Quality: The submission is technically sound. All claims are proved by using standard bounding techniques (Chernoff, union) plus some more advanced techniques. Both the strong and weak points of the proposed methods are honestly pointed out. In this sense, the quality is high.  Clarity: The paper is basically well organized, though I sometimes found some uneasy expressions. For example, at first sight, it is not easy to understand Figure 1, because the meaning of some parameters (e.g. \theta) and of the axes are not well explained up to the point where Figure 1 is first referred in the main text.  Below I give the list of typos and uneasy expressions which I found: Line 4: hard the sense -> hard in the sense Line 22-24: The sentence ``Each node is ... in that query.'' is hard to understand. Line 663: then then -> then  Significance: Both the derived bounds and the proposed algorithm are interesting and can be useful also for practical purposes. The significance thus is high.    Additional comments after feedback:  Given the author feedback and discussions with the other reviewers, I am convinced with the importance of this work. The score is increased accordingly. But still I think numerical experiments and codes are valuable, because for practical users they are more convincing and important.  