# Update after rebuttal  I thank the authors for their detailed rebuttal; my questions were answered sufficiently. I am convinced this would make a good contribution and suggest to accept the paper.  # Summary of the review  This is a well-written paper on a very relevant topic, namely the use of topological data analysis (TDA) for graph classification. The paper uses a 'learned' weight function for persistence images, i.e. a descriptor of topological features that can be vectorised. The weight function is seen to be crucial for obtaining good performance values.   While I have some more comments/suggestions, I suggest acceptance.  ## Clarity & terminology  The paper is written clearly and can be followed very well. There are a few word choices & explanations that can be improved, though:  - Technically, persistence diagrams form a multiset in the _extended_   plane because infinite features might still exist (l. 23).  - The caption of Figure 1 could be extended to make the paper more   accessible. Space permitting, a brief description of the method, along   with pointers to the respective sections/parts of the method could be   helpful.  - The description of persistent homology in Section 2 is not accessible   to non-experts. For example, the sentence 'Using the topological   object called homology classes to describe these features' is not   entirely correct. I know that the 'typical' description of persistent   homology in terms of groups, generators, and so on, is too technical,   but I would still suggest rephrasing a few things here. Two   suggestions for inspiration (I am not affiliated with any of these   authors, I just think that their explanations of persistent homology   and TDA are accessible):    1. Carrière et al.: 'PersLay: A Simple and Versatile Neural Network Layer   for Persistence Diagrams'    2. Hofer et al.: 'Deep Learning with Topological Signatures'  - While correct, I find that the citation of zigzag persistence and   extended persistence is not useful here because, as far as   I understand, they are not used in the experimental section.  - In Figure 2, the persistence image is not rendered correctly; this   might be solvable by 'filling' the cells instead of showing only   their outlines (it would also make the figure easier to read)  - If space permits, some of the equations could be typeset on their own   because it would make it easier to refer to them.  - In l. 118 (Definition 2.1): what is the 'persistent plane'? This   should probably refer to the (extended) persistence plane.  - In l 123, there is a sentence fragment: 'The persistence image for   a diagram $A$ is $PI_A$ consists of $N$ numbers'  - 'Persistence image' is sometimes written as 'persistence-image'. This   should be used consistently.  - The paper uses $[1, k]$ and $[1, m]$ to denote discrete intervals.   I would suggest using a set notation instead; at first glance, the   other notation can easily be misunderstood as a continuous interval.  - The discussion of the matrix formulation is somewhat redundant: both   in l. 196 and l. 223, the paper discusses that this does not require   loops. Mentioning this once should be sufficient.  - l. 270: This should read 'Generation of persistence diagrams'  ## Method & experiments  The method and the experiments are well described. The weight function optimisation (and its re-framing as a matrix optimisation algorithm) is described in a straightforward and easy-to-understand manner. The authors are to be commended!  A few comments/questions:  - Lemma 3.2 could be formulated more generally if I am not mistaken. The   proposed method should be a valid kernel for any valid kernel function   on the points, right?  - How is the training performed exactly? I assume that the   hyperparameter optimisation only uses the respective training data set   from the current fold? If so, these details should be provided.  - What type of filtration is used for the graph classification   experiment? A sublevel/superlevel set filtration or extended   persistence based on the scalar descriptor?    I would expect extended persistence to be used here, because   it would explain the additional citations.  - The paper discusses additional weight function choices (polynomials of   degree $d$) but only Gaussian functions are used for the experiments,   unless I am mistaken. Are other functions good enough? If so, this   would be an interesting thing to comment on (and maybe even run an   additional experiment to empirically demonstrate this).  - Is subsampling being used for the experiments or not? The discussion   of the complexity leads me to think that subsamples might be employed,   but I was unable to find a proper discussion of this.  - To be fully self-contained, a definition of the Ricci curvature for   graphs could be given (maybe in the supplementary materials).  - Heat maps for the neuron trees are being shown (in the supp. mat.); what   about the graph classification experiments? The performance in the   tables lead me to believe that this might be interesting to show.  ## Language & style  The paper is written very well. I have only a few highly personal 'pet peeves' or suggestions:  - If possible, order citations by their number. The citation string in   l. 36 looks a little bit confusing first.  - Instead of 'We note that [26]', I personally prefer 'Hofer et al.   [26]' because it makes the reference easier to find.  Some typos/mistakes:  - l. 28: 'Due to these' --> 'Due to these reasons?' - l. 170: 'where $\sigma$ is width' --> 'where $\sigma$ is the width' - l. 204: 'Optimal distance problem' --> 'The optimal distance problem' - Table 2: 'appraches' --> 'approaches' - l. 315: 'Variance speaking' --> 'In terms of variance, ...'