Edit: I read the author rebuttal and the other reviews. I will not change my score. I still encourage the authors to try adding experiments that vary the capacity of the SAVP approach, even if it is computationally difficult. We should explore and understand how the performance of both traditional approaches and more complicated approaches change with varying capacity. -------------- Originality -It is not a new concept that high capacity models can improve prediction tasks, but the authors apply the idea to video prediction and are the first to demonstrate that such models can perform well on this task.  -The paper may also be the first to perform such thorough and rigorous evaluation (e.g. a study across three datasets and five metrics) of models at varying capacity levels for this task.  -Related work is extremely well cited throughout the paper.  Quality -This paper is an empirical study of architecture design, and a strength of the work is indeed empirical rigor.  The authors propose five metrics for evaluation and compare on three datasets.  The type of models that are tested are clearly thoughtfully chosen based on a careful literature review.  -The authors include human evaluation using AMT, which, in my opinion, greatly increases the quality and usefulness of the evaluations -One critique is that there is no direct comparison to some of the techniques that the authors claim are not needed for this task. It would have been nice to see how the performance of architectures that employ optical flow, segmentation tasks, adversarial losses, and landmarks scale with increasing capacity. Did the authors try this? (it is possible I just missed something about the paper).   Clarity -The paper was well written and easy to follow.  Significance The idea that high capacity models can perform well compared to specialized, handcrafted architectures is not novel, as the authors point out in the introduction.  However, this paper is the first to apply the idea to video prediction and the first to conduct a rigorous experimental study of this type. So, in my opinion, the results are somewhere in the range of a medium to high level of significance.  If the idea were completely new, the paper would be more significant to me, but I do think that this work will help guide researchers to design better architectures for this task.  