Summary: The paper’s main contribution, in my opinion, is to connect a rather wide class of adaptive Bayesian quadrature algorithms to the general class of week-greedy algorithms in an RKHS, enabling the authors to analyze the convergence of these algorithms as special cases of existing theory. The paper is rather dense, and I wish the authors provided more intuition about the role and interpretation of various terms in Eqn.  (4). By contrast, I think the connection to week-greedy algorithms is presented more clearly, and in my opinion is generally interesting, even for those not interested in convergence rates, just seeking to gain a different perspective on this class of algorithms. I am not aware of any published work studying convergence rates of this wide class of algorithms, and while I can’t confidently comment on how tight or 'surprising' the results are, I think it is an important first contribution in this domain.  Detailed comments:  Line 120: I am puzzled as to why this estimator is used for the integral. For each value of the function g, there is an estimator for the integral. However, one has to then take an expectation over the posterior over g. Here, it seems that we’re taking an expectation over g first (to obtain \mu_{g,X_n}) and then plugging the mean into the estimator. Due to Jensen’s inequality, depending on the convexity of T, this is likely to under- or overestimate the posterior mean. I briefly looked at [8] which is referenced here, but even there, Table 1 suggests a different estimator should be used. Can the authors please comment on this, and perhaps expand on this in the paper.  Section 2.2: A generic form of acquisition functions is given here, but it is unclear if this form, and its various components have an intuitive interpretation. While it’s possible to check if all the referenced acquisition functions do indeed fit this general formulation, it feels very generic, and it’s unclear why this is the right level of abstraction. I would have appreciated a discussion of the role the various components in Eqn (4) play. Similarly, it is unclear to me if the authors think that any arbitrary special case of (4) has a clear interpretation as ABQ.  Lines 160-167: I do wonder whether this compressed generic description of RKHS basics is useful for the reader here, I think this could be sacrificed in favour of providing more intuitive explanation of the results.  Section 3: I liked this relatively compact but informative overview of gamma-week greedy algorithms. 