-- Paper Summary   This paper considers an optimisation set-up where the target function may not be known exactly, but rather may be prone to adversarial attacks and/or uncertainty. This interpretation can also be adapted to other problem settings such as reporting optimal subsets/groups of points rather than individual points. The bounds considered in this work are backed up by both theoretic proofs and a thorough set of varied experiments.    -- Originality + Significance  The work presented in this paper appears to be sufficiently novel within the context of GP optimization. The proposal is very well-motivated in the introduction, while the varied experiments are effective in showcasing the potential use-cases of this method. This paper is indeed not the first to consider robust optimisation, but it is sufficiently differentiated (adversarial rather than random uncertainty, noisy function evaluations, single-point sampling rather than batch). Related work is also appropriately cited and discussed.  Given its inherent similarity to optimising under uncertainty (albeit not adversarial), the connection to Bayesian optimisation could perhaps be expanded further; it is currently only briefly mentioned in passing.  With regards to significance, I think that the appeal of this paper is not limited to the optimisation community but could also be of interest to other machine learning researchers and practitioners.   -- Quality  I am satisfied with the extent of both the theoretic analysis and experimental evaluation. While I look forward to reading the opinion of other reviewers who work more closely in the field of multi-armed bandit optimization, I currently have very little concerns about this paper.  The performance of the algorithm with respect to different configurations of \beta and \epsilon could be explored further using synthetic examples (even if only in the supplementary material). Although the authors claim that their assignment is typically dependent on the problem being targeted, setting these parameters still feels like an overly ambiguous task. The theoretical choice is claimed to be generally unsuitable and is consequently replaced using a fairly vague heuristic given in L220-222.  It might be down to wording, but it is also slightly unclear as to whether the baselines considered are indeed the closest competitors to the method developed in the paper or simply base approaches which the proposal is all but guaranteed to outperform. Several papers are mentioned in the related work section but are not directly considered in the experimental evaluation. In this regard, I would encourage the authors to justify their choice of competitors more effectively.   -- Writing and Clarity   This is undeniably a very well-written paper – I could not spot any typos while reading it, and all the concepts are presented in a clear and concise manner. The balance between the content that is included in the main paper and that which is left to the supplementary material is also very suitable – the supplementary material contains additional experiments as well as proofs corroborating the theorems presented in the main paper.   -- Overall Recommendation  While similar ideas to those explored in this paper may have been tangentially investigated in other forms, I believe this is an excellent paper which ticks all the boxes with regards to content, evaluation and overall presentation. I believe that such a paper could be very well-received by the optimisation community participating at NIPS.  --------------  -- Post rebuttal  Reading the other reviews and the rebuttal has consolidated my views on the quality and significance of this paper. I highly encourage the authors to incorporate the suggestions pointed out in the reviews and subsequently addressed in the rebuttal, in particular the connection to Bayesian optimisation and clarifying why ES and EI share the same issues as GP-UCB. Great work! 