The authors propose to use hybrid block floating point (BFP) numbers to encode inputs/weights/activations during neural network training. BFP offers customizable dynamic range in exponents and multiplication-accumulation (MA) with BFP can be implemented with a much smaller area on a hardware chip. And similar to other approaches, authors propose to use traditional 32 bit floating point (FP32) numbers outside the MA unit, hence the name "hybrid". And empirically, hardware implementation is dominated by MA unit and the FP32 logic accounts for a very small percentage of the chip area.  With GPU simulation, the authors show that HBFP can achieve comparable accuracy on a wide range of benchmarks. And the authors also describe their hardware implementation with Stratix V FPGA, which does realize the area improvement of BFP based MA unit.  It is great to see such a piece of work that takes a more holistic view of hardware/software co-design to optimize system level performance of modern machine learning systems. However, upon closer inspection, I have following concerns:  1) The authors fail to clearly identify their contribution in the hybrid design. As the authors have cited in the work, there exist a large body of academia and industrial research and products in this area. It is not particularly clear to me what exactly is the innovation here.  2) The improvement to BFP is refreshing. But the authors do not really demonstrate its effectiveness. Most importantly, experiments are simply not convincing.   a) In table 2, two BFP implementations use 24 and 28 bits respectively to achieve comparable accuracy to the 32 bit baseline. The saving in hardware seems to be marginal, given the change needed to adapt to the hybrid training in hardware and software.   b) And for the most important FPGA implementation, the authors choose to implement a version with 8-bit mantissa and 8-bit exponent, which simply do not match any method in table 2. So we are left guessing what the accuracy would be if we took advantage of the 8.5x throughput gain from authors' claim. The experiment section definitely needs some clean up.