While there are weaknesses, this paper is a solid submission. The idea is interesting and effective. It outperforms the state of the art.  Strength: + The paper is well written and the explanations are clear. + The quantitative results (especially Table 2) clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. + Figure 1 is well designed and useful to understand the model. + Qualitative results in Figure 2 is convincing and demonstrates the consistency of the attention module across different classes.  Weakness:  - Motivation behind 3.2  Section 3.2 describes the cropping network that uses a 2d continuous boxcar function. Motivation for this design choice is weak, as previous attempts in local attention have used Gaussian masks [a], simple bilinear sampling using spatial transformers [b], or even pooling methods [c]. If this makes a difference, it would be great to demonstate it in an experiment. At minimum, bilinear sampling should be compared against.  [a] Gregor, Karol, et al. "Draw: A recurrent neural network for image generation." ICML, 2015. [b] Jaderberg, Max, Karen Simonyan, and Andrew Zisserman. "Spatial transformer networks." NeurIPS, 2015. [c] He, Kaiming, et al. "Mask r-cnn." Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision. 2017.  - Discrepancy between eq. 9 and Figure 1.  From eq. 9, it seems like the output patches are not cropped parts of the input image but just masked versions of the input image where most pixels are black. Is this correct? In this case, Figure 1 is misleading. And if so, wouldn't zooming on the region of interest using bilinear sampling provide better results?  - Class-Center Triplet Loss  The formulation of class-center triplet loss (L_CCT) is not entirely convincing. While the authors claim L2 normalization is introduced to ease the setting of a proper margin, this also has a different effect. This would in fact, divert the formulation to be different from the traditional definition of a margin. For example, these two points in the semantic feature space could be close, but far away after the normalization that projects them on a unit hypersphere. And the other way around is also true. Especially given the fact that the unnormalized version of phi is used also in L_CLS, the effect of this formulation is not obvious.  In fact, the formulation resembles the cosine distance in an inner product, and the margin would be set -- roughly speaking -- on the cosine angle. The authors should discuss this in their paper. I find the current explanation misleading.  - Backbone CNN  Although I assume so, in Section 3.3 / Figure 1, it is not clear which backbone CNNs share their weights, and which don't (if some don't). Is the input image going through the same CNN as the local patches? Are the local patches going through the same CNN? I suggest some coloring to make it clear if not all are shared.  - Minor issues  L15: "must be limited to one paragraph".  L193: L_CAT --> L_CCT  Equation 11: it would be clearer with indices under the max function.  L215: "unit sphere" -> "unit hypersphere". Unless the dimension of the semantic feature space is 3, which in this case should be mentioned.  Potential Enhancements:  * This paper is targeting zero-shot classification but since the multi-attention module is a major contribution by itself, it could have been validated on other tasks. An obvious one is fine-grained classification, on CUB-200 for instance. It is maybe possible for the authors to report this result since they already use CUB-200, but I would understand if it is not done in the rebuttal.  ==== POST REBUTTAL ==== The additional results have made the submission even stronger than before. I am therefore more confident in the rating.