This paper considers the problem of differentially private k-means clustering, where the input to the algorithm is a collection of n points belonging to the ball B(0,Lambda) in d dimensions, and the goal is to output a set of k centers minimizing the k-means cost, while at the same time preserving (epsilon, delta)-differential privacy. The goal is to achieve utility guarantees ensuring that, with high probability, the cost of the output clustering is at most gamma * OPT + eta, where OPT is the minimum possible k-means cost. The main result in this paper is an algorithm for which gamma is constant, while in all prior work gamma scales with the problem parameters such as the dimension, target number of clusters, or dataset size. The results from this paper also extend to local differential privacy, and enable the construction of coresets.   The paper builds on techniques from prior work. In particular, the algorithm follows a two step procedure where first a set of candidate centers is obtained (which is a relatively small set of points that should contain a set of k good centers). Second, a greedy swapping algorithm is used to actually find a good set of centers from the candidate set. This basic scheme was used previously by Balcan et al. (2017), and the main technical contribution is a new candidate center construction algorithm. The proposed construction builds on the work of Nissim and Stemmer. The construction has two components: first, a routine called Private-Centers that uses locality sensitive hashing that is able to identify good cluster centers for all sufficiently large clusters (relative to the size of the dataset). To obtain good candidate centers for all clusters (even small ones), the Private-Centers procedure is repeatedly applied to the set of points that are furthest from the so-far chosen candidate set.   Overall the paper is clearly written, intuition is provided for the main theorems, and the results are interesting. It would be nice to include a few more details about the private coreset constructions and the utility guarantees in the local model. One thing that may be worth clarifying is why step (2b) of Private-k-means preserves privacy, which (as I understand it) depends on the fact that the set of candidate centers C chosen so far was picked while preserving privacy.