UPDATE AFTER AUTHOR RESPONSE Thank you for the clarifications. I had only one real reservation, regarding the rationale for feedforward simplicity, and this has been clarified. It was a pleasure to review this. ------------------------------  Summary:  The paper develops a multi-faceted metric that summarizes how similar a deep network's representations and decisions are to those of the primate ventral visual stream. This builds on a body of recent work that has identified parallels between deep networks and the ventral stream. The past work suggested that deep networks are good but incomplete models of the ventral stream, hinting that better models (and thus richer understanding) might be achieved by somehow modifying deep networks. To make clear progress in this direction, an objective and reasonably comprehensive measure of brain similarity is needed, and this submission provides it. The authors also present a new network model that establishes a new state of the art for this metric. In contrast with established deep networks (some of which score fairly well) this one has structural parallels with the ventral stream, including analogous areas and recurrent connections. The authors also show that while object recognition performance is correlated with brain similarity, this correlation is weak for the recent best-performing networks in the deep learning literature, suggesting a divergence from the brain, which the new metric provides a way to avoid.   Originality: Each of the above contributions is highly original.   Quality:  This is thorough, field-leading work.   In addition to the main contributions, the authors showed that the results generalized well to new images and monkeys (Fig. 2), and reported the effects of numerous variations on the model (Fig. 5).    Clarity:  The text is well written and the figures and nicely done. The supplementary material provides rich additional detail. A minor limitation is that, since the paper covers a lot of ground, some of the details go by quickly. For example, the description of the network might be expanded slightly. I am not sure the small square labelled "conv / stride 2" in Fig. 1 was explained in the text, or the kind of gating (except in Fig. 5).     Significance:  Each of the above contributions is highly significant and likely to inform other researchers' future work in this area.