 -The paper describes a network structure for handling images with multiple different levels from image-level to pixel-level within a single architecture. Key insight in the work is to provide a versatile architecture for several vision tasks, not only an image classification task but also pixel-level segmentation and region-level detection tasks. This can be done by proposing a fish-like encoder-decoder-encoder structure which performs better than existing popular architectures for the aforementioned applications. The paper is well written and presents sufficient applications of this.  -When seeing the architecture, it seems like an encoder-decoder-encoder structure, so one can roughly understand it as autoencoder + CNN with additional constraints. So this reviewer is wondering if you provide additional ablation study of the proposed network by removing some connections/concatenations among tail, body, head, or compared to the above mentioned structure as a baseline even though the body part does not reconstruct the original size image. By the way, is there any reason why the body part does not decode the layer size until the input size?  -There exist related work with similar analysis for the third advantage about different level features described in the second page in that different level features give different abstraction of the image, complement each other, and can be combined for more accurate performance. Kim et al., “NestedNet: Learning nested sparse structures in deep neural networks”, IEEE CVPR, 2018.  -In Section 3.1, the notations in the equations are somewhat complex and confusing, so I spent lots of time to understand how it works in the blocks. If you provide more generous explanation on this (+ corresponding images are much better), the revised one will be more complete and helpful for many practitioners in the community.  -Could you provide details (+ rule how to construct, like ResNet) how to define the number X in FishNet-X? It is mentioned FishNet-188 in the paper (203 in the supplementary material) but there are also different FishNet-X in Figure 3.  