This paper proposes a single-view 3D reconstruction method, designed for generalization. The proposed method is to first predict a 2.5D representation (depth-map) of the input image, compute its spherical projection, do inpainting on the spherical projection, and then finally predicting 3D voxel from this representation. The paper has extensive evaluation against other state-of-the-art methods and obtains competative quantiative results and visually impressive results.  Strengths: - The paper is written very well and motivates the importance of generalization   well. Each of it's design choices are well explained. - Results look nice and less of memorization. In particular, the results on the   L-shaped couch is actually retaining its particular shape, as opposed to other methods that output a generic sofa. Small details such as legs are well preserved. - Evaluation against other methods are extensive, with ablative study. - Solving for the 3D shape in camera-aligned coordinate system makes a lot of   sense since then the results are also aligned to the input image. I agree that this is the right way to solve the problem. - Usig the spherical projection representation is interesting. The strength lies   in the fact that each module preserves the original image detail as much as possible and this makes sense as to why the final result does capture the shape of the actual input image.  Weaknesses: - Limited number of qualitative results. There are only 8 results in the big   Figure 5 and few other results in the figure. Particularly because CD error does not correlate well with the visual perception of the results, it would've been nice to see more results in the supplementary materials. It would also nice to show results from the depth-oracle. - One point is that the paper only shows results on man-made objects (only those   shapes that are available in shapenet). It seems to generalize to these rigid, man-made objects but if the goal is really for generalization, the paper could do experiments on other types of 3D shapes such as non-rigid and deformable objects such as cloths/developable surfaces, humans and animals, which has different distribution of 3D shapes. For example, the method could be tested on 3D shaeps from the Tosca dataset (Bronstein et al.) which includes humans, horses, cats etc. Since these 3D shapes do not have any textures one could try with oracle-depth, adn oracle-sphereical depth map. - The ablative study does not have oracle-spherical depth map which would add   more insight into it's error modes.  In all I like this paper, it presents a simple and nice method through spherical projection. Adding further experiments with different object types other than man-made objects will further strengthen this paper.  Post rebuttal: I stand-by my original rating. I thank the authors for adding more experiments, these extra results look very good.  