Authors observed that most state-of-the-art object detectors, which treat objects individually, can be improved by global reasoning and prior knowledge. The paper proposes a new neural network architecture, Hybrid Knowledge Routed Modules (HKRM), incorporating two types of knowledge, linguistic knowledge (attributes, relationship) and spatial layouts for object detection.  The global reasoning/prior knowledge has been proven to be effective for object detection and scene understanding in recent papers including [5,6],  Xu et al. "Scene graph generation by iterative message passing, CVPR 2017. Further, as the authors pointed out, for more efficient knowledge representation, matrix (or tensor) factorization can be used for scene understanding as in Hwang et al. Tensorize, Factorize and Regularize: Robust Visual Relationship Learning, CVPR 2018. Authors should include more related works.  This paper has many strong points. This paper combines multiple types of knowledge together. The object similarity based on shared attributes was a quite interesting idea like collaborative filtering. The global reasoning is simplified than LSTM or RNN based message passing networks. The proposed methods showed significant improvement against strong baseline (Faster-RCNN).  There are a few questions on this paper.  It was not clear whether the global reasoning is one-time propagation for each edge. Does it allow the interaction between nodes without edges? If not, can it be considered as global reasoning? How is it sensitive to the order of feature transformation? Authors should provide more discussion on global reasoning.  The paper does not have any comparison with other object detectors enhanced by spatial memory [5] global reasoning [6], label relationship [9] and so on. This makes harder to evaluate the utility of the proposed method.  The authors said that the proposed method is light-weight. But no data is available to evaluate additional computational cost. If possible, for readers, please compare the computational cost of Faster-RCNN and HKRM. If authors meant that the proposed method is relatively lighter than other knowledge-enhanced methods, relevant data should be provided.   Lastly, in the supplementary material, the improvement/degradation of the least frequent 150 categories. Overall, most categories were improved but some of the categories (pencil, manhole) are significantly degraded. Is there any intuition why these classes regressed? Also, it is interesting to see whether the prior knowledge helps object detection for a small set of frequent classes (e.g., 20 VOC classes).  Overall, this paper addresses an important problem how to incorporate knowledge in deep neural network specifically for object detection. The improvement is shown against a strong baseline. This work is somewhat incremental.