I think this is a very nice paper, which provides a thoughtful approach to an important problem. I found section 2 impressively clear and easy to follow; this is quite well-written.  The algorithms for adapting random walk metropolis and MALA to fit full covariance matrices seem quite nice, and a great alternative to fitting covariance matrices by e.g. moment matching to accepted samples, or estimating from independent pre-runs. I think this has potential to see broad use. I also think the generalization of "speed" has potential to be used to derive adaptive variants of other common proposal types.  Some minor comments / questions / complaints:  * the one thing I find unsatisfying is the need to fall back on existing results for "optimal" acceptance rates when tuning \beta. For RW and MALA proposals, maybe this is even reasonable (there's some theory about optimal preconditioners, proposal covariances, mass matrices anyway…), but it would be nice to address this more generally, or at least discuss the appropriateness of falling back on these recommendations.  * line 140, L is described as a "positive definite lower triangular matrix" … presumably a typo (it is correct later for MALA), but LL' is positive definite, while L is lower triangular  * the second row of figure 2 is a bit hard to interpret; maybe something else would be better to show. While this should clearly be a monotonic function, I don't have a sense of the optimal choice of scale when used in the different algorithms, or whether it should be linear with the target density variance, or what, particularly for MALA.  * It would be good to release code. The "stop gradient" aspect may induce difficulties in implementation, at least as a reference.  * For MALA and NUTS, what sort of preconditioning is done as a baseline? For NUTS as implemented in STAN and PyMC3, I know a standard practice is to run a short pre-run which is used to estimate the mass matrix; this is then used fixed with only the step size adapted online. Is something like this done here? What about for the non-adaptive MALA?  ======  I read the rebuttal — thanks for your comments. 