The authors benchmark various average case distortion criteria. This task is valuable in itself, as dimensionality reduction plays a central role in many key applications of machine learning. However, the authors do not demonstrate enough evidence to support this contribution. For example, on pg 5. the authors state "is is easy to see all (adapted versions of) distortion criteria discussed obey all properties." The reader did not find it easy to see, and after re-reading the previous 4 pages did not find either the adaptation in question well specified or support for the claim that the criteria are fulfilled. If this support is in the appendix, the relevant sections should be well specified for the reader.   This paper could benefit greatly from having a more clearly delineated structure. The flow of the paper is obtuse, due in part to having unintuitive names for sections and subsections. Referencing sections that do not exist (on page 3) combined with the lack of a conclusion, makes this work feel like one that is in progress rather than complete. It is also hard to decouple at times what is the authors contribution vs previous work. For example in section 2), the motivated properties are largely the same as that proposed by Chennuru Vankadara and von Luxburg (2018). It is unclear exactly what has been generalized. In addition, one of the properties defined by Chennuru Vankadara and von Luxburg (2018) "translation invariance" is not discussed here, although the authors imply they benchmark against all the properties listed.  The authors do not benchmark their proposed new method (the square root of the variance distortion proposed by Chennuru Vankadara and von Luxburg (2018)) using a simulation framework that would help evidence the utility of their contribution. The lack of empirical simulation to support the theoretical discussion makes placing the value of this work within the literature difficult. Overall, the poor structure of the writing makes the overall contribution of the authors hard to discern. This may be a symptom of this being a work in progress, and not being able to appropriately clarify or support claims to the reader. 