The authors study Learning from Observation (LfO) inverse reinforcement learning (imitation based on states alone, as opposed to states and actions as is done in LfD). They attempt to build on the GAIfO algorithm to acheive increased performance. To do so, they derive an expression for the performance gap between LfO and LfD. They then derive an upper bound on this expression that they add to the loss function to help close this optimization gap. They report significantly improved perfomance on a wide range of tasks over against a wide range of alternative approaches, including GAIfO.  Notes:   Eq 5   The explanation here is a little confusing. Firstly, the equation implies the divergence of LfD is always greater than that of LfO, since the inverse dynamics disagreement is always non-negative. This seems counter intuitive and could do with more explanation. Is the idea supposed to be that the KL of divergence could be zero, but the problem would still not be completely solved? If so, this bears clarification.     Additionally the sentence "Eq 5 is not equal to zero by nature" is misleading, since there are cases when the IDD is zero (such as when \pi = E). Infact, one such case is highlighted in Corrolary 1. This should be restated with more specificity and clarity.   Eq 10   Does this mean that this approach only works for deterministic state transitions? Or does the approach still more or less work, but with an additional source of error. Given the rarity of deterministic transition functions in real-world systems, it seems like it should be much more clearly stated that you are restricting your scope to deterministic systems. If the approach can still be employed effectively on non-deterministic systems without significant performance loss, then that should be stated and defended more clearly.   Learning Curves:    No comparison for 'number of interactions with the environment' vs GAIL.     This seems conspicuously absent. It isn't strictly necessary, since the method has already shown to be superior to the others in its category, but it's odd that it's not here.     No learning curves for 'number of demonstrations'    Since the main motivation for LfO over LfD is 'availability of data', it seems odd that the authors only report learning curves for 'interactions with the environment' and not 'number of demonstrations'. It would especially be interesting to know at what point, if any, IDDM with more demonstrations begins to outperform GAIL with few demonstrations. GAIfO reported this, I see no reason it shouldn't be reported here as well.      Originality:  Derives a novel bound on accuracy and optimizes it, achieving state of the art results. The proof, bound, and algorithm are all novel and interesting. Although they build on an existing method and propose only a small change to the learning objective, the change they propose has significant impact and is very well motivated.   Quality:  The theoretical work is great, the proofs seem fine.  The experimental work is not quite as well documented.    Although it may not seem this way at first glance, their method somewhat increases the complexity by adding another neural network approximate the mutual information for the loss function, making their approach possibly more unweildy than GAIfO. Coupled with the fact that code was not included, these results may be difficult to replicate.   Experiments are generally presented well and show good results, although there are a few experiments/plots that should have been included that were not.    Clarity:  For the most part, the paper is clearly written and very easy to follow. The supplemental material is also very easy to follow and well above the expected quality of writing. However, it should have been pointed out much more clearly that, as written, the approach presented only works in deterministic environments.   Significance:  The bound they prove is interesting and useful. Not only do they highlight a fundamental gap in this problem, they also show an effective way to contend with that gap and open up the possibility of new approaches to closing it in the future.  