This paper proposed a novel method for transfer learning in Bayesian hyperparameter optimization based on the theory that the distributions of previously observed datasets contain significant information that should not be ignored during hyperparameter optimization on a new dataset. They propose solutions to compare different datasets through distribution estimation and then combine this information with the classical Bayesian hyperparameter optimization setup. Experiments show that the method outperforms selected baselines.  Originality: the method is novel, although it mostly bridges ideas from various fields.  Quality: I would like to congratulate the authors on a very well written paper. The quality is very high throughout.  Clarity: The paper is clear in general, but left me with some questions. For instance, what criterion is used to learn the NN embeddings of data distributions (Section 4.1)? Is it the marginal likelihood of the distGP/distBLR? Is it learned at the same time as the other parameters mu, nu and sigma? I am not deeply familiar with the Deep Kernel Learning paper but in there it seems they do use marginal likelihood.  Significance: I think the paper has the potential to have a high impact in the field. I would have liked more extensive experiments to showcase this, e.g., evaluating on extensive benchmarks such as the ones in [Perrone et al. 2018].  Is there any specific reason why the ADAM optimizer was chosen for the hyperparameters (asking because most of the literature seems to have settled on L-BFGS to get rid of the learning rate)?  I will finally mention in passing that the appendix was referenced a total of 14 times in the paper, and while this has no bearing on my final score for the paper, it does feel a bit heavy to have to go back and forth between the paper and the appendix.  POST REBUTTAL: I have read the rebuttal, and thank the authors for the clarifications -- it seems I had misunderstood some parts of the paper. I still think this is a decent addition to make to the literature on hyperparameter optimization. I have seen instances of problems where this solution would be applicable.