Originality: This paper draws from many fields (especially neural architecture search), but its core is a unique and powerfuly original idea.  Quality: The execution of this idea by the authors is thorough and the results are compelling. The scholarship evident in this work is also exemplary.   Clarity: This paper is extremely well-written and easy to follow. One small exception, however, was how the authors discussed their use of a single shared weight across all the connections in the network. At the beginning of the paper their stated ambition to use a single weight was confusing: why limit the network so much? In section 3 they explain this choice clearly and convincingly: the dimensionality of the full weight space is too large to effectively explore, so they test only a 1-D manifold within that space. But after reading the continuous control results section it actually seemed like even this 1-D weight manifold was over-parameterized: for nearly every problem & network the performance was either good with large absolute shared weight regardless of sign, or good with one or the other sign of large shared weight (e.g. the bipedal walker network that only performs well with large negative weights). This suggests that the same results could be obtained without randomizing the shared weight, but just using a single value throughout training (e.g. 1). Besides the ensemble classifier discussed in the last section, is there a strong advantage to using a shared random weight rather than a shared fixed weight? Does it make the networks more easily fine-tuned when the individual weights are trained? It could help improve the paper somewhat if the authors clarified the importance and reasoning behind using a single shared weight early on (i.e. in the intro).  Significance: This work is highly significant: it introduces a new realm of problems (weight-agnostic neural networks) that have strong analogues in biological systems. This work opens many new avenues for research and is sure to be widely cited.