Summary of the paper: The paper considers a sequential hypothesis testing of the following form. Given a set of arms with unknown mean reward, the problem is to identify whether the minimum mean reward is below a given threshold or above it. The goal is to develop an algorithm which can issue a high probability correct response with minimum number of arm samplings. The paper first establishes a lower bound on the sample complexity of this problem. Then, a new sampling algorithm (Murphy Sampling) is proposed as the solution. It has been proved that the proposed sampling algorithm has a runtime matching the lower bound. The performance of the proposed algorithm is validated through simulation study.   My Assessment: The paper has been very well written with high clarity. All the assumptions and details are concretely and clearly stated.  The paper’s approach of developing the algorithm is to start with the lower bound on the sample complexity of the problem. Based on this lower bound, two already known algorithms are shown to achieve the optimal sample complexity, each only in one of the two possible hypotheses. Then, a modified version of Thompson sampling (called Murphy sampling) is shown to work almost the same in both scenarios. I think originality of this idea is above average.   Also, the significance and quality of the paper is also above average. In order to establish efficient stopping rules, the paper introduces new concentration inequalities which can be of independent interest.   One very important issue is in using rejecting sampling when implementing Murphy sampling. As has been noted by the authors, the rejection probability could cause a problem in this implementation. Although it has not caused any problem in the experiments run for the paper, but there could be scenarios where the rejection probability prohibitively large.   >>> Update after reading author's response: I think the authors have provided a convincible response to my question. I am changing my score to 7.   As in my first review, I think this paper is theoretically very strong and the analysis is concrete with novelties. However, the problem is not motivated as strongly. I think adding more discussions on the possible applications would make the paper even more appealing. 