1. The submission reads well. The introduction part is written clearly with well-turned phrases.  2. The submission demonstrates the quality of the proposed sketch by comparing a resulting variance upper bound with that for PPSWOR. I am slightly concerned about the fact that upper bounds are compared here. Often, an upper does not reflect the true scale of a quantity. It would be better if the authors can derive a certain form of lower bound for PPSWOR, and show that the induced variance bound of the proposed method is not much larger. The submission indeed mentioned, in line 93, that the bounds for PPSWOR are "tight". I would like to know how tight these bounds are, i.e., are they provably near-optimal? or just hard to be improved further?  3. Line 202 mentioned that the new sketch scheme is "guided by the sketch ... due to Cohen [9]". I am slightly concerned about the novelty of the new approach. It would be great if the authors can clarify the similarities and differences between the two sketches.  4. The supplement is an extended version of the main paper. I think it would be better to separate the detailed technical parts from the main paper and put them in the appendix. In other words, make the supplement supplementary. The current form is fine as well.  5. It is mentioned in line 100 that "all (previous methods) require aggregating the data", while line 114 states that PPSWOR also "extends to the unaggregated datasets". It would be better if the authors could explain the latter claim more clearly.  6. Maybe better to explain the significance of Section 5 somewhere in the paper. I also feel that Section 5, according to its content, should not appear between Section 4 and 6.  7. The experimental results look good, and the improvement is significant.  8. Minor: line 127 "moments with" instead of "moments wtih"; line 187 better to emphasize the phrase "complement Laplace transform" for consistency; line 219 what is "conditional inclusion probabilities" referring to? 