This paper provides the first non-asymptotic analysis for stochastic proximal gradient algorithms in the fully non-smooth non-convex setting. So far only convergence results in the deterministic case, and recently in the stochastic case, have been obtained. The rates derived are optimal. No regularization or smoothing of the objective is performed (such as reformulating an auxiliary function like the Moreau envelope), but rather a direct proximal sub gradient step is performed at every stage. The drawback of this approach is that no potential function is available, making it difficult how to measure progress of the algorithm. Moreover, Theorem 2 shows that the distance measure to the set of stationary points is given by a sum of variances of the stochastic oracle. As a consequence, it has to be assumed that the stochastic oracle's noise is uniformly bounded, which is a quite strong assumption.   Specific comments: -) line 23: If r(x) is assumed to be LSC it can be non-smooth as well. There is no need to emphasize this again here.  -) line 76: typo in „matching“.  -) line 87: It is a bit unfortunate to use the same letter for a data sample and a generic set. I would recommend introducing different notation to distinguish them. -) I don’t agree that eq. (2) is a special case of (1). Mathematically speaking this is correct of course, but the interpretation is usually different. In Stochastic optimization our goal is to solve problem (1) and problem (2) would represent a sample average stochastic approximation for this problem.  -) line 106: I don’t think that argmin needs an explanation. -) line 110: two times „the“ -) The iteration complexity of Theorem 1 depends on the quantity Delta. It seems to be hard to have a good guess for this quantity, unless we restrict the analysis to an a-priori known compact set. How do you justify this assumption? -) Proof of Theorem 2: In line 421, instead of what is written, you should use the Fenchel-Young inequality to get to the bound (16), i.e a.b<(1/2L)a^{2}+(L/2)b^{2}. Same remark applies to line 443. Line 429 is just the Pythagoras Theorem.  