This paper proposes to build deep neural networks for computer vision based on fully self-attention layers.  A local self-attention layer is proposed to overcome  the limitations of the global attention layers that must be applied to reduced versions of the input image due to its computational load. This self-attention layer is used to replace all the convolutional layers in ResNet architectures. The proposed model is compared to standard CNN Resnet on ImageNet and Coco databases. Using self-attention layers allows to reduce the number of parameters of the model while maintaining the performance level.  Ablation studies are conducted on different aspects of the proposed model.  The goal of the replacing convolutions with local self-attention is a bit in contradiction with the initial objective of using attention layers. As noted by the authors, attention layers were introduced to take into account long term dependencies, what convolution layers could not do. An alternative direction is to use recurrent layers. Reducing self-attention to a local attention layer disable this long term dependency effect. Moreover, using multiple heads makes self-attention even closer to convolutions : it is local and learns multiple representation of the input. The paper could have studied more deeply the differences, both computationally and in terms of expected properties, between the local self-attention layers and convolutional layers. In the end, it seems that the parameters of the convolutional layer (the different kernel parameters) have been replaced by the parameters of the linear transformation Wq, Wk and Wv.   The importance of positional features, shown in Table 5, could also have been more explored, because this is one of the main differences with CNN. Why is it important for self-attention ? Is it also useful for CNN on images ? (it has been used for CNN on language).    Results in Table 6 are really surprising. One could consider that using only the positional interaction is a degenerated form of convolution, where each position in the kernel are encoded with a different set of parameters. 