This is an acceptable paper. The development of a forward model to partially observable problems is a complex and important task and I think the research is valuable. The paper proposes an architecture which is well studied in NLP but relatively new for games. However, I'm about the motivation of the architecture of the network. It seems very complicated and is complicated to know the reason of several uses. Also, I think the baselines used are rather simple. Better baselines would be desirable. Finally, I don’t see the link to access to the code.  Further comments:  Introduction  Line 37 “assuming full information at training time” Not sure about this statement. The use of full information to predict PO is a valid point for StarCraft forward models?    Line 45- “better than baselines” The baselines are rather simple.  Related work  I like the general introduction about predictive learning, which clearly lays out the importance of the research area.  Task Description  Line 99-101 The formulation of the feature set is not very clear.  Encoder-Decoder model  This is arguably the most interesting part. Using this architecture in video game environments is novel. The architecture seems very complex and the training time long. It is not clear why the sub neural network is used. Granted, empirically it seems that increase the features used to predict (e.g map, state). However, I think it is mandatory to compare several architectures of encoder-decoder to see the value of the proposed DNN.  Line 152-158 I think this is a good idea.  Experiments  The code should be made available.  Evaluation Proxy task  I have some doubts about lines 179-181. Is this enough for the evaluation? A statistical analysis is recommended.   Hyperparameters  The selection of the paraments is poor. Optimization of the parameters could be an interesting improvement of the paper. Also, I think the authors should explain better and increase the uncertainty (I mean number of paramenters) to “optimize”.  Results  Line 230-233. The regression model could give a high error for the threshold.  The baselines are too simple. 