A very similar property is studied by Yeom et al. [CCF 2018] who show that when the generalization error of a model is high (in particular this would be the case for what the authors term minority groups), there is an adversary that can effectively breach user privacy; moreover the generalization error serves as an upper bound on the privacy guarantee. In other words, Yeom et al. appear to present a very similar set of results, albeit without the mention of the effect on minority groups. I would like the authors to clarify this issue, and comment on the relation between their work and Yeom et al.. For example, the experiments show that as epsilon grows smaller the accuracy drops - this is exactly the phenomenon reported in that paper.  This means that the main contribution of this work is the empirical analysis. This is a very interesting part of the work, showing how combining DP techniques further compromises on fairness. However, I believe that there should be a discussion whether this part on its own merits publication. The authors explain their findings by suggesting that high gradient values are more susceptible to noise; however, this is counterintuitive - I would have expected the exact opposite to occur.  The paper is sometimes not entirely careful and consistent in its definitions/use of certain terms. This makes it very difficult to parse basic definitions.   \mathcal{L} is not used consistently. At first the input is the parameterization and a datapoint, and then it is the prediction and a point. C/c is used both for classes and for the cell state vector S is used both for subset of outputs and for the clipping bound in Algorithm 1. Line 2 of Algorithm 1: what does randomly sample mean exactly? I.i.d sampling of a batch with probability q? Each subset is sampled with probability q?  The privacy cost (epsilon,delta) is never mentioned in the run of the algorithm and it is entirely unclear how the algorithm even computes the privacy cost. This is a key algorithm in the paper and the fact that it is effectively inaccessible to the reader is a major issue. You picked equal odds over equal opportunity (or any of the other many fairness measures). Why? Does the choice matter? Do you want to consider other measures in the future? Is it enough to consider one of them? You picked a ratio of (roughly) 60:1 for the minority class in the facial image dataset. This is neither representative of the American population (<10:1) neither does it seem representative of the global population  You use the method of moments accountant to compute DP, using gradient clipping and adding of noise. Yes, these are the currently state of the art methods, but they are not the only ones. Especially, gradient clipping is not inherent to DP it is just a method to bound the sensitivity besides others (e.g. Parselval networks). You should clearly separate between a theoretical concept (DP) and a method to obtain it.  You say that you use the implementation of  Renyi differential privacy which is different from the (epsilon,delta)-DP you explained before, that’s confusing.  The analysis is quite vague in some points, using “drops (much) more ” several times, without going into any details. Especially in Figure 1(b) and (c)  which you claim show an effect of the group size, without at least a trend line or some statistical analysis, these figures show very little.   In several of your experiments you use pre-trained models, given the reported training time and number of parameters it sounds like you retrain the entire model. With pre-trained models it is often enough to just retrain the last layers, which could speed up your experiments dramatically (if the authors are already doing this, please ignore this comment).   The abstract and conclusion state that there is a stronger effect for “complex classes”, besides underrepresented classes. I am not finding much support for this claim in the experiments. The section where this comes up a little (4.3)  states that “Reptilia” is not affected as much as other classes. But you don’t argue why “Reptilia” should be a less complex class, or even give a definition what a complex class is.  Additionally, if there is evidence that complex classes are more affected, this opens a whole new problem. For all your minority class experiments you would require counterfactuals that show that the class you chose as minority is not inherently more complex, so you would need experiments to show that in a balanced setting the classes are affected equally.   To conclude, while the paper is interesting, it is not clear whether the results reported here are novel to the ML/DP community, and suffers from some non-trivial exposition and methodology issues. 