Update: I have read the other reviewers' comments and the author feedback. I update my score to 5. A few more comments: 1. Since the authors did not provide the result (for multi-dim) that they claimed, I am not able to comment on the veracity or significance of such a result. In general, I believe that one can find some  setting where MC holds. The question is whether these conditions are reasonable. 2. Using the adult dataset: I'm not sure what the relevant application is here. Why would there be any dynamics at all in this setting? This is more of a proof of concept. I don't think my concerns about the lack of pertinent application domains were fully addressed by this experiment. 4. Hashimoto et al.'s Corollary 1 gave general conditions for when the "fair" fixed point is not stable, which directly implies that the dynamics will converge to some fixed point where there is representation disparity. In other words, this already implies the authors' results (e.g. Theorem 3). Therefore the main technical contribution of this work seems to be to show that "static fairness criteria" does not always help with representation disparity.   ==== Originality: User retention model is mostly taken from previous work, i.e. Hashimoto et al 2018. One add is considering "User departure driven by intra-group disparity" but this is given quite little justification apart from lines 204-205, which does not explain why this is a model researchers and practitioners should care about. The idea that representation disparity worsens over time is also introduced in Hashimoto et al 2018 with a more general model (i.e. not just one dimensional features) so the conclusion of this paper is somewhat unsurprising. The authors also considered applying fairness constraints at each step and worked out the population ratios in this case (Theorem 2), but this result appears to be trivial under their setting and assumptions.   It's perhaps unsurprising that applying fairness criteria without knowing the dynamics will not prevent representation disparity from getting worse in general. That being said, showing this in the one-dim setting is a contribution and a natural enough extension of previous work, and the proofs look like a fair amount of work even though the arguments are elementary.  One concern is that there was no meaningful comparison made between different fairness criteria and the absence of fairness criteria, since there's only a blanket negative result. I'm not sure if this is an interesting takeaway at all, as you can always build a worst case that is not close to anything in reality.   Quality: The notation is cumbersome (e.g. g_k,t^i, f_b,t^1(x)), even though most of the results rely on rather simple ideas, e.g. follows from the monotonicity condition, and does not seem to warrant such heavy notation.  Clarity: In the 3.1 binary classification problem, what is y? Its distribution was not given. Again, the heavy notation did not help with clarity.  Significance: In terms of significance, a weakness of the paper is that all the conclusions are proved in the one dimensional setting, and it's not clear what their analogues are in the multidimensional setting. The authors claimed (falsely, I think) that "the main conclusion holds for multi-dimensional scenarios, when it's not at all obvious that is the multi-dim analogue for Assumption 1, even (and not to mention Theorem 2). Assumption 1 is very specific to the one dimensional setting. The toy one-dim setting seems very far from any application where one might care about user retention, so it does not make a very strong point.   The experiments section seemed lacking. The synthetic experiment in the one-dim setting did not connect the paper's results meaningfully with any relevant application. One question is in what application do we suspect that there is widening user disparity over time? Is there any real data that can be used to illustrate this?     