[I have read the author rebuttal and upgraded my score. My concern about generalization still remains, and I hope the authors can devote maybe a sentence or two to it in the final draft - even something to the effect of "it is a concern; experimental evidence suggests it is not a great concern."]  Summary:  For any given ML algorithm, e.g., random forests, the paper proposes a transfer-learning approach for selection of hyperparameters (limited to those parameters that can be ordered) wherein a bounding space is constructed from previous evaluations of that algorithm on other datasets. Two types of bounding spaces are described. The box space is the tightest bounding box covering the best known hyperparameter settings for previous datasets. The ellipsoid is found as the smallest-volume ellipsoid covering the best known settings (via convex optimization). The box space can be utilized by both model-free Bayesian optimization (BO), e.g., random search or Hyperband, and model-based BO, e.g., GP, whereas the ellipsoid space can only be utilized by model-free BO.  I liked the idea of transforming the problem of how to leverage historical performance for hyperparameter selection into one of how to learn an appropriate search space. The paper demonstrates that a relatively simple dataset-independent procedure provides performance gains over not transferring. This is also what I'm concerned about with the approach: what if a dataset itself is an outlier to previous datasets? In this case, why would we expect "successful" hyperparameter ranges on previous datasets to bound the right setting for the new dataset? Using the box space could be disastrous in this setting (while it could be argued that transfering does not help in this case, it could also be argued that this would not be known a priori). This leads me to believe the approach is not robust in its current form. The ellipsoid space may be more resilient in this regard, but it is limited to model-free methods. It would be better if the search space learning could incorporate dataset information such that graceful performance degradation would occur when attempting to transfer to a unique dataset for which historical performance fails to inform. I do think the finding that certain hyperparameter ranges for common ML algorithms should be tried first in hyperparameter selection is a good empirical finding, but not significant enough on its own.  Originality:  This reviewer is not aware of a similar proposal, but is not familiar with all the literature that falls into this category.  Quality:  The experimental section (and supplement) considered a large range of settings for the problem.  Clarity:  The authors have done a great job wrt/ organization, exposition, and results descriptions. There was only one place where I felt confused in an otherwise very readable paper.  Does the experimental parameter n in lines 256-257 correspond to n_t in line 83? If not, please provide more detail on what it represents in the experiment. If so, how were the previous evaluations selected, and what is T for this experiment?