This paper considers the problem of computing low rank approximations to a pairwise distance matrix in sublinear time where each entry (i,j) is the distance between some element p_i and p_j according to some distance metric. While computing such an approximation in sublinear time is impossible for general matrices, they show that for distance matrices additive approximations are always computable in sublinear time, or more precisely time linear in the number of elements and polynomial in the desired rank and accuracy (which is sublinear as if the elements are distinct then the distance matrix is dense). Furthermore, they provide empirical evidence that their method runs fast in practice, show that computing relative approximations in sublinear time is impossible in general, and show how to do this for matrices that contain the squares of Euclidean distances.  To achieve this result they provide a procedure for achieving non-trivial approximations to the row and column norms of a distance matrix in sublinear time. This procedure work simply by looking at a single row and column of the matrix and then uniform sampling from all rows. Furthermore, they show that having such a procedure suffices to recursively subsample the matrix, ultimately computing a low rank approximation of the matrix. The work builds off previous work on computing sublinear time low rank approximations of positive semidefinite (PSD) matrices and leverages a variety of recent result on fast linear algebraic subroutines (e.g. input sparsity regression).  This is a nice result that makes substantial progress on the fundamental problems of low rank approximation and efficiently processing distance data. Moreover, they show that their algorithms are robust to matrices containing distance-like information that only approximately satisfies triangle inequality (and leverage this in their algorithm), thus making their results of even broader utility for processing more data sets. That they achieve their results through a general using norm approximations also seems to be of greater utility.  That said, the writing in the paper could use some improvement. Having a preliminary section that clearly states their notation might help and clearly specifying what notion of approximation is referred to (e.g. Lemma 2.1) would help the readability of the paper. Also, better specifying how to think of the trade-offs in using the lemmas or what parameter regime the lemmas in Section 3 would be applied to would help. Also, comments like, “by dividing subsampled matrices” in Page 5 could use further clarification. Furthermore, more discussion of exactly the relationship of this paper to the approach in MW17 for approximating PSD matrices and what was known about computing low rank approximations with a norm-approximating oracle, would better clarify the context and contributions of this paper.  However, the above concerns are relatively minor given the interest and utility of the central results in this paper and therefore I recommend acceptance.  Typos / Minor Writing Comments: - Page 3: how is diam defined if distances within Q are not given by the distance matrix. - Page 4: saying uniform sampling suffices seems misleading as computing d is also necessary - Page 4: missing some bolding of A - Page 5: stem --> step  EDIT: Thank you for the thoughtful rebuttal. I encourage you to add the information you provided there to the paper.