(This reads like a critical review, which may appear to conflict with my rating, because I have concerns about the validity and/or practical utility of the claimed contributions, so I was initially leaning towards recommending rejection. However, after I read the supplementary material, I realized there might be an important contribution that the authors didn't emphasize and that I had missed. I then re-read the paper and decided to substantially upgrade my rating. I would strongly urge the authors to re-write the paper for the camera-ready to focus on this contribution.)  Summary of main contribution (in my view): It is easy to obtain a Monte Carlo estimate of the partition function - while such an estimate is unbiased, the log of the estimate is an underestimate of log-partition function. This means that an estimate for the log-likelihood constructed using this estimate *overestimates* the log-likelihood, which causes many issues in practice because it is not good to think the model is doing better than it actually is. Prior work (notably, RAISE [a]) has developed a way of overestimating the log-partition function and therefore underestimating the log-likelihood. But to my knowledge, there does not exist a way of estimating the log-partition function and the log-likelihood in an unbiased fashion.   [a] Burda at al, "Accurate and conservative estimates of MRF log-likelihood using reverse annealing", AISTATS 2015  The proposed method provides such a way. It works by applying a simple transformation, namely the Fenchel conjugate of -log(t). On the surface, this looks like a step backwards, since a function that can be computed analytically is replaced with an optimization problem that is to be solved numerically. However, the benefit is that the log doesn't appear in the objective function, which makes it possible to estimate in an unbiased fashion using a Monte Carlo estimate.   I would strongly recommend the authors to re-write the paper and focus on this contribution. Currently, the bias of the naive Monte Carlo estimator is only discussed in the supplementary material (which was also discussed in [a]); it should instead be moved to the main paper. Moreover, empirical results related to this should be highlighted, e.g.: Fig. 1. I would also recommend plotting the log-likelihood rather than the likelihood in Fig. 1, since the log-likelihood is what the proposed method is able to estimate in an unbiased fashion. It would also be useful to show some results on higher-dimensional data and compare to other approaches, including [a]. I wouldn't be surprised if the proposed method doesn't perform well in high dimensions because of the increased variance of Monte Carlo estimates, but even in that case, I believe this contribution is important because even in low dimensions, there isn't a way to estimate the log-likelihood in an unbiased manner.   Critique of the paper as it was originally presented:  My biggest issue with this paper is that it claims to sidestep the estimation of the partition function, when it in fact does not. For example, on L138-139, the paper claims that "unlike existing solutions, FML targets the exact likelihood without using finite-sample estimator for the partition function". While technically true, the proposed method uses a finite-sample estimator for the reciprocal of likelihood, which carries the same issues as a finite-sample estimator for the partition function.   The difficulty of learning probabilistic models in most cases comes from computing/estimating the partition function, and the alternative formulation proposed in this paper does not make this any easier. A naive Monte Carlo estimate of the partition function suffers from high variance in high dimensions. While the paper uses importance sampling to estimate the likelihood, the main challenge to controlling the variance is to choose a good proposal distribution that is both tractable and assigns high density to regions in the data space where the likelihood is high. Yet, the minimax formulation does not sidestep this issue, and the question of how to choose a proposal distribution is left largely unaddressed by this paper. So, it is unclear what is gained by having the minimax formulation over the plain old MLE formulation.   Certainly, one fo the claimed advantages doesn't make sense. On L131, the paper highlights that under the proposed formulation, "we have isolated learning the partition function and the model parameters". Why is this useful? The challenge comes from computing the partition function, and so the goal of various approaches is to learn the model parameters *without* needing to compute the partition function. If we had an oracle that can compute the intractable partition function, then naive gradient ascent on the log-likelihood would work fine. If we don't have such an oracle, we can try to compute the partition function in each iteration of gradient ascent on the parameters, and so the partition function computation and learning are also done separately in this case. This is akin to what the proposed method does, which estimates the partition function in the inner loop.   Also, on L127, it is unclear why b_\theta can be set to a particular value. Because u_\theta is decomposed into the sum of \psi_\theta and b_\theta and \psi_theta is given, it appears that b_\theta must be a free parameter (otherwise, there would be nothing to learn). If b_\theta is indeed a free parameter, then what is driving b_\theta to be equal to the log-partition function?  Finally, it is unclear if the proposed formulation is actually a minimax formulation (despite the title and the name of the proposed method). From eqn. 3, it seems that one can move the minus sign before the min inwards to yield a pure maximization formulation (unless there's a typo somewhere else that I didn't catch).   Other Issues:  L13: The footnote is unnecessary - this is common knowledge.  L32: "any finite-sample Monte Carlo estimate" - "any" is too strong; I would suggest changing it to "existing". Certainly the proposed method uses a Monte Carlo estimate and is unbiased.  L37: One distinguishing feature of CD that is different from prior methods is the particular way of initializing the Markov Chain, which should be noted.  L44: What is the difference between "poor scalability" and "computational efficiency issues"? L44: Also, it should be clarified which version of CD results in biased estimation. Is it the version where the chain is run for a finite number of steps or an infinite number of steps? If it's the latter, it should be explained why CD is biased.  L46-50: It is important to separate models without explicit unnormalized likelihoods and particular training techniques, like adversarial learning. Models without explicit unnormalized likelihoods are typically referred to as implicit models, see e.g.: [b], and the generator in GANs can be viewed as an example of such a model. However, there are also other techniques for training such models, like GMMN [c,d] and IMLE [e].   [b] Mohamed & Lakshminarayanan, "Learning in implicit generative models", Arxiv 2016 [c] Li et al., "Generative moment matching networks", ICML 2015 [d] Dziugaite et al., "Training generative neural networks via maximum mean discrepancy optimization", Arxiv 2015 [e] Li & Malik, "Implicit maximum likelihood estimation", Arxiv 2018  Alg. 1: \hat{p}_d is not defined - I assume it means the empirical distribution.  L164: For Robbins-Monro to hold, you need strict convexity as well.  L189: There is no need to refer to GANs here, because you are just defining a latent variable model with a Gaussian prior and a Gaussian condition likelihood whose mean is given by some function. This is the same as the decoder in a VAE, and there is no reason to say this model can be viewed as an approximation to the generator in GANs as the variance tends to zero. Also, the notation seems to be specific to the scalar case with 1D observations and could be generalized. Finally, there was a paper other than [23] that independently discovered GANs [f], and should be cited for completeness.   [f] Gutmann et al., "Likelihood-free inference via classification", Arxiv 2014