I think this is a fascinating paper. I really like the idea of finding a unifying framework for analyzing the privacy-loss after post-processing, and I think that the fairly long list of running examples throughout the paper suggests how applicable this framework is. The view of post-processing (randomly) as a Markov process is novel (to me at least), the paper is fairly clear (the parts that I found puzzling were mostly regrading background material which I do not know), and I deem this paper to be very significant. I thus advocate acceptance.  Minor comments: (1) It would have been helpful had your first example been subsampling, in Section 3, clarifying precisely which of the 4 definitions subsampling satisfies. (#4) (2) Line 139: by \lambda you me \nu, right? (Otherwise the coupling \pi\in{\cal C}(\mu,\nu) is defined in a way independent of \nu...) (3) Line 228: Ito?!? (4) All throughout I thought of K as a computation --- taking x (the output of a DP mechanism) and some \omega (a random string) and producing y. I am still unclear as to whether this interpretation misses something... (5) Section 5, perhaps because it is replete with terminology foreign to me, was hard to follow. In particular, I do not understand WHY / WHEN should one view certain post-processing algorithms as these chain of mechanisms, nor is it clear to me WHY/WHEN would someone choose to use the mechanism of Section 5.1. A motivating example could be useful, if you can think of one. Afterall -- the way *I* view it (and I could be wrong) --- the goal is not to think of DP-mechanisms as mechanisms for mathematical sake, but rather as DP-mechanisms that ought to be useful for some computational tasks.   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Post rebuttal: there have been serious concerns raised by the Senior PC member regarding the applications of the proposed framework. As a result, I too am reducing slightly my score. However, I still am very much fond of the overall approach that unifies several techniques under one framework and see significant merit to this paper. Thus, I still advocate acceptance, and I genuinely believe that NeurIPS should have this paper in its proceedings.