Originality: this work tackles a traditional problem and achieves good performance improvement compared with previous states. The overall framework is quite novel. Unlike previous learning approaches which usually use a one-shot formula, the network is designed to be iterative, which is quite novel. In addition, there are also quite a few novel designs within the network. The most interesting one is the use of Gumbel-Softmax sampler within an actor-critic framework for sharp correspondence estimation. The authors have also justified the effectiveness of this through baseline comparison and ablation studies. Detecting key points for registration is also an interesting point given the main problem setup is partial scan registration. However, I feel this point is relatively weak in the whole paper with less study and justification. There's at least one work should also be mentioned and compared with, where dense correspondences between partial scans are estimated: Deep Part Induction from Articulated Object Pairs. Quality: technically, the paper is quite sound with a lot of technical details provided. However, there are still some points not clear to me. For the key point detection module, how can you guarantee the two set of top-k points are in correspondence given you are dealing with two partial scans? How does the choice of k influence the final performance? Is the key point detection module robust to the ratio of data missing? Will this l2 norm based key point detector be robust to outliers in scans? For this module design to be solid, more details should be provided. Another thing unclear is how does the discount factor influence the overall performance. Some ablation study should be provided. Clarity: the paper is clearly written and can be easily followed. Significance: point cloud registration is an important problem in computer vision and geometry processing community. The paper has done a good job in achieving state-of-the-art performance on various synthetic partial-to-partial registration tasks. The design of using Gumbel-Softmax sampler within an actor-critic framework for sharp correspondence estimation could be inspiring for other geometry processing tasks involving discrete optimization. However, all the quantitative evaluations are done with synthetic data, making the results a bit less impressive. Missing ablation studies on different design choices also weakens the overall significance a bit. Overall I like this submission but I think some points need more analysis and clarifications.