The authors present SPEC, a checker for formal safety analysis, in the form of norm-based constraints on the input-output, of ReLU-based neural networks. It does this by iteratively propagating relaxed bounds on the hidden nodes, looking for a counterexample, and tightening the bounds in case of a false positive. Propagating bounds is done by combining symbolic interval analysis with linear relaxation, which results in tighter bounds than symbolic analysis alone. Tightening the bounds is done using directed constraint refinement, which partitions the input domain in two around a the non-linear part of an overestimated node. The result is a checker that scales better with the number of hidden nodes in the network. Experiments cover different networks trained on different datasets and comparisons with other checkers.  The paper is well-written, with a good and concise structure, although some of the notation could be made clearer (mainly not dropping the up & low subscripts). While the technique presented is not groundbreaking, as it combines several existing approaches without major modifications, the results do show the merits which is why I'm inclined to accept this paper. Experiments are performed on a range of datasets and models, though still medium-sized. Results mainly focus on the improved performance of SPEC compared to other approaches, checking one to several order of magnitudes faster.  Some remarks: in the ablation studies, when removing the Directed Constraint Refinement, it is unclear where the timeout comes from (according to Figure 2). In what way is the result iteratively refined in this case (i.e. how are false positives handled?). In Figure 4b there is an increase in the number of cases SPEC can check for increased input bounds, which is counter-intuitive and not discussed. Finally, the others mention in the introduction that their method may help in training more robust networks and improve explainability, but don't discuss this further.  Small comments: - Several typos here and there. - Incorrect table reference on p6. - Double-check formatting of references.  ====== Update After reading the authors' rebuttal and the additional clarifications they will add to the paper, I've raised my score.