This paper addresses the problem of biologically-plausible perceptual inference in dynamical environments. In particular, it considers situations in which informative sensory information arrives delayed with respect to the underlying state and thus require ‘postdiction’ to update the inference of past states given new sensory observations.  The authors extend a previously published method for inference in graphical models (DDC-HM) to temporally extended encoding functions and test their model in three situation cases where postdiction is relevant.  Overall, I find this work valuable and interesting. It could, however, be more clearly presented and provide some relevant comparisons with alternative models.  Regarding originality, the technical contributions, (1) an extension of the DDC-HM method to temporally extended (recurrent) encoding functions and (2) a way to train the model are original and nontrivial.   In terms of clarity, the theory is well described but a more clear exposition of the algorithm would help (including an algorithm box). Moreover, the results could be more clearly presented - in particular the figures.  Figure 1 is pretty difficult to parse. The relevant comparison (between panels B and C) takes significant time to decode, which could be solved by better/additional labels or annotations. The inset occupies much of the figure but is never referred to, I think.  In Figure 2, I couldn’t find the gray line in panel A, maybe because of its poor resolution. Also, I failed to find the precise definition of t_0 and \tau in the internal model.  Most importantly, in my opinion, the work lacks a comparison of the proposed model to other techniques in variational inference for dynamical environments (e.g..variational recurrent neural networks). Without taking biological plausibility into account, it would be very interesting to know if alternative models can account for the behavioral phenomena or whether this is a particular feature of the proposed method. Without that comparison it seems that the work is half done.  Small details:   L179 “simple internal model for tone and noise stimuli described by (19) in Appendix C.1.”  In Fig 3, C-F panels are all labeled C.   ===UPDATE=== I'd like to thank the authors for a detail and thoughtful response to the reviews. After reading the rebuttal, I'm overall pleased with the work. In my view, however, adding a comparison with another variational inference method (even one clearly not biologically plausible) would strengthen the paper's results. I have therefore chosen to maintain my score (6. Marginally above acceptance...).  