Summary: ------- The paper proposes a simple modification of the Original Simplicial Method that keeps in memory only the active linear constraints. Then by linking the dual method to Fully corrective Frank Wolfe they get convergence rates.  Quality & Clarity: ------------------ The paper is well written and motivated for people in the field. Note that it is probably quite abstruse otherwise. Its place in the literature is well defined. Proofs are correct.  The final rates (Theorem 2 and 3) are quickly stated: what is the total cost of the algorithm, taking into account the computations of the subproblems ? (by taking a concrete example where the subproblems can be computed efficiently) This would enlighten the impact in this rate of the limited memory implementation in comparison to the original simplicial method.  In Theorem 3, first, \Delta^{(i+1)} should be \Delta^{(i)}. Then these results only state that the estimated gap is bounded by the true gap, I don't get the sub-linear rate from reading these equations.  Originality & Significance: --------------------------- The paper introduces two simple, though efficient, ideas to develop and analyze an alternative of the simplicial method (looking only at the active linear constraints of each subproblem and drawing convergence rates from the Frank-Wolfe literature). Relating the dual of the simplicial method to Franck-Wolfe method was already done by Bach [2]. I think that the present paper is therefore only incremental. Moreover the authors do not give compelling applications (this is due to the restricted application of the original simplicial method). In particular, they do not give concrete examples where the subproblems can easily be computed, that would help to understand the practical impact of the method.   Minor comments: --------------- - l139: no parenthesis around w - l140: put footnote for closed function here - l 227: Replace "Moreover" by "Therefore" - l 378: must be strictly contained *in* - As stated from the beginning, OSM is not Kelley's method, so why is the algorithm called Limited memory Kelley's method and Limited memory simplicial method ? This confusion might weaken its referencing in the literature, I think.   -------------------------------------- Answer to author's feedback -------------------------------------- Thank you for your detailed feedback. I revised my "incremental" comment. The problem was clearly asked before and the answer you provided is simple, clear and interesting. 