-------- After Author Feedback --------- I stand by my initial review and score. I believe the paper presents an interesting new approach to computing Wasserstein barycenters that is well motivated, and well tested.   My initial misgivings were addressed sufficiently in the rebuttal. -----------------------------------------------  Typo: 93: Wasserstein distance instead of barycenter  The paragraphs from 132--148 imply that the algorithm recovers a globally optimal solution to the free support problem. Can you elaborate or clarify this? A globally optimal solution to the Wasserstein barycenter problem implies a globally optimal solution to k-means which is known to be NP-hard.  In lines 237--239 it is mentioned that the memory usage for MAAIPM is similar to that of Sinkhorn type algorithms. The memory usage in Sinkhorn algorithms is dominated by the cost of storing the kernel matrix K = exp(-d(x, y) / epsilon). However, there are work-arounds for this issue that only require applying an operator to a vector, and thus reduce memory requirements to O(n + m). Have the authors compared to these solutions, for example: Solomon et al. "Convolutional Wasserstein Distances: Efficient Optimal Transportation on Geometric Domains."  In addition to Gurobi, can the authors compare to CPLEX and Mosek. I have frequently found those to be faster than Gurobi for transport problems. Another point of comparison that is also tailor made for transport problems can be found here: https://github.com/nbonneel/network_simplex (it's true that this is for computing distances, but would be a good point of comparison nonetheless).  The authors can also compare with their reference [17] for a regularized transport solution with faster convergence than Sinkhorn, with reference [2] for a empirically faster Sinkhorn iteration scheme with better memory requirements, or with - Altschuler et al., "Massively scalable Sinkhorn distances via the Nyström method." for a very fast and memory efficient approximation of Sinkhorn.  I hope the authors provide code later on.  In brief: Originality: A novel algorithm for computing unregularized Wasserstein barycenters via a different interior point method to solve the associated linear program.  Quality: The paper is technically sound, and the claims are well supported by thorough experiments. The algorithms are described in full and could be easily implemented independently.  Clarity: The paper is readable, the algorithms explained well, and the experiments documented clearly.  Significance: One shortcoming of this paper is lack of comparison with newer, faster versions of regularized optimal transport (mentioned above). Unregularized optimal transport is of independent interest, but this submission would be strengthened if MAAIPM is faster than e.g. Greenkhorn.