This paper presents an intriguing computational dissection of a particular form of reward rate underestimation in a bandit task (what the authors call as "pessimism bias"). Modeling suggests that this bias can be accounted for by a Bayesian model which assumes (erroneously) that reward rates are dynamic.  The paper is well-written and the methods are sound. I think it could do a better job relating to previous literature, and there are some questions about the modeling and behavioral analysis which I detail below.  Specific comments:  I was surprised that there was no mention of Gershman & Niv (2015, Topics in Cognitive Science), which is one of the only papers I'm aware of that manipulates reward abundance. I was also surprised that there was no discussion of relevant work on optimism/pessimism in reinforcement learning, such as Stankevicius et al. (2014, PLOS CB), and in foraging (see for example Bateson 2016, Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences).  Was there a significant interaction between mean and variance for the reported reward rates? It looks like subjects reported significantly higher reward rates in (+M,+V) compared to (-M,+V).  The DBM seems to capture the human behavior, but my worry is that by fitting separate parameters for each condition, the model is over-parametrized. Based on the explanation in sections 3.3 and 3.4, shouldn't DBM be able to explain the results without fitting separate parameers for each condition?  As the authors point out, it is difficult to interpret softmax temperature parameter estimates because they are at least in part capturing model misfit. So I don't understand why the authors then proceed to interpret these parameter estimates (p. 5). Also, it is well-known that softmax temperature and learning rate trade off against each other, so it is difficult to interpret them separately, yet the authors attempt to do so. There may also be a similar degeneracy between softmax temperature and gamma.  Is there any relationship between judged reward rate and individual differences in choice behavior or model parameters?  Minor comments:  p. 2: "persist making" -> "persist in making"  p. 3: "was that is" -> ?  Fig 2: It would be helpful to maintain a consistent bar coloring across panels.  Fig 2 caption: unnecessary to state that error bars show s.e.m multiple times in the caption.  ----------------------  I thought the authors did a good job addressing my comments. My main concern was about the per-condition parameter estimation, but the authors point out in their response that (a) this is supported by cross-validation, and (b) the pattern of results doesn't change when the parameters are held fixed across conditions. I therefore increased my rating by 1 point.