Originality: The work is a nice combination of developments in a few fields -- applying analysis and concepts from machine teaching to concept learning in forgetful humans. To the best of my knowledge, the theoretical analysis is novel. However, they missed some critical work in the field and missed an opportunity to compare their method to very relevant pre-existing work. This includes the following references: 1) Patil, Zhu, Kopec, & Love (2011). Optimal teaching for Limited-Capacity Human Learners. NIPS. (http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5541-optimal-teaching-for-limited-capacity-human-learners.pdf) -- they examine concept learning and machine teaching, but with a different variant on limiting capacity of the ability "to use" exemplars. It is similar and may even be isomorphic to the case in this submission (I doubt it's isomorphic). 2) Nosofsky, R. N., Sanders, C. A., Zhu, X., & McDaniel, M. A. (2019). Model-based search for optimal natural-science-category training exemplars: A work in progress. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 26, 48-76.  Quality: The strongest portion of the article is the derivation of theoretical results. Although the simulations and behavioral experiments are a valuable contribution, the contribution is weakened due to the weak baselines chosen by the authors. Ignoring missing previous work, I would have liked to have seen a comparison to optimal teaching to a "forgetless" learner or how different levels of forgetting affected teaching and learning. There are also the models mentioned before which would have served as good baselines. Here are a few other minor issues:   Line 190-192: HLR memory model. This really has a much longer provenance prior to Settles and Meeder (2016). It would be good to acknowledge previous researchers (references through the Pavlik and Anderson 2005 on ACT-R activation functions and learning should get you there. References in Walsh, Gluck, Gunzelmann, Jastrezembski, Krusmark, Myung, Pitt, & Zhang, 2018. Mechanisms underlying the Spacing Effect in Learning: A Comparison of Three Computational Models. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General could also help) who have used forgetting functions of a similar form.   Line 282-284: The statistical tests aren't appropriate for binary outcome responses. The authors instead should use logistic regression or chi-squared tests based on contingency tables.  Clarity: The paper is well-written, though I did have some difficulty following their mathematical derivation at times. One reason might be their use of \gamma, which is more traditionally a decay rate of some sort. I also was unclear on the precise definition of \tau as it seemed to change from section 3.2 to 3.3. I appreciate the lack of space and partially my expertise being more in the computational cognitive science than machine teaching analysis.  Author feedback response:  Thank you for your thoughts on my criticism of the submission. I apologize for my confusion and I appreciate your clarification. It may be worth mentioning that in the revised manuscript as other readers might have it. I am glad you are including the hypothesis testing statistics in the revised manuscript.