Update: I have read the author response. - I acknowledge that topic is within the general scope of NeurIPS (especially under the signal processing/time series area). I've increased my score from 3 to 4 accordingly, and updated my review to reflect this. - Regarding the metric for measuring accuracy, I meant to suggest it would be useful to be more precise earlier in the paper about what metric is being used, since there are many ways to measure the error between two distributions (\ell_1, \ell_2, TV, KL, ...). - In the experiments, consider reporting the error metric used in the Theorems as well as the upper bounds, in addition to plotting the CDFs. - I agree that C2 is encompassed by your assumptions, but I would also expect that stronger results may be achievable if one makes stronger assumptions (such as C2), and in some applications it may be very reasonable to make a stronger assumption. It's fair to say that this is for future work. My point is that having a concrete motivating application scenario (e.g., monitoring air quality in doors) would make it easier to justify modeling assumptions. --- This paper mathematically formulates the problem of estimating a spatial field using a location-unaware mobile sensor and it proposes an algorithm for distribution learning in this setting. The problem formulation, algorithm, and analysis of the algorithm appear to be novel and original.  The main weakness of this paper, and the reason my overall score is "clear reject", is the lack of strong motivation and justification for the problem formulation and assumptions. When is it useful to have an estimate of the distribution of values along a path (i.e., a concrete motivating application)? For that application, what is an appropriate metric to use for measuring the accuracy of a method? Why is it reasonable to only assume that the field is Lipschitz? Why not something stronger (e.g., C^2)? Why is it reasonable to assume that the observations are not corrupted by any noise (so the only randomness is due to uncertainty about the position)?  In addition, there were some aspects of the problem formulation that were not clear to me upon reaching the end of Sec 2. - What is the goal? (Distribution learning, but no specific metric or way of measuring performance was described, nor were baselines or fundamental performance limits discussed) - It also wasn't clear that a "path" really means a closed loop with known the starting and ending point always being the same.  The example signal simulated in Sec 4 isn't time-varying. Is that intentional?  There is some mismatch between the title (which would imply that the aim is to estimate a random field) and the actual setting of the paper (the field is deterministic, the sampling locations are random).