*** Post-rebuttal *** Thanks for the authors' response and other reviews. In general all the reviewers seem to agree that the paper often lacks intuition for the proposed algorithm but the contributions look quite significant. It was also great for the authors to notice the analysis on computational complexity was unintentionally missing. Though I was leaning towards acceptance, I'd like to retain my original score given the confidence about my assessment was not super strong.  This paper proposes a novel Bayesian approach, RSVF (Robustification with Sensible Value Functions), to building an ambiguity set for a RMDP. A major limitation on applicability of RMDP approaches has been the looseness of ambiguity set given a robustness constraint resulting an overly conservative agent behaviour. Hence the study on tighter ambiguity set is a welcome contribution to the literature.  The intuition behind RSVF, as described in Section E in appendix, is based on two observations on the looseness of existing approaches to confidence regions. Roughly speaking, the loose bound is caused by unnecessary strong conditions enforced to all possible value functions and policies. These findings inspire the proposed algorithm, RSVF, which iteratively update the set of candidate optimal value functions and derives the approximately optimal ambiguity set for those value functions. The algorithm unfortunately does not guarantee to converge, but it guarantees the return policy and its corresponding return estimate to be safe.  In the experiment section RSVF has been compared to a several of approaches to building ambiguity sets, such as one based on Hoeffding bound and Bayesian credible/confidence interval. In both cases of single Bellman update and full MDP, RSVF turns out to build tighter ambiguity sets than others though it still displayed unnecessary conservatism (zero safety violation) and hence there is a room for being further tightened.   There might be some criticisms though. As pointed out in the paper, the computational complexity is not studied or evaluated so the practicality of this approach might look questionable. The paper is clearly written in general, but it is very hard to understand the algorithm without reading the appendix or references. Eq (4) could benefit from illustrative examples, in addition to Figure 1-3. 