This paper deals with the estimation of the transition matrix of a time homogeneous Markov chain on a finite space, together with prediction (i.e., estimation of the distribution of the next random state).  For prediction, the authors prove a lower and an upper bound for the minimax risk. These bounds match in terms of the number of observations, but not in terms of the size of the state space, even though they conjecture that their upper bound is tight, based on the numerical experiments.   For estimation, the authors prove matching upper and lower bounds in a minimax sense, for a class of divergences between probability measures.  The results seem correct (although many proofs are very technical and I have not checked them) and I believe the problem is relevant. However, the major issue with this work is the writing style (shortcuts, omitting important details, typos or serious lack of precision), to my opinion. Here are a few examples.  1. The authors do not deal with any Markov chains, only time homogeneous ones. 2. Line 35+Line 39: Repeated. 3. Line 83: ordinary. 4. In many statements, most constants are very artificial. For instance, in Theorem 1, the factors 4e, 2, or writing (k-1) instead of k, are irrelevant, given the use of the signs \lesssim, unless the authors carefully redefine that symbol. To my opinion, this artificially makes the results look more complicated (even more in Line 113, with the use of the number pi!) 5. Line 97: Any reference for this statement? 6. Line 109: Unless I am wrong, this statement is wrong. Only the lower bound is stronger than that of Theorem 2. 7. The whole section 3 is uninformative, to my opinion. It only introduces some (quite technical) definitions and notation that are only used in the proofs, without giving any intuition. 8. Line 170 (also in the supplementary material): I do not see why this triangle inequality is correct. It may even be wrong, but I am not sure. However, in order to prove the upper bound, it suffices to construct one and only one estimator \hat P, that takes the first value if K_n is satisfied, the second one otherwise.  9. Line 172: "One can show", but how? Or any reference? 10. Line 177 in the definition of L_n, a \cup is missing.  Overall, my opinion is that this paper should be accepted if a substantial revision is performed by the authors.