Originality This paper is an interesting generalization of neural networks on Riemannian manifolds that are agnostic to space. It introduces the idea of working on the tangent space and using a pair of functions that are inverse to each other and move points from and to the tangent space. What is not clear in the paper is why we should use functions that move points to and from the tangent space and not any pair of inverse functions. If there is no theoretical reason and empirical would have been sufficient. It is also not clear why they claim generality on any network and they picked graph nets. Also the authors should have made more clear the difference with reference [15]. I think it is the fact that they extend to the hyperboloid vs the poincare disk, but it is not properly highlighted on the paper  Clarity: The flow of the paper is very good and the method very clear. It would have helped if the message more crisp in the introduction.  line 13: Reference [3] is very informative and backs your point really well.   line 37: “Furthermore, we show that HGNNs are better able to model synthetic data” rephrase possibly, “are more suitable” line 38: Being able to model synthetic data is not really a contribution. Technically speaking I can always create synthetic datasets where the euclidean networks are more suitable line 50: “Using hyperbolic geometry for learning hierarchical representations of symbolic  data was first proposed in [28], using the Poincaré ball model”, Try to rephrase this sentence to flow better line 79-81: If the method you develop works on any Riemmanian and it works on any space, then you should consider changing the title of the paper and make more general. line 84-96: This seems to be a bug of the proposed method. Let me explain what I mean here by the word bug. I argue that I don’t really need to use a log and exp function that corresponds to a Manifold of hyperbolic or  a spherical metric. I can use any autoencoder where log is the encoder function and exp is the decoder function. Would I get better results? I think an experiment would have been worthwhile. line 138-141: I am not sure I agree with that. A regression model can take any features as input. I am not sure why this transformation is prefered. I have used it in data science projects successfully before, but I don’t see the mathematical connection here. Couldn’t you use mapping to a euclidean space and then do a simple regression? Why do you need centroid regression?  Section 3.4: It is positive that authors mention these details that are critical to correct implementation of their algorithm  Experiments: The methods that authors compared against are representative. I also liked the idea of synthetic data to prove the point. It would make also sense to use synthetic data generated by the first reference [1] and see if it can model it almost perfectly. I think it would have been better to pick different real datasets, like pubmed, cora that there is more rich comparison in the literature. 