Originality: PNS and related algorithms have not been evaluated for synthesis planning since work by Heifets and others several years ago. Revisiting this class of algorithms and proposing modifications to improve performance in multi-step synthesis planning is nice to see.   Quality: The empirical evaluation is not as strong as it could be, but the conceptual contribution of this work is still important for the problem of synthesis planning.  Clarity: The description of algorithms in 254-266 and elsewhere is not complete enough to reimplement the models and baselines. The dataset split, details of template extraction, network training, etc. is not provided either and the code is not available.   Significance: The novelty of the modifications to the algorithm may be minor, but evaluating it in the context of this problem is important. However, the empirical evaluation is not as informative as it would need to be to support the claims of DFPN-E and MCTS being the strongest candidates for chemical synthesis planning.  Specific comments: - The sentence “However, as discussed by [14], their search performance in RA is not well understood” prompted me to follow that reference, which does not really describe this.  - It would make more sense for Figure 1 to show a retrosynthetic reaction rule - Reference https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.9b00055 provides a different search strategy and might belong in the related work - The comment on line 189 (“However, most of the reaction rules have only one precursor”) and statistics of the rule sets described on lines 267-269 is surprising – it’s unexpected for there to be more unimolecular reactions than bimolecular reactions. - On line 235, was the data randomly split? - Line 241-242: Considering molecules in the training set as being starting materials seems overly generous. The molecules in the test set will be very similar to the training set if a random split was used, so the necessary pathways are quite short (as confirmed by the average pathway length in Table 1 – I suspect that a few outliers bring this average up). The histograms of the number of nodes shows a massive number require a single node. Given that the emphasis of this work is on multi-step synthetic planning, it would be better to exclude such simple test cases.   ---  Based on the authors' response (intent to release code, acknowledgement of reproducibility issue, and additional evaluation focusing targets with pathway lengths >= 3), a revised version would likely raise my score above the acceptance threshold