I have read the authors' response and other reviewers' comments. I choose to raise my score. -------------------------------------------------------------  Pros: - The idea of identifying pressure points is new in the context of nonlinear dimension reduction. The way these points are utilized is also inspirational. - Extensive results are run on several datasets.  Cons: - Like many other work in nonlinear dimension reduction, this paper does not provide a systematic, convincing way to evaluate and compare the new approach against previous methods which are claimed to be less effective. The visual comparison in Figure 6 appears cherry-picking in methodology. In the second comparison experiments, even with this dimension increasing strategy, the algorithm failed to identify the unique global minimum, which is frustrating; the authors claimed the objective function value was close to optimal but it makes little sense without interpretable units. - It may well be the case that the premise of embedding all high-dimensional points into a uniform low-dimensional space is misleading. As demonstrated in the motivation and experiments in this paper, if local minimum is really a concern for nonlinear dimension reduction algorithms, maybe one should use different dimensions for different points. - Are there interpretable properties associated with those "pressure points"? Is there any particular explanation for why they become stubborn during the optimization procedure? Do they depend on initialization and randomness of the algorithm? Only with such in-depth questions (at least partially) addressed will this work be justified as a solid contribution instead of a coincidental case study. - Before applied to real data, algorithms should be first applied to synthetic data for which one knows what the "ground truth" to expect. An algorithm that successfully recovers the expected truth can then be trusted. Otherwise, it is difficult to argue the algorithm works in real data, as for such high-dimensional datasets it is not unlikely that some correlations will create non-existent patterns captured by human perception.