# Summary  The paper proposes a resource-aware cost metric that takes into consideration the target embedded device's properties and system-level configuration, thus introducing probabilistic reasoning on edge computing.  # Quality  The proposed approach has been evaluated on different datasets for classification tasks. The paper should stress that the methods works only for classification tasks and the generality of the AC as a density estimator is lost. Indeed, since the methods relies on a greedy feature selection approach, queries on removed variables cannot be answered.  # Clarity  The authors firstly provide how to compute the computation cost of an AC in terms of arithmetic operations and fetching parameters from off-chip memory and storing and fetching from local cache. They the introduce the sensor interfacing cost. A greedy algorithm for learning the lowest-cost/highest-accuracy AC has been proposed that iteratively tries to remove a feature taking into account the accuracy of the new obtained AC.  It is not clear the relationship between the computation cost C_AC and the cost of extracting features C_F. It seems they are strongly correlated. For instance, the gain in C_AC with respect to the each removed feature could be interesting, at least empirically.  # Originality  The work proposes a new approach on learning lowest-cost AC classifiers with high accuracy. The related section should be extended. See for instance [1] and [2] that are cited in the paper. Differences wrt these works should be indicated.  [1] Integer undirected graphical models for resource-constrained systems, 2016 [2] Automatic mapping of the sum-product network inference problem to fpga-based accelerators, 2018  # Significance  The experimental evaluation of the proposed approach prove its validity. However, there is no comparison with respect to other approaches. For instance, at least a base comparison to the accuracy obtained with the tree-augmented BN used for feature selection should be reported in the table.  Minors  line 32: remove the ";" line 113: represents --> represent line 115: defines --> define line 120: benchmarks,customized --> benchmarks, customized 