- I am not very familiar with this line of research works, hence I may not able to precisely evaluate the significance of these results. Overall, I think that the paper is well-written and presents relevant results.   - The proofs in the Supplement seem to be correct. However, the proof sketches in the main paper are not referring to the lemmas in the Supplement. Now it leaves to readers to figure out when to apply each lemma, and what kind of conditions/guarantees are needed/obtained at each step. Also, some assumptions used in the proofs are not clearly stated, e.g., line 34 in the Supplement uses a lower bound on k, and line 85 uses a lower bound on n.   - The paper reads well, and it is not hard to follow the high-level arguments. But as stated above, it is hard to understand the details and reconstruct the complete proofs as the lemmas are detached from those high-level sketches. It would be better if the authors can improve this aspect of writing. It is also worth providing more intuitions for the construction of these algorithms.   - The algorithms seem non-trivial as each of them consists of a sequence of subroutines. The submission compares only the theoretical guarantees of the algorithms in [16] and the proposed ones. It may be better if the authors can explain the differences and connections between the proposed algorithms and existing ones. As for now, I don't see how novel these algorithms are. More concretely, I am not sure whether the authors are adding new ingredients to existing algorithms that are already nontrivial on their own, or creating completely new ones.   - It is of interest to see the actual performance of these algorithms and compare them with their globally private or non-private alternatives.   - Minor: line 255, "Testing" instead of "esting".  **************  I went through the reviews and the author's rebuttal. I would like to keep my original overall score since I believe that the results are nontrivial. Yet as I mentioned in my original review, I am not very familiar with this line of work. As a result of this, I have chosen a confidence score of 3.  