This paper proposes a novel method for optimal exposure operation in low quality images. The method uses reinforcement learning coupled with a discriminant loss (from GANs) to learn the optimal sequence of operations (i.e., the different exposures for each subimage component from a semantic segmentation of the input image) that generate, through a blender of all the components,  a good quality - better exposed  image.  The main concern with this paper is the poor clarity of exposition. In particular:  (i) The motivation and formulation of the problem. The formal definition of the image processing problem is lacking. Section 2.1. introduces the reinforcement learning approach to the problem but in a chaotic way. Semantic segmentation is one major component but it's not discussed.   (ii) Limited novelty.  No new reinforcement learning method is introduced. The paper is is an application of already known tools, to an image processing problem. Since this problem has been addressed before using also RL tools [13] the novelty is very limited.   (iii) Relation to previous work is not clear. Notably to [13]. Is this just a slight improvement? What are the differences?   (iv) The description, justification and analysis of the proposed algorithm is not clearly presented and discussed (Section 2)  v) Evaluation of the algorithm needs to be better. Sliced analysis are needed. Average performance in a whole dataset may hide important aspects (Table 1, very small diferences in PSNR...). Breaking down performance and a deeper analysis of the results is needed. In short, the experimental section failed to convince me that this approach is doing better than the rest.   (vi) The use of English needs a severe cleanup.  In my opinion, this work is still very premature. Its contributions are not clear (in particular its novelty); a better organization with an improved narrative,  and a deeper analysis need to be incorporated before one can properly judge the real contributions.  **AFTER REBUTTAL** I thank the authors for their response. The authors did a good job clarifying many of the raised points in the reviews.  Unfortunately, I still have major problems with this paper. This paper is about an image retouching method, as such, its quantitative/qualitative evaluation is poor. It is not clear how good is its performance compared to previous work. Moreover, the major contribution is that the method produces local adjustments (instead of global [13]). For this, the method relies on an image segmentation algorithm (that is plugged and is not part of the proposed method). How robust is the method to a wrong segmentation? Retouching locally might produce "semantic" artifacts (e.g., a part of a body is modified differently than the rest of the body). None of this is discussed. So the major contribution of the paper is an application of reinforcement learning to an image processing problem. There are a few technical aspects (non-differentiable, adversarial learning) that are interesting but not really new. I thus think this is preliminary work and the authors need to do more analysis to convince the reader that this method produces good quality (better than the others) results.