This work introduces a geometric analysis of the problem of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) and proposes a formal guarantee for the optimality of the reward function, obtained from the empirical data. The authors also provide the sample complexity for their proposed l1-regularized Support Vector Machine formulation.  In general, this is an interesting work with a significant contribution to the theoretical aspect of the inverse reinforcement learning problem. However, there are a few concerns that need to be addressed:  Major:  1. The paper does not define the problem as a stand-alone question in the field. The problem formulation heavily relies on the previous work by Ng & Russel (2000) and is written only as a follow up to this work. As such, the reader needs to go back and forth between the two papers to understand the terminology and contribution of this work. The authors need to clearly define the problem, provide the motivation, describe the previously proposed solutions, and clearly state their contribution. Specifically, the section “2. Preliminaries” which introduces Equation 2.1 is far from self-explanatory.  2. There needs to be more discussion about the previous work in inverse reinforcement learning. Many different techniques have been proposed during the past few years (Arora and Doshi, 2018), none of which are discussed and compared to here, which casts doubt on the novel contribution of the paper to the field.   3. While the theoretical aspect of the work is widely discussed, the practical aspect is not adequately addressed. In particular, three similar experiments with small state and action spaces were employed (n, k=5; n, k=7; n, k=10). The authors need to extend their analysis to provide a comparison of the two approaches in larger-scale environments with more realistic tasks (e.g., grid world, Atari game, navigation, etc.)  Minor:   a. The value function in section “2. Preliminaries” is not defined correctly. \pi: S -> A, and thus R(\pi(s)) is defined in the action space, whereas the reward function is assumed to be defined on the state space. Similarly, \pi(\pi(s)) is not meaningful because the policy is defined in the state space, not action space. The notations should change to resolve this confusion. b. All equations need to have numbers. c.  In Equation 2.1, what is N? This should be n. d.  Equation 4.1 should be a minimization rather than a maximization. 