Summary  This work seeks to combine methods from deep embedding literature with the aims of disentanglement to create disentangled embeddings. The authors use the F statistic: a well known statistical measure of inter vs intra class variance, in order to introduce separation between classes.   To produce the embedding, convolutional features are used to train a fully connected embedding network with a loss designed around the F-statistic. The embeddings were evaluated against other state of the art deep metric losses such as triplet loss, structured softmax loss, and histogram loss. The F-statistic loss did not significantly outperform these other methods.  The authors then evaluated the degree of disentanglement between the produced embeddings using two main metrics: modularity and explicitness. Similar to InfoGAN and Beta-VAE, dimensions of a disentangled representations are required to have mutual information with at most one factor of variation - this is defined as modularity. Explicitness is defined as the existence of a linear transformation between a dimension of the embedding, and the value of the factor of variation it represents. Here this is calculated with a one-vs-rest linear classifier, where explicitness is predicated on the ability of the classifier to predict the correct class from a single dimension of the embedding.     The disentangled representations are trained in a weakly-supervised fashion, where an oracle conveys information about the similarities between batch samples, but not the name of the factor upon which they differ. The embeddings were compared against histogram loss (Ustinova & Lempitsky, 2016), triplet (Schroff et al., 2015), as well as the unsupervised Beta-VAE. Under the metrics of modularity and explicitness, the F-statistic based embeddings performed better than other methods.  Review  F-tests are often used to decompose the variance given in a modeled distribution. Using the F-statistic to encourage disentangled representations seems natural to me. Simply creating well structured embeddings was clearly not the point of this work, as the embeddings did not perform significantly better than other methods. However, under the two computed statistics of modularity and explicitness, the F-statistic based loss performed better than both fully supervised and unsupervised methods (even if comparing to unsupervised methods is unfair).   That being said, the paper was unclear for me in a number of places: 1) I didn’t understand the training mechanism for the disentangled representations. How was 5 fold validation used here, and why was it important? A graphic showing an example curated mini-batch would help here.  2) It would be helpful to explicitly state how this measure of modularity differs from the mutual information terms which InfoGAN use in their losses to encourage disentanglement.  3) Why not directly evaluate against a method which explicitly encourages disentanglement like the F-statistic loss, such as (Chen et al. 2016) which minimizes total correlation between dimensions.  4)  This could also be done in a fully supervised way, this is a stronger argument for the F-statistic in general if it is shown to beat state of the art as both a supervised and weakly-supervised method.  The main idea is simple if not appreciated: using the F-statistic to encourage separation between classes. I have not seen this before in disentanglement research, but I expect to see it again in the future. I think there could have been a stronger evaluation done by comparing against other methods. If already comparing to a unsupervised method like Beta-VAE, why not compare to a method like InfoGAN which explicitly maximizes mutual information between a small subset of the code, and the observation,  I believe this work was well thought-out, but it needs either a stronger evaluation, or a stronger argument for its current evaluation criterion.  ** After rebuttal:  I still don't like that they don't want to compare to InfoGAN. They used the metrics in the following paper (which delineates requirements for disentanglement)  https://openreview.net/pdf?id=By-7dz-AZ   And this paper scores InfoGAN higher than Beta-VAE on almost all metrics e.g. "InfoGAN achieves the highest average disentanglement",  "InfoGAN also achieves the highest average completeness",  "InfoGAN contains the most easily-extractable / explicit information about [embedding] z.  So I don't buy their assertion that Beta-VAE is better than InfoGAN thus comparing to Beta-VAE is all that matters. I still believe the evaluation is insufficient because of this.