The main contributions of the work are to provide 2 algorithms for sampling in a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). TEEs are helpful for protecting the privacy of the input data during a query computation, whereas sampling is advantageous in protecting the privacy of the input from seeing the output of a differentially private (DP) query. The authors also provide an evaluation of both the sampling techniques on MNIST and CIFAR with DP SGD.   Originality: Regarding both the proposed algorithms, they heavily rely on a data oblivious shuffle. Given that the oblivious shuffle is from prior work, the novelty of the proposed algorithms seems incremental at best. Moreover, it is not clear why naively sampling multiple batches after a data oblivious shuffle within a TEE will be any worse than the proposed algorithms (as the shuffle will effectively hide which elements are present in the samples, even though memory accesses might be observable). The empirical evaluation needs to be broader and deeper to have a significant contribution. Another minor point is that the first 2 contributions stated in the contributions paragraph (117-122) are already known in the differentially privacy literature, and the authors have provided citations of many such works.  Quality: The submission is technically sound. The claims are supported by theoretical analysis.   Clarity: The quality of writing is not satisfactory, as even the only example they describe for explaining their 1st algorithm (lines 287-291) is poorly written, and I suspect it contains some typos. There are also other typos in the paper (e.g., line 185, 243).  Significance: The significance of the proposed algorithms seems minor given prior work.  ---------------------------------- Edit after author response: Update on Originality: After reading the author response and other reviews, I think that the contribution of the proposed algorithms over prior works is non-trivial. It is also clear to me why naive sampling after an oblivious shuffle will not share the privacy amplification advantage that the proposed algorithms have.  Update on Significance: Impactful.