This paper introduces a simple but highly original idea, leading to a really impressive result.  The basic idea is similar to Remez '18 "Learning to Segment via Cut-and-Paste", which also uses a GAN to generate a mask in an unsupervised fashion, and a discriminator to distinguish composite images from natural ones. However this paper's use of a three-part generative model, producing a background, foreground, and a mask simultaneously, completely avoids the problem(s) that arise in Remez around trying to identify where the object can be plausibly pasted into a pre-existing background (i.e. must not overlap the original object, placement must be realistic - no cars in the sky, resolutions of background and foreground images must be the same, etc.), as well as the failure mode where the mask only selects part of the object. Thus I believe the paper has considerable novelty.  The paper represents a significant step towards learning to segment objects from images without any ground truth mask data. One drawback is that it does require photo-realistic image generation, which currently can only be accomplished for a limited set of classes -- and usually only one class at a time -- by state-of-the-art GAN models. Currently this is somewhat limiting as a segmentation model, but the problem setup feels like a novel image (background + object + mask) generation problem. As such, I could see this having significant impact in both the image generation and segmentation communities.  The paper is well written, clear and easy to follow, with some very minor exceptions that I've called out in the "Improvements" section below.  The experiments are sufficiently comprehensive, although it would be interesting to see in more detail how the approach performs on images with partially-occluded foreground objects, and to how "central" the foreground object must be. When presented with two foreground objects, does mask generation tend towards a semantic mask (the chairs in Fig 2c.), or does it produce an instance mask for only one of the instances?  Overall a very nice paper. I enjoyed reading it.  ==== UPDATE: I have reviewed the insightful comments from the other reviewers, as well as the authors' response. I believe it addresses all of the major concerns. An expanded literature review using Reviewer #2's suggestions would be helpful, but the omissions are not fatal to this paper. Based on this I have decided to leave my score as-is.    