Thankyou for your detailed response. I am happy with all of your responses, though slightly confused over Q2 (rev2). One can't draw samples from improper priors in the first place, and other techniques (such as Rodrigues et al) won't save you there. You simply need to draw your samples from a distribution that is not the prior. I am still positively inclined towards this paper, and following the response and comparison to EP-ABC I will increase my score to 7 (from 6). -------- The paper presents all ABC algorithms, including the one proposed here, as drawing samples from the prior \pi(\theta). Of course when the prior is improper or merely diffuse with respect to the posterior this will be impossible or at best highly inefficient. So people tend to instead sample from p(y|\theta)g(\theta) for some g that can place samples in regions of high posterior density (perhaps after a quick pilot analysis) and then reweight the samples appropriately. So my question is how P-ABC performs when the prior is improper or diffuse \pi(\theta)\propto 1, say.  Theorem 1 works when y_1^*,\ldots,y_n^* are iid (which is curiously why it was written this way on in equation (2)), but presumably not otherwise. While I am glad to see the non-iid analysis in section 4.2 (and so perhaps you should remove the iid statement in (2) to make it more general and realistic as ABC analyses don’t usually use iid data - the non-trivial ones at least) - I wonder what you can say along the lines of Theorem 1 in the non-iid case? Otherwise we have to trust to luck(!) in the more challenging ABC cases, and there are of course more ABC algorithms that work well if the data are iid draws from the model (e.g. Barthelme’s EP-ABC in JASA, for example).  Following on from this last point, your toy example involves iid data, and so there are ABC algorithms that work very well in this setting, such as EP-ABC which does not involve summary statistics and scales reasonably well to high dimensions in the number of parameters and very well in the number of datapoints. So I’m wondering if you’re making the right comparisons with your choice of competitor algorithms?  Overall I would have liked to have seen the algorithm’s performance in a couple of more situations rather than a simple toy model and then 1 real example to better judge it’s capabilities. When will the method be valuable to use? When will it not work as well as other approaches? etc.  I support the motivation to extend ABC to high-dimensions, but the paper seems to have missed a few other methods designed to do this (or designed to improve standard ABC so that it can be extended to higher dimensions). These include Rodrigues et al's recalibration adjustment, Nott et al 2014's marginal adjustment (both of these utilised as regression-type-adjustments) and Li et al 2017's copula ABC (which makes a copula approximation of the posterior).  You comment on p.2. para 3 that (1) is a more general case than the synthetic likelihood, and so can have better accuracy. Generally this could be true, though if the distribution of the summary statistics is indeed normal (or approximately normal), then you will do far better with the synthetic likelihood for sure.  Finally, please define all acronyms at the first usage (this is mostly done, but not all of the time), capitalise appropriately in the references section, check for spelling/typos/missing-brackets, and tell me what the word “modelstive” means, as it sounds excellent.