Update after Author Feedback:   Thanks for addressing my ask for empirical speed tradeoff, clarifying the answer space, and for open sourcing the code. Nice work!  ---------------------------  Original Review:  This paper proposes a new attention mechanism when the model has two different kinds of inputs that can be considered to have multiple channels. Similar to other forms of co-attention or bilinear attention, these bilinear attention networks attempt to combine information from both inputs into a single representation. Though the exposition isa bit dense at times, the BANs appear to provide a simple, effective way to boost performance on tasks like VQA and Flicker30kEntities to new state-of-the-art performances. The idea in this paper is relatively simple despite the many lines of equations; the insights offered by additional experiments in Figure 2 are useful as well, and because the models seem so simple, there is little additional ablation I found wanting.   Overall, this leads to a 7 for strong empirical results with a simple idea, with various different options and settings explored for two difficult multimodal datasets.   Confidence here is a 3 because I lack the familiarity with VQA and Flickr30kEntities to gauge whether this approach is too similar to or incremental compared to other recent approaches. I can tell that this is a simple, effective method that builds off of the low-rank bilinear models of Pirsiavash, bilinear pooling, and multi-head attention, but I may have gaps in my knowledge to tell whether this is truly novel in that context. Math and other details were carefully checked though.  I would have preferred to see some experiments demonstrating the speed tradeoff of using BANs empirically (rather than just theoretically) to put that more into perspective.  line 165-166 “The number of outputs is determined by the  minimum occurrence of the answer in unique questions as nine times in the dataset, which is 3,129.” Can you clarify what this means? I can’t tell what ‘as nine times in the dataset’ means. I’m currently interpreting it as you are allowing the output of the model to be 3129 different answers, which are the answers that occur in the dataset at least 9 times.  I'm reserving very confident for reproducibility of systems that have been declared as being open source in the future. This submission includes a lot of detail about hyperparameters and training. The model is simple enough it would seem. But nonetheless, without open sourced code people might run into problems and unanswered questions during reimplementation.