The paper addresses the problem of performing the distributed k-mean/median clustering in the presence of outliers, and at the same time identifying the outliers. Data are partitioned across multiple sites either adversarially or randomly, and the sites and a central coordinator work jointly by communications to get the data clustering and the outliers. The authors proposed a practical algorithm with bounded running time $O(max{k,\log n} n)$, and bounded communication cost $O(s(k\log n+t))$ and $O(sk\log n+t)$ for adversarial and random data partitioning respectively, for a dataset with n data points, k centers, t outliers, and partitioned across s sites. They used a traditional two-level clustering framework (Guha et al. 2017). If using a $\gamma$-approximation algorithm for (k,t)-mean/median as the second-level clustering algorithm, their distributed algorithm has a bounded $O(\gamma)$ approximation factor. Extensive experimental studies were conducted to compare the performance of their algorithm with three baseline algorithms.  The problem studied is very interesting and obviously has strong practical motivations. The authors can provide theoretical guarantees on the approximation factor, and upper bounds on the size of summary, the communication cost and the computation time. This is excitingly favourable. The analysis in bounding the approximation factor (Theorem 1) is interesting. The paper is pretty well written and is easy to follow.  However, the summary construction algorithm and the distributed k-mean/median algorithm seem to largely follow Mettu and Plaxton 2002 and Guha et al. 2003, 2017. The paper does not provide significant algorithmic insights and a complete understanding, as existing clustering based NIPS papers, e.g. Chen et al. 2016. Currently the authors have upper bounds on the computation time and the communication cost. Is it possible to derive the time lower bound, as in Mettu and Plaxton 2002, or the communication lower bound, as in Chen et al. 2016? Only after deriving those lower bounds, they can have a complete understanding on the problem studied. Therefore, it might not be qualified as a seminar paper to get in NIPS.  Furthermore, it lacks comprehensive experimental studies. The current experimental work focuses on two real-world datasets KddSp and KddFull. However, KddSp is only a subset of KddFull! More evaluation on real-world datasets are required before drawing the conclusion. The other two datasets in the supp. material are both synthetic datasets. 