  The authors proposed the concept of "correction for interpretation" and supported it with principles: minimal, stable and symbolic. They suggest that a correction can provide insight on the model. While there are related works investigating the decision boundaries of deep learning models., finding a stable correction seems a novel direction to the best of my knowledge. The authors proposed an algorithm for ReLU based models using existing LP solver. Experimental evaluation on real-world data has been conducted and the results are intuitive to understand.   score(out of 5): quality(2) clarity(4), originality(4), and significance(2)  Detailed comments:  The current method is limited in binary classification. For a common multi-class classification problem, it can be much more (exponential in the number of classes?) challenging and it is unclear that the current method can be easily generalized. Even for a binary classification problem, I would suggest the authors try CTR prediction problem in experiments, which can be more challenging and impactful.   The initial region is generated via heuristics, which is one of the main limitations of the proposed methodology. It does not ensure the "minimal" property as the authors noted themselves.   The categorical feature is very important and the related content should be placed in the main paper rather than the appendix.   The authors missed a line of research on the adversarial targeted attack in deep learning, where people generate slightly perturbed input to fool the model to predict a prespecified label. While the objectives are different, these two tasks could share many similar techniques.   There is also a lack of baselines. While this might be a novel application, there can be simple baselines that achieve similar results. For example, a plausible baseline would be selecting the nearest neighbors in the data set that has the target label.    Minor comments: Figure 1. The caption should be more descriptive.  Line 119: "an an"  I have read the rebuttal.   While the problem is interesting, the execution for solving the problem can be improved: the authors should provide baselines, even a weak one. Even if the baselines might not obey the criteria strictly but neither does the proposed method. It is difficult to evaluate the contribution of the proposed techniques.