The writing of this paper is quite good, and the game-theoretic perspective is very much welcome. Theorem 2.2 is the main theoretical contribution of this work. The convergence analysis is nice, but it is not very surprising, nor is the proof technique itself very novel. The experiments are fair, but they are not the strength of this work.  I have the following major concerns.  1. If the authors are willing to use a matrix inverse each iteration, why not consider the full 2nd order Taylor expansion and perform a (damped) Newton method? What benefit is there to only consider the quadratic interaction terms (bilinear terms) and not the individual quadratic terms?  2. Glaringly absent from this paper is the discussion of whether computing the matrix inverse (via iterative methods) is computationally worth it compared to existing first-order methods that do not require a matrix inverse. The computational experiments only demonstrate stability and rate of convergence as a function of the iteration count. For the x-axis, the wall-clock time should have been used instead of the iteration count. I imagine the method does not scale very well as the dimension of the variable gets large.  Overall, I believe the theoretical contribution is nice but not very strong. As the experiments are minimal and do not address the concerns about the computational cost, they fail to provide a proof-of-concept of the practical value of the proposed method.   Minor issues. line 181, the inline equation seems wrong. line 235 " are not break down" line 250, the idea of computing Hessian vector products with automatic differentiation is not an original idea of this work. Balduzzi et al, or whoever thought of it first should be credited. line 280 "an reasonable" -> "a reasonable" For GAN and covariance matrix estimation experiments, you should state in the text or within the figure captions indicating which figure corresponds to which experiment. Supplement. The theorem numberings are off by one.   -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Post rebuttal comments: The authors’ response has resolved my concerns regarding practical computational costs. I now see that the experiments do provide a proof of concept for the practical effectiveness of the proposed method.  I still think my #1 concern of “why not Newton?” is still a significant weakness of this work, and I do not expect further discussion without any analysis or experiments to resolve this issue. Nevertheless, I think the presented results are interesting enough to be published.