This is a theoretical treatment of the following clustering problem: every data point is annotated with a radius r and a probability p, and we are looking to find a solution such that for all points there is a center within r with probability at least p. The authors formulate the problem, and give some LP-rounding based algorithms to give approximate solutions (relaxing either r or p).   First, if the authors want to frame this problem as a 'fair' clustering version, they should do a more thorough review of both the fairness literature, and the emerging fair clustering literature (see, e.g. ICML, NIPS 2017), and place their result among the related work.  From a problem statement side, It is not clear at all where the values p and r come from, and who sets them.  On the other hand, I view this as an interesting combinatorial problem, with more of a selfish/game theoretic flavor, with the "center" balancing the needs of the individual participants through randomization. In that light, this is a clean and natural problem. However, the theoretical treatment provided by the authors is convoluted and not clear. Any empirical analysis is missing, my guess is due to the impracticality of the LP.   On the theory side, first, I would recommend that the authors stick to standard notation -- I do not believe R_{y, S) is cleaner than the traditional d(y, S). Second, a lot of the subroutines are lacking any intuitive definitions / explanations, and the paper overall is lacking a plan describing how the problem is going to be attacked (e.g. what is accomplished by the LP, by the rounding, etc.), what is the structural difference between different versions of the problem, and so on.   Individual questions:  In Algorithm 1, the index i never appears inside the loop (line 4) is that by design?   In the LP,  what is the meaning of b(\calF [condition B2], I assume sum_{i \in calF} b_i ?   Is Corollary 2.3 a follow up to Theorem 2.2? I am not sure what it is a follow up to, or if it is a stand alone Lemma.   Overall, I appreciate the difficulty of fitting the results into the space provided, but I think the paper requires a thorough rewrite before it is ready for publication.  