The motivation for this work stems from the fact that ensemble models with individual models in the ensemble given, and only their weights to be estimated, may not fit the data well. The contributions of this paper can be used to improve an ensemble model and enable assessing the shortcomings of the ensemble. Outside the data, the model reduces to the original ensemble, while close to the data the bias term and the correction to the model’s noise distribution may significantly affect the output. The elements of the solution have been existing before, and their application to improve ensemble models seems to be the main novel innovation of the article. The topic seems well motivated and could be of interest to people trying to apply and understand ensemble models in practice. The theoretical derivations are interesting and establish a solid foundation for the choices made, although somewhat straightforward. A strength of the article is that it is well-written and mathematical details are presented clearly and accurately (also the Supplement). A weakness in presentation is that the quality of figures is clearly insufficient (legends, labels etc. are very difficult if not impossible to read in many cases).  ---AFTER REBUTTAL AND DISCUSSION--- I thank the authors for the detailed rebuttal.  To summarize, the contribution of the article is to show how to make an ensemble model more flexible, by introducing a residual process for bias correction and a transformation of the noise distribution. Furthermore, the impact of different sources of uncertainty can be estimated, and this is likely to be useful when interpreting the ensemble's predictions in practice (as demonstrated in the Application section). This is a sensible and interesting contribution, and potentially useful to the community, although somewhat straightforward.  Novelty of the work and its relation to the Dasgupta paper is a concern: a transformation of the noise distribution seems to be presented in both. The rebuttal argues that the present work has benefits in terms of interpretability and accuracy of the ensemble weights, but this would require more treatment (than is possible in a rebuttal) to be fully convincing. The works appear to be done independently of each other.  A strength of the paper is the clarity of mathematical detail. On the other hand, the clarity of figures is not sufficient for NeurIPS, and I hope the authors invest the effort to improve the figures if the paper gets accepted.  Acknowledging the concerns in presentation and novelty, I still think the paper is acceptable but borderline, and stick to my original score 6.