This paper derives complexity results for active learning queries to hierarchical clustering.  The result is a partition or "cut", c, of the cluster tree, where the "flat" clustering is defined by the clusters at the leaves of a subtree of nodes AB(c) that have the same root as the original cluster tree.   Learning occurs by making pairwise judgments on items (leaf nodes).  All pairwise judgments form a "ground truth" matrix \Sigma. Given consistency conditions, this is an equivalent way to represent a clustering. The objective of the learning process (e.g. "accuracy") not highlighted in the paper; the so called "good cut" mentioned p.3 l. 124, however the measure of success appears to be the ability to learn a clustering consistent with the \Sigma matrix. This raises a concern: A consistent or realizable \Sigma implies one possible clustering out of all those generated by cuts on one cluster tree.  The Error Measure proposed (p. 4 l. 139) simply computes a distance from the one \Sigma - defined clustering. So \Sigma has no sense of a clustering "close" in the tree to the one it represents. How then can \Sigma be used to determine the "right level of granularity of the flat clustering?  (p.7, l 273).  In the so called "non realizable" case, apparently assuming an arbitrary \Sigma matrix, the paper builds on methods of Importance weighted active learning (IWAL).  Ironically, it appears that any practical active learning setting will fall into the non-realizable case, and here the results are limited so far.   .   How one might exploit the methods proposed in the paper deserves further thought. Active learning presupposes an individual, an actual person comes to mind, whose effort one intends to conserve. The generation of pairwise queries on top of a set of priors assigned to nodes in T as a form of cluster learning, given one already has an agglumerative clustering may not be an efficent way to do active learning.  Given the approach taken, the development of ideas in the paper is tedious, and the results appear to be modest, with shallow and not deep insight  Typos: p.1 l. 36 We are lead  -> we are led  p. 2, l 55.  by adaptating -> by adapting 