This paper studies the optimization of one-hidden-layer neural network for solving multi-class classification problems with the softmax loss. It shows that with a large enough over-parametrization (that depends polynomially on dimension factors and 1/\eps), mini-batch SGD converges to a classifier with at least 1-\eps classification accuracy.  I feel like this is a strong paper. The part which surprised me the most is Lemma 5.2, which says that with enough over-parametrization, whenever the "pseudo" classification error is still large, the gradient norm of the pseudo-net is also large, so that SGD will keep making progress. This is a joint statement on approximation theory (there has to be a point with low classification error) and on the optimization landscape (if you're not there your gradient has to be large). This joint statement seems too strong to be true generically but here it probably comes from the linearity of the pseudo-net. Combining with Lemma 5.1, which couples the original-net and the pseudo-net for a bounded number of iterations (T <= O(1/\eta)), one gets that SGD on the original-net has to make progress unless the classification error is low, which is the main result. This entire analysis pattern is pretty novel and I have not seen similar analyses in the literature.   The discussion session is very well-written and insightful as well. In particular, pretty inspiringly, it postulates that with over-parametrized models, there can be a solution not far from the initialization with high probability. This phenomenon is also presented in the experiments. I wonder that whether the relative Frobenious error scales as 1/sqrt{K} -- it looks like this is the case for any fixed t. As a potential exploration, it might be good to try to choose different t for different K based on some pre-determined metric (e.g. classification accuracy > 90%) and see the scale of the relative error, to see if this phenomenon is more convincing.  One limitation is that the setting might make the classification problem itself easy (each class is mixture of L well-separated components). But given the novelty of the result and the analysis, I think it brings in interesting new ideas and directions for future work, which makes it a nice contribution.