*** Update after reading review:  Thank you for your feedback. I was happy with your inclusion of experiments on manipulation tasks, and agree they're convincing. I was also happy with your explanation on GAILfo vs GAIL vs your algorithm, and your discussion on Sun et al 2019. Your decision to release code also helps with any fears I have about reproducibility. I have changed my score to an 8 to reflect these improvements.   ** Original Review  Well written paper. Easy to follow the logic and thoughts of the authors. Fairly interesting line of thought. I feel like I learned something by reading it. It’s certainly of interest to the IRL community at this conference. I’m not sure the contributions would be of high interest outside the IRL community (for example, to the wider planning, RL, or inverse optimal control communities). But, that’s probably not so much of an issue.   Without the code, it is difficult for me to evaluate their GAIL baseline, which can be difficult to get correct. This gives me pause, because in my personal experience with these algorithms GAIL does not usually care much if it receives the actions or not. Not a large demerit as I’m assuming the code will be released. But it does make things difficult to fully evaluate in their present state.   “Provably Efficient Imitation Learning from Observation Alone” Should probably be cited.   I found myself wanting to skip over the experiments in section 5.1. I understand the point that was being made but the discussion just couldn’t hold my interest, even though I read it several times. I think the environment feels contrived.  I did check the math behind theorem 1 in the appendix. From a quick glance, everything seemed reasonable.   Figure 2 indicates that the introduced algorithm does better than BC and GAIL on a variety of locomotion tasks. I do realize these benchmarks are fairly standard, but are they really the best choice of environments here? It seems like learning from observations would be more useful on robotic manipulation tasks, where it’s often easier to provide demonstrations via VR or even human demonstration, but less easy to collect actions. In MuJoCo environments, you always know the ground truth actions anyways. So pretending you don’t have them comes off as somewhat artificial.   I don’t see it in the paper, but it seems like the locomotion baselines are provided via something like PPO? Although this is of course standard, it always seems funny to me when learning from demonstration papers use RL to provide expert demonstrations. It’s been shown that RL is a lot easier to optimize against than actual human demonstrations or even solutions provided via model based methods. I do appreciate that the author’s inherited this problem directly from GAIL and related literature, but it’s just hard for me to get excited about IRL results that don’t have a human in the loop, or at least some harder manipulation environments. These locomotion benchmarks are an odd choice for imitation learning.   I think when we’re evaluating this work, we have to ask ourselves two key questions: 1. Does this work provide a significant improvement or insight over GAIL. 2. Does this work provide a significant improvement or insight over “Generative Adversarial Imitation from Observations” and “Imitation Learning from Video by Leveraging Proprioception”   As for 1: Table 2 suggests that in practice the algorithm gets similar results to GAIL. The author’s do suggest inclusion of actions is important for GAIL’s performance but I am not so sure. I would need to see a much more detailed analysis of GAIL’s performance with and without actions to really make a decision about this. I think the analysis is interesting and the ideas are novel, so the paper can get by on that. However, I do have serious concerns that in practice the improvement over GAIL is rather small and no one will use this algorithm as an actual replacement for GAIL. Since, again, most people that I know that use GAIL already exclude actions. The correction terms to account for that DO seem to provide GAIN, but with these locomotion tasks being a narrow slice of what’s out there, it’s hard for me to feel completely confident.   As for 2: I do think the existence of prior art considering this problem is a demerit for this paper. However, neither of those references considers the relationship between inverse dynamics models and GAIL. So, I think the paper is okay on this dimension. 