This paper studies the problem of answering a (possibly infinite) sequence of (adaptive and non-adaptive) statistical queries without overfitting. Queries trigger the acquisition of fresh data when the mechanism determines that overfitting is likely, so adaptive queries necessitate new data. By continually acquiring fresh data as needed, the mechanism can (whp) guarantee accuracy in perpetuity. Moreover, by passing on the "cost" of data acquisition to queries that trigger it, the mechanism guarantees that (whp) non-adaptive queries pay cost O(log(# queries)) while adaptive queries pay cost O(sqrt(# queries)). Suggested applications are the normal ones for adaptive data analysis: ML competition leaderboards and scientific discovery.  ---Positive points (no order)--- 1. This paper is clear throughout: the introduction sets up the (natural) problem well, and the descriptions of the mechanisms and their guarantees are easily understandable. The comparison to known work is reasonably comprehensive while remaining brief, as is the sketch of optimality. Reading this paper is pleasant. This is partly due to quality writing and partly due to the relatively simple (or, more charitably, elegant) ideas used.  2. The varying cost guarantees for adaptive and non-adaptive users, arising as a natural outgrowth of being adaptive or non-adaptive, are nice.  3. As somebody who's generally more familiar with the differential privacy literature than the adaptive data analysis literature, I'm happy to see concentrated differential privacy working its way into adaptive data analysis -- as far as I know this is the first adaptive data analysis paper to use these tools.  ---Negative points (in order of decreasing importance)--- 1. I think it ultimately falls on the right side of this divide, but this paper is close to being "too" simple. By my count there is only one result (Lemma 6) in this paper that takes more than a minute or so to grok, and I’m by no means an expert in either differential privacy or adaptive data analysis. Indeed the protocol as a whole is very close to well-known basic adaptive data analysis protocols. The addition of data acquisition is a nice wrinkle, but the result feels a bit like the first naive protocol someone familiar with adaptive data analysis would provide if given this problem. It's silly to say "I am rejecting this paper because it is not long or hard enough!", but the paper does feel "thin" and even a little obvious. Of course, this obviousness may only be in retrospect, but I feel this is a paper that could move from "marginal accept" to "accept" with just a little more work. Even just writing up the "more formal treatment" of the cost-spreading mechanism mentioned in the conclusion, shaving down the cost guarantee constants, or incorporating growing data acquisition costs (which feels a little more realistic) would suffice.  2. The use of "minus current capital" in the EverlastingValidation pseudocode is somewhat vague, it would make more sense to me to actually write this as a variable that's modified with charges.  ---Overall--- This paper does a good job of introducing its problem, outlining a clear solution and analysis, and situating its contribution in the existing literature. The same simplicity that makes for enjoyably clear reading also makes it hard to wholeheartedly recommend this paper for acceptance: while reading, my immediate reactions were primarily “yup, that’s what you’d do there” rather than “oh, I see, I now understand that's unfamiliar technique”. As a non-expert in both differential privacy and adaptive data analysis, this gives me pause even if I like the paper – I’m just not sure it’s making a strong contribution to the state of the art. Again, I really wish the authors had just chased down one of the extensions they mention!  As a result, I marginally recommend acceptance.   ---Update After Response--- After reading the authors' response, I am increasing my score from a 6 to a 7. My broad perception of the paper is essentially the same: I think it's a useful result, but a little thin as a NIPS paper. I'm willing to defend the paper a bit.