This paper deals with the problem of enforcing Equal Opportunity (Hardt et al.) while leveraging both labeled and unlabeled data. It takes as given a trained black-box classifier and enforces Equal Opportunity on top of that classifier using a threshold rule. Notably, this paper assumes that there are only two sensitive groups, and it is unclear how to extend it to work with multiple groups (see Improvements).  Originality: As far as I know, up until now, most methods for enforcing Equal Opportunity (and similar fairness metrics that require labels) have only been able to make use of labeled data at training time. This work provides a novel way to use both labeled and unlabeled data at training time.  Quality: The theoretical results in this paper seem good and relevant. It is not ideal that the authors only provide asymptotic results though, and it would be nice to have at least a verbal description about how the amount of unlabeled data N affects the convergence properties. The experiments also appear to be run well with appropriate comparisons to recent methods. However, I would like to see more comparisons with direct constrained optimization approaches that work on nonlinear models, such as Cotter et al. [12] or Agarwal et al [2], since this paper only includes comparison to a direct constrained optimization approach (Zafar [48]) on a linear model.  Clarity: The paper is organized clearly with generally easily understandable notation. There are a few 'remarks' which I would prefer to see fleshed out more in the main body of the paper, such as remark 3.3.   Significance: In practice, unlabeled data is often easier to come by than labeled data -- in fact, unlabeled data may come easily in very large quantities, possibly orders of magnitude larger than labeled data. Therefore, if this paper is able to effectively leverage unlabeled data to do a better job of enforcing Equal Opportunity, it can have great practical benefits. Unfortunately, the paper only provides asymptotic theoretical results, so it's unclear how much the convergence rate benefits from the amount of unlabeled data (N) compared to the amount of labeled data (n). It would be really nice to see how these two terms interact in the convergence rate (also mentioned in Improvements).   Overall, I think this paper provides a novel methodology that adds value over previous methods. The main factors holding me back from a higher score are the lack of theoretical results about the effects of the size of N (e.g. a convergence rate that includes N), and the lack of empirical results that illustrate the effects of varying the size of N, even in the absence of a theoretical convergence rate. 