This paper provides two theoretical analyses of the neural tangent kernel (NTK); (i) one is the convergence guarantee of approximate NTK by finite-width DNNs to NTK and (ii) the other is a uniform bound on the gap between the limit point of gradient flow and a solution in RKHS associated with NTK. In addition, the paper introduces an efficient algorithm to compute a CNTK which is a CNN variant of NTK and experimentally demonstrate the superior performance of CNTK over the state-of-the-art kernel method and a random feature method of NTK. In short, I think this paper makes strong contributions to NeurIPS community as commented below.  Clarity: The paper is well organized and easy to read.  Quality: The work is of good quality and is technically sound. Two suggestions: - However, a major concern is the positivity of the gram-matrix $H^*$ of NTK. In the theoretical analysis, the positivity is assumed to define a solution in RKHS with NTK and to provide a convergence guarantee of the gradient flow. Therefore, I would like the author to discuss the validity of this assumption if possible. - It would be useful for the reader if the proof of the convergence of the linear dynamics (4) to a solution $f_{ntk}$ could be provided.  Originality & Significance: In this paper, there are two interesting theoretical contributions. Theorem 3.1 refines the previous result obtained in the original NTK paper [Jacot2018+] via the non-asymptotic convergence analysis. In addition, Theorem 3.2 seems the first result that provides a uniform bound on the gap between the limit point of the gradient flow for DNN and a solution of NTK. In other words, these results connect DNNs with kernel methods and allow us to analyze the theoretical property of DNN trained by the gradient methods via a kernel perspective.  Although there is still a non-negligible gap between the empirical performance of NTK and CNNs using several heuristics (which are turned off in the experiment) and there is also controversy over whether or not NTK is really useful in generalization analysis, this paper provides theoretical and empirical evidence of its usefulness to some extent. I believe that this paper will facilitate theoretical analysis of neural networks based on NTK.  ----- I have read the authors' response and I will keep the score. 