This paper is clearly written. It presents a new problem formulation and proceeds to examine it carefully. It is interesting to see that even when the agent follows an epsilon-greedy policy one can still do better than randomly selecting actions. It is also interesting to see that the learned exploration policy does indeed change during learning and it does improve agents' performance. To the best of my knowledge this problem formulation is new and it would actually be interesting to see this line of work being further explored.  One thing I missed when reading the paper was reading more intuitions about the proposed approach. For example, why learning a policy that maximizes the AUC of an RL agent is not very correlated to the agent's exploitative performance? What were the behaviours it learned in CartPole and the self-driving car task? I really liked the discussion about how the exploration policy in Animats learns to avoid actions that cancel each other. There's no such phenomenon in the other tasks, as far as I know. How is this policy effective?  The discussion is sometimes confusing. I was a little bit lost in Section 6.1, for example, when Figure 5 is explained. Finally, MAML is not the state-of-the-art in meta-learning. For example, REPTILE is an algorithm that directly builds on top of MAML and that leads to better performance (https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.02999). I'd expect a stronger baseline in some of the results.  The paper would benefit from being proofread for English. 'where' and 'were' are often mixed up. There are some typos as well ("The curve show", "0.995 ever episode").  -- Comments after the authors' response --  This paper has a simple and interesting idea to tackle the problem of exploration in a sequence of similar tasks. The empirical analysis is interesting and broad. Thus, I'm keeping my recommendation for accepting this paper. I suggest the authors to clarify three things in this paper though:  1. What is the intuition behind the fact that maximizing the AUC across tasks won't lead to an exploitative policy? Is simply the fact that different tasks don't accept the same exploitative policy and the learned exploratory policy is kind of good but general?  2. Further explaining the properties of the learned exploratory policy would be interesting.  3. After the rebuttal and discussion something started to worry me: the bold numbers in Table 1. What does the bold mean? Is it a statistical confidence? What is the p value? *Importantly*, and I can't stress this enough, what was the N used? Was it N=5 (as it should be), or N=50? This changes the interpretation of the significance of Pole-balance (d) for the PPO experiments. Since N=5, was a non-parametric test used? Was it corrected for multiple comparisons? I didn't reject this paper based on Table 1 because across tasks the mean performance obtained when using the Advisor is consistently good, showing a general trend, but the bold numbers might be very misleading and I'd ask the authors to be careful with that. 