This is an interesting paper, which focuses on finding more effective ways to design better game settings that would be able to probe behavioural differences more effectively. This idea certainly has great potential, although it's possible that once we consider more complicated games, like the ones people play in reality (as opposed to toy games, which are regrettably still widely used in many behavioural and neuroeconomics studies), they already have sufficient dimensionality and flexibility to dissect different behavioural phenotypes. However, as this transition to digital phenotyping/ecological validity won't happen in a year (or even a decade), the presented approach still has potential to remain useful for years to come. The paper is generally well written and of good quality, although it could be clearer at places. Even though I understand that this is a methodological study, the fact that there is no behavioural validation to test if people indeed perform as predicted by the model and their behavioural parameters can be more effectively identified in the discovered game settings is a serious limitation to study's significance.  I also have a number of more specific comments: - it's not clear why this particular "baseline" has been chosen. It doesn't seem like a particularly good/logical design for me - was it used in some actual behavioural economics studies? - the behavioural simulation/evaluation process is not entirely clear - is that a repetitive game design, i.e. do participants learn what they should and should not do from previous instances of the game and can improve with time? Otherwise, it's hard to understand how e.g. in Fig. 4 the loss averse group never goes right - how do they know these values are poor if they never visited them? - In prospect theory, loss aversion (which seems the main focus here) is normally modelled with a multiplier, whereas risk aversion/utility curvature is modelled as a power function - here it seems you try to do both using the latter, which slightly simplifies the model, but it would be interesting to see if the results would still be qualitatively the same if my mentioned formalisation were used (e.g. if utility curvatures are the same, only positive and negative slopes differ). My feeling is that some of the results may be due to utility curvature not due to loss-aversion/gain-preference per se. - Policy function should be explained better. For example, how does Gumbel-max compare to softmax (which I think is more common in behavioural and neuroeconomics). - Finally discussion should ideally be expanded, perhaps at a cost of moving some math/derivations to the supplementary material (although not leading to fewer explanations).