Originality:  The main originality of the paper is the proposal of a novel model construction for Bayesian graph models. Although related hierarchical constructions have been adopted in other areas like topic modelling, the proposed model is relatively new in Bayesian modelling for graph analysis.    Quality:  The quality of the paper is good, especially supported by comprehensive experiments. Specifically, the datasets and baseline methods are well chosen and detailed experiments are provided for ablation study and different model settings. Those experiments show the claims of the paper.  However, there can be several improvements to the paper:   1. Can the authors provide some quantitative study of the proposed model? It is known that one of the advantages of Bayesian models over neural networks is interpretability. It would be better if the authors can show some quantitative analysis for intuitively understanding.  2. According to my experience, AUC-PR (Precision-Recall) can be a better measurement over AUC-ROC (reported in this paper) when the proportion of training data is low. Therefore, it would be better to see that AUC-PR is also reported in the revised version of the paper in the experiment of Figure 4.  Clarity:  The paper is well-written as easy to follow.  My comments on clarity are as follows:  1. Can the authors further explain why it is necessary to draw X_{i1} ... X_{iK} from multinomial (Figure 1 (3) )? As far as I can see, one can directly feed \pi_{i1} ... \pi{1K} into Figure 1 (5). I am not sure the intuition on the drawing of X.  2. Page 5 Line 183, Eq. (18) does not exist in the main paper.  Significance:  Link prediction is a very important task in graph analysis. My major concern of the proposed model is on the scalability of Gibbs sampling, which may prevent the model to be applied in larger graphs. Although the authors claim that the model is scalable, the conducted experiments are mainly on moderately small datasets.  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- After the author response:  Thanks for the response. I think it's an interesting paper. But several concerns were raised by the other reviewers and me, which may need further improvements, including more comprehensive comparisons with GCN and VGCN, and qualitative analysis on interpretation of the multi-layer structure. After the discussion, I changed my original score.