Overview: This paper gives new generalization bounds in term of a chaining bound for mutual information. Specifically, Russo and Zou (2015) have shown that one can bound the generalization of any statistical learning algorithm in terms of the mutual information between the distribution over the algorithm's output and the distribution over the sample set. The present work goes further and gives a refined upper bound based on chaining in the sense of the classical Dudley chaining. The idea is to assume that the algorithms's output space admits a sequence of partitions at various scales in some metric (typically based on the data distribution). Under this assumption, the authors upper bound generalization in terms of a Dudley type bound which, at each scale, measures the mutual information between the distribution over the partition element that the algorithm's output lands in and the distribution over the sample set. They provide some small scale (d=2) numerical calculations comparing this bound with others and also show how to bound it in terms of classical covering numbers.  Originality and significance: I think the main result from the paper (chaining bounds for mutual information, and application to learning) is fairly novel and should find broader mathematical use. I am happy to accept based on this alone.  The main feature missing from this paper is examples / applications. The significance of the proposed analysis techniques would be much easier to evaluate if the authors showed how it can be used to improve or at least recover known rates for standard tasks. EG: What does the method get if I want to use ERM to learn a linear function in d dimensions with the square loss? Table 1 is encouraging but including some simple examples with details worked out would be much more convincing. I do think Theorem 5 is a good step in the direction but it seems like it should not be hard to take the examples a bit further and this would considerably strengthen the result.  Currently I think that given the lack of worked out applications, mentioning your results in the context of Zhang et al '17 is a stretch. Along these lines I also want to mention that the discussion of the drawbacks of Rademacher complexity comes across as a bit uninformed, as Rademacher complexity is often used as a component of more sophisticated data- and algorithm-dependent analyses including local Rademacher bounds and margin bounds.  Clarity and quality:  The paper is well-written and easy to follow.  ------------------------- After rebuttal: Decreasing my score to a 6 as my opinion of the novelty has decreased after spending more time with the Audibert-Bousquet paper. 