GENERAL originality, - this not a terribly original paper, but addresse and important problem (ID with a tool that has not been applied before.) quality, - High quality experimental work - many experiments and follow up experiments clarity, - Writing is clear. Research questions are clearly stated. Typical for conference papers, there is a bit of over-selling. significance,- The paper is a significant contribution. The authors report a quite universal shape of the ID vs DNN Depth. Seems like an important challenge for future analytic studies to explain the universal hunchback. weakness,- The main weakness is that we still remain to understand what generates the (low) ID - see below discussion.  The (lower bound) comments on the TwoNN method (starting at line 98) are significant and could have been explore further. How well-defined are IDs anyway? In line100 you give the following hint about the physicality of IDs: "For real-world data, the intrinsic dimension always depends on the scale of distances on which the analysis is performed..." I agree: Presumably, for real data/objects there is a very large (infinite) set of continuous symmetry operations that all - when applied to a given object - will lead to an equivalent object/same class object. Hence the "real ID" is infinite - however, depending on noise and sample size/scale there can be an effective ID = the main invariances of the object.   The authors speculate on the role of IDs in line151 "These results suggest that state-of-the-art deep neural networks – after an initial increase in ID – perform a progressive dimensionality reduction of the input feature vectors." This interpretation is consistent with theoretical analyses as in  Achille, A. and Soatto, S., 2018. Emergence of invariance and disentanglement in deep representations. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 19(1), pp.1947-1980. Here the DNN is shown to remove nuissances (symmetries/invariances) along the path from input to output  The authors compute pr object/class IDs (e.g. line137) - what are the reasons they should be the same across objects?   SPECIFIC line84: "This allows overcoming the problems related to..." These comments on the properties of the TwoNN method are important - but could have been addressed more thoroughly- In the TwoNN paper there is no analysis of spaces with dimensions beyond eD=5000 (isomap face images /MNIST -- not such a convincing analysis btw!). Most of the checks are made at ED < 100. Here we go to 10-100x higher dimensions cf. figure 2.   Eq (1)  assumes independence - in need of an argument at least...  But how well defined is the notion of neighbors in DNN high dimensional spaces? c.f. Radovanović, M., Nanopoulos, A. and Ivanović, M., 2010. Hubs in space: Popular nearest neighbors in high-dimensional data. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 11(Sep), pp.2487-2531. Please inspect the 2-neighbor matrix to check if there are the "hubs". In a later analysis (line188) you hint at this problem by using *normalized* covariance matrix equivalent to using cosine distance as recommended in the hubs paper.  