The authors propose a novel crowd-sourcing algorithmic framework based on the  Dawid-Skene model. This includes two novel algorithms MultiSPA and MultiSPA-KL which both admit model identifiability under certain assumptions. Crucially the proposed framework, unlike recent work, depends only on second-order statistics thus leading to lower bounds on the amount of annotations required to achieve a certain error in approximating the confusion matrices.  The authors have, in general, done a good job of positioning their work with respect to the state-of-the-art. However too much emphasis, especially given the paper's focus on complexity, is put on citation 37 which the proposed work is repeatedly compared too (e.g. lines 97,120). In fact I believe a more meaningful comparison is to citation 40, which though, as pointed out by the authors, also requires third-order statistics, uses group statistics. As pointed out by the authors of 40 this leads to an algorithm with an optimal convergence rate up to logarithmic factors. Perhaps the authors could comment on this in the rebuttal.  As mentioned the paper proposed two novel algorithms which both enjoy the aforementioned theoretical properties under various assumptions. A positive aspect of the paper is that the second proposed algorithm is motivated by the aim to provide an alternative to the first in the case where the first's assumptions may not hold. Thus the two algorithms seem to complement each other in this respect.  The paper involves a large body of theoretical analysis proving both model identifiability and improved convergence rates compared to prior art also based on Dawid-Skene. I should note here that I did not check the proofs of the theorems in detail. However assuming these are correct, I believe this to be the main strength of the paper.   Regarding the empirical evaluation I would characterize it as sufficient. The proposed algorithms, and in particular MultiSPA-KL, are shown to outperform a number of (relevant) baselines on multiple datasets though the results are not impressive especially on the AMT datasets. For example MV -D&S seems to perform as well as MultiSPA and MultiSPA-D&S for a fraction of the run time. Spectral-D&S also seems competitive with the proposed methods ( Incidentally there seem to be some discrepancies between the results shown here for citation 40 and the results presented in table 2. of that paper). One point of concern here is that the algorithm were implemented in MATLAB which renders any arguments based on runtimes rather unconvincing; how fast something runs in MATLAB says little of how fast it would run if implemented with some view to efficiency.  