After rebuttal: Thank you for the rebuttal. It helped me understand the sampling more / evaluating the loss more. Also, as your scheme is not designed to generalize OT to the quantum setting, I am fine that the quantum Wasserstein semimetric does not allow for a general cost function.   Based on these and the promising real life experiment mentioned in the rebuttal, I have decided to raise my review to marginally above the acceptance rate.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The paper introduces the Wasserstein semimetric between quantum states, which is then applied in learning to generate an empirical quantum state. The properties required for a semimetric are shown and furthermore the authors show that it behaves in a smooth way with respect to the quantum states. The method is then compared to other work in the literature in a non-direct way, as the referenced work have carried out the experiments in very different settings.  The paper is well written and the contributions are introduced in a clear way mathematically. For a non-expert in quantum computing the paper was a hard read though, mostly due to the extensive background needed (as evidenced by the 20+ page supplementary material). On top of this, in many cases there is a reference to the supplementary material for discussions and analysis, which I think harms the ability of this paper to stand out on its own. To some extend this is fine, but in this case I think it made the paper lack important content.  I was missing more comparison between the classical WGANs and qWGANs. For example, it remains unclear to me how the sampling is done in the qWGAN case. Furthermore, I was not able to find how to evaluate the cost function c(x,y). In the classical WGAN case, x and y are samples from distributions, but what are they in this quantum case? Also, which cost function is used in this work? As far as I understand, the matrix C does not depend on the supports of P and Q ( that is, there is no ‘c’), which is very different to the classical situation.  As C does not depend on a cost function on the underlying ‘sample space’, whichever that is in the quantum case, it is difficult to agree that (4.1) would be a natural generalization of the primal formulation of the Wasserstein metric. This is because the fundamental property of optimal transport is the ability to take the geometry of the sample space into account.    Specific remarks: - Line 30: seminar -> seminal?  - Line 58-59: KL and JS divergences aren’t metrics in the strict sense of the word. - Line 67: The main contribution is claimed to be the initiation of the study of quantum Wasserstein GANs. This wording sounds quite grandiosa, taken into account that GANs have been studied in the quantum setting already. - Line 75: The references for the formulation of the Wasserstein sense in the coupling form (primal) and ‘optimal transport’ form (dynamic I guess?) are really vague, especially as Villani’s book discusses all three formulations (primal, dual and dynamic). - Line 118-119: Denoting the distributions and densities with the same symbols is a bit confusing, although understandable as this notation is not that present in rest of the work. - Line 132-133: Weight clipping was the heurestic used in the vanilla WGAN, but is not the state-of-the-art anymore (thus the word often is a bit off here). I believe the gradient penalty method is much more prevalent nowadays. - Line 162-163: ‘A more reasonable choice of C would be the projection onto the orthogonal…’, this was a bit confusing at first, but I guess here the projection of the cost matric c(x,y) is meant? - Line 194-195: The terminology of ‘expected value of observing Hermitian psi on quantum state Q’ is not familiar to me. Does this have a physical interpretation? The probability of observing something sounds more familiar. - Line 209-210: What is a ‘simple tensor product of Pauli matrices’? - Line 211-212: the ’s’ after the expectation is confusing. Similarly the s after alpha_k and beta_l, avoid mixing mathematical notation with ‘grammar notation’. - Eq. (4.4): I guess min here should be with respect to the parameters of G. - Line 239: Using notation like \{p_i\}_{i=1}^N instead of just \{p_i\} would be clearer. - Experimental section: I believe fidelity is only defined in the supplementary material, but the right place for this would be in the main paper in my opinion. It might also be interesting, from the optimal transport point of view, to remark that the fidelity is closely related to the 2-Wasserstein metric between SPD matrices. -Supplementary material: in the proof of Theorem 1. 3), C is defined as (I - SWAP)/2, but in 3) C = (I + SWAP)/2 is used (or atleast written down). 