AMP is an algorithm for linear estimation that is very powerful under certain assumptions of the matrix. It is being used both in some practical problems, and for theoretical understanding of high-dimensional statistical models. With respect to AMP, the VAMP algorithm works for a larger class of matrices and it thus particularly promising. One very important property of both AMP and VAMP is the existence of the so called state evolution which is a deterministic set of equations tracking the error in a given iteration of the algorithm.  Both AMP and VAMP are able to take into account various regularisations and prior information on the unknown signal. In the simplest and most restrictive form the prior/regularizers needed to be separable for the state evolution to hold. This constraint was relaxed in previous works for the case of the AMP algorithm. The present work relaxed the separability constraint for VAMP and proves the state evolution for a class of non-separable denoisers.  This is a solid work that inscribes in a line of work on the AMP and VAMP type of algorithms.  The paper has several caveats that the authors should explain or amend:  ** The paper has a theory part where the state evolution is proven (for space purposed most of the proofs are in the supplement, which is no problem), and a theory part that shows performance of the algorithm for 3 typical problems that can be treated with this type of algorithms. THe experimental part has comparison to other state-of-the-art algorithms. Since the main point of the paper is the state evolution, why doesn't the experimental part compare to the result of the state evolution?  ** The sentence "whenever the SE has a unique fixed point, the estimates generated by AMP converge to the Bayes optimal estimate of x0 from y." does nto seem correct. First, there are situations when AMP runs with a denoiser that does not correspond to a probability distribution that generated the signal, that even if there is a unique fixed point the resulting error is not as good as the Bayes optimal one. Second, which theorem in refs. [6,7] states that unique fixed point of SE implies optimality and under what conditions?  ** The authors say: "Unfortunately, the SE analyses of VAMP in [23] and its extension in [24] are limited to separable denoisers." Is seems to me that the work of Rangan, Fletcher'????? can be seen a applying VAMP with a non-separable prior. Why is this not considered by the authors?  Details: Page 2: "of of [18]" repetition.  In the conclusion it would be useful to remind that there are strict conditions on A and the denoiser under which the analysis of the paper holds. Otherwise a sentence as "the method admits a rigorous analysis that can provide precise predictions on the performance in highdimensional random settings." may be misleading.   ------  My concerns and questions were well answered in the rebuttal, I increased my overall score from 6 to 7.  