The emergence of multiple retinal cell types through efficient coding of natural movies  This papers proposes to study possible distributions of retinal cell types. It builds upon existing literature on four cell types and evaluate how two different configurations of cells could optimally encode natural movies with a unique cell firing rate budget. It draws analogies with optimal configurations and configuration existing in primates. Models are mention to capture 90% of all ganglion cells.  The paper tackle an interesting question on wether retinal cell configurations are mathematically optimized for spatio-temporal stimuli. As a disclaimer, I am not an expert on retinal cells. The paper refers to important literature on the matter and focus on mathematical models of cell distributions. However, little information is provided on the type of target visual stimuli. Naively, one may think that different stimuli should be captured differently across varying cell distributions, and one may question why choosing to study one configuration of cells that optimized with one particular stimuli.   On the model itself, the firing-rate budget is clear. However, the link with neural networks is less clear. Is the neural net used here historically to truly mimic a biological neural network? Could other models be used, is there a particular architecture, number of layers, to follow in such case?   The paper evaluates a the performance of a mixture of 2 types of low/high spatial/temporal cells, and compares it with a configuration of one unique cell types. Why two types and not more configurations?  Minor, what is motivation of scaling (eq 3) - notation of footnote (2) can be confusing (squared?) - footnote (4): empirically? - ref [6]? - there are 8 appendices, pushing the length up for this submission  The authors' feedback proposed clarifications on major points, including on distributions of stimuli (statistics) vs specific stimuli - overall indicating importance of this work on receptive field configurations.  