Originality: The task of characterizing biases in face classification systems has recently received increasing attention from researchers. While related work either use computer graphics or real-world data, here, the authors propose to use conditional GANs. Related work is mostly adequately cited, although I would recommend to also take the following related computer graphics approaches into account: - Qiu, Weichao, and Alan Yuille. "Unrealcv: Connecting computer vision to unreal engine." European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, Cham, 2016. - Kortylewski, Adam, et al. "Analyzing and Reducing the Damage of Dataset Bias to Face Recognition With Synthetic Data." Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops. 2019. - Kortylewski, Adam, et al. "Empirically analyzing the effect of dataset biases on deep face recognition systems." Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops. 2018.  Quality: The claims made are supported by empirical analyses, although the experimental setting is rather limited, because only two classifiers have been tested. The limitations of GANs in terms of generating realistic images have been pointed out adequately.  Clarity: The quality of the manuscript is good. The paper is very well understandable.  Significance: Although, the use of conditional GANs for characterizing biases in classifiers is novel, I think the manuscript in its current state is not significant enough to justify a publication at NeurIPS. The proposed work is a purely empirical analysis, no significant theoretical or technical contribution was made and the findings in this paper basically confirm those of related work (as also pointed out by the authors).   Post rebuttal feedback: I would like to thank the authors for taking the effort to answer my cocnerns. The authors have shown that their approach could be used to increase the performance of biased classifiers, although there still remains a significant gap to the performance of an unbiased classifier. Nevertheless, I am willing to upgrade my review to accept, because usings GANs to interrogate biased classifiers can be potentially useful for a number of application areas.