The main contribution of this work is a new approach to neural network robustness based on polyhedral complexes.  Quality: The theoretical results are clear and intuition explained. (I haven't verified the proofs in the appendices). The proposed algorithms are clever and neatly explained.  The main missing component is more extensive empirical evaluation:   -- 128 random samples seems very small to draw reliable conclusions  -- Only one type of network is considered (binary classification 1 vs. 7 on MNIST via standard training): The performance of a verifier typically varies a lot depending on how the network was trained (whether it was trained to be robust and by which method). For example, training to enforce relu stability would reduce the iteration time as mentioned in the paper.   -- The main gain of the proposed approach is under limited time constraints, it can verify much more than complete methods like MILP. How does this compare to other LP/SDP based incomplete verifiers?  Originality: The approach towards certifying robustness of neural networks is novel and very different from existing approaches. However, I am not familiar with the geometric results proposed to comment on whether the theorems involve novel techniques over existing work in the area.   Clarity: The main ideas of the paper are well presented and the intuition is clearly explained. The technical exposition could be improved in parts, especially in defining and using terms that are not standard in ML literature. Some minor specific points:   a) Corollary 3.2: T refers to boundary of the polytope but isn't mentioned in the statement of the corollary which is quite confusing on first read.  b) The definition of convex polytope in Section 3 seems to be missing convexity requirements c) Chebyshev ball isn't formally clearly d) A figure to represent the bipartite graph could aid understanding    Significance: i think this work is significant as it provides a new approach to quantifying robustness of a network. While the preliminary results presented in the paper do not yet address scalability issues, and provide only a small improvement over the baselines considered, this new approach could propel innovations for certifying neural network properties based on similar geometric ideas.   -- Author feedback response --  I thank the authors for their response and clarification. 