Note: in view of other related papers pointed out during the discussion process, I have adjusted the rating to reflect concerns over the contribution of this work.  This submission presents two new methods, namely sparseflex and sparsehourglass, for mapping input vectors to the probability simplex set (unit sum vectors in the positive orthant). The main motivation is to improve the popular softmax function to induce sparse output vectors, as advocated by the sparsemax function. To this end, a general optimization framework (sparsegen) to the design of such probably mapping functions is proposed, by minimizing the mismatch to a transformation of the input penalized by negative Euclidean norm. Interestingly, it turns out that the sparsegen is equivalent to sparsemax, and it is possible to recover various existing mapping functions by choosing different transformation g(.) and penalization coefficient lambda. Two special realizations of sparsegen - sparseflex and sparsehourglass - have been introduced, along with the discussions on desirable properties for probably mapping functions. Last, the present submission also discusses the choice of loss function in multilabel classification for using the sparsegen framework.  The presented work is analytically interesting and the proposed mapping functions have demonstrated practical values in experimental results. Some comments are listed here:  - The introduction of sparseflex is missing in the main submission. As one of the two proposed mapping functions, the analytical form of sparseflex should be included in the submission.   - Some claims are not formally corroborated. For example, in the introduction of multilabel classification (Sec 4), the issue of KL divergence needs reference papers to justify.   - As both sparseflex and sparsehourglass stem from special settings of sparsegen, their parameter selections can be more explained especially for real applications such as speech attention. It is expected that their performance depends on the sparse regions as shown in Figs 2 and 3. More discussions on the rationals behind their settings would be nice.   