Having read the authors’ response and the other reviews, I think I may have gotten a little overly excited about this paper, but I still think it is innovative and significant. In fact, I found the relationship between the two clusters in Figures 6a and 6b more convincing than I did originally. However, I am dropping my score a notch because, while I really like this paper, I believe it is in the top 50%, not the top 15% of NIPS papers. This is again, because the analysis is not as rigorous as one would like. Also, after having read the author's response and the other reviews, I have edited my review a bit below.   This paper is highly original, combining two very different efforts in a novel way. The BOLD5000 dataset has only recently come out, and is already a gargantuan effort, providing fMRI responses of multiple subjects to 5000 images of various types. This paper is the first I’m aware of that takes advantage of this enormous (for fMRI) dataset.  And the use is quite clever: In Taskonomy, networks with similar architectures are trained to perform 26 different tasks, and then task similarity is based on how well the internal representations developed for each task transfer to other tasks. These same encodings are used here (from 19 tasks considered to be ones humans might perform in the course of processing images) with ridge regression to predict voxel activations. In other words, the 5,000 images used in BOLD5000 are given to the Taskonomy networks and the resulting encodings are used to predict the 5,000 BOLD activations of 55,000 voxels. This gives rise to a set of correlations between voxels and tasks.  The results are in part interesting because across three subjects, for five different ROIs, the pattern of correlations between tasks and voxels are quite similar. It would have been useful, I think, if the authors had correlated the correlations instead of simply using ocular regression to compare them.   Less exciting are the results in Section 3.2, where they apply the same technique to whole-brain voxels. It is difficult to interpret these results (in Figure 2). It is unclear what we are supposed to take away from this Figure. Also, it would probably be more visible if the background for these figures was white instead of black (ditto Figs 3 and 4 – Figure 1 from the appendix is better). I note here that the figures look much better in the pdf than in my printout of the paper.  I couldn’t tell from the printout that Figure 2 had labeled the regions. Figure 3 was more informative, showing that 3D features give better correlations than 2D features, which is an interesting finding.  I couldn’t see any blue voxels in my printout of Figure 3. Figure 4 would have been enhanced by some discussion of any insights to be gleaned from it. Figure 4 is more like, see what we can do? Some interpretation would have been good.   The results in section 3.4 and Figures 5 and 6 are interesting. I would have left out of the paper section 3.5 in favor of more analysis/discussion of the results in Figure 5 and 6. Figure 7 is not at all convincing, and would be best left in, say, the supplementary material. The last two sentences of section 3.5 seem more like wishful thinking. It would have been interesting if there was a significant correlation between the graphs, using a randomization test.   The paper is well-written and fairly clear. As the paper says, this paper “provides a first attempt in using predictive-map-generated task relationships to answer broader questions of neural information processing.  ” I agree, and I think this will lead to many fruitful future efforts along these lines.   Very minor comments: line 66: it's either etc., or et cetera, not et. cetra. et is not an abbreviation for anything. It is what it is. line 119: networks-> network. line 167 and the caption of Figure 2. Line 167 suggests that Figure 2 shows the correlations for *each* feature space, but it only shows the correlations for scene classification.  One issue about the task tree: to the extent that tasks are similar (as measured by the Taskonomy paper), won't their predictions be similar? This would seem to influence the brain taskonomy and overly inflate the similarity between the trees. lines 201 and 202 seem like a real stretch. Line 280: frmi in the bibtex -> {FMRI}