## Update ##  I'd like to thank the authors for their thorough response. I will maintain my initial score.   I did review the discussion of rLanczos and sLanczos in Appendices F.1 and F.2 and agree that several additional sentences in the main paper should suffice to clarify the methods.   ## Initial Review ##  The authors propose a nearly linear-time randomized algorithm for principle component projection (PCP) and principle component regression (PCR). This is achieved using Zolotarev rational functions to approximate the sign function instead of the polynomial function approximations used in previous work. Computing the Zolotarev rational functions requires solving squared ridge-regression problems. The authors reduce solving squared ridge-regression problems to solving asymmetric linear systems and analyze convergence of a SVRG solver for generic asymmetric linear systems. The properties of the SVRG solver are further analyzed in the context of the specific asymmetric systems corresponding to these squared ridge-regression problems, which yields a tighter convergence (in high-probability) bound. Accelerated high-probability rates are proved in both the generic and specialized settings. The accelerated rate specialized to solving squared ridge-regression problems yields the proposed algorithm for PCP and, by reduction, PCR. The paper concludes with an experimental evaluation on several synthetic PCP problems. Variants of the proposed algorithm are shown to perform faster than methods based-on polynomial approximations and competitively with the Lanczos algorithm.  Originality: The proposed algorithms are novel. Related work is appropriately cited.  Clarity: The paper is clear and easy to follow. However, I suggest that some additional discussion of rLanczos and sLanczos be added to main text if possible. See minor comments below.  Quality and Significance:  This paper appears to resolve an significant outstanding problem with respect to randomized PCP and PCR algorithms. As a part of the analysis, several high-probability convergence bounds are proved for SVRG methods applied to solving asymmetric linear systems. This alone seems like an excellent contribution and a step towards faster linear algebra primitives via the modern optimization toolbox. Empirical investigations are provided to confirm the authors' theoretical conclusions. These experiments are small, but well-executed.  Minor Comments: - Line 375: The title of Appendix C should read "Proofs for Results in Section 2". - Line 202 should read "We denote ... as *the* cost of *the* matrix-vector of ..." - Line 227 should read "... *the* data matrix A..." - Line 230 should read "In all figures below, *the* y-axis *denotes*..." - Section 2 might flow better if Figure 1 was placed at the top of the page, rather than embedded in the text. The same is true for Algorithm 1 and Figure 3.