The originality of the method stems from the combination of a number of known reasonable techniques. Related work is cited well and is clearly differentiated from the proposed method.  The visual odometry results seem highly encouraging, both qualitatively and quantitively, but I am not very familiar enough with the related work to be certain.  It's not clear how good the KITTI depth results are. For the non-pretrained setting, the proposed method is only marginally better than the cited CC method [10], which as a joint learning method incorporates weaker priors compared to the strong priors required for the method proposed by the authors.  The paper is written very clearly and because the proposed method combines rather simple ingredients it is easy to follow along.  Overall I think this is a fair submission, it's good to have empirical data that the proposed methods (in particular the geometry consistency) do in fact help. The authors did not significantly exceed state of the art results for depth estimation except for special cases. However for future research, the proposed method can plausibly be combined with others methods to move the state of the art forward, and quantitatively they already provide an improvement for visual odometry tasks.  UPDATE: After reading the authors' rebuttal, I have chosen to maintain my score, for to the following reasons: (1) the authors address the concern about the strength of the priors and this is a helpful component of the rebuttal, (2) the authors helpfully explain the training time improvements, as other reviewers have noted, this should be made clearer in the paper and discuss both training and test time differences between the proposed method and prior work. However, (3) the remaining main flaw of the paper is that the contributions are of theoretical and efficiency nature, it would be more convincing to see the impact of such contributions as an increase in final accuracy. For example, this could be shown with a comparison of accuracy between the proposed and other methods after similar amounts of training time/compute.