This paper answers the question on whether self-attention can be used as a stand-alone primitive for many vision tasks. The paper provides a clear answer to this question and demonstrates through methodological and empirical analyses that self-attention can be used as a stand-along primitive and also provides specific analyses, including different ablative analyses, showing under what circumstances attention can underperform or outperform convolution and under what circumstances an optimal combination between the two can be used for delivering the best performance. Empirical analyses are obtained using ImageNet for classification and COCO for object detection.  The paper reads well and provides a good balance in methodological and empirical analyses and discussions. The findings and conclusions are interesting but not surprising. They are useful for computer vision practitioners and researchers. In this sense, the work is of both academic and societal impacts. Overall, I like this work and I am confident that the community shall benefit from these findings and conclusions from this work.  I have a few minor questions on this work.  - Presumably, convolution-stem + attention should deliver the best performance. Why on Table 1 for ResNet-50 is full attention better than convolution-stem + attention? The similar observations are obtained in Figure 3 for certain scenarios? - The conclusion that enlarging the spatial extent k in attention improves performance but plateaus off at 11x11 is based on the observations on Table 4. I wonder whether this conclusion is premature – what if you continue enlarging the spatial extent? Would the performance drop after 11x11? Or plateaus? Of increase again? - In general, the conclusion that convolution is good at capturing low level features while attention is good at higher level is probably valid for all the “natural” images like those in ImageNet and COCO. What if you have binary/illusory/sketch images where you may need attention in the first place?  The presentation of the work is acceptable. But there are grammatical errors and typos. Also somehow most of the references were missing in the paper.  The above was my initial review. I read authors' response and am happy with their answers. I stay with my original review.