Overall, I feel the paper is written in a rush and there are many problems in notations and presentation. More importantly, there seem to be a few flaws or statements without sufficient justification, which makes the paper theoretically unsolid.   • \phi is used in the introduction, but it is not defined until section 2 • Could you please use [] instead of () for references? The formula are also indexed by (), which is confusing. • Definition 3.2 should be revised a bit. It has two “for all $S \subset V$” • Definition 3.3 should also be slightly revised: there are grammar mistakes and you never specify which quantity is the maximizer, though I guess it should be H. • Since the spectral maximizer depends on the cut approximator, so I think it should be defined to be ``\alpha-spectral maximizer” with a corresponding parameter \alpha, correct? But seems H is never associated with such a parameter. Please clarify. • What do mean by “not even using a subset of V” while requiring “two graphs on the same vertex set” on line 131 • Theorem 3.2 is confusing. What is S? • Section 3.3 is titled as “Cheeger Inequalities for Spectral Maximizers”. But in theorem 3.3, you only show the existence of such H, but there is no statement whether the H is the spectral maximizer of G. And the Corollary 3.1 depends on Theorem 3.3. So at the end, I don’t see the connection between the results in Section 3.3 and the spectral maximizer in Section 3.2 • It is discussed at the end of page 4, that we should assume the diameter of T to be \tilde{O}(1). I don’t see a rigorous justification of this statement, unless I missed something. • The algorithm does not have theoretical guarantee for claimed properties.  The authors addressed most of my questions. However, the correspondence between the existing H and the spectral maximizer is still not clear to me. Perhaps after the authors add clarification, this can be resolved. The theoretical guarantee for the algorithm is not available still, which seems to me is important. Given the current result, I will change my evaluation to 6.   