The authors point out a shortcoming in a popular MARL algorithm and present a well-motivated solution. This much is fine. However, I think the uniqueness of both the problem and the solution were overemphasized.  First, as far as I can tell, the inefficiency of exploration for QMIX boils down to the inefficiency of epsilon-greedy, a well-known shortcoming that plenty of people study in the single-agent q-learning domain. This could of course be exacerbated in the multi-agent setting (since the epsilon noise is added independently per agent), but the problem itself isn't new. So forgive me if I misunderstood something, but what is the point of section 3 beyond saying this? For me, this whole section could have been replaced with: "Epsilon-greedy is inefficient [citations]. The problem can be even worse in the multi-agent setting. [brief elaboration] Here we present a committed exploration approach for multi-agent q-learning."  Second, the solution presented is essentially exactly DIAYN [Eysenbach et al 2018] (which itself was a generalization of variational intrinsic control [Gregor et al 2016]). Sure, DIAYN was applied in a different setting (unsupervised pre-training for RL), but the method of sampling a latent variable and encouraging behavioral trajectories to be as different as possible so as to allow the inference of that latent variable by a discriminator (as a variational approximation to optimizing mutual information) comes directly from that paper. They even had the same motivation of encouraging exploration. Given this, I find it unfair that exactly one sentence is devoted to DIAYN and VIC (lines 277-279). I think it would be more appropriate for this work to be highlighted prominently in the abstract, introduction, and section 4 on methodology (note that QMIX itself is highlighted in this way). ("MAVEN=QMIX+DIAYN" is the executive summary I wrote down for myself.)  The Starcraft results also seem fine, but not so strong as it make it obvious that committed exploration is a crucial empirical improvement for QMIX - while MAVEN agents learn faster in 3s5z, the final performance looks the same; MAVEN agents seem to have less variability in final win rate on 5m_vs_6m; and QMIX actually seems to have better final performance on 10m_vs_11m. The results in figure 2 and 4 do however suggest that there may be scenarios where the advantage of MAVEN is higher.  Minor comments: 1) line 64 and others: the subscript "qmix" should probably be wrapped in a "\text{}" 2) first eqn in section 3: inconsistency between using subscripts and superscripts, i.e. u_i and u^i 3) line 81: perhaps better phrased as: "the *best* action of agent i..." 4) line 86: u_n^i -> u_|U|^i? 5) line 87: I was confused by what "the set of all possible such orderings over the action-values" means. Besides a degeneracy when some of the Q values are identical, isn't there only one valid ordering? Or are you just trying to cover that degeneracy? 6) Definition 1: perhaps add an intuitive explanation, e.g. "Intuitively, a Q-function is non-monotonic if the ordering of best actions for agent i can be affected by the other agents action choices at that time step." 7) line 110: precise sequences -> precise sequence 8) line 131: for latent space policy -> for the latent space policy, missing space after period 9) line 162: should call the variational distribution a "discriminator" as it is introduced, both to help explain what role it is playing, and because this is done in Figure 1 without reference in the main text 10) line 174: sate -> state 11) Figure 2b: unexplained "[20]"s in legend can probably be removed 12) line 237: Fig 11 -> Fig 5 13) line 239+1: I think the ablation experiments were useful and interesting and should at least be summarized briefly in the main text. 14) Figure 5: should mention the number of training steps as one progresses left to right 15) line 289: we propose the use state -> we propose to use state OR we propose the use of state 16) line 290: condition latent distribution -> condition the latent distribution  UPDATE: Thanks for your rebuttal. On my first point above, thanks for clarifying the strengths of your theoretical result; I underappreciated them on the first read-through. On my second point, thanks for clarifying the distinctions between VIC/DIAYN and your approach (though I do think you should include the discussion of the differences in your paper). Also, thanks for sharing the stronger empirical results. For all of these reasons, I've raised my score from a 5 to a 6.