Summarizing the main ideas:  This paper investigates the performance of gradient descent as a first order optimization method in multi-layer homogeneous functions. The main idea has been presented in two consecutive sections. First section is on theoretical investigation of the implicit regularization achieved by the gradient descent with infinitesimal step size in neural networks. The main contribution in this part is proving a theorem that shows in homogeneous models, gradient flow can balance the incoming and outgoing weights for each neuron. So, by this proof, a theoretical basis is established that shows weights across layers are balanced. After providing the invariance property for linear activation functions, similar analysis was developed for sparse neural networks like convolution ones. Then, the authors investigated the gradient descent with positive step size. The authors were able to prove global convergence and balancing property from random initialization. Previous analysis helped authors to prove global linear rate of convergence to a global minimum in the matrix factorization problem.  Strength and weakness (quality, clarity, originality, and significance):  It is the first paper analyzing difficulties one faces in optimizing multi-layer homogeneous functions. If the gradient changes smoothly, then it is possible to prove global converges as discussed in related work of the paper. The main difficulty here lies in the fact that the gradient is not changing smoothly. To my knowledge, existing global convergence results that I am aware of does not work for multi-layer homogeneous functions. Therefore, I consider this paper as an important contribution that provides convergence analysis for a class of non-smooth non-convex unconstrained optimization problem that is optimizing multi-layer homogeneous functions.  I think this paper also elucidates the capabilities of batch normalization commonly used in deep learning. It is thought that batch normalization helps in regularizing and improving gradient flow in addition to reducing number of local minima. This paper shows that without batch normalization, GD already has regularization and good gradient flow. Therefore, the main power of batch normalization could be the power of avoiding local minima.   In spite of the page limit, the details and necessary information were clearly delivered in this paper. The overall concept of the paper is clear and it is easy to read paper.  One of the problems about this paper is the lack of enough experiments supporting the proofs of the paper. The simulation is limited to a matrix factorization experiment of Fig. 1. Similar investigation for deep neural network with homogenous activation function should be considered.  