This paper introduces a new connection between Thompson sampling (TS) and online stochastic mirror descent (OSMD), two central algorithms in bandit learning problems. The upshot is that the standard OSMD analysis for linear bandits applies to TS as well. It turns out that a previous analysis due to Russo and Van Roy can be seen as doing this for OSMD with respect to entropy on the simplex, and this work shows that the connection can be extended to any mirror map. This gives a new way to prove regret bounds for Thompson Sampling. I expect this connection to improve and clarify our understanding of linear bandits in the future.   A caveat is that these results actually apply only for modified thompson sampling, which requires a prescribed sampling distribution with the same mean as Thompson sampling. In the case of a simplex (ordinary multiarmed bandit) or a full feedback model, there is no difference. However for a general linear bandit problem these can be different, so it remains to be seen how generally the connection applies.  As concrete applications, the authors improve the state of the art regret for multiarmed bandit by a constant factor and improve some regret bounds for graphical bandits and full-feedback online learning on Lp balls by small factors. These are fundamental problems, so the improvements appear minor (since the existing results were almost tight already) but bring us closer to the exact optimum rates. The connection looks fruitful for future progress and already clarifies the various performance guarantees obeyed by Thompson sampling for multiarmed bandits (e.g. optimal stochastic and adversarial performance).   A small complaint: for the application to online optimization over Lp balls, it seems to me that the stated bound is immediate from prior work in the case of TS. Indeed, in the cases when p is close to 1, we can use the fact that TS regret is bounded by the movement of a martingale in the set. Approximating the Lp metric by L1 and paying the O(1) multiplicative cost for metric distortion when p=1+O(1/log d) seems to show the optimal regret bound for the troublesome case where 1/(p-1) blows up. However, it is still good to have a frequentist algorithm.   ===========   No updates post-rebuttal.   