Thanks for the rebuttal. I have read it carefully. The new experiments look good, but the authors do not seem to respond to my concern over SSIM metric between unpaired images. I keep my original review and rating.  ----------------------------------------------------------- I think the paper is clear, the intuition is well claimed. Given all the prior works that smooth GAN training, the idea that integrates image quality assessment metrics with GANs sounds interesting. From the experiment samples, it seems that the quality aware gan does improve the sample quality, the generated CelebA and STL images look sharp. I would like to see the results of combining QAGAN with large scale GANs such as PGGAN or BigGAN. I think the semantic details and structures play a center role in the quality of large images. Quantitatively, the paper shows that QAGAN is able to achieves comparable IS and lower FID than baselines. Below are some comments.   - sec 3.1 and 3.2 discuss how to integrate SSIM into GAN framework, sec 3.3 and 3.4 discuss how to combine NIQE with GAN. I suggest the authors put sec 3.1 and 3.2 together, same for sec 3.3 and sec 3.4.  - The MSCN coefficients for images generated by GAN in the supplementary material is useful, I suggest putting it in the main paper with figure 1.  - I think this paper [1] is related to the main idea and should be compared and discussed in the paper in detail.  - SSIM is orignally used to compare paired distorted image and its pristine counterpart. However, in QAGAN, the distance is calculated between randomly sampled generated image and real image, which are not paired. I am not sure whether the SSIM distance still makes sense in this setting. Chances are that the distance between two real images can be even larger than the distance between real image and distorted image because the two real images may have completely different local luminance, contrast and structure.  [1] Kancharla, P., & Channappayya, S. S. (2018, October). Improving the Visual Quality of Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-Generated Images Using the Multi-Scale Structural Similarity Index. In 2018 25th IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP) (pp. 3908-3912). IEEE.