The paper proposed a to fit a matrix-variate normal prior with kronecker covariance matrix as an adaptive and data-dependent regularization technique. It also encourages neurons to be statistically correlated to each other. An efficient block coordinate descent (hyperparams and weights) algorithm with analytical solutions are also proposed to optimizer the framework. Empirical results are showed that the proposed method can outperform weight decay and DeCoV in terms of generalization performance. Furthermore, detailed analysis such as spectral norm and correlation are provided.  The paper provides a solid justification of the mechanism how matrix-variate normal prior regularizes the weight, taking into account the local curvatures. I am convinced that the proposed method can be used as a strong regularization technique. The connection between prior and weight regularization is similar to l2 regularization and Gaussian weight prior.   My main complaint is the scale of the experiments though the paper focuses on the small dataset. I expect a newly proposed regularization technique should be tested with deeper network because regularization technique can be more effective when adding to a more over-parameterized network. Also, at line 205, the paper said the regularization is placed only at the last softmax layer. I wonder whether the baseline approach such as weight decay is also placed only at the last softmax layer ( It seems the provided code only has the details of the proposed method ). If so, how does the proposed regularization compared to (weight decay or l2 regularization + BN) applied to all layers? I believe this (l2 + BN) is a more common setup.  The paper didn't discuss the computational overhead over weight decay in details. I am convinced that it is efficient in the EB framework (and only applied to the last softmax layer) but it should still be slower than weight decay. It would be better to have a forward-backward time comparison on a larger network.  A minor issue is that the paper didn't discuss [1] in the related work. AEB is not a novel approach and related work should be discussed in more details in the revision. Also, the proposed method has limited novelty given the fact that Kronecker structure covariance matrix as posterior has been proposed in [2].  Another minor issue is that the idea that neurons are designed to be statistically related seems to conflict Dropout, which is designed to prevent co-adoption of neurons. Can authors elaborate more on this conflict in related work?  [1]: McInerney, J. (2017). An Empirical Bayes Approach to Optimizing Machine Learning Algorithms. NIPS 2017. [2]: Zhang, G., Sun, S., Duvenaud, D.K., & Grosse, R.B. (2018). Noisy Natural Gradient as Variational Inference. ICML 2018.