Summary:  The paper addresses the inverse reinforcement learning problem and the ambiguity that exists in that ill-posed problem. The authors claim that one cannot learn only a reward to explain human behavior but should learn both the reward and the planner at the same time. In that case, they show that many couple (planner, reward) can explain the observed human behavior (or preferences) including a planner that optimizes the reward that is exactly the opposite of the true reward. The contribution is two-fold. First, they provide a bound for the worst case regret of a policy. Second they show that rewards that are compatible with the expert policy and have the lower complexity can be very far away from the actual reward optimized by the expert policy. It includes the opposite reward. Thus regularization would not help to reduce ambiguity.   Quality:  I think the paper makes good points in demonstrating that IRL is a complex problem and that current algorithms are not taking good care of some obvious issues. Decoupling the planner and the reward and show the ambiguity comes (at least for some part of it) from this complementarity may be one way to address these issues. But the authors are mainly arguing that human behavior is complex and that human preferences cannot be explained rationally. Yet, these arguments are not supported by any experimental clues. There is no human involved in a task in this paper and the state of the art section only gives a very short overview of how this research is related to research in human factors etc.  I found this paper very high level, with strong claims but with very little actual facts supporting the claims.   Clarity:  Actually, I'm not sure about what is the main claim of the paper. Usually, IRL is used to mimic the behavior of some agent that is supposed to perform well at a task. Here, it looks that the authors are more interested in how the learnt reward could be used to explain the goal and preferences of the expert. Yet, the bound on the regret is more about performance than explainability. All in all, I think the authors could make good points but should make their goal clearer.   Originality:  I'm not familiar with the literature on human factors and psychology so I'm not sure I can judge the originality in a general context. I know some work in economics about rationality of agents that could be worth to be cited and discussed. In the machine learning community, I think this work is somewhat original.   Significance:  As the authors don't provide much solutions to the issues they describe, I'm not sure this paper can have a significant impact on the community. Ambiguity in the reward function is a well known problem and we know that the regularization techniques we use don't guarantee to recover the true reward. Yet, they still produce close enough performances and come with some guarantees too. I think this paper should be improved to place the work in a clearer context to have a better impact. 