Originality: I'm not extremely familiar with the DRO literature, but, as far as I know, the use of MMD for DRO, as well as the connection to kernel ridge regression (KRR), and the proposed regularizer are novel. The generalization bound for KRR is not novel, but the proof approach is novel, and could likely be applied to other problems.  Quality: The proofs in the main text appear correct. The experiments are brief but illustrative. Some more discussion of future directions of this work would be nice (the paper ends quite abruptly).  Clarity: The majority of this paper is very clearly written. However, I have some concerns about how the distinctions between MMD and Wasserstein DRO are presented (see point 1) under "Improvements"). The provided code is easy to run and follow.  Significance: As far as I know DRO in general has received far less attention in the Stat/ML community than in, say, OR and other areas, despite being highly relevant to ML problems. Given that this paper not only provides a clear presentation of the DRO framework for a Stat/ML audience but also supplies novel implications for a standard learning algorithm (kernel ridge regression), I think this paper would be a useful contribution to NeurIPS.   -------------------------AFTER REBUTTAL/DISCUSSION------------------------- I thank the reviewers for their clear responses. I continue to feel that the paper can be useful to many members of the NeurIPS community, through its very clear exposition of DRO and the explicit connections it provides between DRO and learning theory. Hence, I continue to support accepting the paper.  Reviewer #2, who is most familiar with the DRO literature, has pointed that some of the paper's technical aspects are perhaps not as strong as previous work in DRO rather than providing an exact computationally tractable reformulation, approximations are used, and the bounds are potentially loose. The resulting DRO method may be overly conservative. If the paper is accepted, I would strongly urge the authors to add a conclusion section that discusses these limitations and the potential need for future work along these lines.