Multi Marginal Wasserstein GAN's goal is  to match a source domain distribution to multiple target domain distributions. While dedicated GAN frameworks exist, as noted by the authors (CycleGAN, StarGAN, …), their generated samples suffer from blurriness, especially when resulting from multiple targets. Moreover, the main statement of this work is that MWGAN is theoretically motivated, unlike previous works.  Computing the multi marginal Wasserstein distance between several domains is intractable in its primal form. Thus, as proposed in WGAN, the authors express their problem in the dual form, resulting in equation 1. Since, the dual formulation is a maximization problem under infinite constraint, which remains intractable, the authors simplify the problem by only considering it on its empirical version (equation 2). Eventually, the authors argue that if the potential functions can be expressed by a unique function up to a multiplicative constant, then they can simplify Problem III, that they finally enounce in Problem IV as the Multi Marginal Wasserstein GAN (MWGAN).   When it comes to the training of MWGAN, the framework requires two additional terms as presented in Algorithm 1: -inner domain constraints: a classifier to constrain generator number i to sample from the i-th domain -inter-domain constraints: when the generators have not converged yet, it may jeopardize the training to constraint the generated samples to follow the inequality constraints or Problem III. Then the authors propose a softer version that balances the loss function.  Something that is not clear is that it seems that the authors claim to solve the multi marginal Wasserstein distance, which is theoretically wrong as they make hard approximations on the family of potential functions, which may mislead the reader. Moreover, there is no discussion on cases where this approximation may be true or any discussions on the tightness of this approximation. Nevertheless, the authors rely on the section Theoretical Discussion, to promote the generalization ability of their method with enough training data. Again, I am not sure that those bounds are true for their approximation and I would appreciate some clarifications.  When it comes to the experimental sections, results have been conducted thoroughly on several datasets used two criterions FID (which is not useful in the multi-target transfer) and a classifier trained on the ground truth data to recognize the domains. An AMT perceptual evaluation as conducted by StarGAN would have been interested also. Eventually, the results and their illustrations are promising. I would be curious about the composite generator: when applying multiple attributes, how do you pick the order of compositions (I expect it not to commute).  In a Nutshell here is the list of the main pros and cons of this work: - pros: The experiments are state of the art with high quality generated samples for multiple attributes - cons: the authors overly claim their theoretical guarantees thanks to the multi marginal Wasserstein distance, without any analyses of the tightness of their approximations on the potential functions.