Originality  This paper is fairly original as it formalises the problem of sensorimotor prediction and evaluation. Self-localization is common topic that is often addressed in RL and neuro-science, however it was nice to see a proper analysis of the problem together with the invariant and how to measure them.  Quality  Overall I think this paper is of high quality and is nicely self-contained. The authors motivate the problem well, give a formal declaration of the problem setup, define the invariant properties that we are looking for in agents as proof of sensorimotor awareness, then present the loss that is supposed to make this behaviour emerge, present ways of measuring the sensorimotor awareness via invariants, and finally run experiment and show positive results via 3 different environment setups.  Clarify  Even thought he paper is well written I think it could be clearer. I feel like the authors complicate the problem by introducing a lot of different notations and a very generic definition of the problem - maybe a running example throughout the manuscript would have helped to understand the concepts faster. The paper boils down to this: the hypothesis is that performing next step prediction of some carefully chosen values makes self localization emerge under the right environment properties. I think this message needs to be stated in a simple way as it is easy for the reader to get lost in the details. A diagram for the two metrics would have been useful too.  Significance  Overall I feel that it is a positive, sensible result, however I am not sure how significant this result is. It seems natural and obvious that such properties would emerge in the given setup, but it is also nice to have some work that formally present and show that it is actually the case. I do not know the literature well enough to judge whether this has been shown before or not, however I would have liked to see in the related work section a justification of why this paper is unique and what it brings compared to other works.