NOVELTY & SIGNIFICANCE  This paper presents an application of GP to a wide range of signal processing problems via the spectral construction of a sinc kernel that results in band-limited GP which carries a lot of task-specific insights. Although the paper mostly applies the spectral representation of GP, I find the application non-trivial.  Furthermore, it also generates an interesting theoretical result that connects GP to existing theories in signal reconstruction, which also opens a new perspective on a principled metric to choosing inducing variables for sparse GP approximation. I consider this a novel contribution.  TECHNICAL SOUNDNESS  Much of the derivation is a direct consequence of applying the spectral representation of GP which makes sense to me.   The drawn relationship between the band-limited GP and Nyquist frequency and perfect reconstruction is less clear to me -- I can follow all equations but I am not familiar with Nyquist frequency and perfect reconstruction to make a detailed check here -- perhaps the authors should consider giving a quick recap on such literature to improve readability.  The discussion paragraph on principled method to select inducing variables from lines 155 to 160 also does not read well to me -- it is not exactly clear what the authors mean by proximity to the Nyquist frequency -- I suppose this is some sort of distance between the Nyquist frequency and the predictive mean induced by the sinc kernel but this should be defined mathematically and definitely needs more elaboration.  EXPERIMENT  The experiments are well presented. However, comparison with existing GP methods on the same problem benchmark is not reported -- this is necessary to demonstrate that by accounting for the band-limited correlation structure of data, the performance improves.  CLARITY  The paper is mostly well-written. Certain parts of the paper still lack intuition, which I have highlighted above.  REVIEW SUMMARY  This is an interesting paper with a well-motivated application. The result also connects GP to existing theory in signal processing which draws further insights on how a sparse GP might be designed to optimize its choice of the inducing variables. The experiment is well-presented but needs more comparison with existing baselines to demonstrate the practical significance of the proposed kernel.  --- Post-rebuttal Feedback:  Thank you for your detailed response, which has sufficiently addressed my questions. I have increased my rating of your work.  There is one concern that is raised during our discussion: The authors should've demonstrated and verified empirically that as the no. of evenly spaced observations increases, the variance (approximately) reduces and the posterior become more centered around the ground-truth.   That is, the effect of putting the inducing points at the Nyquist frequency needs to be demonstrated more thoroughly to strengthen the practical significance of the paper.  Please do consider these suggestions while revising your paper.