This paper studies the problem of online classification with partial feedback under the new constraint that the policy satisfies a fairness (equality of false positives) constraint at each round. The paper leverages careful modification of a number of technical tools to prove the O(sqrt(T)) regret with gamma + O(T^(-1/4)) fairness rate. In particular, they reduce the partial feedback setting to a contextual bandits problem, construct an approximate "fair oracle" using a modification of the reductions approach to fair classification, and then modify ILOVETOCONBANDITS to use this approximate oracle. The relevant inspiration is clearly cited, and the main contribution is combining these tools to effectively handle the fairness constraint in the online learning problem.  The proposed algorithm is intuitive: accept everyone in the early rounds to gather data and use this data to determine which classifiers satisfy the constrain. Then run a "fair" contextual bandits algorithm in the later rounds on a subset of the classifiers. The analysis appears correct, though I did not do a detailed pass over some of the lemmas in appendix B.4. The matching lower bound makes the story more complete-- the analysis isn't too loose.  The paper does suffer from some clarity issues. The problem and results statements are sufficiently clear, but the analysis in section 3 is not very modular and could be re-organized to focus on the key lemmas and structure of the analysis rather than exposing all of the vagaries of the modifications to the tools used in the analysis.  Overall, issues of partial feedback abound in fairness applications, and this paper presents a principled procedure to achieve good regret while ensuring fairness on every round. I wouldn't be suprised to see more work in the partial feedback setting, and this paper offers a reasonable baseline and intuition for how to proceed.  After rebuttal: Thanks to the authors for their response. Aside from the writing concerns in section 3, I'm still a fan of this paper. I don't think the lack of experiment section is a show-stopping flaw, and I'll argue for acceptance.