I vote for rejecting this submission from Neurips 2019.   For once, it has severe presentation issues. Besides a fairly high number of typos and formatting issues, the explanations in the paper are at times lacking and counter intuitive, especially in the method part 3. The overview over the network architecture in Figure 3 needs to be explained more thoroughly such that it stands for itself.   Regarding the method itself, the contribution over prior work is unfortunately not entirely clear to me. The main claim for novelty is an application of a truly 4D cost volume processing in contrast to state-of-the-art methods that "reshape the 4D cost volume as a multichannel 2D array with N = U × V channels" [9,...] (l. 101). However, Flownet [9] which the authors refer to in this context does nothing of the sort, instead they extract patch-wise features for both input images and correlate pairs of patches to get a notion of correspondence. The "offset invariance" (l. 104) the authors claim to have in comparison to prior work is therefore not novel but rather predominant in state-of-the-art methods in this field. Furthermore, in order to reduce the computational load the authors are separating 4D convolutions into two 2D operations (l. 123) acting independently on the two image domains. It seems to me that this allows for only very limited correlated interactions that are able to take advantage of the authors claims of using "true 4D operations". Furthermore, given that the set of core operations (2D convolutions) to fuse information is similar, it seems to me that overall this approach has a strong theoretical connection with the strategy in Flownet or other state-of-the-art methods. This aspect needs to be explored and clarified by the authors, otherwise the contribution over prior work is dubious to me.  I find the evaluations in the paper lacking and not in coherence with the authors claims of "dramatically improving accuracy over the state-of-the-art". Qualitative comparisons are missing completely in the paper, there should be at least one depiction of how the method improves upon prior work on some challenging example. While the authors provide a couple of examples in the supplementary material, those comparisons are all done wrt one other method only (PWCnet).