This paper presents a novel approach to transfer learned representations to new but related domains. Detectors parameters for new domains are inferred from existing ones without re-training. This approach is well suited to anomaly detection where anomaly labels are hard to obtain because of the rarity of anomalies. Additionally the method is flexible as to allow to target domain data to be used for training. The anomaly score function parameters for a target domain are inferred from the trained parameters (which may or may not include target domain instances) and latent domain vectors which are estimated by sampling from a model (multivariate gaussian or other).   Experiments include a synthetic toyset as well as benchmark datasets including rotated MNIST. In the case of MNIST the domains are rotations of the digits by 15 degrees increments (6 domains are created: 0 to 75). Five domains are used for training and the remaining for transfer. The method is compared to 8 other approaches for anomaly detection. Results demonstrate that the method works very well and surpasses all other methods.   PROS:  The paper is well written, technically sound and the mathematical exposition is quite extensive.   The method is original and novel.   The experiments are relatively extensive and the results show that the approaches surpasses other anomaly detection approaches.  The method is flexible in that it allows for normal instance of the target domain to be used if present at training time, but also allows for the anomaly score function to be inferred when those instance are not present.   CONS:  The author should give some intuition as to when the approach starts breaking apart when the source and target domains become less related. The toy dataset and MNIST-r exhibit clear domains, however, the other datasets' domains are not intuitive.  The computational complexity of the method is only briefly stated without any justification. Given that sampling may sometimes be expensive, it would be useful to get a feel for it. In particular since IoT applications are mentioned that would benefit from not needing to retrain, it would be interesting to see the speedups.  A pseudo-code algorithm would be helpful for somebody wanting to reproduce these experiments.   For MNISR-r, the author do not specify what the domains are. One can guess from table 1 that they are 15-degrees rotation increments.  