Updated after author feedback: The authors did not have the opportunity to address my concerns about the experimental setup, as this review was solicited after the response period. But I think the changes they have made in response to other reviewers (comparisons with non-convex estimators) have increased the persuasiveness of their experimental comparisons. My score remains 7.  The authors extend the factorization of the nuclear norm into the sum of squared Frobenius norms to find factorized expressions for the low-rank promoting Shatten quasi-norms. The advantage of these factorized expressions is that they are weighted powers of the column norms of the factorizations, so are computationally attractive in one sense. On the other hand, they are non-convex. The authors demonstrate empirically that these estimators perform well in practice using their suggested optimization algorithms, outperforming prior factorization and nuclear norm-based formulations of low rank matrix recovery problems.  The paper is well-written, with the exception of the experimental section which is too vague about how the experiments were conducted. The results should be averaged over multiple runs and standard deviations should be described. The procedure for choosing the hyperparameters of the methods should be described so the readers can be sure that the comparisons are fair. How were the methods implemented (especially, what algorithms were used for the baseline methods?). I am concerned by the fact that in Figure 1d the factorized nuclear norm approach is slower than the FGSR-2/3 method: they are both sums of weighted powers of column norms of the factorizations, but the former is a smooth objective, while the latter is not. What is causing this counter-intuitive result?  Overall, the main contribution (the factorized representation for the Shatten quasi-norms) is interesting and useful in itself, and the resulting algorithms are reasonable, but the experimental evaluation is questionable. Thus my score is 7: I recommend accept, although I will be fine with a reject.