This paper gives a simple and elegant algorithm for solving the long-studied problem of graphical model estimation (at least, in the case of pairwise MRFs, which includes the classic Ising model). The method uses a form of constrained logistic regression, which in retrospect, feels like the "right" way to solve this problem. The algorithm simply runs this constrained logistic regression method to learn the outgoing edges attached to each node. The proof is elegant and modular: first, based on standard generalization bounds, a sufficient number of samples allows minimization of the logistic loss function. Second, this loss is related to another loss function (the sigmoid of the inner product of the parameter vector with a sample from the distribution). Finally, using a result from Klivans and Meka, they relate this function to the true error in the parameter vector. The authors also show that approximate minimization of the loss function can be done computationally efficiently via mirror descent. The sample complexity improves (slightly) upon the previous best results in case where the alphabet is k-ary (reducing the dependence on k from k^5 to k^4), but this is not the reason why I like the result.  The thing I like most about this work is that it proposes and analyzes such a simple algorithm for this long-studied problem. I believe this method should be extendible and applicable to more general settings, due largely to the simplicity of its core. Aside from this, the "right" answer for such a long-studied problem definitely deserves publication. This is perhaps the main contribution -- showing that logistic regression can be used as the main primitive, rather than the more complicated Sparsitron of Klivans and Meka. The modular nature of the proof greatly helps with the clarity.  This is a fairly short review, but I don't have much more to say: it's a nice result which I believe should be accepted. If I had to criticize the paper, I would say that the theoretical sample complexity is not significantly improved over previously-known methods. That said, as made clear above, I think the method itself warrants publication. It would be interesting to see a more thorough empirical evaluation, to compare with the interaction screening method and in more settings than just the very basic ones studied here. But I don't think this evaluation is necessary for acceptance. 