This theoretical paper addresses the problem of non-interactive (or non-adaptive) learning under the constraint of Local Differential Privacy (LDP) or equivalently under the setting of Statistical Queries (SQ). It solves an open problem formulated in (Kasiviswanathan et al. 2011 "What can we learn privately ?").  UPDATE: Being non-familiar with the SQ formalism I had some difficulties entering the paper, and my first review was a bit too rough. The contribution is clearly of interest. But I maintain, that the paper is not really self-contained: it is required to read (Kasiviswanathan et al. 2011) to  understand the work and the scientific issues it addresses. The structure of the short version lacks a bit of balance between a 4-pages long "Overview" section which stays somehow in-between an informal and a formal statement of the problems, and the rest of the paper where key notions are formalized. The "Preliminary" section starts only at the middle of the paper and uses reference to notions that where defined in the overview. For instance, the notion of epsilon-LDP is formalized only there in Definition 2.1, but is intensively used in the overview.  My feeling on that paper is that : pro: - It solves an open problem stated in (Kasiviswanathan et al. 2011) and relies strongly on this paper 's results; - The maths that I checked in section 3 seems solid. con: - The formalism is a bit heavy; - The global structure of the paper should be reworked for a better readability.  If I did well understand, one of the key contributions from (Kasiviswanathan et al. 2011) is the equivalence in term of sample complexity between the Statistical Queries (SQ) formalism of (Kearns 1998) and LDP learning (Lemma 2.3 or Theorem 2.2 & Theorem 2.3 on page 5).  As a consequence, LDP Theorem 1.1 is a trivial corollary of SQ Theorem 3.1, and LDP Theorem 1.2 is a consequence of section 4 SQ Lemma's. Wouldn't it simplify the paper to drop (or reduce) the discussions on non-interactive LDP and stick to the essential i.e. the label-non-adaptive SQ learning formalism ?  Minor remarks (on short version): line 72: "this is only known" -> "this is the only known" line 76: "algorithms label-non-adaptive" -> "algorithms as label-non-adaptive" line 80: epsilon-LDP should be formalised before line 100: The SQ acronym should be defined here line 248: "Lemma 2.3" -> "Theorems 2.2 and 2.3" 