[Edit: I read all reviews and the author responses, and still think this is a great work. The author responses answered my questions as well as points raised by other reviewers, providing additional clarification.]  This paper formulates a fully probabilistic model of the vesicle-release dynamics at the sub-cellular biophysical level in the ribbon synapse. The paper then develops a likelihood-free inference method, tests it on a synthetic dataset, and finally infers the parameters of vesicle release in the ribbon synapse from real data.  Originality: The paper presents a novel combination of biophysical modeling of ribbon synapse and a likelihood-free inference of the parameters. To my knowledge, the fully stochastic modeling of the vesicle-release dynamics is itself new. The likelihood-free inference is based on the recent developments of related methods, but includes problem-specific constructions such as the use of certain summary statistics in the loss function.   Quality: The formulation is technically strong; each step is well supported, with the derivations provided in the supplementary material. Modeling assumptions are clearly stated. The overall claim of the paper (effectiveness of the inference) is first confirmed on a synthetic dataset, then is further supported by the observation of known trends in the real-data application.  Clarity: This paper is superbly written. Materials are logically organized. There is a good balance between the technical content, and appropriate comments/interpretations to keep the reader on track and provide relevant insights.  Significance:  The work is significant in two important ways. First, it develops a solid, analytic method for approximate Bayesian inference, which may be further extended to other systems in future research. Although the success of this particular problem does not guarantee another successful application of the method to a more complicated problem, this is certainly an encouraging first work. In addition, I would be interested to know about the running time / complexity of the inference algorithm. Second, the inference result provides a new mechanical understanding of the release dynamics of the ribbon synapse, to a level that was not possible before; the result will serve as a baseline for further biophysical investigations.  Minor comments: - Line 102 / the numbers of vesicles moving between pools: It is important to state explicitly that these are the numbers "per unit time", or even better, call these "rates". - Paragraph "Vesicle release": it is not clear how the correlation \rho is defined. - Please number the equations. - Lines 124-126: references for D_max and the (reduced) R_max?