Strengths – The paper presents a novel and well-motivated approach that is crisply explained, with significant experimental results to back it up. Clean and well-documented code has been provided and the results should be easily reproducible. – The wide variety of applications covered demonstrate its versatility. In particular, the data-independent optimization, ability to bake in priors, computational savings by trimming output dimensionality, improvements over (de-facto) softmax classification in the presence of class imbalance, and suitability for multitask learning without loss weighting are strong wins. – The paper is well-written and very easy to follow. The related section does well to clearly identify and present threads in prior work.  Weaknesses / Questions – What is the performance of the multitask baseline (Table 5) with appropriate loss weighting? – L95: “We first observe that the optimal set of prototypes .. one with largest cosine similarity”: How has this observation been made? Is this conjecture, or based on prior work? – What is the computational efficiency of training hyperspherical networks as compared to prior work? In particular, the estimation of prototypes (L175: gradient descent .. 1000 epochs) seems like a particularly expensive step. – Prototypical networks were initially proposed as a few-shot learning approach, with the ability to add additional classes at test time with a single forward pass. One limitation of the proposed approach is not being suitable for such a setup without retraining from scratch. A similar argument would apply for extending to open set classification, as the approach divides up the output space into as many regions as classes. While the paper does not claim this approach extends to either of these settings, have the authors thought about whether / how such an extension would be possible? – Minor:     – Have the authors investigated the reason for the sharp spike in performance for both NCM and the proposed approach at 100 epochs as shown in Figure 4?     – It is not clear from Figure 1b how the approach is suitable for regression, and a more detailed caption would possibly help.     – Typo: L85: as many dimensions *as* classes