This is a good paper and I`d like to see it in the program. Both the model and the new algorithm are very valuable for the literature and they open interesting avenues of further enquiry (e.g. can we get log(T) bounds in this model if the noise distribution is benigh-enough). I have two concerns, though:  1. The algorithm runs in exponential time as there are n^{O(d)} buckets so the algorithm is not very practical unless the dimension is low. There are some techniques to obtain lower computational complexity using the algorithm of Plan and Vershynin, so this point is somewhat addressed in the paper, but this is a departure from the main technique of the paper.  2. The part that I am somewhat more concerned is that the paper seems to be re-deriving known results from stochastic bandits with side information. See for example “Leveraging side observations in stochastic bandits” (2012) or see the references in https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.09898.pdf .   I think none of those two are fatal problems and I still suggest the paper to be accepted despite this fact, but I strongly suggest the authors to address point 2 before publication.  ----------  Post rebuittal:  I am unconvinced that the literature on bandits with side information can’t be applied here. I understand that the authors prefer their customized approach, but the paper is very nice nevertheless and tying to a general framework is useful in the sense that it makes the paper more readable and helps others to build upon it. I strongly urge the authors to consider this more carefully. Here are my comments:  (a) Your algorithm also discretizes the parameter space (even though you have a continuous ouput). There is no harm to also discretize the price up to 1/\sqrt{n} (so you at at most \sqrt{n} more regret) so you can imagine that each cell “suggests” a single price p(z,\theta,x) for each context X . So  an arm is a policy parametrized by (z,\theta) that maps the context to a price.  (b) the sequence graphs can be revealed in each period. Here the sequence graphs are given by the context. Two policies are linked in the graph for that period if they suggest the same price.  (c) The action is also pulling an arm, selecting a policy and choosing the corresponding price.  (d) The graphs links together policies that suggest the same price for the given context (note that the graph is different in each period, but you have a uniform bound on its independent set since the graph is a disjoint union of cliques, with each clique corresponding to a price so it is at most the number of prices) 