Edit:  I confirm a weak accept. The figures presented in the author's feedback and their interpretation are not sufficient. We clearly see that there is a difference between the prediction of corollary 2.1 and the given results in the first 100 epochs. This is probably due to discretization, but there is no experimental result about the effect of the choice of the step size. Do we tend to have trajectories of the norms of the weights matrices verifying corollary 2.1 when the step size tends to zero? If so, we should be able to characterize such convergence (speed...). If not, why?  However, the article raises many interesting questions, and provides an analysis of a side-effect of the SGD, which is not so commo.  The paper proposes an explanation for the stability of the SGD algorithm in neural networks with homogeneous activation functions. The main result is the proof that the difference between the norms of the weight matrices of two consecutive layers remains constant (with a infinitely small gradient step). The secondary result concerns the stability of the gradient descent for matrix factorization.  The article is part of the field of theoretical analysis of dynamics of neural networks. The main contribution is the study of a side-effect of the SGD, which facilitates the convergence.  The main result is well explained and the proof is clear. The explanation of such indirect regularization through SGD should be very helpful to understand the efficiency of neural networks, notably to identify the contribution of the optimizer.  Nevertheless, there is (almost) no experimental validation of the theoretic prediction, especially in the case of the main result (case of neural networks). Moreover, the only plot giving the ratio between the norms of two matrices (figure 1b) contradicts theorem 3.1 for the first 300 epochs. Unfortunately, there is no discussion about it.  In general, the paper is well written, but the purpose of the article remains unclear. Is it an article about matrix factorization or about neural networks ? The main result seems to be corollary 2.2 (about neural networks), but the only figures given are about matrix factorization. Some improvement could be made to clarify the intention.  Overall, the main result is very interesting, and should be helpful to understand the consequences of the use of SGD as optimizer. But there is no experiment to confirm it, even in some particular and simple cases. The study of matrix factorization seems to be irrelevant in this kind of article.