The work proposed Gibbs sampling algorithms for differential private Bayesian inference for general conjugate exponential families. The Laplace mechanism is used to release the sufficient statistics, and the paper aims to infer the posteriors given the randomly perturbated sufficient statistics. To this end, the work developed Gibbs sampling algorithm which uses Gaussian to approximate the conditional distribution of the statistics and variable augmentation for Laplace prior. To deal with unbounded statistics, the works truncated the statistics and adjust the Gaussian approximation to the (truncated) sufficient statistics to fulfill the Gibbs sampling. The experiment shows better posterior inference accuracy than competing private inference methods.  This is an interesting cross-discipline work. Though the proposed model is very simple --- just introducing a release variable and injecting a Laplace prior, the inference is nontrival and the work combines a few interesting tricks (Gaussians & variable augmentation) to implement the Gibbs sampling.  The results show promising results in terms of inference quality.   I would like to know more about the experimental settings --- how many samples did you draw for each model? My concern is here: since your algorithm is not accurate Gibbs --- you use Gaussian to approximate the conditional distribution of the sufficient statistics, I am worrying that when the number of data points is too small, this approximation is bad and could affect the convergence. When you use truncated statistics become more severe. Is it possible to use Metropolis Hasting directly? If not, what will be the reason? Also, can you add more results showing the convergence behavior of the Gibbs and truncated Gibbs?  The work is claimed to be “the first method for private Bayesian inference in exponential families that properly accounts for noise …”, but there seems other private Bayesian inference methods as well. However, I do not see a discuss of those works until the experimental section. It is better to add a “related work” selection to discuss and summarize status quo in private machine learning and Bayesian inference.    Minor issue: algorithm complexity analysis is absent. 