  This paper extends the SCAL algorithms for regret minimization in MDPs from the discounted and finite horizon cases to the average cost case. The algorithm has the "optimism in the face of uncertainty" flavor, and the authors establish a sqrt(\Gamma S A T) regret bound, matching the one for SCAL. While there is still a sqrt(gamma) gap to the lower bound, the improvement is appreciated, as is development of non confidence-region style algorithms. At a high level, the authors show how to add an optimism term to a simple empirical estimate of the MDP dynamics and control the regret. As a consequence, the algorithm is implementable if one has an approximate planning algorithm. Crucially, they need to assume an upper bound on the bias function.    The algorithm is extended to continuous state spaces with a well known discretization, but the proofs are quite technical. The authors claim the first implementable algorithm for this setting with a regret bound. Finally, fairly comprehensive experiments are provided (and expanded on in the appendix), showing that the proposed algorithm is sane, though I wish the authors would provide some quantization about the stability of the algorithm on the two continuous settings.    The presentation is OK. Most of the definitions are provided, and the notation is (maybe understandably) very intricate. The rational for the exploration bonus terms (3) is presented well in the paragraph starting 153, and I wish the authors would emphasize these points more. My biggest criticism is that the authors were sloppy with their definitions and left quite a few terms undefined. A few terms that I don't think the general NeurIPS community will be familiar with (and should probably be defined) include: Cesaro limit, ScOpt (provide a citation), unichain, etc.   Overall, I think the technical contribution is strong. It advances an important and current problem (learning in MDPs) into the average cost setting, which has generally thought to be the most difficult. The algorithms studied, while extensively applied in the bandit literature, are not used as often in RL: it is good to see their application into a new domain.     other things:  282: forgot to finish your sentence.  I wist the experiment results were given more interpretation.       