Originality: The main insight (compositional languages are easier to teach) is a creative way to draw from evolution-of-language literature. The results that ease-of-teaching encourages compositionality in artificial emergent language are quite interesting from a scientific perspective, and it doesn't seem to have been explored previously.  Significance: The main insight (compositional languages are easier to teach) is interesting and well validated. I would've been excited to see the work take advantage of this insight/result more, as it seems to open a number of promising avenues. For instance, what about training the speaker using RL or meta-learning on the "ease-of-teaching" metric itself (i.e., accuracy of a new listener after a few updates)? Or what about using topological similarity as an auxiliary reward to increase the speed of teaching?  Quality: The work validated it's mainly hypothesis thoroughly. I felt that Figs. 3-5 captured the main results pretty effectively, and that other figures / tables could have been consolidated and/or moved to the appendix, as they seem to make similar points (which I was already convinced of). This would've left more room for exploring how to use "ease-of-teaching" more effectively or as an explicit objective (as I discussed a bit earlier) - using "ease-of-teaching" more aggressively, it seems possible to get impressive empirical resutls (i.e., the longest compositional sentences in emergent communication thus far).  Clarity: The paper is easy to follow. The authors make intuitive design decisions, lay out clear explanations of the results, including counter-intuitive ones. I think the paper can be compressed: e.g., Tables 1 and 2 are their descriptions can be moved to the Appendix and Figs. 6/8/10 can perhaps be consolidated (as well as Figs. 7/9/11).  After Author Response: I have read the other reviews and the author response, and I stand by my evaluation of this paper. The rebuttal mainly addressed R2's concerns. Increasing my score would require using/optimizing "ease of teaching" in an additional, substantial way (i.e., directly optimizing ease-of-teaching), which likely requires a good amount of additional experimentation.