The paper introduced a generative model for protein structure that is not conditioned on the amino acid sequence. The model is based on deep convolutional generative adversarial networks (DCGANs) and the output of the GAN is a pairwise intramolecular distance matrix for the C_alpha trance. The authors point out that this output representation is SE(3) invariant. Secondly, the authors develop a convex approach for reconstructing the C_alpha positions from the distance matrix based on the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) algorithm. They propose using Rosetta based fragment assembly with 5-mer to convert the C_alpha trace into a full backbone representation. Finally, the authors apply the proposed model to predict missing parts of protein structures (denoted  "inpainting for protein design"). Most of the evaluations are qualitative, hower for the inpainting the performance is evaluated in terms of discriminator score and mean rigid-body alignment error. Measured by the discriminator score the proposed DCGAN model outperforms the other models, but measure by mean rigid-body alignment error the DCGAN is outperformed by the other models/methods (with a margin of about 2Å).  This work represents a very interesting application of GANs that goes beyond the usual domain of images. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow, and the work appears scientifically sound. However, this DCGAN model itself (for the distance matrix) is a straightforward application of DCGANs without any significant methodological contributions. The idea of using an SE(3) invariant matrix represent is also not new. For sequence dependent prediction, there is a large body of literature on predicting the contract matrix, see e.g. Marks et al. [Nature Biotechnology, 2012], and very recent work on supervised learning of protein structure with the distance matrix as the target [AlQuraishi, bioRxiv 265231, 2018].  Even though the papers mentioned above are sequence dependent work and the proposed method is sequence-agnostic, the relation to this previous work should be discussed/mentioned in the "related work" section. The authors mention that they are not aware of any prior work for generating protein structure without condition on sequence information. Some prior work has been done in this direction: the models FB5-HMM (Hamelryck et al., PLOS Computational Biology, 2006) and TorusDBN (Boomsma et al., PNAS, 2008) are generative models of protein sequence and local structure. Since they are generative (modelling the joint distribution of sequence and structure) they can of cause be used without condition on sequence information.  The proposed solution to the reconstruction problem (reconstruction of the C_alpha trace from the distance matrix) using ADDM is an interesting contribution from a protein modelling perspective. However, the contribution is very incremental and it is not part of the learning algorithm. Also, the construction of the full backbone from the C_alpha trace using Rosetta fragment sampling of 5-mers seems very ad-hoc and is not part of the learning algorithm.  The evaluation of the proposed method is very qualitative (which the authors themselves also points out). By visual inspection of figure 3, the authors conclude that the qualitative evaluation shows that the DCGAN+Rosetta generates fragments that are folded-like and have realistic secondary structure, while the DCGAN+ADDM generates folded-like fragments that do not have realistic secondary structure. The proposed baseline models do not generate realistic structures. Here, it would be relevant to do a comparison with an existing model from the literature, such as TorusDBN.  For the prediction of missing parts of protein structures, the authors perform a quantitative evaluation by measuring the discriminator score and mean rigid-body alignment error. Here, I see the main conclusion to be that the DCGAN performs about 2Å worse than Rosetta in mean rigid-body alignment error, but DCGAN only has a significant lower computation cost than Rosetta. I would be highly relevant to also look at the error measured in DRMSD in order to access how much of the error is due to the generative model and how much of the error is due to the reconstruction.  The paper is clearly written and the scientific work is of high quality. However, in its present form, the contribution/significance of the paper is somewhat limited as the generative model is a straightforward application of DCGANs. If the ADMM based reconstruction procedure was incorporated as part of the model (as proposed by the authors as future work), I would see view this as more significant and original contribution.  Rebuttal:  The authors have addressed some of my comments, and in particular, they intend to add the baselines mentioned above. I am happy to see that the authors will report the lowest error of the GAN solution. However, as no additional result are not included in the rebuttal, this additional work cannot be evaluated. In conclution, I maintain my recommendation.