- Such a query setup may be done in the following mode:    * Active queries: Here the clustering algorithm generates comparison queries during its execution and once these queries are answered, it continues its execution and possibly generate more queries. Note that this may involve a lot of time since the clustering algorithm’s time depends on the queries being answered.    * Passive queries: The clustering algorithm decides all the queries before its execution.  - This paper specifically discusses the effectiveness of quadruplet queries in the context of the planted partition model. Single linkage, complete linkage, and average linkage are popular algorithms in the classical hierarchical clustering framework where pairwise distances are known. These involve finding the maximum/minimum/average distance between a pair of points in two clusters. In the new model of quadruplet queries finding the max/min are still possible using the queries. So, it is still possible to implement the single linkage and complete linkage in the new setting. However, it is not immediately clear how to implement the average linkage algorithm in the comparison model. They suggest a method to define distance  between points/clusters using the comparison queries and this gives an average-linkage based algorithm for agglomerative hierarchical clustering. The effectiveness of this algorithm in the context of planted partition model is discussed and theoretical guarantees are given. Experimental results are also given for real datasets where comparison is made with respect to the hierarchical clustering score given by Dasgupta.  - It would be good to see a theorem for average linkage similar to theorem 1 that is for single linkage and complete linkage. - It seems that the comparison based algorithm is giving good Dasgupta score for some real datasets. Can some theoretical guarantees be obtained? - Can lower bounds on the number of queries be given in the comparison setting?  Overall, this paper starts a very nice discussion. It would be even stronger if more questions in the context are explored. 