This paper proposes a novel application of recurrent switching linear dynamical systems to denoising dendritic voltages based on the cable equation. The model is able to approximate nonlinear voltage dynamics by switching between linear dynamics matrices as determined by a time-varying discrete latent variable. Each discrete state corresponds to a different stage of action potential generation: resting state, depolarisation, and hyperpolarisation. The approach outperforms the more standard Kalman smoother, because the latter fails to account for the fact that different stages of action potential generation require different levels of smoothness to be enforced. The modelling is high quality, the writing is clear, and the problem is well motivated. Details on the inference are rather lacking, although this is likely due to them be described in sufficient detail in the referenced articles.   Major comments: - It becomes clear how the discrete latent states should be interpreted later on, but when the model is introduced it is difficult to understand what role they play. The initial description of the model (page 3) would benefit from a suggestion of how to think about discrete states in this context. Similarly, the continuous latent variables x_t^n are introduced on page 3, but it was never totally clear how the different dimensions should be interpreted (biophysical or otherwise).  - The selection of K = 3 leads to a natural biophysical interpretation of the discrete latent states. Was this the intention a priori? What happens as K increases? - The manuscript title and abstract push scalability as a major theme, yet this only seems to be addressed in a brief paragraph (page 8) without much quantitative evidence.   Minor comments: - The panel labels have inconsistent styles. Some are just the label with a period, some have parentheses with a period, some have parentheses without a period. - Title of panel 5c: Inferrd -> Inferred.  Update: The author response addressed my concerns. I maintain my vote for accepting this paper.