This paper presents the predictive coding network (PCN), a convolutional architecture with local recurrent and feedback connections. Higher layers provide top-down predictions while the lower layers provide the prediction errors, which are refined over time by the local recurrence. This idea is not new, other work (such as that of Lotter et al. and others) have used this for other tasks, such as video prediction and object recognition, though this has yet to be shown to scale to larger scale tasks such as ImageNet.   The authors compare the performance of PCN, with varying number of cycles of recurrent processing, to standard CNN architectures on multiple image datasets. In general, PCN has slightly lower error than standard architectures with a comparable number of parameters. However, while PCN also generally outperforms their plain model, the plain model always has significantly fewer parameters. It would be beneficial for to include a more in-depth analysis on the effects of the local recurrence and feedback, individually and combined, while controlling for the number of parameters. For instance, in Table 4, the base model has 9.34 million parameters and the PCN has 17.26 million parameters. The correct parameter controlled comparison would actually be between two PCNs but unrolled for fewer timesteps, to get at the question of whether the multi-interaction recurrence is meaningfully deepening the network in time. In fact, the ImageNet top1 performance difference between PCN-E-5 and PCN-E-3 (which share the same number of parameters) does not appear to be significant. Instead, the right comparison to be made explicit in Table 4 should be the distinction in validation error between timesteps 1 and 2 (or all other timesteps > 1) in the rightmost plot (for ImageNet) – the same comparisons should be made in Tables 2 and 3 as well. In general, clarity could also be improved, especially in the model section. Overall, the authors demonstrate improvements on standard image classification datasets using a predictive coding framework.