EDIT: I have read the response and the other reviews. I appreciate the clarification by the authors, and am content that they will include a more careful discussion of related work in the final version.  Clarity: I found this paper generally clear and easy to read. I would suggest the following improvements for readability.  - Include x in R(omega) and R to highlight the fact that it is a (random) function of x. - Using sans-serif to indicate when a quantity is random is nice, but its usefulness was largely obviated by the fact that the symbol for omega is serif vs. sans-serif is nearly identical. I would recommend either going with capital or using a symbol other than omega for the auxiliary variables. - I believe there is a type in Lemma 1 (should be Q(omega)R(omega))  Quality: The paper is generally of high quality and correct. Still, the current draft lacks a comprehensive related work. Especially in the context of questions about originality (below), this is a major omission.  Originality: There is significant overlap between this work and known techniques in the Monte Carlo literature. The idea is very closely related to the idea of matching the proposal process to a distribution over an extended state space. This idea was used in Neal 2001, Andrieu et al. 2010, and reviewed in Axel Finke's thesis. Even more, I believe this idea is essentially equivalent to the idea proposed in Lawson et al. 2019 presented at an ICLR 2019 workshop. The focus of the Lawson et al. 2019 paper is different, in that they focus on the choice of the coupling. The Lawson et al. 2019 paper derives from work on auxiliary variable variational inference, see e.g. Agakov & Barber 2004. In any case, I urge the authors to spend more time explaining the connections between their work and the existing literature.  Significance: This is an active research area, and this paper has the potential to generate interest. Even so, the experimental results are currently quite weak and some interesting avenues remain unexplored.  - The improvements appear in Figure 6 to be on the order of a hundredth of a nat, which is a bit too small to justify changing a codebase to incorporate these bounds. - I would urge the authors to investigate how these distinct bounds interact with learning the parameters of q (the variational approximation) and p (the model).  Citations: - Radford Neal. Annealed Importance Sampling. Statistics and Computing, 2001. - Axel Finke. On Extended State-Space Constructions for Monte Carlo Methods. - Christophe Andrieu, Arnaud Doucet, Roman Holenstein. Particle Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. JRSSB 2010. - Dieterich Lawson, George Tucker, Bo Dai, Rajesh Ranganath. Revisiting Auxiliary Latent Variables in Generative Models. ICLR Workshop 2019. - Agakov, Felix V., and David Barber. "An auxiliary variational method." International Conference on Neural Information Processing. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2004.