The problem studied by the authors of defining (and proving convergence) of a gradient flow of the MMD with respect to the Wasserstein distance is an important one. As noted in the paper, understanding the behavior of this gradient flow could lead a better understanding of the training dynamics of GANs. Eventually this could lead to better, theoretically sound procedures to train GANS.   The convergence analysis employed at a high level follows the steps in Ambrosio, Gigli and Savaré 2008 who studied the gradient flow of KL divergence with respect to Wasserstein distance (studied by JKO initially). While the main ingredients of their analysis such as Proposition 4 and Proposition 5 (via displacement convexity) have direct analogs in the proofs of Ambrosio et al. the presentation here is done well and seems to be technically correct. The authors in Section 4 also present simple extensions to their algorithm by adding noise to regularize and a sample based approximation to the gradients to make their algorithm practically viable. They also provide simple extensions to their theory to motivate these extensions.  Overall the paper is well written, and the problem they solve is interesting and important.   Some terms however are used before they are defined. For example in Ln. 31 witness functions are undefined. The assumptions used in paper are deep in the appendix in Appendix C without any mention of this in the paper. It would be useful to state these or link to these in the main paper. Further the authors could perhaps some intuition behind the definition and usefulness displacement convexity (also known as geodesic convexity) and how that plays into their proof.   ===== Post Author Feedback =========  Thank you for you polite rebuttal.  In the discussion, an important point was raised about the locality condition made in in the proof of Proposition 7 and 8. I would urge the authors to motivate and provide an interpretation for this condition (which seems to be hard to check and crucial) in subsequent drafts.