This paper is on robot learning to grasp objects in homes (an everyday environment). The work makes a set of contributions, including a dataset that includes 28K grasps using real robots in homes, an architecture for grasp planning and scene modeling (although the individual components of the architecture are not new), and a set of comparisons using different learning methods and existing datasets.   The paper is overall well written, and there are the following concerns about the work.   It is claimed in the paper that the dataset was collected in the real-world home environments (which is true), but still the robot was constrained to a 2m wide area, and the grasps are limited to strictly downward grasps. All the robot sees is just objects placed on the ground. From this review, this work is not facing the real challenge of home environments.   The point of highlighting the low-cost robot platform is unclear. Of course, there is the better availability of low-cost robots. But even if we consider only the 3K robots, there can be very different designs. Also, it's (unlikely but still) possible that a Baxter robot's price is significantly reduced in a few years. How would we position this work, given the cost reduction of robot platforms? It's better to better highlight the quantitative features of the low-cost platform, such as sensing range, precision of the  arm, and battery capacity.   The work overlooked existing research on robot long-term autonomy. Examples include the EU STRANDS robots, CMU Cobots, and UT Austin BWIBots. These robots have traveled thousands of kms, and served thousands of people. For instance, the EU STRANDS robots have been able to operate without (or with minimum) human involvement for weeks. The robots were able to collect various types of data. While most of these robots do not have arms, the robotics community has been "looking outside the lab" for many years.   The discussion of grasping in Section 5.2 is unfair to many of the existing works on grasping. The main reason is that grasping in a high-dimensional space is extremely challenging. This work greatly simplified the problem by fixing the height and having the arm perpendicular to the ground. The challenging part of trajectory planning in high-dimensional spaces is avoided in this work.     AFTER REBUTTAL:   Thanks for the reply in detail in the response letter. The paper (in a good shape) can be further improved from the angles of addressing the low-cost platforms, and elaborating in related work on efforts on "looking outside the lab", as agreed by the authors in the letter. 