The paper studies the problem of policy poisoning in batch reinforcement learning and control where the learner estimates the model of the world from batch data set, and finds an optimal policy with respect to the learned model. The attacker modifies the data by the means of modifying the reward entries to make the agent learn a target policy. The paper presents a framework for solving batch policy poison attacks on two standard victims. The theoretical and experimental results show some evidence for the feasibility of policy poisoning attacks.  Overall, I think this is an interesting paper that is motivated under a realistic adversarial setting where the attacker can alter the reward (instead of altering the dynamics of the world) to change the optimal policy to an adversarial target policy. The paper is easy to read due to its clear organization. Further I appreciated the source code made available with the submission, so thank you for doing this.   However, I have two major issues with the paper which I hope that can be clarified by the authors.  i) While I understand the overall idea of your bilevel programming model, it seems that you are not following a formal notation (i.e., the Bard et al. 2000 notation). Therefore it is not clear if you have two separate followers problems, what are the decision variables of (each?) follower etc. Further, it is confusing to use r, \mathbb{r}, R, \mathcal{R}, \tilde{R} etc. all in one model as the reader cannot tell what variables are controlled by the leader or the follower (and that is very important). Please clarify this in your rebuttal and the revised version of your paper.  ii) The experimental results are underwhelming where the size of the problems are very small and the domain is limited to a grids world problem - which does not tie well with the realistic adversarial setting introduced earlier. Is this because solving the adversarial optimization problem is not scalable? If so, this is important to note in the paper. Further, have you experimented with other and/or larger domains?  One piece of literature that can be of interest to the authors is “Data Poisoning Attacks against Autoregressive Models”.  Minor correction: line 161 the word ‘itself’ is repeated twice  **After Rebuttal** Thank you for your responses, they were helpful clarifying my questions. Therefore, I am increasing my final score. Please include your clarifications in the final version of the paper.