The manuscript proposes a new objective function for learning Gaussian latent factor models. The objective function is based on information-theoretic characterization of modular latent factor models, where the model attains optimal value. The derivation of the objective function carefully avoids matrix inversion to improve computational complexity compared to traditional methods. The authors pointed out that the proposed model enjoys 'blessing of dimension' in that model performance improves when the dimension of observable variables increases while the dimension of latent variables remains constant. This is demonstrated by both simulation and an information-theoretic lower bound on the sample size. The authors also conducted extensive experiments to show the advantages of the proposed method in estimation accuracy and computation speed.  Quality: The main results in the manuscript are supported by either theoretical analysis or experiments. I find the theoretical component of the manuscript solid in general. Although some mistakes exist in the technical details of the derivations/proofs (Items 5, 8, 9 below), they didn't affect the main results. The experiments are extensive in that a large number of datasets and competing methods are explored. However, using likelihood as evaluation metric doesn't seem appropriate in the real-world data analysis (Item 4 below). I think this is the main weakness of the manuscript.  Clarity: The manuscript is well-written in general. It does a good job in explaining many results and subtle points (e.g., blessing of dimensionality). On the other hand, I think there is still room for improvement in the structure of the manuscript. The methodology seems fully explainable by Theorem 2.2. Therefore, Theorem 2.1 doesn't seem necessary in the main paper, and can be move to the supplement as a lemma to save space. Furthermore, a few important results could be moved from the supplement back to the main paper (e.g., Algorithm 1 and Table 2).  Originality: The main results seem innovative to me in general. Although optimizing information-theoretic objective functions is not new, I find the new objective function adequately novel, especially in the treatment of the Q_i's in relation to TC(Z|X_i). Relevant lines of research are also summarized well in the related work section.  Significance: The proposed methodology has many favorable features, including low computational complexity, good performance under (near) modular latent factor models, and blessing of dimensionality. I believe these will make the new method very attractive to the community. Moreover, the formulation of the objective function itself would also be of great theoretical interest. Overall, I think the manuscript would make a fairly significant contribution.  Itemized comments: 1. The number of latent factors m is assumed to be constant throughout the paper. I wonder if that's necessary. The blessing of dimensionality still seems to hold if m increases slowly with p, and computational complexity can be still advantageous compared to GLASSO. 2. Line 125: For completeness, please state the final objective function (empirical version of (3)) as a function of X_i and the parameters. 3. Section 4.1: The simulation is conducted under a joint Gaussian model. Therefore, ICA should be identical with PCA, and can be removed from the comparisons. Indeed, the ICA curve is almost identical with the PCA curve in Figure 2. 4. In the covariance estimation experiments, negative log likelihood under Gaussian model is used as the performance metric for both stock market data and OpenML datasets. This seems unreasonable since the real data in the experiment may not be Gaussian. For example, there is extensive evidence that stock returns are not Gaussian. Gaussian likelihood also seems unfair as a performance metric, since it may favor methods derived under Gaussian assumptions, like the proposed method. For comparing the results under these real datasets, it might be better to focus on interpretability, or indirect metrics (e.g., portfolio performance for stock return data). 5. The equation below Line 412: the p(z) factor should be removed in the expression for p(x|z). 6. Line 429: It seems we don't need Gaussian assumption to obtain Cov(Z_j, Z_k | X_i) = 0. 7. Line 480: Why do we need to combine with law of total variance to obtain Cov(X_i, X_{l != i} | Z) = 0? 8. Lines 496 and 501: It seems the Z in the denominator should be p(z). 9. The equation below Line 502: I think the '+' sign after \nu_j should be a '-' sign. In the definition of B under Line 503, there should be a '-' sign before \sum_{j=1}^m, and the '-' sign after \nu_j should be a '+' sign. In Line 504, we should have \nu_{X_i|Z} = - B/(2A).  Minor comments: 10. The manuscript could be more reader-friendly if the mathematical definitions for H(X), I(X;Y), TC(X), and TC(X|Z) were state (in the supplementary material if no space in the main article). References to these are necessary when following the proofs/derivations. 11. Line 208: black -> block 12. Line 242: 50 real-world datasets -> 51 real-world datasets (according to Line 260 and Table 2) 13. References [7, 25, 29]: gaussian -> Gaussian  Update: Thanks to the authors' for the response. A couple minor comments: - Regarding the empirical version of the objective (3), it might be appropriate to put it in the supplementary materials. - Regarding the Gaussian evaluation metric, I think it would be helpful to include the comments as a note in the paper.