originality: it is difficult to evaluate the originality because there is no discussion of relevant work on metaconcepts. Perhaps none exists (I'm not familiar with the area), and if so the authors should be more clear about that.  quality: I find the discussion of the results in Table 3 puzzling -- it looks to me like the metaconcept "instance of" is (barely) helping in the synthetic dataset only, and is not providing any benefit in the real dataset. Moreover, these accuracy are awfully close to 50% -- is this not chance accuracy? It would be helpful to provide significance testing for the differences.   clarity: Generally, the paper is well written, though it does assume a bit of the reader in terms of background knowledge. Also, L216 mentions that the proposed method will be compared to BERT but I cannot find this comparison.  significance: Because only two metaconcepts are tested, and only one of them actually somewhat benefits concept learning in a real dataset, it is difficult to say how significant this method is.  *** POST-REBUTTAL *** I had 2 major concerns about this work. The first was that the considered metaconcepts were quite contrived, and it was not easy to see what other metaconcepts can be incorporated. In their rebuttal, the authors include results with a new metaconcept "hypernym", but I fail to see how this is different from their original metaconcept of "is instance of". The second major concern was that the experimental results did not seem thorough -- I can't find any results reported over multiple random seeds, despite the authors claiming that they have provided clear error bars and standard deviations in the reproducibility checklist. This concern also holds for the new results reported in Tables A,B, and C. Specifically the results in Table C would have been more convincing if they had been computed in a bootstrapped fashion (if they had actually been done this way, the authors should have provided a standard deviation). These concerns still stand after the rebuttal.  Additionally, a more minor concern is that I feel this work is not a good fit for the Neuroscience and Cognitive Science track that it has been submitted to. I find it very loosely related to human psychology, and difficult to see how a researcher in this area (like myself) would be interested in this work.  For these reasons, I maintain my review score.