* Quality  Overall the paper is of high quality. My main remarks are:  1. A priori, the hybrid modeling task seems out of place for this paper. I have rarely seen generative models being evaluated on such a task, where the classifier is trained simultaneously as the generative model. Generally there’s some semi-supervised setup where the representations are learned, frozen and used to test their ability to model p(y | x). I can see that one could argue that the inductive bias of residual networks might be more suitable for discriminative tasks as well. It would be good to state the intention of the experiment in the context of the paper more clearly (currently there’s only L251-L252 which is quite vague).  2. The samples in Figure 3 don’t look as competitive to e.g. the samples from Glow (in terms of sample quality). Since I find no mention of temperature scaling, my assumption would be that this was not used. As also mentioned in the Glow paper, temperature scaling is important to get more visually appealing samples (Glow e.g. uses T=0.7). Since this is a generative modeling paper on images, I would suggest to explore temperature scaling and choose a temperature that works best (and report it as such). It would also be important to then show the effect of temperature scaling on the samples in the appendix (Glow has this in the main paper). If this results in much more competitive results, consider moving some of the generalization to the induced mixed norms or the hybrid modeling task to the appendix and putting more emphasis (potentially with a figure on the first page) on the samples. Currently the paper is relatively technical and it would be great to balance that out more (in the context of an improved generative model of images).  3. For CelebA (is it CelebA-HQ?) there are no quantitative results anywhere (just samples).They should ideally also be reported in Table 2.   * Originality  The related work section seems thorough and the positioning of the paper is very clear. It is clear how the paper overcomes certain limitations in previously introduced methods of interest to the field.   * Clarity  The paper is well-written, well-structured and reads fluently.   * Significance  There is a good argument for why invertible residual networks are interesting to people in the field of generative modeling / flow-based modeling, as also explained in the introduction of the paper: it uses a common supervised network architecture (ResNet) and transforms it to one that is tractable for flow-based modeling without (big) changes to the architecture. This seems to be a promising approach compared to previous methods which rely on specialized architectures (coupling blocks, etc.). This paper makes this approach more tractable and also shows quantitative improvements, even compared to the state of the art on some of the tasks. I consider this paper of significance to the field of generative modeling.   The samples are less impressive but I also address as to why this could be above.   ---------------------------  I thank the authors for their response. I will leave my already high score as is; the addressed comments will improve the paper but not significantly. 