Thanks for the rebuttal. I have read it carefully, I stand by my original review and rating. The additional experimental results look good, and except for the scalability issue, most of my concerns are addressed. -------------------------------------------------------- The contributions are interesting and the paper is well written, the authors conduct extensive experiments on several tasks, including unsupervised feature extraction on CIFAR10 and CIFAR100, evaluated by a linear classifier, both the quantitative classification accuracy and the qualitative distance matrix demonstrates the AFV is an effective feature extractor despite at the cost of increased dimensionality of feature space. The paper also presents experimental results on using fisher distance to check the training process. It shows Fisher distance is a good substitute for objective metrics IS and FID when there is no classifier. Some detailed comments are listed below.  - I would suggest adding some literature of fisher information and its use case in representation learning such as [1]. - Formula 4 and 5, why use samples from generator distribution to estimate the fisher score/information rather than real samples or combined? - One concern is the scalability issue, even with diagonalization the resulting fisher vector is still proportional to the number of parameters. In large scale GANs, such as [2], the method could be intractable. - It’s useful if the authors could list the performance of supervised training with the same architecture on CIFAR for comparison in table 1. - what type of gan loss function did the authors use in section 5.3? Besides varying the number of training examples, I think the authors should try different type of gans and check whether fisher distance is able to monitor the training dynamics for miss modes or gradient saturation.  [1] Achille, Alessandro, et al. "Task2Vec: Task Embedding for Meta-Learning." arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.03545 (2019). [2] Brock, A., Donahue, J., & Simonyan, K. (2018). Large scale gan training for high fidelity natural image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.11096.