This paper proposes a learning to multitask (L2MT) framework to identify a suitable multitask model under a unified formulation (1) for a multitask problem. This paper is well written and easy to follow.  Different from traditional model selection approaches (e.g., cross validation) to determine the suitable multitask model for a multitask problem, the proposed L2MT provides a novel learning approach to solve this issue. This paper is novel in the following aspects: 1) The proposed LGNN is used to learn a dataset embedding for a task. This is totally different from traditional approaches which rely on manually designed features to represent a dataset. With the LGNN, the training process of L2MT becomes end-to-end, which alleviates the tedious feature engineering process. 2) Based on the unified multitask formulation (1), each multitask model is parameterized by the task covariance matrix $\Omega$. With such continuous parameterization, the testing process can learn a novel $\Omega$ out of all the known multitask models presented in Section 2 and this makes learning a better multitask model than all the existing models possible. I think this is a reason that the proposed L2MT can outperform all baseline models in the experiments. 3) The construction of the estimation function is based on the kernel function, which is easy to understand and also facilitates the optimization in the test process. The interesting idea of introducing a link function to transform labels simplifies the construction of the estimation function. 4) The experiments are thorough by presenting different aspects of the proposed L2MT.  I have some minor questions: (1) In Theorems 1 and 2, Schatten a-norm and squared Schatten a-norm with 1<=a<2 are instances of formulation (1). What about other cases for a, e.g., 0<a<1 or a>=2? Can these cases be unified into formulation (1)? (2) The generalization bound seems important to L2MT. It is better to put the analysis in the main body instead of the supplementary material though I understand this is due to page limit.