The paper presents the idea of combining Novelty Search with Evolutionary Strategies to overcome ES getting stuck in local optima for some subset of domains / problems.  The idea is original as far as I am aware of. The authors give a good background about ES and NS topics. They introduce 3 different versions of combining NS and ES.  They test the algorithms in simulated humanoid locomotion and some atari games. The proposed method works for domains where ES gets stuck in a local optima. To create such an environment the authors create a U shaped wall in locomotion problem. At the same time, they use behavior characterization that encourages moving to different spots.  For this selected task and the selected behavior characterization using NS clearly makes sense. On the other hand, my high level concerns are: - The problem has to contain some "obstacle" that would get ES stuck at a local optima. - As the authors state, it might be possible to overcome the local optima by tuning hyper-parameters (line 309). Then ES might not benefit from NS anymore. Can the authors quantify the subset of domains where the proposed algorithm can solve the problem that cannot be solved by hyperparameter tuning. - behavior characterization function has to be selected carefully so that diversity can get ES unstuck. For locomotion problem, this makes sense. But it might not be possible to select the right function for more complex tasks.  The paper is clearly written and easy to read. The presentation of the results in Figure 1 are hard to read. The fonts are too small, and the data plots are  hard to distinguish in black and white. Figure 2 is missing the labels for x and y axis. I think that it would be better to include error bars in Figure 3. Otherwise the significance of the results are questionable (for some games the difference is less than 3%). Figure 3 should be split into a table (left) and a figure. The figure is hard to read and interpret in black and white.  The idea is original as far as I am aware of. I like the idea of introducing diversity into ES. The first domain (human locomotion with U shaped wall) feels overcrafted for the proposed algorithm, but the atari application gives a better sense of how this algorithm could be adapted to different domains. As explained above the presentation of the results reduces the significance of the paper.