Post author feedback: I am very impressed by the fits at the bottom of the response. There was some discussion amongst the reviewers concerning the relationship between this and what is known about the actual circuits (e.g., inputs arrive to layers 4 and 5, then from layer 4 signals go to layers 2/3, etc.). It would be useful for the authors to relate this to those facts. Also, we discussed whether your model actually fits the data about the quantity of feedback vs. feedforward connections (as much or more feedback as feedforward). It would be useful to inform the reader as to whether your model accounts for this as well.  Summary:    This paper takes inspiration from the primate visual system, which, unlike standard convolutional networks, includes feedback and lateral connections. Indeed, while CNNs are the best model we have of the temporal lobe, they cannot account for the temporal processing in animal visual systems. There is evidence (referenced here) that for difficult-to-recognize images, the neural activity doesn’t settle down right away, suggesting a major role for feedback. There are several possible roles for this feedback, including dealing with occlusion, cleaning up noisy inputs, etc.  The first thing they do to ameliorate this situation is try to include LSTM and vanilla recurrence in a six-layer Alex-net-like model. These do not improve the accuracy. However, a new type of recurrent cell, a Reciprocal Gated Cell, that includes both bypass connections and gating connections, was able to improve performance. Encouraged by this success, they initiated a huge search of potential recurrent cell architectures over ResNet-18 that included variations in connection architecture, activation function types, and arithmetic operations. They found that the median optimal architecture, when trained on imagenet, achieved the same top-1 performance as ResNet-36, with half as many layers and 75% fewer parameters. They compared these architectures to strong baselines, including feed forward networks with the same amount of computations, but no recurrence, and found that the recurrent architecture was still superior.   Finally, the coup-de-grace was applying this architecture to accounting for the time course of neural responses (at 10ms intervals)  in monkey visual cortex. They found that they were close to the noise limit in fitting this data, and did so much better than a feed-forward network.  Quality:  Strengths: This is excellent work, and shows the power of having 100s of TPUs at your disposal, in the right hands. The role of recurrent processing in the cortex has long been debated, but this kind of work not only extends convolutional neural networks in a more biologically-plausible direction, but promises to reveal the role of this processing. It also shows how we can account for the time course of neural responses with such a model.   Weaknesses:  I could not detect any.  Clarity: The paper is very clear, and this reviewer especially appreciated page 2, which pretty much summarized the entire contribution.  However, that said, the notation used in the paper, especially on line 113, is terrible. The same notation (uppercase italic letters) is used for weights, activations, and activation functions. I strongly suggest making this clearer. Also, in the supplementary material, the more detailed equations are good, except that there are still undefined quantities and a few puzzles. For example, it is clear how the gating works in equation 1 amnd 2, but in the equations following line 429, it is unclear why the gates should actually be between 0 and 1, unless they are not supposed to be restricted in such a way, and nome of the v variables are defined. Are these the learnable parameters?  Originality: Clearly, this has not been done before. Significance: This is highly significant. The issue of adding recurrence to convolutional networks has been around for a while, and this is the first paper I’ve seen that does it very effectively. This also has implications for understanding how the brain works.  The replication question below hinges a great deal on what you mean by a replication. Their code will be available, but if someone wanted to repeat their search process, it would be difficult without access to 100’s of second generation TPUs. I can’t help but wonder how many households could be powered for a year by the amount of energy used in this search.