The authors used GANs and convex optimization for generating and completing fixed-length protein structures. They used GANs to first generate protein residue distance maps, which they then folded into three-dimensional structures more efficiently than existing methods by convex optimization (ADMM). They compared their approach to indirectly generate protein structure via the generation of distance maps to alternative approaches such as using GANs to directly generate three-dimensional protein structures. As far as I know, this is the first paper on generating protein structures usings GANs. The paper is well written and methods clearly explained and evaluated. Provided that the authors address my comments below, I think this a good paper for NIPS.   Major comments ============= 1) The authors should clarify how they sampled latent factors z that are used as input to the generator G to produce distance maps G(z). What is the variation of protein structures depending on the variation in z? Are all sampled protein structures stable (plausible)? To analyze this, the authors should perform a latent factor interpolation as mentioned in the discussion and also analyze if latent factors z capture certain properties, like the secondary structure or protein accessibility.  2) Section 4.1.1: For analyzing overfitting, the authors should also compare 2d density maps of training, test, and generated amino-acid distance maps (https://seaborn.pydata.org/generated/seaborn.kdeplot.html).  3) The authors should compare the runtime of ADMM and Rosetta depending on the protein size and add a figure with the protein size on the x-axis and observed runtime in seconds on the y-axis.  4) The method is in my eyes only of limited use for protein design since it only enables the generation of relatively short protein fragments of up to ~128 residues, is not conditioned on certain target properties like binding affinity, and does not reveal the protein or DNA sequence that folds to the generated structure. Generated structures are also of minor quality compared to structures generated by the state-of-the-art method for protein design Rosetta. The authors should therefore less emphasize the usability of their method for protein design throughout the manuscript, e.g. in the abstract.  5) The authors should more clearly discuss the drawbacks of their method in the discussion, including that their method 1) only enables the generation of fixed-length sequences, 2) is hard to scale to large protein structures, 3) requires still relatively costly and only approximately correct convex optimization since it does not directly generate three-dimensional structures, 4) learning GANs is difficult as pointed out in the suppl., and 5) that their method only generates protein backbones instead of amino-acid sequences.     Minor comments ============= 6) L.13-15: The sentence should be reformulated or dropped since the authors did not should experimentally that generated structures are stable or functional.  7) The authors should more clearly motive in the introduction why protein completion is important.  8) Section 2.1: The authors should mention that proteins with certain properties can also be designed by directly generating amino acid or nucleic acid sequences instead of structures. In particular, the authors should reference http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06148.  9) Section 4.2: The authors should more clearly describe how distance maps were masked for generating AE. Were distances (pixels) randomly dropped out (set to a special value), or did they randomly drop out fixed-length fragments? The latter approach is required for a fair comparison. Did the authors add noise to the dropped out regions or set them to a special value?  10) Throughout the manuscript: What does SE(3) mean?  11) L122-124: The authors should more clearly describe if they trained three GANs for generating sequences of size 16, 64, and 128. The fact that their model does not enable training variable-length sequences is one major drawback (see comment above).  12) In addition to Figure 3., the authors should show more structures generated by latent factor interpolation (see comment above) in the suppl..