Graph neural networks are receiving an increasing amount of attention, with many new papers appearing in the last few years. Along the way, a subset of these papers are attempting to understand the theoretical underpinnings of such constructions; one such approach, which this paper follows, is by adapting the wavelet scattering transform to graphs. To that end, this paper makes a significant theoretical contribution in proving the stability of graph scattering transforms with a bound that is independent of the graph (maybe, I have question on this below). In doing so, the authors introduce a new perturbation model that measures the distance of a graph perturbation from a permutation, which is a type of graph analogue to how the (regular) scattering transform measures the size of diffeomorphism relative to a translation. This is also significant, as understanding the “right” way to measure graph perturbations is an important part of understanding how to construct graph neural networks and understanding the relevant theoretical properties of them that help explain their performance.  The paper is well written and does a good job of introducing the notions of graph convolution, graph wavelets, and the graph scattering transform. Having said that, two areas for possible improvement would be: (1) The notation in Section 3 (before 3.1) is a bit heavy, and I imagine readers not familiar with the scattering transform may need more than one pass to fully absorb everything there; (2) I would have liked to have seen a deeper discussion on how the architecture of the graph scattering transform relates to recent / state-of-the-art graph neural network architectures, beyond the fact that they both (presumably) employ some notion of graph convolution. This would give the reader a better sense for how relevant these results are to other graph neural networks.  The numerical experiments are the weakest part of the paper, perhaps justifiably so since the emphasis is on theory. Comparing to the graph Fourier transform is good, but building upon my previous remark relating the construction of the graph scattering transform to other graph neural networks, it would have been nice to see at least one numerical experiment that compares the graph scattering transform with a recent / state-of-the-art graph neural network. On the positive side, it is nice to read the links between the numerical results and the theory presented earlier in the paper.   Regarding the theoretical results, I have a few specific questions: - In Prop. 3 / Theorem 1, the integral Lipschitz constraint must be uniform over all j - this seems really strong. It would be nice if the authors could clarify exactly how strong an assumption this is (noting that I see the comment in the paper about the wavelet being constant in the high frequencies, but there it’s just on h and now the prop/thm statements its uniform over all j) - In Thm 3, is the bound really independent of the graph? Indeed, the structural constraint relates E and its largest eigenvalue to epsilon, and E depends on S and \hat{S}, which in turn depend on G and \hat{G}. Furthermore, it seems to me that as N increases, you may want J to increase so that you can have wavelets that go across all length scales in the graph. Anyway, some clarifications would be appreciated.  - Does the theory work when G and \hat{G} have different numbers of vertices, as is the case in many tasks? If not, what breaks down, what are the difficulties? Readers would probably be (justifiably) interested in some comments along these lines.   Finally, there appear to be a few other graph scattering papers not referenced. I simply point them out, making no insistence on their inclusion: - Xu Chen, Xiuyuan Cheng, Stephane Mallat. “Unsupervised Deep Haar Scattering on Graphs,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 27, pages 1709-1717, 2014 - Dongmian Zou, Gilad Lerman. “Encoding Robust Representation for Graph Generation,” arXiv:1809.10851, 2018 - Feng Gao, Guy Wolf, Matthew Hirn. “Geometric Scattering for Graph Data Analysis,” Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning, PMLR 97, pages 2122-2131, 2019  === Post author feedback ===  I am mostly pleased with author feedback and will update my score from 7 to 8.