Considering rebuttal comments: Regarding the scalability of the proposed method, I understand that the network is enforced to consider phrase-level expression from jointly computing the final discriminator score from independent local discriminators. Also, the authors clearly explained how there is little computational complexity of long text input compared to number of pixels. Both concerns should be clearly explained in the final version of the paper. ----------------------------------------------  This paper deals with the task of semantically modifying visual attributes of an image using text description. Previous studies have dealt with synthesizing realistic images with text, but modifying specific attributes of an image while maintaining the image content is fairly a novel approach. Although there have been previous studies that manipulate images with text, this work is able to maintain text-irrelevant contents of the original image through a text-adaptive discriminator that adopts local discriminators for each word vector. As a result, this work can only modify specific attributes of an image through text without creating an entirely new (irrelevant) image.  However, this paper seems to have limitations in terms of scalability. First all, the local discriminators learn each visual attribute related to each word vector “independently”. Due to this structure, TAGAN cannot understand more complex, phrase-level expressions that must consider semantics of “combination of words”. Thus, treating each word independently and only looking at fine-grained word-level semantics may rather deter the model’s understanding of semantic compositionality and produce incorrect manipulations. Furthermore, computational complexity of the model would scale by number of words in a sentence due to its local discriminator architecture. This will become highly inefficient as the length of the sentence increases. The proposed method may have worked for simple, clear sentences such as CUB dataset and Oxford-102 dataset, but it is doubtful that it will scale to more complex, longer text data.  In this respect, I think the paper is marginally below the acceptance threshold. 