The authors investigate the problem of achieving constant regret in the problem of  learning with expert advice. Classical results of Vovk show that the latter is the case if the loss function satisfies a mixability criterion. Moreover, in that case the standard exponential weights aggregating algorithm achieves the constant regret. Inspired by the work of Reid et al. the authors define and analyze the notion of Phi-mixability, where Phi is some convex function, interpreted as a generic entropy function. Classic mixability is equivalent to Phi mixability for Phi being the Shannon entropy. Phi mixability basically corresponds to: for any mixed strategy there always exist a  deterministic action that achieves loss smaller than the loss of a regularized loss, regularized by the divergence of Phi regularized loss (i.e. a Mirror descent step). Based on Phi mixability they define a generalization of the exponential aggregating algorithm where instead of an exponential updates they perform a mirror descent step.   Their main result is a characterization of Phi mixability: a loss if Phi mixable if and only if it is mixable based on the Shannon entropy! The latter is a suprising result and contrary to prior work conjectures that for each loss there is an appropriate entropy function that is in some sense "optimal" for performing aggregation. The authors essentially show that it is without worst-case loss to only consider the Shannon entropy. Finally the propose a modification to their algorithm that can achieve better regret for some instances of the problem, even though it has the same worst-case performance as the exponential aggregation algorithm.   I found the papers main finding interesting, but a bit of technical in nature and very specialized in scope. The paper is also very dense and hard to read in terms of notation (side note: I believe the Hessian H is never defined as notation). For this reason it is not clear to me that it will have a broad appeal at NIPS. The broadest appeal should be the potential practical performance improvement of their final adaptive algorithm. However the authors do not support their improved performance with any experimental performance of this algorithm.    However, I do find the main technical result a deep and surprising one, hence I vote for weak acceptance.  