## Crowdsourcing via Pairwise Co-occurences: Identifiability and Algorithms  ### Summary  The authors propose a new method to infer the parameters of the seminal model for label aggregation in the context of crowdsourcing proposed by Dawid-Skene. The novelty is that unlike the original inference based on the EM algorithm, the proposed inference algorithm, based on SPA, that comes with provable guarantees over the identifiability of the parameters, given that there is a good enough annotator in the pool of annotators. In addition, unlike recent methods that resort to high-order estimates to prove identifiability, the proposed algorithm only resort to pairwise statistics being more resilient to small and sparse annotation datasets that are ubiquitous in crowdsourcing. The authors derives finite sample bounds on the reconstruction error of the parameters of the annotator and sufficient conditions on the parameters of the annotators for these bounds to work.  Overall, it is a strong paper with novel theoretical contributions and strong experimental results. The weakest point of the paper is that it fails to provide a better intuition about the behavior of the bound.  ### Details  The main idea of the paper is to reinterpret the model as a nonnegative matrix factorization problem and analyze the properties of the successive projection algorithm (SPA) that allows to solve this problem (under certain ideal conditions in a finite number of steps), in the context of the Dawid-Skene model. More specifically, in the presence of a perfect annotator (diagonal confusion matrix) the algorithm solves the problem in K steps, being K the number of classes. This is applied sequentially to estimate the confusion matrix of each annotator in what they call Multi-SPA.  The most interesting part of the paper is the theoretical analysis summarized in four theorems whose goal is to see what happens when:  a) The is no perfect annotator (an annotator with a diagonal matrix) b) The estimation of pairwise annotator probabilities (input to the algorithm) are based on a finite sample  Theorem 1 proves a bound on the reconstruction error of the confusion matrix of each annotator given that, for every class, there exist an annotator whose probability mass is concentrated enough around the diagonal, and that the annotators have co-labelled a certain number of examples. In addition, in Theorem 2 they proof that the first condition is fulfill with high probability under certain conditions that justifies increasing the number of annotators.  This is a nice quite result, however, I think the paper would greatly benefit from plotting this bounds and going deeper in the analysis of the dependency of the bound with respect to the different parameters. An analysis of these bounds for the particular datasets in the experimental section would be really interesting.  Also, as a minor, the claim from lines 180-183 is confusion since the bound depends on the size of the co-labeled dataset, an therefore, the more sparse is the matrix, the worse would be the bound. I think this should be re-written for the purpose of clarity.  In the second part of the paper, the authors propose a second algorithm to solve the problem base on a constrained linear program. The advantage is that they can relax the constraint of the existence of a perfect annotator in the MultiSPA algorithm, based on the definition of a sufficiently scatter confusion matrix (Theorem 3). Again, they show the dependency with the number of annotators, showing that we need a smaller number of annotators to guarantee the sufficiently scatter condition.  However, the constraint linear problem is non convex, so it seems counterintuitive since the aforementioned theorems rely on finding the optimal solution of this problem. Nevertheless, they theoretical analysis is still valid and novel enough.  Finally, the authors compare the proposed algorithms with a extensive set of baselines (methods and datasets) showing competitive performance. I think that even though the success in showing the good performance of the method, it seems a bit disconnected from the first part of the paper. Analyzing the behavior of the bounds in this practical scenarios would lead to nice insights that would improve the paper.  Despite this, this is a well-written strong paper with nice theoretical and practical contributions.  