The paper presents an interesting formulation for recommender systems, with a special focus on the utility of the content providers. They propose the Shapley mediator to allocate items (chosen by content providers or players) to users in order to ensure that the player's rewards are fairly and stably allocated. They also propose a linear time algorithm to implement the mediator which would make it very feasible for usage in real life scenarios.  The strengths of the paper: - Exceptionally well written. Very clear exposition of the key ideas. - Novel ideas, and the linear time algorithm is simple, elegant and necessary for broader usage. - Mathematically and logically sound.  A couple of things that could be better motivated. - (Major) Why is it necessary to have an option not to show an item? Can the plain content not be treated as another player (if yes, what would be its profile, and if not, why not?) - (Minor) In sections 3 and 4, there is initially some lack of clarity of how the Shapley value and the probability of the Shapley mediator are related. Only point where the writing could have been clearer.  Areas for improvement - One critical point which only gets mentioned at the very end (in the discussion section) is that the profile of a player is generally not the same for all users. It is instead personalized for almost all recommender systems. While the authors allude to having solved that problem too, the paper does not contain any of that information. - The user utility PoA being unbounded while being theoretically true is practically quite unsatisfactory. For such a mediator to be useful in practice, it may need to balance player payoffs with user utilities.  One general comment: - The format of the paper and the volume of accompanying material (which are somewhat critical but omitted from the paper) make it slightly more suitable for a journal publication.  Finally, my confidence score is medium because I am not familiar with related work in the area, although I am fairly confident that I understood most of what was presented in the (main) paper.