 The authors present a new Bayesian framework to model collective decision processes incorporating both conformity bias and theory of mind processes. They start with a formal model of conformity which they then extend to model the impact a player’s actions may have on the decisions of other players in a collective decision process thereby extending it to allow for inference on the cognitive states of others or theory of mind processes with different depths. The authors also present empirical results of applying their framework as well as a model-free RL model in two different samples and show that there model predicts participants actual choices more accurately. In the following sections, I provide specific feedback with respect to originality, quality, clarity and significance. I hope you will find my comments helpful and constructive.  Originality The authors provide an accessible, yet innovative framework to link conformity and theory of mind processes in collective decision making quite elegantly. The model extends past research as it is not restricted to a certain number of players (e.g., two players as in other frameworks) and can be easily scaled to larger action spaces. I believe this work is well written and will have significant impact on understanding collective decision making.  Clarity & Quality The paper is very clearly written, well-referenced and still covers both theory and empirical application with respect to an intriguing question. They also include a control model and assess face validity (by assessing, whether models predict the end of the round and the theoretical relationship to the Nash equilibrium in one of the tasks) which I especially appreciated. I only have a few minor questions/suggestions for improvement:  - In L. 105 you state that inferring on other players’ mental processes would be especially valuable, when the decay rate is high. My first question is, do you refer to a high decay rate in the sense that only most current results matter or do you refer to a decay rate close to 1, which, as you state in the section above equally implies that all past information are weighted equally. That has not been entirely clear from your description. Also, could you elaborate on why the ‘memory’ of past decisions would change the potential utility of explicitly inferring on other peoples’ mental states, is it because you would know more about other people and thus predict their behavior more accurately knowing the past? - Why did you decide to assess statistical difference between model performances using a t-test. Would a McNemar test not be better suited? - Did you run permutation tests to assess significance of the model performance compared to chance performance (although I believe it is quite clear, it would be good to formally show this as well)? - What is the imbalance of decisions made by the participants, if there is an imbalance, did you take this in your accuracy computation into account (e.g. by computing balanced accuracy), as a high accuracy could result from the prevalence of one particular choice.  Significance As I already alluded to, I believe that this work constitutes a theoretical and empirical contribution of great significance.    COMMENTS TO THE AUTHORS' RESPONSE: First of all, I wanted to thank you very much for your clarification regarding the significance assessment of the prediction performance. After discussing with my colleagues and reading your response, I still support an acceptance. However, as my colleagues rightfully pointed out, I would strongly urge you to clarify the relationship to ref 23 in the introduction. In your last submission you were giving the false impression that the entire approach is new, which is misleading. Please, reference this work early in your draft and adequately. Despite this hopefully unintentional negligence, I still support acceptance, but I will lower my score, since, while I still find that the paper is very well-written and addresses an important question, this of course reduces the contribution and is, in my view, a failure to aknowledge previous work adequately. 