Response to author feedback: Thank you for your answers and additional experiments. As a result of them, I have increased my score to 7. ------------------------------------  This paper introduces a novel model for incremental scene synthesis, that uses a location network (Mapnet) and a memory architecture that can be used to reconstruct images at arbitrary viewpoints.  Incremental scene synthesis is an interesting and relevant application, that can benefit downstream tasks in many subfields.  The proposed model is a complex architecture, but the authors are good at providing a quite clear step-by-step explanation (part of it is in the appendix due to space constraints in the NeurIPS format). It is however less clear to me for which applications there is a strong need for being able to produce hallucinations. Hallucinations are in fact meaningful only in less interesting cases for which it is possible to learn a very strong prior for the images (e.g. experiment with faces in CelebA). However, for many environments (e.g. experiments with the floor plans in the HoME dataset) observing part of the image does not tell you too much about other parts of it, and hallucinations are far from accurate.  To my knowledge this is among the first model that is able to perform coherent localization and incremental scene synthesis in an end-to-end fashion, and the experimental results look convincing. They could however be further improved to provide a deeper understanding of the real competitiveness of the model. The GTM-SM model that the authors use in the experiments is a relevant competing method, that focuses however on a fairly different task, and is therefore hard to provide meaningful comparison keeping it in its original form. The GTM-SM is built to be able to get long-term action-conditioned predictions for planning application in RL, not scene registration/synthesis (although it can do it to a certain extent). This model in fact is trained in an unsupervised way, feeding action and image information during training, and not location information as in the proposed model. However, the learned state-space model in the GTM-SM could also greatly benefit from the location information (at least during training) that is assumed to be available in the experiments in this submission. For this I believe ground-truth locations should be also used in the GTM-SM experiments to provide a more fair comparison (it is true that the GTM-SM has also access to additional action information in the experiments, but this information is far weaker than the location information considering that the GTM-SM needs to learn a transition model). You may also consider passing the viewpoints to the GTM-SM as well when generating images (the model basically becomes a GQN), which would certainly give an unfair advantage to the GTM-SM, but its results would be very helpful to assess the potential of the proposed architecture.  I am quite concerned about the correctness of your GTM-SM implementation. Considering the results in the original paper [8] it seems to me that a well specified and trained GTM-SM should perform much better, at least in the anamnesis metric in the A_cel^s experiment, but likely also in other experiments. Could you provide more details on GTM-SM implementation and training procedure?  For the proposed model to work there has to be lots of correlation and overlapping features among the initial observation to be able to learn to correctly localize and memorize. How can this model be used for efficient exploration in larger environments? 