The manuscript describes a discrete time reduction of equilibrium prop (EP) which enables the authors to compare the algorithms gradient estimates and performance directly to BPTT. Moreover, the associated reduction in compute cost also enables them to train the first CNN (that I know of) using EP. While EP approximates BP in feedforward networks, it uses neuronal activity of an RNN in equilibrium to propagate target information or error feedback to perform credit assignment.   While this work may be less interesting for DL practitioners because it is still more costly than backprop (BP), it is one of the contenders for bio-plausible backprop which is discussed in the literature. In that regard the present work contributes to this discussion meaningfully. The paper is relatively well written, but still contains the occasional typo and generally the language could be improved. Overall, however, the messages are clear and well presented. I only have minor points which could be used to further improve the manuscript.  Use of RMSE: I am wondering whether it would be better to use cos alpha between the EP and BP gradient to illustrate performance on all the plots. RMSE would be also susceptible to the length of the vector which can always be absorbed in the learning rate. Since here the authors seem to be mostly interested in the direction, something that agnostic to the length would seem more suitable.   I found the formulation of the loss as a sum of losses a bit weird (ll.86). It would make more sense to me to put the temporal index on the loss function and not the parameters (since they are supposed to be same if I understood the authors correctly).  Section 3.2: When comparing EP to BPTT, wouldn't it make more sense to compare to both BPTT & RTRL and find an umbrella term for both? RTRL will give the same gradient as BPTT, but somehow the manuscript makes the argument that EP is forward in time whereas BP isn't. But then RTRL is too ... so this is argument needs to be honed a bit. In practice, however, it is clear that gradients are computed using BPTT in time, I am only suggesting to amend the text here.  Figure2 & Figure 4: I suggest changing the order of the plotted curves such that the dashed lines are somehow visible. That or play with transparency. Currently due to the overlap dashed is virtually invisible which is confusing.   Finally, the reduction in computational cost is not shown which is one of the sales arguments for the discrete time version. However, it would be nice to add a small graph or table with some numbers in terms of wall clock time.  l.41. "real-time leaky integrate neuronal dynamics" something is wrong with this sentence l.58. "similar performance than" -> to   Update: Thanks for the clarifications on the RMSE and for adding the wall clock time. Finally, the updated figures, will further improve the MS. Thanks!