This paper addresses the optimization for BNN and provides a novel latent-free optimizer for BNN, which challenges the existing way of using later-weights. This is an interesting and original idea.  Specifically, one common way to see BNN training is to view the binary weights as an approximation to real-valued weight vector, this paper argues that the latent weights used in the previous methods are in fact not weights. The paper argues this by introducing a concept of inertia. Motivated from this new insight, one novel optimizer called Bop is introduced. Compared with existing latent-based optimizers, Bop requires less memory.    One of my previous concern is that relationship and understanding of latent weight methods from the perspective of Bop method. The author's response made a clear explanation by drawing similarities between the momentum and threshold in mitigating noisy flipping behavior. I agree with this viewpoint.   The Experimental results on Cifar10 and ImageNet dataset demonstrates that Bop achieves comparative results with baseline optimizers. The original submit shows that Bop slightly worse results than baseline on ImageNet with 50 epochs. However, in the authors' response, they added results for BiReal-Net on ImageNet from scratch using Bop trained for 200 epochs, which achieves competitive results with reported methods. I think this result is promising.   Overall, this paper provides a novel idea of training BNN with latent-free weights, which is interesting and insightful and might open a new way train BNN. The experimental results of the proposed Bop optimizer are comparative with existing methods (Experimental details need to be improved). Future directions in improving the proposed Bop are also given.   ------------------------------------ Update 2019-08-07 1. The authors' rebuttal adds results for BiReal-Net on ImageNet from scratch using Bop trained for 200 epochs, which achieves competitive (slightly better) results with reported methods. I think this result is promising.  2. In the rebuttal, the authors explains the connections between the proposed Bop and traditional latent-weight methods to further help the understanding of Bop from the perspective of momentum. It is interesting but I think some further understanding is still needed.   I keep my previous score, which is still 7.