The paper introduces a natural yet interesting extension to the pure exploration in linear stochastic bandits, called pure exploration in transductive linear bandits. This extension is well motivated through various examples in the introduction, which makes the paper pleasant to read.  Overall the paper is very well written and is a nice read. It is very well organized, and almost error free.  The studied problem is presented precisely and clearly. Moreover, the steps towards the design of the algorithm are described and motivated very clearly. In addition, the numerical experiments are explained and detailed very well. All these make the paper a nice read.   From the technical side, a positive aspect of the paper is that it provides a complete picture of the introduced problem: the problem-dependent lower bound on the sample complexity, as well as an algorithm whose performance matches the lower bound (up to logarithmic factors). I read the proofs (without checking all the details), and believe they are flawless and correct.   Detailed comments.  1. As far as I understood, both lower and upper bounds follow straightforwardly from by-now-standard proof techniques from the previous analyses for linear bandits in the literature. Hence, despite the clear presentation of the paper and matching upper and lower bounds provided, given the very high standard of NeurIPS, I think the aforementioned contributions do not make the paper strong enough to pass the acceptance threshold. Therefore, I may ask the authors to highlight the main non-trivial steps in their proofs, which makes the proof challenging/or would call for new technical tools compared to existing works.     2. What is the effect of choosing d odd in Proposition 1?  3. Line 191: … Algorithm 1 matches the lower bound … --> the sample complexity of Algorithm 1 matches …   --- Updates after rebuttal --- I have gone through the authors' response. I appreciate their response to my comment. My impression has been improved, and I increase my score to 6. Still I think the described contribution does not strongly justfiy publication at NeurIPS.    Additional comment:  Line 233: where $i$ is ... ==> I think you meant "where $\Delta_i$ is ..." 