The paper proposes approximating a complex ML model with a less complicated one for easier interpretation and proposes a specific model, a  Bayesian non-parametric regression mixture model, to do this.  Recent related papers that also propose ways of interpreting complex ML algorithms are • Piotr Dabkowski and Yarin Gal. Real time image saliency for black box classifiers. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 6970–6979, 2017. • Springenberg, J., et al. "Striving for Simplicity: The All Convolutional Net." ICLR (workshop track). 2015. • Koh, Pang Wei, and Percy Liang. "Understanding Black-box Predictions via Influence Functions." International Conference on Machine Learning. 2017. Especially the idea of approximating a complex model with a less complex one is not new.  • Wu, Mike, et al. "Beyond sparsity: Tree regularization of deep models for interpretability." AAAI 2018 • Frosst, Nicholas, and Geoffrey Hinton. "Distilling a Neural Network Into a Soft Decision Tree." (2018). To my knowledge, the key innovation of this paper is using a   Bayesian non-parametric regression mixture model, which allows for better performance of the interpretable model, one of the main weaknesses of less complex approaches. The experiments used to evaluate the method were extensive and compared with current popular approaches. Regarding clarity of the paper, there are some improvements still possible. This is especially visible in the explanation of the proposed approach. The specific restrictions and modifications to the model seem very ad-hoc and could be motivated better. 3.3 Technical details should bbe written clearer and more concise . F.e. “where alpha can be drawn from Gamma(e,f), a Gamma conjugate prior with  hyperparameters e and f.” can be shortened to “where alpha can be drawn from Gamma(e,f)” Overall I think the paper proposes and evaluates a novel idea in a satisfactory way. Minor comments: Better labeling for figure 1  Edit after author rebuttal: I have updated my score to a strong 7. Ultimately I think the idea in the paper is novel and has potential. However, the presentation of this idea is unclear and vague enough to prevent an 8 for me. 