This paper aims at transferring information between a complex network and a simpler one by using the so called paraphrase. The idea is having a bridge to transfer knowledge (activations) even when the student (smaller network) has different number of features / feature dimensions compared to the 'teacher'  This paraphaser is trained in an unsupervised manner to map the existing feature maps / information into the desired shape via an autoencoder. Once trained, this information will be included in the loss function when training the student one via a translator (to adapt sizes). This translator is jointly trained with the student and aims at helping the student to "assimilate the information".   - I wonder about the variations with respect k. Seems like this parameter is crucial and fixing this to a value does not consistently provide the best results. What would be a good way to find this value in a different application? For instance table 1 and 3 show a large variation depending on this number.  - the text claims several times on the relevance of the factors extracted. How can this be verified? - Some tables contain a combination of FT+KD and this combination does not always result in better results. What is the take home message here? Why this numbers are not always included? - How does  this compare to FitNets and the idea of helping with intermediate layers? - If the dimensions are the set equal, (line 155) I guess there could be an ablation study showing the need for those translators, right? Would be nice to see those numbers. - In the experimental setup it is mentioned about l2 reg but then the algorithm seems to use l1. The way is written is very confusing.  - In summary, experiments are not really convincing    Other details: - My understanding is table represents a reimplementation of state of the art methods, right? Would be great if the comparison could be directly on published numbers for fair comparison and understanding the strength of the contribution.   - Tables contain redundant information. For instance Table 6 two bottom rows. As the space is limited, this could be omitted.  - Text suggest the proposal also works for object detection. However, numbers do not really support this (marginal increment of 0. 3 - The way results are presented seem to be overclaiming. For instance, Table 2, in my opinion, does not show "much better accuracy" but some improvement.     ------------------------------- I appreciate author's feedback for addressing my concerns. I have increased my score accordingly.