Summary: The paper presents a new efficient solver for the min-cost flow framework that solves the MOT problem. The efficiency was achieved by exploiting special graph structures in the MOT problem and saving unnecessary computations that a more general solver would perform. The authors showed the efficiency of the new solver by comparing the running time of the new method to that of the existing solvers on multiple tracking sequences.  Strengths: -- made good observations regarding where computations can be saved by carefully analyzing the flow formulation. -- provided an analytical insight regarding how the solution optimality is still maintained by the proposed method. Also, time and space complexity analyses were provided in the supplementary document.   Weaknesses: -- Only running time comparisons were provided in the experiment section. Thus, it is hard to know how well the method performs in terms of outputting accurate object trajectories. It would be worth reporting numbers on other tracking metrics such as MOTA, IDF1, and IDS as well. Also, are the solutions found by SSP, FollowMe, cs2, and the propose method (muSSP) always the same? If so, please highlight the fact that the final solutions obtained by the proposed method and the baselines were all the same in Table 1. For the results in Table 2, I believe that the solutions are not the same anymore because the formulation used in Table 2 does not allow us to find the global optimal solution. In this case, the comparison for tracking accuracy is required. -- The worst time complexity of the new solver is the same as that of SSP. However, the new solver does not seem to reach the worst case in the experiments that the authors reported. What would be the case that the new solver will struggle to find the optimal solution and thus become slow? -- The paper presentation could be improved such that it would be easier for the readers to follow.   Overall comment: The paper did not provide any analysis regarding the tracking accuracy of the proposed approach and the baseline approaches. The authors may have not included this in the paper because there is no difference in terms of tracking accuracy between the proposed method and the baselines. However, the authors could still compare it against other recent state-of-the-art approaches in order to show that the min-cost flow solvers achieve strong tracking performance and that it is thus worth investing on designing more efficient flow solvers for the MOT problem. Without seeing the tracking accuracy results, it is very hard for me to judge if the proposed method is an effective solution for MOT.  Final comment: Some of my concerns were addressed by the authors' rebuttal. However, my biggest concern still remains. The authors did not provide any results of the proposed approach in terms of the tracking accuracy in the paper and in the supplemental document. Thus, I cannot know whether or not the tracking results that the authors generated for Table 1 and 2 are reasonably good. Because of this reason, I will keep my original score (4) for this paper. I would like to encourage the authors to provide more detailed analysis including the tracking accuracy in the paper in order to make the paper stronger.