This paper extends results of [1] on continuous submodular minimization by adding isotonic constraints to the objective function. The authors first apply the discretization procedure in [1] followed by projection onto the isotonic constraint set (e.g. max-flow), then propose to incorporate isotonic constraints into a refined discretization. Empirical results show increased robustness to outliers on synthetic data.  Quality: The arguments appear to be correct, but the experimental evaluation is not very detailed. For example, only small synthetic examples with chain constraints are used, and the only comparison of naive vs improved discretization is Figure 3 (right) which does not verify the improved convergence rates. Moreover, the paper does not compare against previous work (separable convex isotonic regression [2]) where applicable.  Clarity: While the paper reads well at a sentence level, it is often unclear where the exposition ends and the contributions begin. I think the paper would be much clearer if all of Sections 4-5 followed the format of Section 3, with Proposition/Theorem statements followed by proofs.  Originality: While the combination of submodular minimization and isotonic constraints seems novel, this paper builds heavily on the results of [1]. The proofs of key propositions are less then 6 lines long, which suggests that the theory contribution is is a very straightforward extension.  Significance: I am unsure of the impact of these results, given other recent work on constrained continuous submodular and DR-submodular minimization [3]. This is especially relevant because the current paper considers special cases of separable functions and quadratic functions. The authors have not clearly motivated the case for continuous submodular + isotonic constraints, and what advantages it has over other formulations.  Question: How are isotonic constraints related to matroid constraints and/or down-closed convex constraints?  Typos: Line 116 "Review of optimization of submodular optimization" Line 126 "When a single variables" Line 257 "dicretization"   [1] Bach. Submodular functions: from discrete to continuous domains. Mathematical Programming, 2018. [2] Luss and Rosset. Generalized Isotonic Regression, 2014. [3] Staib and Jegelka. Robust Budget Allocation via Continuous Submodular Functions, 2017. ------------ UPDATE: While the author response addressed some of the reviewers' concerns  regarding clarity, I agree with Reviewers 1 and 2 that the paper should be rejected