The paper addresses the topic of efficient computation of high-confidence prediction sets in the context of regression in conformal prediction. The underlying regression model is the empirical-risk minimizer over linear functions, potentially with a convex regularization on the parameters. This research topic is quite significant, since computation of these prediction sets is notoriously expensive. The approach taken by the authors is interesting and promising, however, the paper lacks at several points.  For one, the paper is rather hard to read. Sections 1-2 are well written and give an easy introduction to the topic. From section 3 on (and especially in section 4), however, the flow is broken; the paper digresses towards side remarks and fails to concisely explain its approach. The main algorithm for computation of the prediction sets is never fully stated. At times, notation is unclear (such as using G both for gradient and duality gap, or using \times as a multiplication operation in (20)).  Second, it is hard to separate the contribution of this paper from prior work, especially the work on Ridge Regression and Lasso Regression mentioned in the paper ([18] and [14] in the references, respectively). While apparently the warm-start approximate solutions are novel work in this direction, it is not properly explained how this compares to the homotopy approach described especially in [14]. This problem gets even more pronounced when in the experimental section, the proposed method is not properly compared against those methods. For the Ridge Regression, Fig 1 is supposed to give a comparison; however, the figure is very hard to understand, operates on different scales and axes and also gives no implication wrt the computation timing - which is supposed to be the main advantage of the novel method. For the Lasso, a comparison to [14] is completely missing from the experimental section, which arguably should be the closest related work to this paper. (although a comparison to oracle & split methods is provided)  A third (minor) shortcoming of this paper is that there are many typos and questionable style formats (almost every paragraph, e.g. very regularly using singular when plural would be appropriate; sometimes headings end with a dot, sometimes not; Statements/Lemmas are differently numbered in the appendix than in the main text)  All in all, while the research topic and contributions look promising, the paper doesn't feel mature enough for publication, and it is unclear how it will actually compare empirically against state-of-the-art methods.