Summary: Non-convex optimization has gotten a lot of attention these days, and this paper proposes a new technique in that field, called SPIDER (Stochastic Path-Integrated Differential EstimatoR) mainly to reduce the gradient computation. The paper particularly employ SPIDER in two scenarios: 1) SPIDER-SFO for first-order stationary point and 2) SPIDER-SSO for the second-order. It resulted in a very light gradient computation cost (record-breaking according to authors). Authors provide various theoretical analyses on the algorithms.  Quality: The technical aspects of the paper looks solid with massive introduction and related work, followed by theoretical analyses. I particularly enjoyed reading Section 2. where the main results were sketched in a very high-level. It certainly provided a good overview for this paper.   One thing concerns me is lack of experiments in the paper, which is already mentioned in the Future Directions section; however, I do think the lack of empirical analysis weakens paper a lot. I hope to see at least some of them in the paper.  Clarity: Overall, the paper was quite clear to follow. Author may revise a bit of the introduction section because it was quite overwhelming to see this gigantic section on the first read without any subsections and more organized formatting. Sometimes it’s better to use bullet points and tables to make a side-by-side comparisons and emphasize the key points.  Minor point: How about we restructure 4.2 as a dedicated section similar to SFO? or change the Section 4 to state it includes both SFO and SSO?  Originality: The paper contains a solid novel contributions. As authors claimed in related work section, especially in the middle part of the page 3, SPIDER differs from other approaches and it’s quite extensively discussed, which resulted in a solid speed up for computing gradients.  Significance: Although paper’s contribution is potentially significant, it was not empirically proven, and thus weakens the value of the paper. It is because often times theoretical bounds does not necessarily guarantee improvements in the real examples.  Conclusion: I have a mixed feeling on this paper. Even though the paper showed solid contents on its theoretical supports, I feel the lack of empirical support makes me hesitate to recommend this paper. I’m happy to revise my review based on what authors/ and other reviewers comment.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Post rebuttal comment: I thank authors for the experimental supports and filling the gap of the proof. I think the paper is in a good shape. Thank you!