The paper presents a reinforcement learning approach that has both gradient-based and gradient-free policy search nature. My understanding of the proposed algorithm is that it alternates between two stages. In the first stage, an elite policy is trained using typical RL algorithms such as PPO or A2C. Then during the second stage, a set of perturbed policies is used to generate the rollouts and update the elite policy, again with PPO or A2C. The rollouts collected during the second stage are used to estimate the performance of the perturbed policies and the best one is picked as the elite model in the next iteration. They demonstrated improved performance in playing atari games and limited improvements on continuous control problems.   I think the interesting part of the proposed method is that samples from a set of perturbed policies are used not only to compute the policy gradient, but also to estimate the individual performances for a possible jump in the parameter space. However, I think the experiment part needs notable improvements, as discussed in the itemized comments below.  1. A more detailed ablation study would be greatly appreciated. For example, is the algorithm sensitive to the crossover and mutation probability? Is the elite stage (first stage) necessary at all? What if we don’t select the new elite model from the population in stage two? These would help understand which components contributes the most to the performance boost. 2. The random multi policy baseline is not very clear to me. Does it mean randomly picking an elite policy during the GA+elite phase, or entirely randomize the population at every iteration instead of using mutation and crossover? 3. What does PPO_8 mean? Is it training 8 separate policies, or one policies with 8 threads to generate rollouts? 4. How many random seeds were used for the results in figure 4? 5. Also, it would be interesting to see a comparison/discussion with other forms of policy perturbations such as gaussian noise other than binary perturbation.  In general, the paper presents an interesting idea and show good improvement on playing atari games and limited improvement on continuous control problems. Some clarifications about the method and experiments are needed as discussed above and it would benefit from more experiments.   ------ I have modified the score after reading the authors' response. The ablation study helps demonstrate the strength of the proposed method. However, using single random seed for the experiments in Figure 4 is not well justified and should be explicitly stated to avoid confusion. 