Reasons for score: ---------------------- Lack of clarity regarding some of the main theoretical and empirical results (see detailed comments and improvements for details). Assuming the authors address these points of clarification, my main concern is that the analyses that the authors present does not provide a practical method that practitioners can use: if I am understanding correctly, the conclusion is regularization might somewhat reduce the effects of confounding. But the authors do not provide a way to do sensitivity analysis to check how much confounding still exists or what to do about it; or what assumptions are required for their method to completely identify the causal estimands.   Detailed comments:  ------------------ Regarding the theory:   - Some of my confusion arises from the fact that I do not fully understand what the authors mean by a "mixing matrix" and \ell "sources". I assumed that it is a random matrix based on their experimental setup where is drawn from a gaussian distribution. Clarification regarding those two terms would be helpful.  - The authors outline a specific generative model under which the confounded case would coincide with the overfitting/finite sample OLS case. In that case, the unobserved common cause (Z) is drawn from a random distribution with mean 0, the effect that Z has on Y (c) is also drawn from a random distribution with mean 0, the effect that the common cause has on X (the mixing matrix) is also drawn from a random distribution with mean 0 and finally, the causal effect under investigation is also drawn from a random distribution. If I am not mistaken, this scenario describes a degenerate case where there is no confounding (and maybe less importantly the causal effect is assumed to be 0). In that case there is no need for confounding adjustment in the asymptotic regime because the expected value of Zc = 0 as n --> \infty. Can the authors clarify how this summary is a mischaracterization of their work?   - Assuming that I am incorrect about the previous point, and confounding can occur in this setting. I do not believe that Theorem 1 implies identification of the causal estimands (without additional strong assumptions). Specifically, for regularization to produce asymptotically consistent estimates of a in the non-causal regularization case, the matrix X has to obey certain properties (roughly speaking, some version of the irrepresentability condition; more detailed discussion can be found in the reference in Lasso-type recovery of sparse representations by Meinshausen and Yu, 2009). The authors do not make any restrictions about the X vector which is necessary to ensure that a converges to something meaningful.    - There is a bit of a discordance across some of the theoretical results: for the majority of the paper (theorem 1 and the experimental results), the authors focus on recovering a in the asymptotic regime as their main goal. In section 5, however, they switch gears to talk about the finite sample efficiency of the Y estimate. This switch is a bit confusing, since one does not imply the other: an asymptotically consistent estimate of a does not imply an efficient estimate of Y in finite samples. Would the authors be able to clarify what is the intended connection here?   - One paradoxical finding that the authors arrive at is that when X=Z, the "deconfounding" task becomes harder. This is a bit surprizing since this discribes the case where there is no hidden confounding (all the unobserved confounders are observed if X is observed). Can the authors comment on that? Am I misunderstanding seomthing here?  - This might be inconsequential for the authors' findings, but I believe the statement on line 139 about the distribution unregularized regression vector is not accurate in the general case. This is a case of omitted variable bias, which is known to be asymptotically biased. E.g., see Greene chapter 8 for a detailed discussion of the limiting distribution in omitted variable case.    Regarding the results:   - To check my understanding of the results presented in figure 2, does the second plot imply that ridge regression with normal xvalidation is roughly the same as no regularization?  