Capsule networks are built to preserve variations in the data (equivariance), but they are not guaranteed to necessarily achieve this goal. This paper uses the concepts from the group convolution works to force the pose vectors and the activations to have equivariance and invariance, respectively. They establish several results guaranteeing such properties for the proposed variation of the capsule networks. A toy experiment is conducted to confirm the findings.  Strengths: 1. Formalization of invariance and equivariance in capsule networks. The paper explicitly enforces the invariance for the activations and equivariance for the poses. I consider this part valuable, because it is written in clear mathematical language, compared to the original capsule network papers.  2. Interpreting the resulting group capsule network as a sparse tree representation of group equivariant network. This part argues why the idea of exactly equivariant capsule network might be useful. The authors answer is that it provides a sparse tree representation of a counterpart equivariant network.  This result is also insightful.  Weaknesses: 1. The key question is “Do we need to make capsule networks explicitly equivariant?” My answer is “most likely no”. Because the idea of capsule networks is not to push for a specific and restricted type of equivariance. It allows freedom in the pose vector and choses the routing algorithm such that the data speak for itself and the pose matrices automatically capture the “right” variances in the lower level features.  2. Continuing the previous comment, aren’t we unnecessarily restricting the capsule networks? Unfortunately, in the experiments the group CapNet is deeper than the simple CapNet and the authors do not provide the number of parameters in the group CapNet. So, we cannot judge how much enforcing the equivariance strictly is beneficial. Because the original CapNet does capture some variations in the data. 3. Unfortunately, the authors omit a key baseline in the experiments: the group-CNN. Not only it is not clear how much extra accuracy is due to CapNets, but also, they do not validate their argument in Section 4.  I certainly enjoyed reading this paper, mainly because of the insights and rigor that it brings to the capsule networks idea. Unfortunately, there are doubts about about necessity of this idea and the experiments do not provide any solid evidence either.  ======================== After reading the authors' rebuttal:  I still do not understand why the proposed model is not directly comparable to the original G-CNN.   In the rebuttal, the authors talk about keeping interpretability. But the current version of the paper does not have any experimental validation of these claims.  As I mentioned in the original review, I like this paper, but I think it is not ready for publication at the current shape.