Originality： medium.  This paper mainly combines another MOO algorithm and MOO-MTL, and improves the results from last year NIPS paper Multi-objective MTL. The technical contribution for MOO and MTL is limited since this paper just borrow the MOO optimization method directly from reference [24] and reference [29]. Nevertheless, I think this paper has a potential impact in MTL community since I do not find any previous paper achieves similar effects, which could guide people get different high-quality MTL results without random trails.  Quality: below the average The quality of the paper is below the bar. Some important part is missing and lack of deep analysis.   1. The motivation is not clear. The author fails to explain why multi-objective MTL can only find concentrated solutions. The only explanation of this is in Fig 2, which is very empirical. For Fig.2, the author may consider explain it more in paper instead of in the supplementary materials (what is x-axis and y-axis). Also, for the linear scaling, why the solutions with different weight are also concentrated? The author only refers Boyd's optimization book. Maybe the author should consider adding the chapter and pages or give the explanation.  2. How to choose preference vector u? The author mentioned this a little in algorithm and supplementary materials but not enough. My concern is the sensitivity of the preference vector. What is the relationship between vector u and final distribution of the MTL solutions? Also, if we have many tasks instead of two or three, how to choose the vector u?  3. The experiment is performed on only two tasks and three tasks. What is the algorithm complexity respect to the number of the task? The evenly distributed vector u is large in many tasks scenario and there is no empirical and theoretical support that this method will work in many tasks case.  Clarity: below the average  The writing has a lot to improve.   1. For equation 3, the author only gives the reference, but this is a very important part of the paper and should be introduced with more details. the author should at least add one or two sentences to explain the intuition to make the logic flow more clear.  2. For equation 5-7, the author should make the optimized variable clear. For every objective equation, the author should add the subscript below the max and min notation. Also, eq 16 does not have the subscript for max.  3. Check the subscript more carefully. For example, In Eq 15, I guess the LHS should not have the subscript i? Similar situation is in Eq 18.  Significance: above the average The results and the improvement over MOO-MTL are significant and may have an important impact especially in the MTL community. The main reason I reduce the significance to above the average is that the writing is not clear and the logic flow is not rigorous. The supplementary materials do not have theoretical support and the empirical support is not strong enough to convince me the method is robust and applicable in more complicated cases. 