This paper proposes a multisource domain adversarial network (MDAN) for unsupervised multi-source domain adaptation problem and claims the following contributions: 1) provides generalization bounds and efficient algorithms for both the classification and regression settings. Moreover, the authors empirically demonstrate that MDAN achieves superior performance over other state of the art approaches on multiple real-world datasets.  Strong points: - This paper tackles a timely problem of unsupervised multi-source domain adaptation, and proposes an theoretically sound and elegant approach called MDAN to address it. MDAN combines feature extraction, domain classification, and task learning in one training process.Two versions of MDAN are presented - Hard version and Soft version - corresponding to the worst-case and average-case generalization bounds. The authors use H-divergence idea to provide bounds for regression problems- which is new. - The authors have conducted extensive experiments to showcase the performance of MDAN. The authors carefully explain the baselines, and analyze the results obtained. In the supplementary materials the authors provide pseudocode/algorithm, proofs, model architectures, and present Wilcoxon test results to showcase the statistical significance of the results. - This paper is well written and easy to read. Most of the recent works on the topic are discussed.  Weak points: - There are a lot of recent works on unsupervised domain adaptation and authors compare their works to many relevant ones. However, some works such as Variational FAIR [1] which use a generative approach can have better results than DANN, and they are not cited or compared against. It is highly suggested that the authors either compare or discuss them.  [1] Louizos, Christos, Kevin Swersky, Yujia Li, Max Welling, and Richard Zemel. "The variational fair autoencoder." ICLR (2016). - The generalization bounds appear as extensions of the single source-target pairs. - (minor) Couple of typos in the draft.  Overall, I liked this paper as it provides good theoretical and empirical results on an important problem. 