######### The rebuttal clarifies some of the technical issues. In particular I find the clarification about the network performance to be helpful. I’ve increased my score from 5 to 6.  However, the issue of temporal correlations in the calcium traces is not addressed in the rebuttal. I still wonder how much the residual correlation in the calcium input has affected the results here. In particular, I am still worried that the model is in fact capturing at least part of the temporal dynamics in the calcium measurement, not the actual spiking responses.  #########  The manuscript describes a models based on deep network architecture to fit the inferred spiking activity of mouse V1 neurons recorded using 2p calcium imaging.  The authors fit the proposed model to the actual neural responses from mice and evaluate the model performance for various scenarios. They also studied whether the model could transfer between domains, based on artificial noise stimuli and natural images.  I like the general approach the authors are taken. The model architecture the authors have put together (including Core+Readout+Shifter+Modulator) seems to be novel and reasonable. And, not too many previous models have been able to deal with the video data. My main concerns with this manuscript are about what one actually learns when applying this sophisticated model to the real data. Overall, I consider this is a decent method paper, but at the same time, the applications to the real neural data need to be further developed to make it a stronger submission.   In particular-  * The model performance shown in Fig2 is not particularly impressive. Fig2b is a bit misleading, because as stated in the text, the oracle model represents an upper bound when only stimulus is consider (but not the behavioral state). I am a bit puzzled about the relatively low performance of this model. Is it because of the high noise/low temporal resolution in the calcium imaging data or with the model itself (could be missing a key component)?  * The authors demonstrate that tuning curves can be inferred from this model. However, how is this new approach advantageous over to standard GLM approach in this regard. Are there additional insights could be revealed using this more sophisticated approach?  * In the last Result section, it is shown that feature representation based on natural movie transfer to noise stimuli, while the converse is not sure. While it is certainly re-assuring to see this, it is also what one would naturally expect. There is a large theoretical and experimental literature on studying how the neural representation adapt to the statistical structure of the environment, in particular the structure of the natural images Thus, I am still unsure what this reveals.   * How did the authors make sure that the temporal correlations in the calcium traces have been removed? It seems important to get rid of the the correlation induced by the calcium dynamics here. If there is “residual” temporal correlation in the deconvolve “spiking” activity, it might affect the fitting of the model. It is possible that this might be part of the reason why the model performance is not particularly good. Alternatively, it could be that the model is in fact capturing the temporal dynamics in the calcium measurement, not the actual spiking responses.  