This paper proposes a Bayesian model for how neural circuits decide whether observed stimulus features arose from a common stimulus (i.e., under a cue integration model) or whether observations arose from unrelated stimuli (under a cue segregation model). The idea is that a neural circuit can perform model selection by computing Bayes factors, which favour an integration model when the disparity between cues is small. The computation of Bayes factors is implemented by two populations of neurons: a population of "congruent" neurons and a population of "opposite" neurons. Such populations have been observed experimentally, and the model provides a parsimonious explanation of the experimental data.   The main contribution of the paper is a derivation of the Bayes factor for a population of Poisson-spiking neurons using a number of analytically convenient assumptions and approximations, and a computational model illustrating how a component of the Bayes factor can be implemented in neural networks. The modelling work is interesting and to a high standard, and I believe provides novel insight (both analytic and geometric) into the conditions under which integration vs segregation is favoured. The authors suggest that their work provides the first rigorous formulation of how the opposite neurons could play a central role in the encoding of Bayes factors.   One drawback of the work, as the authors acknowledge, is that they only provide a network model that calculates one component of the Bayes factor, and it is unclear how the remaining components (the Occam factors) could be calculated by the network. I found that this point was not sufficiently addressed until the final sentence of the discussion. This is at odds with the abstract, which seems to imply that the authors had a complete implementation. The authors could be more transparent about this. Also, at times the writing was rather unclear, occasionally with words seemingly mistakenly omitted (e.g. on line 35); the paper could benefit from further proof reading. 