This paper proposes a generalized version of SO(3)-equivariant architectures including Spherical CNN. By utilizing the algebraic properties of Fourier transform and the tools in non-commutative harmonic analysis, the authors are able to construct (and prove) a most generalized version of SO(3)-equivariant architecture. Specifically, it only requires that, when an input image is rotated, each fragment (i.e., the output, Fourier coefficient vectors) of each layer will be multiplied by a Wigner-D matrix. To include non-linearities without performing inverse Fourier transform, the authors propose to use Clebsch-Gordon transformation. The experiments show that the proposed CG-Net can outperform Spherical CNN in several tasks.  Strength: - The paper proposes a generalized version of Spherical CNN. Plus, the paper proves that this architecture is the most generalized version of SO(3)-equivariant architecture. - A principled treatment on SO(3)-equivarient operations by looking into the algebraic properties of them. As a result, almost all operations in CG-Net are performed in Fourier space. - CG-Net works well even without traditional non-linearity activation functions like ReLU.  Weakness: - The improvement compared to Spherical CNN seems incremental. - The paper claims that it is costly to compute forward and backward Fourier transform in Spherical CNN. However, it does not compare the runtime of Spherical CNN and CG-Net.  - The experiment seems unfair as the number of parameters in CG-Net is almost 5 times the number in Spherical CNN. - The paper does not include an ablation study on the hyperparameter tau, which is the maximal number of fragments for each spherical harmonic function index l in each layer (to avoid exponential growth in number of fragments) - It would be better if the authors include a visualization to provide a graphical explanation of the non-linearity in CG-transform.  ---------------------- Authors' rebuttal only paritally addresses my concerns. I will keep the original rating