Originality: while somewhat similar to [Adler et al 2018], which they compare against, this submission does seem to make novel contributions both in their theoretical framing of the problem and in their practical solution, which feel like solid improvements.  Quality: the submission seems technically sound, and the authors seem pretty honest about both strengths and weaknesses. I appreciated the error analyses and the demonstration on toy data (Figure 2), which shows that the method isn't perfect but still captures something important. I do have a few suggestions and points of criticism which I will list below.  Clarity: the paper is mostly well-written and well-organized, though I have a few suggestions for improvements here too.  Significance: So, I have mixed feelings here. I do feel like this paper provides one of the first mostly-fleshed-out solutions to an extremely important problem, and that the method it provides should work on datasets which are simple enough. However, I worry that on the majority of real-world datasets (e.g. very high-dimensional tabular data or big images), the autoencoder training step is just not going to work -- discriminative models are a lot easier to train than generative ones. In that case, something like TCAV [https://arxiv.org/pdf/1711.11279.pdf] might be a lot more useful for auditing. So I think that limits the significance of this work. But it still could be an important building block, and it does provide quality measures that ensure it doesn't "fail silently."  ---  Updates based on author feedback and reviewer discussion:  Overall, I was happy with the author feedback and think the rewrites/reorganizations which were planned will strengthen the paper. Accordingly, I am strengthening my score.  I do want to echo one of R2's points, though, which is that -- although this is a "local" explanation method -- the disentanglement objective is in some sense "global." While I don't think this makes your method equivalent to demographic (dis)parity-based approaches (since one can have demographic parity but still have significant indirect influence by sensitive attributes that happens to average out to zero), it might be worth considering whether there is any notion of "local" disentanglement you could use instead. However, that's pretty difficult, and overall I feel this paper will help advance the field and enhance our ability to address important problems.