I’d like start by saying that I enjoyed reading this manuscript. I found that this submission contains several interesting ideas.   The theoretical proposal about the function of gain modulation seems to be novelty, although it heavily relies on a specific model that has been proposed previously (Rabinowitz, et al., 2015).  The writing is generally clear and the structure of the paper is well organized.   My major concern is that based on the current version, it is unclear how robust and general these results are (detailed below). While the set of results presented are interesting, they are rather limited in scope. I feel it is a bit difficult to judge the significance of the contributions.   -  the paper only considered a binary classification task. Would the results generalize to other tasks such as estimation tasks (which is widely used in psychophysics and neurophysiology, and also ecologically important)?  - the model assumes a one-dimensional shared modulator. Realistically the shared modulation of neural responses in the brain might be multi-dimensional. In fact, the results in [Rabinowitz, et al., 2015] suggest more than 1 modulator. Could the model be generalized to deal with multiple modulators?  - the current results critically rely on the assumption of pure multiplicative gain. However, recent experimental results [ e.g., Lin et al., (2015), Aranda-Romero et al.. (2016)] suggest that there is also an additive component in the fluctuation of V1 neurons. Is the proposed model flexible enough to deal with that?    -  there are multiple hyper-parameters in the model, such as proportion of activity cells and proportion of informative neurons. Are the results presented in Fig 3 robust to the choice of these parameters?    Another main concern I have is- what concrete experimental predictions does this model provide in order to validate/falsify it?   Also, is it possible to incorporate the prior into the framework?       Minor points:   line 167-168: there is the claim about 90% accuracy. It is a bit mysterious to me where this number comes from. Presumably the performance of the decoders would depend on other parameters such as the number of neurons. It seems premature and a bit misleading to claim RG decoder doesn’t achieve a behavioral level of performance.   Fig 3B is a bit confusing. Would it be helpful to leave some gap between the different blocks?    Reference:  Arandia-Romero, Iñigo, et al. "Multiplicative and additive modulation of neuronal tuning with population activity affects encoded information." Neuron 89.6 (2016): 1305-1316.  Lin, I-Chun, et al. "The nature of shared cortical variability." Neuron 87.3 (2015): 644-656.  Rabinowitz, Neil C., et al. "Attention stabilizes the shared gain of V4 populations." Elife 4 (2015): e08998.   *************after the rebuttal  I appreciate the authors' response. The proposed discussion on the role of additive noise would make the paper stronger. It would also be useful to have an explicitly discussion about the different tasks( e.g. estimations task) and the how the prior information would fit into the current framework. This would make it a more balance paper with more careful treatment of the potential pitfalls.  I have increased score from 6 to 7 to reflect these points.