This paper contributes a number of theoretical results regarding policy regret (previously introduced in Arora et al. 2012), and introduces and analyzes a new equilibrium concept called policy equilibrium. Specifically, the authors investigate the relationship between external regret and policy regret, and demonstrate that sublinear regret in one does not imply sublinear regret in the other. Next, the authors introduce the concept of a policy equilibrium, and demonstrate that coarse correlated equilibria are a subset of policy equilibria. The paper is purely theoretical and does not present any experimental results.  The contributions of this paper seem to me to be significant and surprising. In particular, the fact that low external regret does not imply low policy regret, and vice versa, but that nevertheless coarse correlated equilibria are a subset of policy equilibria is an interesting result. The theoretical analysis is also highly non-trivial and seems to me to merit publication.  The paper is well-written. As someone who is not an expert in bandit algorithms, I was able to follow both the intuition and the mathematics reasonably well, even though the paper is highly theoretical. I had some trouble around the definition of a stable no-regret algorithm, and in section 4.1. The paper would benefit from more intuition in those sections.  One small suggestion I have is that since the authors are only minimizing policy regret for a fixed memory length m, it seems to me that the term for policy regret P(T,a) should instead be something like P_m(T,a) or P^m(T,a).  Also, I think the paper would benefit from a greater discussion of the significance and applications of this work. The authors make a convincing argument that when dealing with adaptive adversaries, policy regret seems more appropriate than external regret. But external regret minimization is used in all sorts of practical applications, including some with adaptive adversaries. Are there concrete situations where policy regret minimization and policy equilibria would be more appropriate and lead to better results (for some definition of "better")?