Summary: The system attacks the problem of generating images that conform to a given source image driven by motion estimated from a given video. To that end, the system estimates sparse transformations between in terms of corresponding key points and, different from [21], the local linear deformations around those key points. These transformations are composed from transformations with respect to a common reference configuration. The sparse transformations are converted with a CNN into dense motion and occlusion masks. Finally, the motion and occlusion are combined by another neural network with the input image to create the final output.  Positive: The paper introduces the novel idea of first order motion and occlusion modeling to unsupervised image animation. Apart from the basic training idea, which is an extension of the equivariance constraints, the authors need to simplify the transformations learned by the networks by performing a number of well chosen geometric tricks (e.g. line 164, 184) or mapping variations (e.g. using transformations D_t<-D_1 instead of D_t<-S). The mathematics of the first order motion are well described, and the supplementary material covers well the missing details in the manuscript. The authors show good performance in three very different applications (faces, full bodies, robots), where they clearly outperform state-of-the-art  Negative: My main complain about the paper is that understanding some aspects from it is hard, and could use a description of the intuitions behind them. For example: - what is the intuition between the difference of gaussians used in the heatmap H_k (section 2.3 supp mat)? - How do the reference configurations R look like? Is there any intuition behind those configurations? Could they be visualized (in supp mat obviously)? - Related to the equivariance constraint, could it be said that it encourages the key points to segment the object so that it deforms as close as possible to the thin plate splines model? This holds also to the affine model around the joints, which should conform to the thin plate splines model, right? A secondary concern is the reproducibility of the system. Its large number of components would make implementing it from scratch very hard. I think the value of the paper would increase if the authors release the source code.   I found a couple of typos: - Forth->Fourth, line 42 - Latter -> later, line 95