The count-min (CM) sketch uses a set of hash functions to efficiently estimate frequencies of large item sets.  The primary contribution of this paper is to establish a clever and interesting connection between the CM frequency estimates, and the posterior of a Bayesian nonparametric prior.  The biggest practical advantage of this conceptual link is to provide uncertainty estimates for the sketched counts (due to hash collisions, they are approximate).  STRENGTHS: TECHNICAL CONTRIBUTIONS Some interesting technical work (which looks correct, and exploits independence properties of underlying Poisson processes) is needed to compute the posterior on true frequencies given a Dirichlet process (DP) prior and sketch-based likelihood.  An extension to the stable beta-Bernoulli process allows sketching of multi-token documents and power-law priors, and hyperparameters may be estimated via empirical Bayes.  For natural hyperparameters, the mode of the posterior corresponds to the classic CM-sketch estimate, while the mean or median are smaller (to account for the likely fact that some hashed counts are collisions) and often more accurate.  Writing is dense but generally clear, with some important technical details supported by appendices.  WEAKNESSES:  EXPERIMENTS There are several experiments in the main paper, and more in plots in the appendices.  While the simplest of these help to build intuition, in general they are a bit disorganized and hard to follow, and there is a shortage of explanation and discussion.  More work is needed to guide the reader through these plots and draw out important insights (the paper ends abruptly with no conclusion).  It was disappointing that almost all experiments use simple synthetic datasets, generated from the assumed DP (or beta-Bernoulli) priors.  The final figure in the appendix uses real text data, but the experiment is only described by 3 high-level sentences that make some details unclear (e.g., it seems like the DP model was used, but the beta-Bernoulli would be more appropriate for the power law statistics of text documents).  The final figure suggests that the mean estimator is less effective on this real data than it was on some synthetic data, but the median estimator still seems to provide a solid improvement on the CM baseline.  I would have rated this paper as a strong accept if it had a more solid set of experiments, well integrated and discussed in the main text.  FEEDBACK:  Thank you for the clear and helpful author feedback.  The manuscript would be much better with an improved presentation and discussion of the experiments, please do make the suggested changes in future revisions. 