This work addresses the task of designing experiments on bipartite graphs in the presence of SUTVA violation. Specifically, the authors propose an extension to the graph cluster randomization framework to the bipartite setting by casting the problem as correlation clustering. Propositions are provided that tie the variance of the causal estimate to the quality of the discovered solution. A heuristic is provided to solve the correlation clustering problem. Experiments are provided comparing the proposed method to balanced partitioning and random assignment which show the proposed method performing favorably.   Overall, I think this is a nice, simple, solution to a problem that occurs a fair amount for practitioners. The paper is clearly written and motivated. The connection to correlation clustering is sensible and provides a decent interpretation of the results. I have two  is that there are details missing from the experiment section that would improve reproducibility. Specifically the authors do not state how the estimation is carried out. It would be nice to see comparisons to both the estimator of Eckles, et al. (2017) and Gui, et al. (2015).   A few comments / questions: 1. In the introduction the connection to optimal experimental design is alluded to. Having a more precise connection made within the paper would be both interesting and helpful. 2. It is not clear what the quality of the approximation is for the heuristic presented. It would be nice to see a discussion of this and the implications for the variance of the estimator.  3. What is the space complexity of the proposed heuristic?  4. Why are other correlation clustering heuristics not compared against in the experiment section?  5. There are no results given for the variance of the estimators / designs. Given that this is often a critical component of analysis for practitioners it would be great to estimates (and ideally coverage) for each of the shown methods, as well as a comparison that shows empirically the relationship between approximation quality of the correlation clustering heuristic and the resulting variance.