This paper has provided global convergence analyses, with convergence rates, of stochastic EM-algorithms which include incremental (iEM) and variance reduced (sEM-VR) versions of EM-algorithms. Especially, the paper has given a convergence rate of $O(n/\epsilon)$ for iEM by applying the theory developed by Miral(2015) and a convergence rate of $O(n^{2/3}/\epsilon)$ for sEM-VR by showing sEM-VR is a special case of stochastic scaled-gradient methods. In addition, a new variance reduced EM-algorithm named fiEM based on SAGA has been proposed with its convergence analysis as well as sEM-VR. Finally, the superiority of variance reduced variants (sEM-VR and fiEM) has been shown via numerical experiments.  Clarity: The paper is clear and well written.  Quality: The work is of good quality and is technically sound.  Originality: Although proof techniques are not so novel from the optimization literature, this type of the convergence result of stochastic EM-algorithm is first in this context except for a few studies. The following paper is missing, which also provided non-asymptotic convergence analysis of stochastic EM-algorithms as a special case of their results. I want the author to discuss the relationship with this study. - B. Karimi, B. Miasojedow, E. Moulines, and H. Wai. Non-asymptotic Analysis of Biased Stochastic Approximation Scheme. COLT, 2019.   Significance: A convergence rate of iEM is not surprising; indeed, it corresponds to that of vanilla gradient descent. However, a convergence rate of variance reduced variants is interesting because the dependency on $n$ (the number of examples) is much improved by the variance reduction. Thus, I think this paper makes a certain technical contribution to the machine learning community. A minor concern is a mismatch between this convergence rate and empirical convergence rate. Concretely, an empirical convergence rate of sEM-VR and fiEM seems linear as shown in Fig. 1.  ----- I have read the authors' response which well addressed my question, so I raise the score to 7