Originality   As far as I can tell, the authors' claim that this is the first such work is correct. Previous work has been done is describing heuristics or empirical understandings of such behaviour, but the work is nonetheless original in proving a theoretical basis for this.   Quality   The authors' exposition of the problem and the solution is well thought out and expertly laid out in a logical and convincing form. However, the excellent technical contribution is somewhat lacking in discussion, particularly given the authors aim to bridge the gap between theory and practice ; such claims as "This new consequence may serve an important guide for practical considerations" warrant a standalone discussion section which is not provided. Further, the results predicted in theory could have been compared to empirical experiments to show tightness in practice, and phase transitions could be shown in experiments as a demonstration.  Clarity  The work is well written and the notations are easily understood. There are a moderate number of typographical errors, these are listed at the end of this review.   Significance  The authors correctly identify that metric dimensionality reduction is a crucial part of most modern machine learning pipelines. Better theoretical understanding of the average case performance is a highly significant contribution to a vast array of applications. Further, the authors' framework for collapsing existing distortion measures to just two generalized forms will facilitate further theoretical analysis of this ensemble of measures.   Detailed comments :  Intro Laundry list of use cases : maybe better separating citations by subfield so these are more useful to the reader Background Page 3, reference to Hriser (998a) should be (1998a) Energy+REM definition should be display math as it takes up a whole line anyway  Section 2 "in what follows we will omit pi from the notation" - there is an extra space after the paranthesis. Really, this should be a separate sentence and not a paranthesis.  Section 3 Footnote citation should be citep not citet  Section 4 JL citation should be citep not citet  Missing space after comma at Rademacher entries matrix   -------------------------------- Update after author response -------------------------------- The authors' rebuttal was succinct and clear and provided ample empirical results supporting the theory presented in the original submission. These empirical results significantly strengthen the manuscript and I argue for acceptance as a result.