UPDATE: "We are aware of these papers and we feel they are less complete works with respect to ours": I do not think I have asked the authors to review these works. Their degree of completeness has been judged already by the venues they have been published at. What I am talking about is a comparison to the very related work, and the fact that you think your paper is superior to these does not, in my opinion, answer the question to the missing comparisons.   - The impact of the paper is quite limited. Also, novelty is well beyond the NIPS level.   - The linear loss is important, but it rather limits the impact. Most of the practical fairness problems in the literature are not based on linear classifier solutions.   - An important and related missing reference is: "Inherent trade-offs in the fair determination of risk scores".  - L53: "[2, 15–17] are examples of these methods but 54 no consistency property nor comparison with state-of-the-art proposal are provided." Some of these papers, especially 'On fairness and calibration', are providing rigorous assessment and are being very verbose and convincing in their analysis (and that includes the theoretical one) and on the impossibility of fully satisfying accuracy, fairness and calibration constraints without. My opinion is that this (and it is not the only place in the paper with this theme) claiming that the others have not done the aforementioned issues before is a bit unprofounded.   - Just to put them together, the aforementioned paper "Inherent trade-offs in the fair determination of risk scores" along with ref. [15], "On fairness and calibration, NIPS 2017", are suggestions for future joint investigation and its reflection on the current version of the paper.   - Writing of the paper and the flow of the ideas therein have a room for improvement. There are also some typos, e.g.: L18: "which does not unfair use additional sensitive information"  - Beginning a part of a statement with this reference style without a word [2, 15-17] (L53) is not correct.  