EDIT: After reading the author's rebuttal, I changed my assessment of the paper to an accept.  The paper is well written and it does a good job at explaining the intuition behind the proposed algorithm. I appreciated the inclusion of the small dimensional toy example as it illustrates in a simple and clear manner the adaptability property of the algorithm.  My main concern with the proposed algorithm is that, in my opinion, it is most suitable for small dimensional problems only. The provided examples further justify my impression given that posterior distribution to sample from is of reduced dimension. Consequently, I'm having a hard time justifying the interest of the ML community with respect to the proposed sampling algorithm considering its perceived limited scope.  The authors acknoweledge that Sequential Monte Carlo algorithms partly served as an inspiration for the proposed algorithm, however there is no comparison of the proposed algorithm with SMC algorithms. I feel that such a comparison is warranted given that both approaches use a set of points to construct an empirical estimate of the target distribution. I am curious, and I presume that I'm not the only one, as to how the proposed algorithm stacks up to SMC algorithms in a high dimensional setting.  I feel that not enough attention is devoted to the case when we restrict ourselves to a diagonal covariance matrix for the proposal distribution. If one wants to apply the proposed algorithm in a high dimensional setting, then this is the only viable manner to do it. In such a scenario we cannot afford to store in memory the full covariance matrix for the proposal distribution. Furthermore, it would not at all be trivial to sample from the proposal distribution even when it is a gaussian distribution. It would be interesting to see and analyze how the generated samples manage to capture the covariance structure of the target distribution.  I will list in the following two small issues that I encountered when reading the paper. The first issue is that there are way too many citations, 62 for an 8 page article. Whenever there are multiple sources for an algorithm, please cite only the most representative one. The second issue is that the text in figures 1 and 2 is hardly visible when the article is printed, it would be really great to increase the size of the text.