Anomaly detection defines a very important task in data analysis, i.e., outliers often have high semantic value, see anomalous tissue samples in histological slides that can indicate early states of cancer. Well implemented empirical studies can guide practitioners in empirical studies.  The finite sample bounds also provide a theoretical basis for the comparison of nearest neighbour methods for anomaly detection.  The theoretical findings are based on the assumption that the support of the normal distribution does not overlap with the outlier distribution. This assumption is often violated and I believe that Huber in his original contribution did not assume it. Often an anomaly distribution might overlap with the tail of the normal distribution. Such a situation should be discussed in the paper since it happens in practice and for these cases theory should provide guidance.   originality: The paper follows the line of research in anomaly detection and puts its findings in relation to the literature. The empirical study has moderate originality since the techniques have been used elsewhere in the literature.  The finite sample bounds are interesting and look original to me.  quality: The presentation of the empirical results should be improved. The box plots of Fig 1 are not very informative since the different tasks have quite different complexity as can be seen from the absolute AP and AUC values.  It would be much better to report on the performance differences between two methods. It could be that method A always performed better than method B given a data set. Then box plots of performance differences between two methods on various data sets might be significant while the box plots of both methods on the various data  sets are highly overlapping.   clarity: I didn't see a clear strategy in the study  The empirical work and the theoretical findings are only very loosely connected to the empirical results.   significance: I am not aware of other sample bounds for anomaly detection and therefore, I consider the results as significant. However, I might not be aware of some works on sample bounds for the studied scenario.    minor comment: l95: "have significantly downgraded" -> "have been significantly downgraded" 