The paper provides bounds on the Lipschitz constants of sample functions from Gaussian processes. It also provides bounds on the prediction errors and on the Lipschitz constants of the conditional means and variances. Then, an application is safe control is provided.  Originality: The bounds for Gaussian processes are relatively similar to the existing ones, from the references that are given in the paper. The proofs also appear to use standard arguments, for instance the classical bound on the mean value of the supremum of a Gaussian process and the Borel TIS inequality. The authors write that a novelty of their bounds is that they do not rely on unknown quantities. More precisely, the previous bounds hold for fixed functions assumed to belong to RKHSs while their bounds hold in probability w.r.t. the distribution of the Gaussian process. This type of analysis can also have its limits, because the distribution of the Gaussian process (which may need to be selected arbitrarily) can assign very small probabilities to functions that look like the unknown function. Hence, I would not say that the framework of the paper is better (or worse) than the one from previous references. It is just of different nature.  The authors write that some references, for instance [7], require bounded observation errors and exclude Gaussian errors. I am not sure that this is true, because I think that these references require Gaussian observation errors.  Quality: The proofs appear to be correct but relatively standard.  Clarity: The paper is rather clear. Perhaps the authors could explain better the statement of Theorem 3.3. The speak of a process generating infinitely many functions with given Lipschitz constant. This can not be a Gaussian process, since the Lipschitz constant of a Gaussian process is usually not a bounded random variable.   Significance: I think the paper provides a welcome contribution to the analysis of Gaussian process extrema, of the prediction error and of safe control. The results are nevertheless not very different from previously existing ones.