 In this paper, authors have tried to solve the ccorrelation clustering problem in a setting where the (binary) pairwise similarities are not known apriori. Authors consider an active learning model where the pairwise similarity value is queried from an oracle. The authors refer to a standard algorithm namely KwikCLuster and modify it to come up with a sampling based mechanism.  The ACC algorithm proposed by the authors is same Kwikcluster in the worst case and authors prove some cost bounds of their techniques.   [W1] I have some concerns about the motivation of this work:  The authors assume that the similarity function has binary output. This means that their work is highly focussed towards entity resolution based setting where the ground truth consists of a collection of entities and the goal is to resolve the entities. If this is the case, the authors should perform a thorough job of comparing with most recent works on entity resolution. I think even though [20] is not suited for adversarial noise, it can still work in this setting and might perform better. Especially in experiments because authors use independent probability p to flip the edges.    Calling the queries 'similarity queries' seems to give a wrong impression as it is binary Yes/No query.  [W2] Theorem 1 does not seem tight eg. when Q=n^2, we get expected error is less than 3OPT+O(n), whereas we know that the expected error should be 3OPT as it is same as Kwikcluster.  [W3] Experiments:  - The data sets are really small with no real crowd experiments validating if similarity queries are easy to answer for a user or not.  The authors have used Yes/No answers from entity resolution crowdsourcing experiments as 1/0 similarity values and it does not seem like a fair justification of the proposed querying oracle.  - There is no comparison with any baseline (Not even kwikcluster). I think some of the robust techniques in data base comunity to reduce the number of queries in such setting might be interesting baselines to help appreciate ACC.   - In the plots, authors dont mention OPT (or 3OPT if calculating opt was not possible).   - It seems like ACC takes close to 60K queries to identify the optimal clusters  for cora data set.    I think experiments need a lot of work.  [W4] Authors should analyze the performance if the edge labels (binary similarities) are flipped with some probability.  Overall, I think the work has some promise but it needs a lot of work.  