The authors generalize 1-lag coupling of the chains to L-lag coupling and provide upper bounds on some distribution distances including the total variation and 1-Wasserstein distance. This bound serves as a convergence check for MCMC, e.g., to stop the burn-in phase.      The main contributions of the paper are 1) deriving a computable bound of the distribution distance between two (L-lagged) chains, and 2) presenting algorithms (e.g., Coupled Random-Walk Metropolis-Hastings, Coupled HMC, etc.) using the bound as a stopping criterion for burn-in. Unfortunately, the second part together with the proof of the bound is in the supplementary material.      The presented bound and method to compute it is, to the best of knowledge, novel and significantly extends the state-of-the-art. My only concern is about the presentation/composition of the paper: The bound requires to compute the (L-lag) meeting time. The algorithm to compute it compares samples (with time lag L) of different chains and stops when they coincidence. Naively, this will never happen for continuous values; hence, the algorithm assumes some coupled/joint MCMC kernel. Some viable variants are presented in the appendix. While those are based on prior work, I would still expect them to be part of the main body. Without the supplementary material, I would not consider the presented work as self-containing and reproducible.   In addition, I would expect a broader discussion of relevant literature, also in the context of the applications of the bound, such as detecting convergence. For example, there are methods to quantify bias in a sample (e.g., "A Kernelized Stein Discrepancy for Goodness-of-fit Tests", Liu et al) or two-sample tests to measure sample discrepancy (e.g., "A Kernel Two-Sample Test", Gretton et al). Both approaches may also be used to detect MCMC convergence and could be considered as baselines in the experiments.  After reading the authors' feedback, I revised my vote from 6 to 7. They addressed my concerns and suggested some changes so that, overall, I'm inclined accepting the paper.