This is a clearly written and well argued paper that improves the known state of the art algorithms for the specific problem of streaming submodular optimization subject to multiple matroid (or matchoid) constraints. The authors improve the running time and either match or improve the approximation factors of known algorithms.  The experimental results can be significantly strengthened.   One downside of the work is that the theoretical improvement is relatively small, however in my mind this is outweighed by the fact that the algorithm is clean, seemingly universal (subsuming previous work), and practical.  On the technical side, the main contribution is Theorem 4, which gives a parametrized approximation guarantee for the Sample-Streaming algorithm. This is then combined with known results, and tuned settings for the parameters to obtain the stated results for monotone and non-monotone functions.  The proof is involved, it would have been good to provide a high level intuition picture in the Appendix (or if possible in the main body) of why this approach succeeds where previous methods have failed.   More notes: - Spell check -- l176 (independence), l248 (diverse),  - In the experimental section (line 265), it is worth noting explicitly that the proposed algorithm performs _worse_ than the SeqDPP baseline on OVP videos, and on half of the YouTube videos. A sentence is also warranted to describe the performance versus local search, which has a strictly worse approximation ratio, but performs comparably here.  - While it's nice to see absolute running time comparisons in Figure 1c, a much more meaningful metric would be the number of oracle calls, since this is precisely what the proposed method is trying to optimized. Moreover, such a metric would be independent of machine speed, or programming prowess, and can be used as a basis for comparison in the future. I strongly urge the authors to provide such a plot. Rebuttal Question: how does the number of evaluations scale between different methods?  - In my mind Section 4.2 should either be cut, or augmented with a stronger baseline. As mentioned above, simply reporting running time numbers without a baseline is not very meaningful, and future researchers would not be able to compare their methods against them. 