The authors provide a novel solution to the problem first identified in [DTCK18], that of identifying a parsimonious subset of eigenvectors from a diffusion map embedding. From the perspective of differential geometry, the authors identify a new criterion for evaluating the independence of a set of eigenvectors and use this to identify suitable independent subsets of eigenvectors of the diffusion map. This area of manifold embedding is relatively understudied, and the solution by the authors seems elegant, improves on existing work, and is scalable to large datasets. The paper is also accompanied by an impressive number of experiments. Comments: 1.    The authors claim that their method is robust to "noise present in real scientific data". However, it is hard to determine whether or not this is the case given the examples provided. An experiment on synthetic data with added noise would improve this claim. 2.    Some of the figures in the main text were difficult to parse. It appears that in Figure 1a the y-axis is mislabeled and contains multiple overlaid plots. It is also difficult to assess the utility of the embeddings provided for the real datasets in Figure 3 as there is no ground truth geometry that we can reference. It would be useful to know how the coloring used for the Chloromethane dataset (or what the data actually is) and to have some more interpretation of the utility of the embedding. Typographical comments: 1.    Line 98: "regreesion" -> regression 2.    "Chloromethane" is misspelled in the Fig. 3 legend Based on the strength of the experimental results and theoretical interpretation of this problem I recommend accepting this paper.  Update (Aug 11):  Reading the other reviews and the author feedback, my opinion of this paper has not changed. I agree with author three that considering the problem of selecting the idea subspace for conditionality reduction (as opposed to the ideal subset of eigenvector) is an interesting problem and perhaps will yield interesting progress in the field. However, that does not detract from the significance of the problem considered in this work. The authors are thorough and their response to request for analysis of robustness to noise is satisfactory. I do not wish to revise my score.