Summary This paper introduces theoretical analysis of learning a classifier in an extreme region, where the norm of input vector is very large. The authors describe a new definition of natural and asymptotic notion of risk for predictive performance in extreme regions. The theoretical properties of definition are fully investigated and empirical performance was validated by synthetic datasets.  Strengths [Motivation] Applicable well to clinical data analysis. Sometimes, large feature values are very rarely observed, but its meaning is significantly important.  [Theoretical analysis] The authors presented some interesting theoretical results on learning a classifier in extreme regions, though it’s difficult to follow every step in the proof.  Weaknesses [Positive orthant assumption] I’m not quite convinced to analyze a classifier by restricting an input space to the positive orthant. We could normalize the training data to fit them in the positive orthant, but it’s rarely conducted. Moreover, in section 3, a classifier is defined on the unit sphere. All theories in section 2 could be generalized to the unit sphere?  [Fixing alpha] It seems to be too restrictive to fix alpha=1. It could be possible to generalize the theory to smaller alpha values?  [Lack of comparison] There exist many similar works to learn a classifier with heavy-tail distributions. This paper doesn’t compare any previous works and discussion on the difference between the proposed algorithm and existing ones. Moreover, the proposed algorithm is just learning a classifier by sub-sampling instances with large values.  [Lack of real-world experiments] Since this paper doesn’t contain any results on real-world datasets, it’s very difficult to understand a practical importance of the proposed method.  == Updated review == I’ve read authors’ response on all reviewers’ comments. My original concerns are fully addressed, though I still believe that empirical justification is relatively weaker than the novelty of theoretical analysis. During discussion, I’ve changed my original score to 6 (weak accept). 