Summary: This paper propose a differentiable and an end-to-end approach to refine the correspondences (both semantic and instance level) by utilizing the neighborhood consensus on 4D correlation matrix (of feature map). The pipeline is evaluated for PASCAL keypoints dataset for semantic correspondences, and InLoc for instance level correspondences  Pros:   + intuitive, well described approach (I have some implementation level questions though, please see below)  + clearly state of the art on previously used benchmarks.  Cons:   - Computational Time is linear with the increase in resolution. How to handle the scenarios where dense correspondences between a pair of HD images (1080x1920) is required? How much time does it take to compute dense correspondences between two images by the proposed approach? Is the compute time function of per pixel or it is a function of per image?  - The approach is well motivated for dense correspondences but evaluation is done using sparse correspondences? How about using the datasets used for optical flow estimation (by approaches such as FlowNet or PWC-Net and many other papers)? Dense correspondences between a pair of images is equivalent for optical flow.  Concerns/Implementation level details:   1. I am not certain as why soft mutual nearest neighbors are defined (L 185-190) this particular way?   2. What is the base network/features for the results in Table-1 for NC-Net (like [31] used in Table-2) OR is it directly done on raw pixels?  3. I am not sure how the disparity between the resolution at the training time (25 x 25) and test time (200 x 150) influence performance? Why do you need a low res feature descriptor for training? Is it because of the memory constraints provided by a GPU for training OR to include larger batch size?  4. The optical flow estimation approaches define a smoothness constraint (see Unflow in AAAI, 2017)? Can the neighborhood consensus ensures this smoothness automatically? OR is there way to explicitly encode in your formulation?  5. Will the code be publicly released?  Suggestions:   1. L 180-181 describes the cyclic consistency. I would suggest authors to probably include reference to Zhou et al. CVPR 2016 and related work.  2. In my opinion, the idea of dense correspondences share a large similarity with work on optical flow estimation. As such, I would suggest to include the different works in computer vision literature on optical flow in related work (perhaps under trainable image alignment).