Update: I thank the authors for their clarifications, as I feel I can properly evaluate the paper now. I hope they make significant improvements to the paper to improve it's presentation, and consider presenting the ideas in a more straightforward, intuitive manner rather than hiding the core idea (which is actually quite simple, now that I understand properly) behind unnecessarily complex prose. R3's suggestions (and the rest of the reviewer feedback) are a good start, but also having a visual representation or a figure would also aid in making this easier to understand, so that the core idea of this work is able to reach a greater audience.   =====================  Let me preface this review with the following: overall, after spending much effort on this paper, my experience is that the ideas were presented in a fairly difficult, unintuitive manner, and so I am not confident that I was able to fully understand everything correctly. As such, I have a couple questions for the authors that I hope they can clarify, after which I hope I can give the authors a proper reviewing score (the current score is not my final evaluation).   1) Lemma 1 just doesn't make intuitive sense to me. What is Equation (2) supposed to capture? I found section 3.1 to be overall rather unclear.   2) Equation 6 seems to imply that the L0 perturbation isn't really a true L0 perturbation, but one restricted to lie on some K-wide grid?   3) I understand from 4.3 that it is possible to turn a Gaussian perturbation into an L0 distance for binary vectors with a simple thresholding operator after applying Gaussian noise. However, the paper claims that this is a bijection, but I don't see any description on going back from an L0 distance to an L2 distance. Also, is there some proof for the claim that the composition perturbation is always tighter than the Gaussian perturbation?   4) In the experiments, is the comparison to the Gaussian perturbation somehow using the thresholding as described in 4.3? Or is it just naively applying the Gaussian perturbation and using it as a lower bound on the equivalent thresholded L0 perturbation? If it's the latter, then this is not really a useful competitor for comparison, as they are trying to certify against vastly different perturbation models, so it should be obvious that the approach designed for L0 perturbations does better when certifying L0 radii than the approach designed for L2 perturbations. The paper does mention that the L0 certificate is derived from the Gaussian perturbation, but exactly how this is done is not clear to me. It's not necessarily bad to include them for comparison, but it's a good idea to make it clear in the paper that these results are likely to be expected by design.   5) What is the value of K used in the experiments? How does it effect the certification abilities?   6) At the end of the last set of experiments in section 5.3, the authors mention that they compare the exact certificate vs the one derived from Lemma 1 and measure the average difference across the training data. But just before then they were evaluating the method with AUC. Can the authors provide a consistent comparison? Even better, include both Lemma 1 and exact certification results in the AUC curves in Figure 4? 