It is interesting to realize scalable neural networks in an architecture by introducing shallow classifiers. Actually, the motivation is not new as some recent work also investigated a similar objective [C1, C2, C3] by the anytime property. However, there are no analyses and comparison with the related studies which should be introduced and compared.  [C1] Amir R Zamir, Te-Lin Wu, Lin Sun, William B Shen, Bertram E Shi, Jitendra Malik, and Silvio Savarese. Feedback networks, CVPR, 2017 [C2] Gustav Larsson, Michael Maire, and Gregory Shakhnarovich. FractalNet: Ultra-deep neural networks without residuals, ICLR 2017.  [C3] Eunwoo Kim, Chanho Ahn, and Songhwai Oh. NestedNet: Learning nested sparse structures in deep neural networks, CVPR, 2018.  The proposed framework is not that significant as the additional components are just borrowed from existing well-developed studies (attention, distillation) as well as the framework requires more parameters and computations. So the methodology itself is still incremental. Even if the authors state that the approach achieves sample-specific dynamic inference, the corresponding strategy (i.e., in Section 3.3) looks not well theoretically grounded method.  The paper lacks some clarity and has some incorrect things. First, the description of the proposed method in Introduction is quite weak and can’t grasp what you want to develop, which makes me not interesting. Second, In line 119, what do you mean by “signify the feature maps” for F_i and F_c? Are they learnable variables? Third, there is a missing statement on ensemble learning. In addition, explaining Algorithm 2 is missing. In line 197, there is no Table 4.1 (guess it is Table 2). Table 1 looks a bit duplicate from Figure 3 and 4.   Control experiments with respect to lambda and alpha would be better to see how the approach works.  The results in Table 2 are not satisfying compared to Table 1, which makes me not convincing the proposed approach. It is natural for Classifier4/4 to perform a bit better than baseline as it has additional parameters and computations. So directly comparing them seems unfair. 