This paper presents a new algorithm for topic reconstruction named STA, which works under (p, 1)-separability. The proposed algorithm first follows an assumption that each document has only one topic (STA), so as to discover anchor words, and then uses the anchor words to reconstruct the topics of LDA. The proposed algorithm is reported to run faster than previous models ("Recover") in this line and Gibbs sampling.   Quality:   The general idea of the paper is interesting. Anchor words can be viewed as the most representative words of a topic. It is a smart idea to discover them with the single topic assumption. The paper gives strong theoretical derivations and analysis to the proposed algorithm, which definitely a plus to the paper quality.   The main issue of the paper is on the experiments. Perhaps it would be a little bit harsh to argue the experiments of a theoretical paper like this one, but I would say the experiments are not convening. The issues are as follows:  (1) How do the authors compare with Gibbs sampling, with different settings of the corpus?  For Recover and STA, the document length is 2, while for Gibbs sampling, it is 10 to 100?   (2) The running time comparison is also not rigorous.  What are the reasons for using 200+1000 iterations? Does Gibbs sampling converge or not? Mallet is implemented in Java, so what is the implementation of STA and Recover? These factors can heavily affect the running time performance. More important, efficiency is one of the main claims of the paper.  (3) It is a little bit ridiculous that l is set to 2. To me, it is hard to think a topic model can learn meaningful topics with documents with only 2 words. It is not a practical setting.  (4) The authors should compare or discuss with the topic models using the spectral algorithm. Compared with Gibbs sampling, those models are efficient for large datasets as well.  Clarity:  To me, the paper is hard to follow. The paper uses a stack of texts, definitions, and theorems, which makes it hard to navigate in the paper.   Originality and significance:  I like the idea of this paper, which to me is novel. The significance of the paper mainly on the theoretical aspect. The proposed algorithm is theoretically guaranteed with complexity, but the experiments are not convening, which limits the usability and impact of the paper.   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------  Thanks for the reply.  I think the idea is cool. But it needs improvements on the evaluation, like I've discussed in the previous review.