The main contribution of this work is a deep neural network approach to learning the shared structure of probe functions (functions defined on each point of a 3D surface) for a shape collection. The result is a dictionary of basis functions that spans all probe functions on that shape. A loss function for learning (with a gradient computation technique) is also presented for this approach, and particular applications to segmentation, key point correspondence estimation, and shape synchronization. Experiments are performed in several datasets and domains with favorable results on average.  === Strengths === 1) The idea of learning this type of general encoding with NN is interesting and, as far as I know, novel. The paper does a good job in showing the wide applicability of the approach by providing specific constraint functions for different problems, as well as by showing experimental results in each domain. 2) The experiments are complete and informative. Several datasets and domains were explored, and comparison against state-of-the-art methods was presented. The results themselves also show significant improvements. All of this supports the premise of the paper, and shows strong evidence that the approach is effective.  === Weaknesses === 1) The impact of this work is very limited. Although the model seems to be quite general, it is not clear how difficult it is to implement, nor if it will consistently provide advantages over approaches specifically designed for each domain. Perhaps more experiments would help make this more clear. 2) Presentation. Although the approach is clearly explained, and technical details are roughly at the appropriate level, the paper lacks a discussion as to why this method works well. That is, what is it about these learned bases that make it effective? It would be nice to have some kind of hypothesis here that could be supported by the experimental results.  === Questions === 1) Section 4.3 (roughly L267-270) briefly explains why some objects are confused with others (doors and bookcases, etc.). Can this be addressed in this approach? Why does SPGN seem to do better in several of these object categories (Table 3)? 2) Why are there no quantitative results for the Human Shape Bases Synchronization problem? The qualitative results look impressive, but it is difficult to judge effectiveness on only a few pictures.  === Conclusion === The paper presents an interesting, novel approach to learning bases/dictionaries for probe functions, and provides sufficient experimental evidence to show effectiveness. The only substantial negative is the limited impact of the approach. I think the paper is borderline, but I lean towards acceptance.