Originality: While there does exist work in modeling video data with deep generative models, the authors are the first (to the best of my knowledge) to propose a neural, end-to-end video codec based on VAEs and entropy coding. The method offers a simple way to discretize the continuous latent space to learn a binary coding scheme of the compressed video. Although this has been explored in the context of image compression (e.g. Townsend 2019), it is important and useful. The generative model is actually quite similar in spirit to (Li & Mandt 2018), but with the added component of discretizing the latent space/entropy coding.   Quality: The authors test their proposed method on 3 video datasets (Sprites, BAIR, Kinetics600), and evaluate their results using a variety of metrics (bpp, PSNR, MS-SSIM). Because there do not exist baselines to compare their method against, the authors provide a series of baselines to test the effect of each component of their model. The authors also clearly state the limitations of their method (GPU memory limitations with respect to the resolution at which they can compress videos, etc.). Although 64x64 sized videos are small, I believe this method is a great starting point for future work.  Clarity: The paper was well-written, self-contained, and easy to follow, which I appreciated. The presentation of the model was clear as well.  Significance: As video data comprises a significant proportion of the modern-day communications data in the Internet, the impact of this work is indeed significant.  ---------------------------------------- UPDATE: Although I appreciated the authors' feedback, I wished they had addressed more of my questions in the Improvements section (e.g. regarding the strange plots with the bitrates and disentangled representations). However, as the authors noted that they will include additional experiments on longer video sequences in the final version, which is something I was particularly concerned with, I will keep my score as is.