The authors investigate the convergence properties of two decentralized stochastic gradient algorithms that implement quantizations as a means of compressing communication. The algorithms fit into the main framework of decentralized first-order methods for consensus problems originally proposed in A. Nedic and A. Ozdaglar in 2009, with the results established in this paper for non-convex problems following more closely the work in X. Lian et al. 2017a and X. Lian et al. 2017b.  The paper is in general well-written, although in some parts it lacks the required details that are needed to fully follow the presentation. For instance, one of the main points of the paper is to focus on notions of latency and bandwidth, but these are never defined, nor described (the reader is only referred to other literature, but this does not seem sufficient given the emphasis of the paper). In this sense, the paper falls short of providing the tools that are needed to appreciate the contribution of this work. For instance, can the authors' theory describe the plots in figure 8 when different latencies are considered?  The literature review is by no means exhaustive of the variety and depth of work done in decentralized learning, but at least encompasses some of the main contributions in the field.  The math and the formalism seem sound, though not always exhaustive (for instance, the functions F_i's in (1) are not described). The convergence results that are established in Section 4.1 and Section 4.2 are possibly misleading, as they treat the spectral gap of the communication matrix as a constant. On the other hand, it is well known that this quantity depends on the number of workers (n) in different ways according to the network topology being investigated (see J. Duchi, A. Agarwal, M. Wainwright, "Dual Averaging for Distributed Optimization: Convergence Analysis and Network Scaling" IEEE 2012, for instance). In fact, the numerical simulations presented in Section 5 consider the ring topology, which is one of the extreme examples in terms of how badly the spectral gap depends on the number of workers (quadratically). For instance, how would the result of Corollary 2 change when the dependence of the spectral gap with $n$ is taken into account?