The authors propose a generalisation of Strongly Raleigh discrete measures (SR) called Exponentiated Strongly Raleigh measures, which is an SR measured raised to a power p, where p>0 denotes the parameter of the exponentiation operation. Depending on the choice of p, many different cases are recovered of sample diversity vs sample quality. For instance, the discrete uniform, which is non SR, normal SR measures when p=1 as well as less and more sharper measures of diversity. As a by-product of this generalisation, the strength of negative dependence can be controlled by the tunning of this parameter, which is an interesting fact. The authors also derive an MCMC Metropolis-Hastings algorithm where the proposal is a Strongly Raleigh measure. This is the case because even though the ESR cannot be sampled from directly, the unnormalised version of it can be evaluated point wise, hence, one can evaluate the MH acceptance ratio. Another nice property of the proposed algorithm is that , when the proposal is sufficiently close to the target, the MCMC has fast mixing properties. In particular, in Proposition 2, a measure of closeness, called r-closeness, between this two measures is introduced. And in Section 3, bounds for this r-closeness are derived for  the specific cases of k-DPPs  and for dual volume sampling. There is also an empirical performance test of the mixing times in the experiments section. The experiments section show that this is a competitive approach in a determinental point process application for kernel reconstruction as well as an anomaly detection tasks. Overall, I believe that the paper is well written and the motivation is clear. There are noteworthy contributions in terms of theory and applications in ML.  The authors have kindly provided feedback about the following specific comments/remarks and will incorporate them in the camera ready version which enhances the overall clarity of the submission:  Line 26: what closure properties are you referring to? Please explain with more detail. Line 101: The equation below this line has “NA” instead of a number. Section 3: make clear what you mean by tractability, i.e. that it is possible to sample from SR measures as well as point wise evaluation of the unnormalised density. In contrast, it is not possible to sample from ESR but point wise evaluation is still possible.