This paper studies blind demodulation problem, in which we hope to recover two unknown vectors from their entrywise multiplication. This paper assumes that these two unknown vectors are generated from two expansive ReLU neural networks, where the output dimensions are at least quadratic in the input dimensions. The authors study the optimization landscape of the square loss function and show that there is no stationary points outside of the neighborhoods around four hyperbolic curves and the set of local maximizers. Motivated by this landscape property, the authors further design a gradient descent scheme, which tries to find the hyperbolic curve with the lowest objective. In the experiments, the authors show that this algorithm can effectively remove distortions in the MNIST dataset.   The paper is well written. In the proof, the authors first show that the result holds as long as the weight matrices satisfy the weight distributed condition and the joint weight distributed condition, then prove random Gaussian matrices satisfy these properties with high probability.   Here are my major comments: 1. This paper assumes that the two generative models (neural networks) have random Gaussian matrices. In practice, it’s hard to imagine that any meaningful network has only random Gaussian weight matrices. Thus, I was wondering to what extent this result can be generalized to other weight matrices.  2. This paper also assumes the two generative models as prior. This assumption feels very strong to me. Is it possible to only assume the architecture of the two networks instead of the value of its weights?  3. In the paper, the proposed algorithm is only tested in the experiments, though without any theoretical guarantee. Since the algorithm is inspired by the landscape properties, I would expect some theoretical analysis for the algorithm. It would be good to discuss the challenges for analyzing this algorithm in the paper.  4. In many places, the authors claim set K is the set of local maximizers. However, in Theorem 2, the authors only show that the partial derivative along any direction is non-negative. I don’t think this is enough for proving that points in K are local maximizers. It’s possible that a point has zero gradient and a positive definite Hessian, in which case it’s a local minimizer. Feel free to correct me if my understanding is wrong.   ------------------------------------------------------------------- I have read the authors' response and will not change my score. I am not an expert in this field and am not sure whether it's reasonable to assume the generative network has random Gaussian weights.  The authors can explain more on the practicality of this model in the revision. In the rebuttal, the authors mentioned that the result still holds as long as the weight matrix is close to random Gaussian. It would be good to formally formulate this set of approximate random Gaussian matrices, which might make the result stronger. 