This manuscript aims to attack an interesting problem, namely how could one obtain mechanistic insights from the CNN model fit to the neural responses.  The writing is generally clear, although it would benefit to tone down some of the statements to more accurately reflect the real contributions.   Overall, the manuscript could be an interesting contribution to the field. However, I am skeptical about various claims made in the paper. The main issues I have with this manuscript are three-fold:  1.the results is rather incremental relatively to ref [2] and [9,10].  2.it is unclear to me to what extent the insights as claimed in Section 3 are novel, and to what extent they could not be obtained by taking a much simpler approach.  3.it is unclear to what extent the proposed algorithmic approach could apply to other systems, such as high level visual cortex.   Major  * Questions/comments about the proposed algorithms: the first step is based on the attribution methods developed in [ref 9,10], and a simple extension to incorporate the temporal domain. This step is largely incremental.  the second step reduces dimensionality by exploring stimulus invariance. How could this generalize to more complex stimuli where the stimulus invariance properties are unclear?   step 3 involves constructing reduced model from “important” subunits. The number of selected subunit is not discussed and seems to be arbitrary. Practically, how to set this number for a given problem? For example, unit 1 in Fig2B,C also seems to be important, but it is not selected.     *Results on OSR For OSR results, the study identified three channels, A2,A3,A6. How do these channels map onto the physiologically defined cell types in retina? Is there experimental evidence in any form that would support this model prediction?  The asymmetry in the physiologically observed nonlinearity in ON/OFF pathways [Chichilnisky& Kalmar, 2002; Kareem et al., 2003] are not accounted in the model. Could it be possible that by taking these asymmetry into account, one just need two channels, rather than three to account for OSR?  Ref:  Chichilnisky, E. J., and Rachel S. Kalmar. "Functional asymmetries in ON and OFF ganglion cells of primate retina." Journal of Neuroscience 22.7 (2002): 2737-2747.   Zaghloul, Kareem A., Kwabena Boahen, and Jonathan B. Demb. "Different circuits for ON and OFF retinal ganglion cells cause different contrast sensitivities." Journal of Neuroscience 23.7 (2003): 2645-2654.    *Interpretation of the results  Regarding the results shown in Section 3.2-3.4, to what extent doe they provide novel insights? Could it be that given the response characteristics of the ON/OFF channels and the observed phenomena, these is effectively only one mechanism that could account for the observed data? In that case, it seems that one would not need to go through the exercise of reducing from a deep network model to obtain such results; one could directly constrain the input and output then find the transformation that could link the two.  Relatedly, for the results presented regarding the four applications, how much of these one could already obtain by using the standard RF +nonlinearity analysis?  *Applicability/complexity of the approach  is it possible to apply the proposed approach to analyze deeper neural networks? The manuscript analyzed a 3-layer CNN. Intuitively, the complexity of the analysis might scale exponentially with increasing number of layers. It is unclear if the proposed dimension reduction approach would still be effective in these cases, e.g., CNN for the object recognition.  Note that for object recognition task, the simple invariance assumption as assumed in the paper to achieve dimension reduction might also be violated. Is there any claim could be made about the complexity of the analysis for deeper networks?   * The special role of A2&A3 By examining all the results together, it seems that most of the effects are readily accounted by cell types A2 and A3. I feel that this should be more carefully discussed somewhere in the paper.  Also is it possible to use a CNN model with 2 or 3 channels rather than 8 to account for the results?     Other comments  - I found the title to be a bit mis-leading,, in particular “prediction”. The manuscript does not directly the connection of the phenomena to the function of prediction. The same concern applies to the abstract (line 14-16).  - line 34, how is the “computational mechanism” defined?  - line 36, what does “non-trivial response” mean?  - “burst” is used in various places. However, the CNN model doesn’t contain any spiking mechanism. What does “burst” mean in the context of the CNN model?   - Step 3 involves reconstructing a network with one hidden layer neural network. Would it be expressive enough to explain a variety of computational mechanisms? For example, consider the task of object recognition.  - line 62-64. it should be made clear that all the results in fig.1 have been previously shown in ref [2].  - line85-87, These are simply rephrase the phenomena. Maybe cut these?  - line 134, “far beyond the imperfect but dominant”, maybe could tone this down a bit? In principle, nothing is perfect, including the RF analysis.     %%%% After discussions and seeing the authors' rebuttal letter, I still have concerns about the applicability of the proposed method to other problems. However, I think the authors' response did help clean up a bunch of issues, so I am increasing my score from 5 to 6. 