The authors propose a neuropathic pain simulator to generate data for causal discovery algorithm evaluation. To the best of my knowledge, this is the first work to build a simulator that can generate data with causal relations. This paper is novel, but my concern is that it is not rigorous enough.  To make the simulated data close to the real-world scenario, the authors learn the simulator from a real-world dataset. However, the real-world dataset only contains 141 patient diagnostic records. I am not sure whether this amount of data includes enough causal relations for estimating the conditional probability distribution of each variable given other variables. If not, the simulator may generate data with biases.  The section 2.2 does not provide a clear statement. The authors should first formally introduce the format of the real-word dataset and then present the procedure of the parameter estimation. In addition, there exists a potential problem about the heuristic proposed in this section. The heuristic indicates that if a parent Pa1(X) and another parent Pa2(X) of a variable X happen at the same time, the conditional probability P(X=1|Pa1(X)=1,Pa2(X)=1) is higher than or equal to the maximum value of P(X=1|Pa1(X)=1) and P(X=1|Pa2(X)=1). The authors only focus on the causal relations between that the parent value is 1 (Pai(X)=1) and a variable X. What if the parent of X having value 0 (Pai(X)=0) has causal relations with a variable X?  Although the experimental results show that the physicians cannot differentiate the simulated data from the real-world data, I think the experiment may exist some sampling biases. The size of experimental dataset used in the physician evaluation is too small. To examine the quality of simulated data, the authors only mix 30 simulated records with 30 data sampled from the real-world dataset. This sampling bias can highly affect the evaluation results.   The causal relation considered in this paper is relatively simple. In this paper, the causal relation consists of three layers: pathophysiological diagnosis, pattern diagnosis, and symptom diagnosis. The symptom diagnosis is only caused by the pattern diagnosis, and the pattern diagnosis is only caused by the pathophysiological diagnosis. Moreover, the nodes in each layer have no causal relation with each other. In the real world, the causal relation is much more complex than the setting presented in the paper. If the simulator can generate dataset with complex causal relations, it can be a better benchmark. 