The paper studies the problem of sampling from multi-modal distributions using simulated tempering techniques combined with Langevin Monte Carlo. Though the assumption about mixture of strongly log-concave component with the same shape is very artificial, sampling from it with access only to its gradient oracle is still a non-trivial problem. More importantly, since the algorithm itself is not too specific for this model, I think it opens up a promising direction for sampling from more general multi-modal distributions. As far as a know, this is the first attempt towards mixing rate for multi-modal distributions that has polynomial dependence on everything.  The techniques are very interesting: it is known that Langevin diffusion converges fast to stationary at very high temperature, even with multi-modal distributions. This paper makes use of this fact by combining it a meta Markov Chain which moves between partitions at the highest temperature, with fast mixing Langevin algorithm for partitions. To make simulated tempering possible, partition functions are estimated in an iterative way for different temperature levels. The mixing rate estimates for both chains are based on spectral gap estimates.  Besides, one thing I'm not sure is that, even if you're given only gradient oracles for the log density, is it possible to estimate those components so that such heavy mechanism is not needed? For example, if we uniformly sample a lot of starting points and run gradient descent starting from them to find the local minima of -log(p), the modes of each mixture components can be recovered. Then the sampling problem becomes almost trivial for the Gaussian case, and simple tricks seem to work in strongly-log-concave component case. If this simple approach is not excluded, the contribution of this paper might be eclipsed, which explains my score.  The discretization of Langevin diffusion without Metropolis adjustment for mixing rate proof for each component, while the simulated tempering chain is run with that step. Are there particular reason for this?