The authors introduce a new variation of GAN that is claimed to be suitable for text generation. The proposed method relies on a new optimal transport–based distance metric on the feature space learned by the “discriminator”. The idea is sound and seems to be novel. The text is well written and easy to follow. The authors present experimental results for unconditional text generation, style transfer from non-parallel text, and unsupervised cipher cracking. Overall, I like the ideas in the paper but I think that the experiments are not robust, which makes it difficult to judge if the current method represents a real advance over the previous GAN models for text generation.   Some questions/comments about the experiments:   (1) For the generic text generation, why not using datasets that have been used in other works: Penn Treebank, IMDB?   (2) For generic text generation why the authors have not compared their results with MaskGAN? As far as I know, MaskGAN seems to be the state-of-the-art GAN for text generation.  (3) For both generic text generation and style transfer, why the authors have not used the perplexity metric like in [40] and MaskGAN papers? Measuring the perplexity of generated text using a pretrained language model is an important complementary way to compare the models, specially the style transfer one. (4) The authors should be more specific regarding the setup of the human evaluations. The paper mentions “judges are asked to rate OVER 100 randomly sampled sentences”. Please tell the exact number of sentences. Each sentence was analyzed for how many judges? Moreover, the evaluation strategy itself seems far too subjective. If we look at the standard deviation, RankGAN, LeakGAN, TextGAN and the proposed method are on the same range of results. The correct evaluation should be done by showing the Turker a pair of sentences from two different models and asking him/her to select the sentence that he/she prefers. How does the training time of FMD tGAN compare to the other GAN models?  --- The author feedback properly addressed my questions. Therefore, I’ve increased the overall score. 