## Summary The authors propose a recurrent dynamical model that can jump the prediction time step. To do this, a mechanism called temporal matching, is proposed. In temporal matching, a forward model is encouraged to predict a future time-step in an arbitrary interval (within H) which can be robustly predicted. This is possible because those future time steps with more deterministic expected states provide stronger training signal when trained with the rate-annealed random exploration of the jump time step. To prevent the problem of teacher-forcing, the authors apply scheduled sampling. In Experiments, the quality of the proposed method is evaluated in two tasks, funnel board and room runner, which are expected to perform well for the proposed method. The evaluation is done by applying to a classification task instead of measuring pixel-level reconstruction error.  ## Strengths  It is dealing with an important problem of jumpy temporal dynamical model which would play a significant role in many applications including model-based RL. The proposed method is relatively simple and thus easy to understand and implement. The idea of matching the future, generated without modelling jump interval, is quite interesting and its interplay with the exploration, which I think is important to avoid optimizing over the argmax in the loss function.    ## Weakness The main weakness is experiments. Particularly, the baseline seems very weak because the fixed interval baselines were only for 1 and 2 intervals. To these weak baselines, the superiority of the proposed method seems quite obvious. I think, fixed intervals ranging from 1 to H should be tested and reported. Also, the method does not learn when to finish. Although the authors mentioned that it is not the main focus of the paper, I think it is still important part of a model dealing with this problem. The clarity can also be improved. I recommend to put the Pseudo Code to the main article. Explantation on scheduled sampling is a bit too long although it is not what is proposed in this paper. The paper is written with minimal use of equations and explaining thing more in plain sentences. I think a bit more of formality would help readers understand better.  