This paper considers the limitations of using a restricted policy representation in RL. In some cases, the class of approximation functions used to represent the policy cannot jointly realize an optimal temporal sequence of actions. The authors introduce this so-called "delusional bias" phenomenon, characterize it using extensive examples and derive a possible algorithm to overcome its effects. The algorithm is shown to converge to an optimal policy efficiently in the tabular case and several heuristics are proposed to scale up it to more complex scenarios.  Globally, the paper is well written. The main strength is the characterization of this "delusional bias" phenomenon and the extensive analysis, which is original and very interesting. The weaknesses of the paper are (i) the presentation of the proposed methodology to overcome that effect and (ii) the limitations of the proposed methods for large-scale problems, which is precisely when function approximation is required the most.  While the intuition behind the two proposed algorithms is clear (to keep track of partitions of the parameter space that are consistent in successive applications of the Bellman operator), I think the authors could have formulated their idea in a more clear way, for example, using tools from Constraint Satisfaction Problems (CSPs) literature.  I have the following concerns regarding both algorithms:  - the authors leverage the complexity of checking on the Witness oracle, which is "polynomial time" in the tabular case. This feels like not addressing the problem in a direct way. - the required implicit call to the Witness oracle is confusing. - what happens if the policy class is not realizable? I guess the algorithm converges to an \empty partition, but that is not the optimal policy.  minor:  line 100 : "a2 always moves from s1 to s4 deterministically" is not true line 333 : "A number of important direction" -> "A number of important directions" line 215 : "implict" -> "implicit" - It is hard to understand the figure where all methods are compared. I suggest to move the figure to the appendix and keep a figure with less curves. - I suggest to change the name of partition function to partition value.  [I am satisfied with the rebuttal and I have increased my score after the discussion]