Updated review: - The author feedback on my question of the novelty of the contribution compared to [Rosenberg, 2000] has satisfied my concern and helped me position the paper's contribution.  - I requested computational complexity analysis, and the author feedback says they are deriving results to show this which is encouraging, but there's no guarantee this will be ready in time for a final version. - I also requested experiments on more challenging environments, and the author feedback suggests they will include a larger less symmetric setting which I would be excited to see. - My comments about multiple data points for MA-IRL have been addressed in the author feedback and a new experiment has been offered, which I would be keen to see.  Overall I am inclined to keep my original high rating for this paper.   ------ Original review:  Originality To the best of my knowledge, no-one has considered the non-cooperative IRL setting addressed in this paper. However, the main theoretical result of the paper rests heavily on a result of (Rosenberg 2000), that a game with one-sided information allows a decomposition into a sequence of single-stage games. The crux of the theoretical contribution then seems to be noticing that non-cooperative IRL is a game with one-sided information, and applying the Rosenberg result. This does seem to be significant, but the fact that it’s just an application of the Rosenberg result reduces the originality somewhat, compared to if Rosenberg hadn’t already shown this general result. This theorem is then applied to design an algorithm for computing the equilibrium strategies, resulting in a linear program. Nonetheless, it still scores high originality from me for the motivation and framing as an attack-defense model in cybersecurity.  Quality Overall this paper has high quality, with clear lemma’s, theorems and proofs. To the best of my knowledge the proofs seem sound. However, I think the proof of Lemma 2 is not sufficiently explicit. Why does the expansion from line 1 to line 2 hold? How do we go from line 2 to line 3? Line 3 to line 4 is fine, as this is just cancelling factors top and bottom. Some comments are needed to explain lines 1 -> 2, 2 ->3. Perhaps this proof could be moved and expanded in the supplementary material.  Clarity The paper is well written and clear overall, and well organised. The related work being in the supplementary material is a bit unfortunate I think stylistically.   Significance In the experiment on intrusion response, it’s not that obvious that N-CIRL does much better than MA-IRL. MA-IRL seems to have a high variance, but there is a high density patch of lower attacker rewards for MA-IRL than the proposed N-CIRL method. Maybe I missed something, but why are there many MA-IRL datapoints, but only a single one for N-CIRL? Is there a stochasticity in MA-IRL, but not in N-CIRL? I think this should be explicitly explained, in order to evaluate the significance of the result. There’s no analysis of the computational complexity of the proposed algorithm, which would also affect the significance of the work. The abstract claims it is efficient, though I didn’t see this discussed in the work. I was under the impression that solving a CIRL game is computationally difficult, and I would imagine solving N-CIRL is even harder, so I would like to know the computational complexity, and how this is addressed.  