This paper investigates Dimensionality Reduction (DR) maps in an information retrieval setting. In particular, they showed that no DR map can attain both perfect precision and perfect recall. Further, they showed the theoretical bounds for the precision and the Wasserstein distance of a continuous DR map. They also run simulations in various settings.  Quality: They have theoretical equivalences of precision and recall (Proposition 1) and show that perfect map does not exist (Theorem 1). They have theoretical upper bounds for precision in the worst case (Theorem 2) and average case (Theorem 3). They also have lower bounds for Wasserstein distance (Theorem 4, 5, 6). Theorems stated in this paper are sounds as far as I checked.  Clarity: This paper is clearly written and well organized. Introduction gives motivation for why Dimension Reduction map is of interest, and Section 3 also gives motivation for why Wasserstein measure is in need.  Originality: As the authors mentioned and also as I know, most literature on Dimensionality Reduction maps is heuristic without theoretical guarantee. Hence, as I know, this paper provides first theoretically sound results in DR maps.  Significance: As in Originality, this paper poses important theoretical results in Dimensionality Reduction maps. Their proofs in the supplementary are also not trivial and important progress. Hence I would assess this paper as contributing to enhancement in dimensionality reduction.  I have some suggestions in submission: 81th line: related problems in ?? -> related problems in Section 4 88th line: \omega^f (x) = inf_{U} -> \omega^f (x) = inf_{U:open}: i.e. infimum should be taken over open sets  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Comments after Authors' Feedback I agree with other reviewers that Simulations section can be expanded and I would like to see that in Appendix Section, as in the authors' feedback. But I still appreciate their careful theoretical analysis on the problem setting (Precision and Recall) and Wasserstein bounds, so I would maintain my score. Additional comment: I noticed that you used vector images on p.24-26 in the supplementary, which makes the pdf file slower to view and print since pdf file is drawing thousands of points every time. I would suggest to change these to image files (e.g., png format) and embed those in the supplementary instead.