The paper proposes a novel problem formulation for lossy compression, namely distribution-preserving lossy compression (DPLC). For a rate constrained lossy compression scheme, for large enough rate of the compression scheme, it is possible to (almost) exactly reconstruct the original signal from its compressed version. However, as the rate gets smaller, the reconstructed signal necessarily has very high distortion. The DPLC formulation aims to alleviate this issue by enforcing an additional constraint during the design of the encoder and the decoder of the compression scheme. The constraint requires that irrespective of the rate of the compression the distribution of the reconstructed signal is the same as that of the original signal. This ensures that for the very small rate the decoder simply outputs a new sample from the source distribution and not a useless signal with very large distortion.   In particular, a DPLC scheme needs to have a stochastic decoder which is hard to train using the existing techniques in the literature. The authors propose a way to deal with this and employ Wasserstein distance to measure the divergence between the original signal distribution and that of the output of the decoder. The authors build upon the recent line of work on utilizing neural networks to model the signal distributions. The authors rely on both generative adversarial networks and autoencoders to design a DPLC scheme, which gives a novel object called Wassserstein++.   The authors theoretical quantify the performance of their proposed procedure for encoder and decoder design by relating its distortion performance to a suitable Wasserstein distance. They further, implement their procedure with two GAN datasets and show that it indeed allows them to map between the exact reconstruction and sampling from the generative model as the rate of the compression scheme approaches zero.  Overall, I find the problem formulation unique with a reasonably comprehensive treatment of the problem presented in the paper. The paper is well written.   Minor comment: It's not clear to me what $G$ refers to in the statement of Theorem 1. Should it be $G^{\star}$? Line 148: ".....$F$ in (6)....." should be  "......$F$ in (7)....."?