Originality: Starting from the gamma (local linearity) measure, the paper shows the importance of local linearity of the loss surface. Inspired by this, the authors propose LLC regularization. The story in this paper is complete and convincing.  Quality: The submission is technically sound. The claims are well supported by the experiments, although for me the theoretical analysis in Proposition 4.1 is trivial by a simple use of Taylor expansion.  Clarity: The paper is well-written and the presentation is clear to me.  Significance: Finding better methods to train neural network models with improved robustness is an important research question. The paper moves further by proposing a new regularization technique, which improves both the performance (or comparable performance on CIFAR-10) and the speed over prior work.  I also have some questions on the presentation of the paper: 1. It is not very convincing to me why using the difference between logits for the loss function yield lower adversarial accuracy than the cross-entropy, where the latter has been widely used in various papers. 2. The paper does not show how to choose the regularization parameter. 3. In Table 2, it seems that TRADES achieves the highest natural accuracy (thus putting more weights on the accuracy for its regularization parameter). I am wondering how the authors tune the regularization parameter for TRADES. By putting more weights on the robustness, can TRADES outperform the proposed method?  ================== I have read the authors' rebuttal. The authors promise to clarify and include full sweep results for various baseline methods in the later version. I am looking forward to it, as I find the reported results in Table 2 are a little strange. In particular, the natural accuracy of well-trained TRADES in many papers is ~84-85%, while the reported result in this paper is ~87-88%. So I guess the authors did not trade the regularization parameter of TRADES for its highest robustness (The author can compare their method with the provided checkpoint in the TRADES official Github as in the footnote 8, but footnote 8 does not show the result of LLR for Wide-ResNet-34-10 architecture). Thus, I still feel skeptical of the fairness of the comparisons in Table 2. Besides this, this is a good paper. So I am willing to vote for acceptance of this paper. 