The authors present a novel algorithm with theoretical analysis and empirical results. We have a few comments and suggestions for the work:  The authors note on line 139 that it is not possible to guarantee that the ratio is positive on the x domain. While the log-barrier ensures the positivity at the sample points, its non-positivity at other inputs may imply that that the estimated density p(x,\theta) is not positive everywhere. Although the positivity will hold asymptotically (if the log-barrier is active at all input points), this may be problematic in the finite-sample setting where the experiments are performed and important for the downstream use of the estimators. It would be great if the authors could comment on whether this non-positivity of r was observed in their numerical experiments and if this may be corrected in practice for high-dimensional densities?  In section 4, the authors also note that the estimator resembles GANs by minimizing a discriminator. We recommend that the authors extend this comparison -- possibly in future work!  For the theoretical results, it would be great if the authors could comment on how restrictive is the second assumption or its special case -- is it possible to verify these conditions hold in practice? Furthermore, in practice are the model parameters identifiable -- for instance, can another linear combination of parameters, other than \delta = 0, also ensure that r = 1? It would be great to compare assumptions 1, 2, and 3 to the assumptions imposed by SM or other consistent methods in their analysis.  In the numerical results, do the authors apply the penalized likelihood that is proposed in section 4.3 for model selection? What is the numerical performance of the unpenalized vs. penalized likelihoods for the experiments in section 6? We also recommend the authors to consider proposing finite-sample likelihood estimators that minimize the out-of-sample performance to prevent overfitting (e.g., based on Leave-One-Out or other nearly unbiased estimators).  We recommend the authors extend their experiment in Figure 1.c) for n > 200 to show that the DLE eventually matches the CR bound or MLE results. It also would be great if the authors could comment on how the feature functions were selected in the numerical experiments as well as the adequacy of defining the Stein features using the sufficient statistics of the exponential family distribution in Proposition 2.  Lastly, we had a few minor suggestions for the text: correcting a small grammatical error on lines 85-86, including the dimensions of all defined parameters (e.g., \delta on lines 87 or 109) to help readers, clarifying the relevance of the Stein operator T' that is introduced on line 121 (i.e., could this operator also be used within a DLE context?), defining \Gamma on line 286, clarifying the models for data generation in section 6.1, and providing more details in the text for how to perform the numerical optimization in equation (10). 