Summary: This paper considers learning a Lipschitz function with binary feedback: the learner receives input x, outputs a prediction y and observes whether f(x) > y or f(x) < y. This is particularly relevant in the contextual pricing problem, where the valuation of a buyer is f(x), and the learner only observes whether the buyer buys or not.  The work provides several algorithms to solve the cases of symmetric (= l1) loss, and "pricing loss", which corresponds to pricing problems. Performance guarantees are given for both 1-dimensional and multi-dimensional scenarios. Finally, authors also provide lower bounds that show (near) optimality.  Specific comments:  - What if there is additional noise in observations? For example, what if f(x) models a probability of sale, which is Lipschitz, but the outcome is in {0, 1}. It seems that it would be possible to implement this without changing the structures of the algorithms by much.  - The main downside (somewhat hard to find) I found that the paper refers to the "full paper" a lot. I understand space is constraint and the work provides a lot of results crammed into 8 pages, but referring to the full paper multiple times annoyed me; maybe change full paper into appendix? I want to have the feeling I'm reading the actual paper.  - On my first read I got a bit confused at sections 2.2 and 2.3 as the work switches back to the symmetric loss. Maybe the authors can consider switching the 2 (though I understand there are drawbacks to that as well).  - Obviously, the paper is premised on the Lipschitzness of buyers; it would be great to hear some additional thoughts on what one can do to test this assumption. Relatedly, bounds become vacuous as the dimension d grows, that is inevitable. However, can more things be said if there is some sparsity structure imposed; say that the Lipschitz constant is small for but a few dimensions?  - Great job with the illustrations, I found them very helpful.  Overall: I think this is an excellent paper; the pricing problem is a particularly nice application for the results in this work. The paper is well-written and paints a complete picture of results. I rounded down to a score of an 8, only because I think the particular setting might not appeal to the widest audience, but what it does, it does very well: clear accept.  -- Update after rebuttal: I think the author's addressed concerns adequately and remain of the opinion that this paper should be accepted.