I find the problem to be reasonable well motivated and the work non trivial. Analyzing subgraph counts is usually difficult and this work is no exception. The construction of the family of subgraph is novel and may find applications elsewhere. The paper is well written and the authors do a good job in communicating their ideas in a coherent and understandable fashion.  My biggest concern is the disconnect between the theory and experiments. The theory uses a complicated list of motifs whereas the experiments use a set of five subgraphs. The theory uses random graphs whereas one experiment consider graphs from facebook which are very distinct from random graphs in many aspects (power law degree distribution, clustering and so on). I find that the assertion "We believe our techniques are of independent interest and applicability beyond the correlated ER model" to be not convincing with weak evidence. IMHO more work is needed to justify this assertion.   It is not clear (to me) whether the hypothesis testing problem has been proposed before. The authors should clarify this in the text. Also for finding the permutation minimizing the error, it is not clear to me that the problem with base graph chosen in a worse-case manner (as opposed to a random graph) is NP-hard. It would be good to provide a proof (or mention this is not known).  Some more comments:  L4: vision--> computer vision  Equation 1: I was not sure what || ||_0 means. I would specify this.  L 29: In this paper--> consider deleting  L 43-50. The authors repeat the applications of the problems several times in several different places. I would remove some of these.  L 54: related works--> related work  L 70: By no means easy to establish: I would consider rephrasing.  L 72: But have not been able to so. This is a rather limited evidence for the difficulty of the problem. I would remove it.  L 78-81 As I said the suggestion of relevance documented by the experimental evidence is weak at best. I think more work is needed to justify these claims.  L 82-83: very much: delete  L 98: Simple percolation is not very informative. I would add more details.  L 155: , this can be used: Sentence needs revision.  Beginning of section 2 and elsewhere. If the statement holds for all epsilon then does it hold with probability $1-o(1)$?  Theorem 3.1: Specify that $\delta$ is in $(0,1)$. Also does the result hold for $\gamma<<1$ (with worst running time)?  Figure 3: text is very small making it very cryptic to read.  It would be helpful to have information about the running time of the various algorithms.  Different benchmark algorithms where chosen for different simulations (NN for one but not the others). Justification of this or using the same algorithms throughout is recommended.  References has multiple typos: It is not sorted alphabetically. [13] should have Erdos Renyi capitalized. [33] g_{n,p} need to be corrected.    