This paper contributes to the line of works aiming at identifying stability notions that can be used to guarantee generalization in adaptive data analysis. The notion that the paper proposes is based on a measure of stability loss defined in terms of statistical distance between the prior distribution over the possible inputs and the posterior distribution over the inputs induced by an output of the mechanism. The way the paper bounds this notion is a reminiscence of the epsilon,delta loss bounds. This notions seems to have the good properties that one would like in notions to guarantee generalization and it also relates well with the notions that have been previously studied in this line of work. One thing that is missing in the paper is a discussion of how to enforce a bound on this measure and so have good generalization properties, also just a discussion of how this quantity can be estimated is missing. This makes quite difficult to understand the effective usefulness of this notion. Another minor issue I have with this paper is in the way the separation results are formulated. Perhaps I am being too formal but Theorem 4.6 and Theorem 4.7 seem very specific to particular values of LMI. Could this be formulated in a more general way for arbitrary values of the parameters? It would be great if the authors can clarify this aspect in the rebuttal. Besides these two issues I find this an interesting and well written paper.  Pros: -novel notion that guarantees adaptive generalization -the paper shows that previous notions guaranteeing generalization all imply a bound on Local Statistical Stability  Cons: -unclear the scope of the separation results -the paper doesn't provide any method to guarantee a bound on the Local Statistical Stability, neither any concrete example which satisfies it.  Comments after rebuttal ---------------------------- Thanks for your answers and for clarifying some of the doubts I had on this paper. Please, include a more thorough discussion on possible directions to find methods to enforce LSS in future versions of the paper. Please, also add a discussion about the relations between LSS and other stability notions guaranteeing generalization.