Stein discrepancies have become a popular diagnosis tool emerging over the last few years for MCMC diagnosis. Most convergence tests such as asymptotic variance diagnostics, trace plots and so on work well in settings of no bias. However, for approximate MCMC with subset posteriors bias is introduced and stein discrepancies are a tool that allow us to confirm convergence. Over the past number of years research in this direction has proven to be generally quite impactful.  Specifically in this paper, the authors address the complexity challenge associated with SD methods while avoiding a loss in quality of test. The authors introduce feature-SDs both in terms of construction and in terms of provable determination of convergence. Special cases of feature-SD are shown to equivalent to kernel stein discrepancies (KSDs), RFF approximations to KSDs and random finite set SDs (FSSDs), hence linking the work to broader research in the area. The assumptions required in the selection of feature functions, namely smoothness and decay rate less than Gaussian, seem reasonable in most practical settings.  In the experimentation section, it appears only artificial data / problems are considered and hence act as a sketch of validation of the proposed method rather than the impact of the method in applications. This paper acts as a theoretical contribution and I believe that the experiments are sufficient for this purpose.  I would say that the paper assumes the reader is very well versed in the stein discrepancies litterature and brushes over a more detailed introduction. However, while the paper may lose some non-expert readers, it is rich with content and it is unclear that the authors would have space in the 8 page limit to go into any more detail.   Other notes: While the paper is relatively dense to read through, I have found no obvious mistakes in terms of the equations presented and spelling/grammar. Under many of the theorems the authors use short examples which clarify the above. This is extremely useful in order to follow the usefulness of each point and clarify the statements.  