Summary: The authors present a generative method for graphs tailored for molecules.  Quality: Although the method is technically sound, there are many design choices that should be justified are backed more with theoretical or empirical work. The authors have knowledge of the related works and cite and mention those in the related works section.  Overall, the method is very similar to that of Li et al. [1], but less rigorously evaluated and restricted to molecular graphs. Because of the lacking experiments, it is difficult to decide whether this method represents an advance in area of graph generation.  Originality: The method is similar to the approach of Li et al. [1] and contains a few novel parts, for example the non-recurrent generation process. Overall, I consider this as a variation of existing algorithms. The method is also restricted to molecular graphs, which makes the work rather apt for a conference or journal in cheminformatics.  Significance: The significance of this work is unclear because of the lacking experiments. The reported performance measures in “Figure 3. Table (a)” come without error bars and only report % of valid molecules, % of novel molecules and % of unique molecules. The quality of the graphs is not included in this metrics. Li et al. [1] use the negative log-likelihood as a criterion.  “Figure 3. Table (b)” reports the distribution of selected structural elements of graphs, which could - via visual inspection - indicate an improvement. The authors should use a relevant scalar performance criterion (e.g. [2])  to assess and compare the methods and report the results with error bars and/or significance tests.  Clarity: The paper is understandable, well structured and well written and the notation follows the standards in the community. However, in the experiments section, the writing lacks clarity (see also at “Significance”). The authors should improve the structuring of the experiments section and the presentation of the results.  Minor comments: Some notation could be explained more, e.g. the double arrow symbol Notation and explanation arising from program code, such as “expand” and “focus”, should be avoided Missing related work: [3]  [1] Li, Y., Vinyals, O., Dyer, C., Pascanu, R., & Battaglia, P. (2018). Learning deep generative models of graphs. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.03324.  [2] Preuer, K., Renz, P., Unterthiner, T., Hochreiter, S., & Klambauer, G. (2018). Fr\'echet ChemblNet Distance: A metric for generative models for molecules. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.09518.  [3] Popova, M., Isayev, O., & Tropsha, A. (2017). Deep reinforcement learning for de-novo drug design. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.10907. 