The authors consider the problem of coming up with a pricing strategy that is god against a strategic buyer. Here, a strategic buyer with a fixed valuation v is one who knows the pricing strategy used by a seller and acts in the auction to optimize her surplus.   The authors consider an scenario where both the buyer and the seller have a discount factor in their surplus and revenue. Similar scenarios have been studied before by Kamin et al., Mohri and Munoz and Dustra et al. However, these works have focused on the regret achievable when facing a single buyer. In contrast, this paper wants to find an optimal pricing strategy that works well on average assuming the value of a buyer is chosen from a fixed (known) distribution.   The paper describes the set of optimal strategies when the discount factor of the buyer is less than that of the seller and vice-versa. The first case offers surprising results showing that the buyer can recover the same revenue as if he had a discount factor equal to that of the buyer.  The case when the seller's discount greater than the buyer discount is much more complicated as it requires optimizing over a discrete set with an exponential number of elements. I would say the main contribution of the authors is to transform this problem into a smooth problem where gradients are available. This was by no means a trivial task and required a very deep understanding of the problem. While the smooth problem size remains exponential, the authors show that a low dimensional approximation to it does not deteriorate the solution too much.   The authors conclude showing different performance metrics for their algorithm.  Overall I am very impressed with the work done by the authors to obtain a smooth version of this problem and make a connection between strategic revenue optimization and static revenue optimization which was missing in the literature.  One question that the authors do not address however is how does their approximation compare to using the algorithm of Drutsa et. al. While the algorithm of Drutsa et al. is designed for facing a fixed buyer, one can plug the guarantees inside the expectation term and see if they are better than the ones proposed by the authors. This would have the advantage of being a much simpler algorithm. Even if this were the case, however, I believe making the connection between strategic revenue optimization and static revenue optimization is a good enough reason to accept this paper.   **** I must admit that I did not read the proofs of the paper although intuitively everything seemed correct ****** 