Originiality and Quality: 1. The work is novel and the algorithm proposed for empirical minimization is novel. However, I have some issues with the motivation and experiments, listed under weaknesses below. 2. Theorem 3.1 is interesting in itself, because it applies to vectors which are not in the range of the generative model.  Clarity: The paper is well written and ideas clearly expressed. I believe that others can reproduce the algorithm described. I only have a problem with the way the set $S(x,theta, tau)$ is defined in line 177, since the authors do not require the signs to strictly differ on this set.  Significance: I think other researchers can build on Theorem 3.1. The conditions proposed for Theorem 3.3 are novel and could be used for future results.  Weaknesses: 1. I am not completely convinced by the experimental strengths of this approach. To run the proposed algorithm, the authors need to run a descent procedure for 40 different networks from the training phase. In contrast, you could simply run vanilla Adam on the final network with 40 random initial points, and one of these restarts would reach the global minimum. It is not important that EACH initialization reach the global minimum, as long as AT LEAST one initialization reaches the global minimum. 2. While Theorem 3.3 is interesting, it does not directly influence the experiments because the authors never perform the search operation in line 3 of algorithm 2. Because of this, it provides a proof of correctness for an algorithm that is quite different from the algorithm used in practice. Although Algorithm 2 and the empirical algorithm are similar in spirit, lines 1 and 3 in algorithm 2 are crucial for proof of correctness.  Clarifications: 1. For the case where $y= G(z) + noise$, where noise has sufficiently low energy, you would expect a local minimum close to $z$. Would this not contradict the result of Theorem 3.1?  ---Edit after author response--- Thank you for your response. After reading your rebuttal and other reviews, I have updated my score to a 8. I think Table in the rebuttal and Theorem 3.1 are solid contributions. Regarding my criticism of the definition of S(x,tau,theta)- I only meant that defining the complement of this set may make things clearer, since you only seem to work with its complement later on (this did not influence my score).