The authors compare the ranks of tensor representations of HMM, and outputs of quantum circuits with two qubit unitary gates yielding Matrix product States (MPS) and so-called Locally Purified States (LPS) when ancillary unmeasured bits are present.   A general comment: Born machines automaticaly enforce positivity but is it clear that 83) and (4) are less than 1 ? And sum to 1 ? The A's come from some unitary circuits in SM ? If yes the main problem formulation seems not selfcontained in sect.2. Explanations or rewiting welcome !   -- Some of the results seems a bit obvious or intuitive. Some are more surprizing namely the very large (at least of the order of the number of qubits) difference in rank when one works in the real field versus complex field.    -- That there is a gap of expressivity between the two fields is not surprizing (maybe I am naive here) but the largeness of the gap is puzzling. Can you comment on your intuitions ? Is this due to very specific examples constructed in the SM ? Or is it a more generic feature ? These comments would also improve clarity.  -- In the same vein that TT rank is smaller than purirank etc (proposition 4) was counterintuitive to me at first. As said later the catch is probably that it is difficult to enforce the positivity constraint. But such intuitions could be given much earlier after the statements of each proposition.  -- Further results about the growth rate of this gap as a function of N would be interesting, but these are not provided. I understand this is left as future work. Reasonable and not a problem.  -- I did not follow all proofs in detail but the parts I read seem sound.  -- To improve the clarity of the presentation a better explanation of the link between figure 3 and Proposition 1 would be welcome. A few sentence would suffice to develop a better intuition.   Review update: the authors have responded to most of these questions and propose added explanations in the final version. In my opinion they have also addressed concerns of other reviewers. The responses are convincing and I trust the final version of the paper will improve from the pedagogic stance.   