This paper looks at the community detection problem when the underlying network is a degree corrected stochastic block model in the sparse regime (i.e. constant average degree as the number of nodes tend to infinity). This model has been extensively studied and the authors are still able to make a contribution. On the rigorous side, for 2 communities, [16] proves that for \alpha <\alpha_c (notation of the paper see equation (2)), it is impossible to recover the communities better than random guessing and [17] shows that for \alpha>\alpha_c, a spectral method based on the non-backtracking matrix will achieve positive overlap. The authors in [8] suggest to use a symmetric matrix that they named the Bethe Hessian instead of the non-backtracking matrix and demonstrate empirically that a spectral algorithm based on this matrix works very-well. In order to use the Bethe Hessian, on needs to specify an additional hyperparameter called r compared to the non-backtracking matrix. A default choice was proposed in [8] and the paper under review suggests another generic choice for this parameter. With this new choice of the parameter, the spectral algorithm gives a better overlap for the degree corrected SBM. Some mathematical intuitions for this new value is given in section 2. Ways to estimate it are described in section 3. Extensions to several uneven-sized communities are provided in section 4 and experimental validation is done in section 5.  -------------- Post feedback:   I've read the feedback of the authors. A point I realized in the discussion with other reviewers: I doubt the overlap obtained by your spectral method will be 'optimal'. Usually spectral methods are used as initialization for a greedy method improving the overlap. The only optimal result with a rigorous proof that I know is from Mossel Neeman and Sly in Belief propagation, robust reconstruction and optimal recovery of block models where they show that running a variant of BP with a good initialization is optimal well above the threshold for SBM. Hence your remark 2 is probably not correct and it would be nice to have experiments with BP.