Originality:  In terms of overall technique, this paper uses techniques that have already been developed in previous mean field papers. However, the application of these techniques to the fisher information is a novel, challenging, and worthwhile contribution. Moreover, looking at the fisher information in combination with normalization techniques is a sufficiently novel perspective that it leads me to believe this paper is sufficiently novel to warrant publication.  Quality:  I have somewhat mixed opinions about this paper in terms of quality (which has overlap with its significance). On the one hand, the authors have carefully considered a number of different approaches to normalization theoretically. Indeed, I think the distinction between the different normalization settings applied to the spectrum of the fisher is the key takeaway message of the paper.   Having said that, the experimental portion of the paper could use work. In particular, the authors remark early on that one should expect the maximum achievable learning rate to scale as the inverse maximum eigenvalue of the fisher. Moreover, batch normalization in the final layer is shown to reduce the maximum eigenvalue. It would be nice to combine these results to show that this improved conditioning does indeed translate to a higher maximum achievable learning rate.   Incidentally, it would also be nice to confirm the max eigenvalue behavior of the various normalization types.  Clarity:  I thought the clarity of the exposition was good. I was able to follow the results and understand the important aspects of the paper clearly. I also feel that given the exposition, if I were to sit down I could probably reproduce most of the results in a reasonable amount of time.   One minor point, as I mentioned above, I think an important technique that is introduced in the paper is the duality between the fisher and the NTK (F vs F*). I might recommend the authors move a discussion of this into the main text.  Significance:  I think the results _could_ be significant. In particular, I think the notion of normalizing the last layer is quite novel (especially since one need only perform mean subtraction). I also think that the theoretical techniques introduced here may end up being impactful. As elaborated above, however, I think to maximize impact the authors should add significant experimental work either to this paper or in a followup work.  ---------  Update: After reading the author's rebuttal and a subsequent discussion I have decided to raise my review to a 7. I think there is sufficient novelty w.r.t. [21] and the new experiment seems interesting! 