After rebuttal ------------------------ Thank you for the rebuttal. After having read all the reviews and the rebuttal, I will keep my score of 7. That being said, I reviewer with Reviewer #3 that the experimental part can be improved and I still think the authors could do a better job analyzing and explaining the representative power and flexibility of the proposed variational family.   Summary -------------------- The paper is proposing a new variational family for variational inference as an alternative to classic mean-field Gaussians and full-rank Gaussians. The new variational family is constructed as follows. The starting point is a copula-like density, meaning a density that lives on the hypercube, but do not have uniform marginals. The authors then propose to apply a normalizing flow-type map and a sequence of Given rotations to the random variable in order to make the resulting density more expressive. The authors present an algorithm to sample from the proposed distribution, which is meant as a plug in-replace for Gaussians. Finally, the paper is concluded with a set of numerical experiments  Clarity ----------------- Overall, the paper is well written and well structured.  Quality ------------------ The paper appears technically correct. The claims of the paper are supported to some degree by empirical evidence, but there is no theoretical analysis. Based on the simple 2D experiments 8 (Sec. 6.1 & 6.2), it is seen that the proposed method is capable of modelling asymmetric posterior distributions.  The code is not included in the submission.  Significance ---------------- The proposed construction is indeed interesting. This work would be of interest for both researchers and practitioners.   Originality ----------- To the best of my knowledge, both the idea of using the distribution in eq. (6) as a base distribution and the idea of using Given rotations in variational inference are also novel.  Other comments ------------- It is obvious that the density given in eq. (6) is a density? Figure 3: The quality of the figure is very bad on print  