Summary ---------------    This paper explores the computational complexity relation between sampling and optimization. More precisely given a function f(x) defined over a set X \subset of R^d, we can define the following problems: - Optimization: find x' such that f(x') <= f(x*) + epsilon where x* is the minimizer of x'. - Sampling: approximately sample y from X from the probability distribution with density p(y) \prop exp(-f(y)).    When f(x) is a convex function of x then it is known that optimization is computationally equivalent with sampling and both can be solved in polynomial time. When f(x) is non-convex though too little is known for the relation of these two problems. A recent work by Ma et al shows an example where sampling is easy but optimization is hard in the oracle model of Nesterov.    This paper enriches our understanding of sampling vs optimization in two ways: (1) it strengths the example provided by Ma et al. by showing that there are cases where the sampling is easy but optimization is NP-hard, (2) it shows that the opposite is true too, optimization can be easy but sampling NP-hard. Observe that NP-hardness is a very strong notion of hardness from computational complexity theory and in particular it implies hardness in the oracle model.  Strengths -------------------- - The understanding of the relation between sampling and optimization in the non-convex case is a very fundamental and relevant question.  - The results are the strongest possible in this direction and they rule out for example the possible use of second or higher order methods.  - The proofs provide a clean but non-trivial use of complexity of combinatorial problems in a continuous space. I believe that the techniques provided in this paper can be of independent interest for showing more NP-hardness results for continuous non-convex problems.  Weaknesses ------------------- Strictly technically speaking the proofs use heavy machinery from known results in complexity theory but are non very technical themselves.  Summary of Recommendation -----------------------------   The problem explored in this paper is fundamental and relevant, the results are strong and the presentation very good so I strongly recommend acceptance. 