In this paper, the authors provide a novel unsupervised outlier detection framework for images.  The authors first propose a surrogate supervision-based framework to learn the representation of each datum.  The authors then provide a theoretical explanation on why the proposed framework would prioritize the inliers in the data set.  The authors then provide several outlier score definitions based on the proposed framework.  They also conduct a series of experiments to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method and show substantial improvement over baselines.    Outlier detection is a classical research problem in unsupervised learning with many applications.  The authors provide a novel methodology to attack outlier detection problem for images.  Unlike previous methods which largely aim to learn a model/distribution where normal data can be recovered/generated from, the authors introduce surrogate supervision to learn the representation.  I think the idea is brilliant.  Although the transformations in this paper are image-specific, it is definitely inspiring for outlier detection methods in other fields like text or social networks.     The theoretical analysis in Section 3.2 is insightful.  It shows how the proposed network would be dominated by inliers.  More importantly, I think it shows the relations between how rare the outliers are and how much they will disrupt the training.  I believe this part would be much more convincing if the authors could also provide an analysis for AE/CAE based method and do a comparison.  This will provide more insight on why the proposed method in this paper outperforms the baselines.    The authors conduct thorough experiments on multiple data sets.  The experimental results seem promising.  A minor concern I have is the setting of \rho.  In many real scenarios of outlier detection, \rho could be a much smaller value such as 1% or 0.5%.  Do the authors have experimental results on these configurations?    %==After rebuttal==% Thanks for the authors' response.  Based on the reviews, I think the authors need to clarify the value of the analysis in Section 3.2, i.e. "the quantitative correlation between inliers/outliers’ gradient magnitude and the inlier/outlier ratio".  I still think it would be interesting to perform similar analysis on other algorithms, even an extremely naive one.  But overall I remain my positive opinion.  