Summary This paper describes a framework for detecting proxy variables in a linear regression framework.  It poses the problem as two optimization problems and presents (with proofs only in supplemental material) theorems that relate the solutions to the two optimization problems to cases of proxy existence in a problem. The paper also describes incorporation of an exempt variable, a proxy that is deemed acceptable for use for one reason or another.  The paper leverages a prior work that defines a proxy in a classification framework as a variable that is associated with a sensitive attriute and causally infulential on the decision of the system.  The paper describes how to reformulate this definition for the case of linear regression.  The proposed method is tested on two datasets and finds expected results.  Strengths: The text of the paper is generally understandable.  Proxy detection can be an important problem in checking for discriminatory behavior of an algorthmic system.  Weaknesses: The presentation of material sometimes reads abruptly, some reorganization or trimming of tangential points might make the main points of the paper easier to ascertain for the reader.  For example, section three begins by introducing an abstraction, stating that it will be used throughout while describbing the proxy detection algorithm, but then key details of the algorithm are left out.  It skips directly to solving an optimization problem, the origin of which is never described, but would be more informative than the geometric interpretation/abstraction, as it reads currently.  Perhaps a description of the optimization problems would be faciiated by the abstraction, but as is it reads like a tangent.  Problem 1 and problem 2 are referred to prior to definiton and never defined in the body of the paper; only in table headings and figure captions. The table (figure 2) where they are defined is also never explicitly referred to in the body of the paper.  Testing a linear regression set of techniques on data that is described as having largely categoricla varialbes doesn't seem like a sensible choice.  Either a better description of the data, justifying that linear regression is the right technique for the the data or better data set selection is necessary to validate that the experimental results are meaningful and that the current technique (as opposed to the prior work that motivates this work) is necessary.   