------------------------------------------ After author feedback: Thanks to the authors for their response. This is a paper with strong theoretical results which are well supported  by the experiments.  ------------------------------------------- Original review: Summary: The object of study is the round complexity of (epsilon, delta)-PAC best-k-arms identification. In that particular instance of the best-k-arms bandit problem, an algorithm successively samples arms, with the goal of finally returning a set of k arms, which with probability bigger than 1-delta verifies that the mean or the j^th arm of the set is within epsilon of the j^th highest mean. The focus is on algorithms which have a small number of rounds at which they make decisions: at each such round, the algorithm queries a number of samples, and no adaptive decision is made between rounds. An algorithm is good if the total number of samples it requires is small (sample complexity) and if the number of rounds is small (round complexity). New algorithms and complexity bounds are provided for two settings: either the algorithm is free to choose the number of rounds, or that number is set in advance. An adaptation to exact top-k arm identification (epsilon=0) is also presented.  Strengths: - Strong theoretical guarantees: the algorithms have both close to optimal sample complexities and round complexities. These algorithms are the first ones with such round complexities which do not require additional information on the problem. - Convincing experimental evaluation. The new algorithms improve over existing ones by order of magnitude with respect to the round complexity, while having sample complexity of comparable order to the best ones. The results on the exact top-k problem are particularly striking. - Clear presentation of the algorithms, in particular on page 4.  Weaknesses: - the description and comparison of the different existing top-k settings could be clearer. For example, some papers require the means of all the k arms to be above the k^th highest mean, while this paper compares each of the k arms to different reference arms. This is mentioned in the related work section at the end of the paper, but the clarity would be enhanced if it was explained in the introduction. - The references to existing results could be more precise. For example the lower bound mentioned line 168 could be cited more precisely. Instead of referring to papers [16] and [14] without more precisions, the authors could write for example [16, Theorem X]. Lines 100-102, a notion of "near-optimality" coming from a previous paper is also referred to in a vague way.  Remarks: - I think that the notation log^*(a) is defined, but not log^*_b(a). It took me a moment to realize that this was the logarithm in base b. - Instead of calling the problems 1, 2 and 3, it would be easier for the reader to have them be called by names. Writing "exact-top-k" is not much longer than "problem 3" and is much more descriptive. 