This paper proposes a novel randomized incremental gradient algorithm Varag for minimizing convex problems with finite sum structure. The algorithm efficiently incorporate the variance reduction technique in order to achieve the optimal convergence rate for convex or strongly convex problems. The algorithm is at the same time simple and rich, which admits many interesting features. For instance, the algorithm admits a non-uniform sampling strategy to handle the case that the Lipschitiz constant are unbalanced; also the algorithm is able to handle non-Euclidean case via Bregman distance. It is a great contribution to combine all these components together in a relatively simple algorithm. Moreover, extensions to stochastic setting and error bound condition are also included. Experiments on logistic regression or Lasso are conducted showing that the algorithm is competitive compared to existing accelerated algorithms. Overall, I am very positive about the paper, even though I have some minor concerns.   One of the key feature of the proposed algorithm is to have a phase transition on the parameters. In particular, the parameters are more "aggressive" in the early iterations.  And this leads to a very surprising result that the algorithm is converging linearly in the early iterations even in the convex but non-strongly convex setting. More precisely, the linear convergence holds roughly before all the individual function are visited once. Moreover, the convergence parameter in this phase only depends on m, the number individual functions. Could authors provide more intuitions/explanations on why a linear convergence rate is achievable in the early stages?   Furthermore, in the early stages, the number of inner loop iterations T_s are increasing exponentially, this is quite similar to the stochastic minimization setting that we increase the sample size geometrically. Could authors provide some motivation of this choice?   In the experiment, is the non-uniform sampling strategy used?  How does it compared to the case of uniform sampling?   EDIT after author's feedback: I thank authors for the clarification, I believe the paper deserves to be published.  