Main idea The paper introduces a new framework of interactive structure learning that focuses on interactive learning on partial correction. The framework formulate interactive queries as a bag of atomic questions, and user correction corresponds to picking one atomic question with an error. Seeing it as an extension to multilabel classification, the paper generalizes the query-by-committee algorithm to the framework by using priors and weighted updates. The paper analyzes QBC both under perfect and noisy feedbacks, and under 0-1 and general convex losses. The authors prove the convergence of specified algorithm in main text, while experiments and rates of convergence is given in the appendix. Comments The paper presents a nice framework that summarizes both multi-label classification and hierarchical clustering. I feel it is good fit for publication at NIPS. Several comments and directions:  1. The first line of Algorithm 1 mentions a prior distribution over query space, which is not formally defined in main text (the prior on structures is defined). I feel it benefitial to formally define it and discuss the impact of it on convergence (rate).  2. There is a line of supervised interactive learning that can be mentioned in the related works section. Theses works uses additional information as feedback and is more related to the current work than pure active learning. E.g.,  Poulis, S. and Dasgupta, S. Learning with feature feedback: From theory to practice.   Xu, Y., Zhang, H., Miller, K., Singh, A., and Dubrawski, A. Noise-tolerant interactive learning from pairwise compar- isons with near-minimal label complexity  3. A conclusion is probably needed for final version.  4. The paper considers Massart noise for noisy feedback. It would be interesting to consider other choices, like Tsybakov noise or adversarial noise. In this situation convergence might not be possible, but still some other conclusions might be drawn. Quality  The paper is well written and the analysis seems complete. Clarity The paper is mostly clear. It does not have conclusion part  - I feel some polishing is needed for final version. Originality The paper is original. Significance The paper gives an important framework that combines multi-label classification and clustering. Update: I've read the authors' response and I feel satisfied about it.