Positives:  The paper is well organized, with each section clearly defined and good use of notation to clearly mark research objectives and contributions made by the authors. The introduction sets up the contributions clearly, and the background/method sections manage to cover a lot of material with varying degrees of success. The figures/graphics provided by the paper also do a good job of expressing what the machine learning task that is being solved is and the proposed solution as it relates to retrosynthesis. The authors focus on a specific ML task, retrosynthesis, is also refreshing as it’s applications in the industry are clear. The mathematical equations provide a means to implement the model as well, this also extends to descriptions for the model including layers and optimization functions. In the experiment section, the authors model also appears to beat out the baselines.   Negatives:  The paper would have benefited with a pseudo-code algorithm describing the graph neutralization for v1, v2 and w2. The equations, while well written, are frequently written inline and the clarity of the overall algorithm is a little unclear. Overall the focus on retrosynthesis as the main ML task leads to equations being described from that perspective solely. It would have helped if the authors described the methods agnostic of the data or ML task.  The related work section is also fairly short with citations to other works infrequently mentioned in the paper. In particular, the paper mentions markov logic networks, which seem structurally similar to the proposed GLNs. The authors mention an appendix A which explains the differences, but this was not available for review. Given the strong similarities between the two frameworks, GLNs novelty is called into question. It would seem this is just an application of MLNs in the context of retrosynthesis.   Related work:  The paper provides a related work section, which very quickly mentions approaches dealing with the second goal of the paper, hierarchical classification. The authors do a well enough job citing previous methods which they base their model off of. The baseline methods are also cited and explained.    Conclusion:  The following paper does a good job describing the model proposed, and the solution does appear to improve upon previous approaches dealing with retrosynthesis. The authors focus on a specific ML task is also a step in the right direction, however their focus in describing the model in regards to the task makes applying the model to other ML tasks difficult. The use of inline equations also removes some clarity in their approach. The novelty of the approach is also called into question since there are clear similarities with MLNs, and the appendix was not available. Given that, I would give this paper a weak reject as it is unclear if this is simply an application paper or a truly new method.  