1. Summary - This paper introduces a new IRL scenario where the learner has a different “world-view” (features) compared to the teacher. A key observation is that the optimal policy with respect to the teacher’s policy may not be optimal for the learner’s view. The paper assumes that the teacher has to not only provide demonstrations but also update the learner’s features. Assuming that the learner’s feature is a linear transformation of the teacher’s feature, this paper introduces a new measure “teaching risk” which can serve as a performance gap between the teacher and the learner given their different views. This paper further proposes an algorithm that greedily updates the feature of the learner and its policy to minimize the teaching risk. This algorithm outperforms two heuristic algorithms on NxN grid world domain.   [Pros] - Introduces a new and interesting IRL problem. - Proposes a new performance measure for this problem with a good theoretical result. - Proposes an algorithm that performs better than heuristic approaches.  [Cons] - The proposed approach and the experimental result are limited to the linear setting.  2. Quality - This paper introduces an interesting IRL problem with good motivating examples. - The proposed measure “teaching risk” is interesting and reasonable with a nice theoretical backup. This also leads to an algorithm in this paper. - The theoretical/empirical results of this paper are based on the assumption that the learner’s feature is a linear transformation of the teacher. This paper could be much stronger if it showed a more general/practical algorithm and empirical result that works well on complex domains, though I think this is out of scope.  - It would be good to discuss “Third-Person Imitation Learning” [Stadie et al.]  and “Time-Contrastive Networks” [Sermanet et al.] in the related work, as they also deal with imitation learning problem where the teacher and the learner have different views.  3. Clarity - The paper is very well-written.  4. Originality - The proposed problem/theoretical result/algorithm are novel to my knowledge.   5. Significance - This type of IRL problem (e.g., 3rd-person imitation learning) is becoming important as it is hard to provide 1st-person demonstrations in the real-world applications (e.g., robotics). Although the proposed algorithm and the experiment are limited to the linear setup, I think a good theoretical understanding provided by this paper would be useful for building a more practical algorithm in the future.