Significance: Recently knockoffs have been proposed to control FDR in multiple testing problems. Alot of the literature in this area deals with designing procedures with guaranteed FDR control. However, the power analysis of these procedures is not well understood. This paper tackles the important problem of analyzing the power of knockoff procedures under an idealized setup with correlated gaussian features.  Originality: The paper leverages previous AMP-based analysis of the LASSO estimator to derive their theoretical results. Existing work leveraged this analysis to study the power of knockoff procedures with i.i.d. Gaussian design, this work considers correlated gaussian design.  Clarity: The work is reasonably well written, but there are still several typos.  Detailed comments:  Proposition 2,4: Proposition 2,4 provide a tight characterization of the Information Theoretic limit of achieving FDR=0 and POWER = 1 asymptotically. Can the author clarify how is the task of achieving asymptotically FDR = 0 and POWER = 1 different from support recovery? Are any of these results implied by existing results regarding support recovery?  Lemma 5: From my understanding, this is only a sufficient condition to guarantee FDR = 0 and POWER = 1 asymptotically. This is a limitation of this work since the comparison between different knockoff procedures is done based on this sufficient condition, and it is not clear that this sufficient condition is tight.   Simulations: The authors use simulations to demonstrate that comparision between theoretically derived sufficient condition (ESD) reflects the performance of the knockoff procedures in simulations.  In particular the ESD condition predicts the failure of equi-knockoff procedure correctly. However the performance difference between conditional knockoff and sdp-knockoff don't seem to be significant and so these simulations don't really tell us anything about the power of the ESD condition to compare these two techniques.  It would be great if the authors could find setups where these two knockoff methods have significantly different performance and compare the ESD in these setups. 