— This paper introduces a graph-convolutional-net-based approach for the task of factual visual question answering, where given an image and a question, the model has to retrieve the correct supporting knowledge fact to be able to answer it accurately.  — Prior approaches query the knowledge base using a database query predicted from the question, and use the response from the database to obtain the final answer. This ignores the inherent graph structure of the knowledge base, and performs reasoning from facts to answer one at a time, which is computationally inefficient.  — Instead, the proposed approach first has a coarse-to-fine candidate fact retrieval step which considers 1) similarity in GLoVE space between question and fact words, and then 2) filters this list to keep facts which align with the predicted relation from question.  — The unique entities occurring in this filtered list of facts constitutes the nodes of a graph, with corresponding node representations as a concatenation of 1) image feature vector, 2) LSTM embedding of question, and 3) LSTM embedding of entity. Two entities have a connecting edge if they belong to the same fact.  — This graph is operated on by a Graph Convolution Network with 2 hidden layers, and its output representation for each node is used as input to a binary classifier to predict if that entity is the answer or not.  Strengths  — The proposed approach is intuitive, sufficiently novel, and outperforms prior work by a large margin — ~10% better than the previous best approach, which is an impressive result.  — Error breakdown by subcomponent is neat.  — Overall, the paper is clearly written, and has fairly exhaustively done experiments and ablation studies.  Weaknesses  — Given that the fact retrieval step is still the bottleneck in terms of accuracy (Table 4), it would be useful to check how sensitive downstream accuracy is to the choice of retrieving 100 facts. What is the answering accuracy if 50 facts are retrieved? 500?  Evaluation  Overall, I’m happy to recommend this paper for publication.  Using graph convolutional networks is an intuitive approach to reasoning over knowledge bases, and hasn’t been tried before for the task of FVQA. Going forward, I encourage the authors to push more on learning the entire network (relation prediction, answer prediction) jointly, which might lead to improved accuracies due to tighter coupling and end-to-end training.