The setting is interesting and the potential contribution here could be significant. Also, in terms of clarity and presentation, the authors have made a very good job, in my opinion.  However, although overall this has the potential to be a good paper, at this point I think there are some issues. In particular:  1. In (4), N has to tend to infinity, which may not be practical in many applications of the type considered in the paper. Instead, one would be more interested in an actually finite sample guarantee for the proposed estimator, which would be also implementable. The limiting operation in (4) seems kind of restrictive and thus practical merit of the work limited. 2. The second main result presented, Theorem 2, is quite strange. In (5), with respect to what is the maximization involving the pdf on the right-hand-side? I guess x. However, if this is true, then what happens later in (16)? Something seems not right here, because in (16) one could take the infimum of the right-hand-side, and get a better bound. However, you do not seem to do something like that. Please explain in sufficient detail what is happening. Also, (20) does not seem right to me, because the first term on the right-hand-side depends on s, and it seems that this dependence has been ignored when taking the supremum over s, on both sides of the preceding expression.  3. The experiments presented do not really match the setting studied in the analysis. For example, in lines 155 - 157: The application does not really justify the theoretical analysis. If N is days, then N cannot be something really large right? I mean, for how many days are you going to measure the acoustic field X anyways? In particular, I see that N=43, which is rather small to be supported by the theoretical results, where N tends to infinity.  Therefore, based on the above, this paper might not be of sufficient quality for acceptance. However, I am willing change my opinion as long as the responses by the authors are satisfactory, especially regarding Theorem 2, which an important part of the contributions claimed.  ===========After Author Response========== I have also read the author response. The fact that the authors state that it might be possible to study the problem in the finite sample regime makes me wonder that the paper might be possible to be strengthened (with a new version), in order to support the particular application stated in the title. However, I still believe that the results are interesting. For now, I will increase to my score to 6.