The paper studies the problem of formal verification of piecewise linear Neural Network models (PLNNs). The authors (i) nicely reframe the verification problem as a case of Branch-and-bound optimization in order to compare the existing methodologies from the literature, (ii) introduce a Branch and Bound algorithm for verifying properties of piecewise linear neural networks, and (iii) propose algorithmic improvements to speed-up runtime efficiency of their algorithm that are verified empirically.  There are two key points I would like to raise:  (1) The verification problems that are investigated in the paper are constraint satisfaction problems (with originally no objectives).  While it is sufficient to reformulate the CSPs studied in the paper as optimization problems, more complex problems that involve using PLNNs for optimization are ignored and would not work directly in the framework proposed in Section 3.1.  For example, planning/control optimization in deep-net learned models [1] would seem to be precluded by Section 3.1.  It would be much more general to have a unified formalism that handled PLNN property satisfaction as well as full PLNN optimization, so that branch and bound optimizations would benefit both problems.  (2) An advantage of the branch and bound framework is that there are already numerous methods for both branching and bounding.  While I can see that bounding methods should probably be specialized for the specific deep networks you are studying, it is less clear to me why the authors do not study a wider range of branching methods from the literature.  Further if the authors used a modifiable (and very fast) C implementation of branch and bound provided in the SCIP solver (http://scip.zib.de/), they would be able to simply use a wide variety of pre-implemented (and tuned/debugged) heuristics.  So while I feel like the authors have provided an interesting unifying framework, they have fallen short of a comprehensive evaluation of existing and new heuristics that would be highly informative for those working in this area.  Being comprehensive it would probably have to go in a supplementary appendix, but I see no problem with this… a summary can be placed in the main paper.  Overall, I like this paper and the code release is a *huge* bonus, but I would like it even more if the experimental evaluation were much more comprehensive of existing branching (and maybe other bounding) methods.    Reference:  [1] Buser Say, Ga Wu, Yu Qing Zhou, Scott Sanner. Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-2017), 750-756.  Note: many of the arxiv references in the paper should be replaced with the actual peer-reviewed publication citations. 