Thank you for the comprehensive author response. I found answers to O1 and Q2 satisfying. I particularly liked the answer to Q2b which I think might be nice to mention in the work when motivating your technique. I also believe that the authors have appreciated the point I was trying to make in Q1. I sincerely hope that code will be released with this paper, facilitating future implementations and algorithm re-use. One thing that’s not mentioned is how this would scale to the continuous control case. I think mentioning this would make your paper more widely read.  Additionally upon re-reading section 5.2.2, I think the Schulman citation you want to use in L254 is actually 2017a and not 2015 since it considers and compares multi-step augmented rewards with single-step rewards.  The paper could be made slightly more approachable in terms of its framing and derivation and will be increasing my score in the hopes that the authors update their paper to facilitate this.    =======  Originality  The authors have done a very good job of providing an excellent related work section that places the method amongst both the mirror policy descent literature as well as the entropy regularized literature. It seems that DAPO is a superset of all the methods. My main concerns are listed below:  O1: In L189 the authors mention that the multistep return corresponds to the KL augmented return. So then what is the main contribution of this work? If this is stated in L35 then I think it should be pointed out more strongly in the development of the algorithm. Furthermore, I think discussion the relationship of this work with [Equivalence Between Policy Gradients and Soft Q-Learning Schulman et al 2015] or  [Bridging the Gap Between Value and Policy Based Reinforcement Learning Nachum et al. 2017] should make this clearer.     Quality  I highly appreicate the detailed description of the algorithm settings (5.1) and in appendix A. I anticipate that these will be very useful for people replicated this work.   Q1: My first issue is with the quality of the questions in the experimental section 5. Though these question seem important and i understand where the authors are coming from, I find that they are not precise enough. For example, starting a question with “What is the effect” for 1,2 is vague. What are we measuring in these cases?  My second issue is the reasons in L235  and L243 for why DAPO would to better than PPO and entropy augmentation respectively. I detail these below in Q2:  Q2a: L235 states that the method would perform better for games that may have a local minimum + require deeper exploration. I am ok with the exploration claim since it is clear in Fig 1 that in hard exploration games there is an improvement in performance (though it is split 50/50). However,  it is not clear which of these games have different local minimum. I encourage the authors to reframe this argument or provide an experiment that specifically tests this. Q2b: L243 states that entropy augmentation alters the learning objective but doesn’t divergence augmentation also modify the learning objective?   Clarity  C1: I am not sure why the mirror map formulation is necessary? Isn’t it possible to just start from Eqn 7?   Minor issues with math notations: C2a: Eqn 1 — Please  provide a plain-text description of this statement. C2b: Eqn 2 —I think the discount factor is missing on the RHS. C2c: L156 I think using c for the loss scaling coefficient is confusion since it is already used as the clipping ratio.    Other typos: C3a: L200 (extra “that”) C3b: L224 “without otherwise noted” —> “unless otherwise noted” C3c: L256 “We hypothesis” —> “We hypothesize”   Figure improvements: C4: it was hard for me to read the x and y labels in Figure 2. 