This is a decent work. The main idea of this paper is to propose a differentially private compute mechanism when the data is streaming. The crux of the proposal is in Thm 1.1. Given a population of n users partitioned into L subgroups, the system proceeds in rounds and in each round each user sample a bit independently from their subgroup specific distribution. The private data of each user consist of vectors sampled over time and the goal is to track the population mean over time. The estimate needs to be private and differentially secure. To circumvent some of the issues with local privacy, the authors relax the problem in which the rounds are batched into T epochs, each consisting of l rounds and aim to estimate pt in epoch t. The main result of this paper is an algorithm that takes data generated according to this model, guarantees a fixed level of privacy that grows with the number of distributional changes and not number of epochs.  Strengths: 1. One of the key contributions of this paper is a novel algorithm. So it gets a high mark in originality 2. The work, if successful, may have a serious impact on how privacy is dealt with in the streaming world in the industry. Companies like Apple can take this kind of model and enable private data sharing for billions of users  Weakness: 1. I found the paper hard to follow. Unfamiliar with local differential privacy, I found it hard to comprehend. The definition is in Section 2. I would urge the authors to present it in Section 1 2. The accuracy estimates  provided in the paper are probabilistic. Without proper experiments it is impossible to judge the tradeoff between privacy and accuracy. This paper does not provide any expt results 3. Since this is an iterative system, how scalable is the method? This is very important to understand this, since the authors guarantee diff privacy  after each epoch. There is a cost to pay for this in terms of the "delay" 4. From the simple problem of average of bits, how can we do go more complex data at each user? 5. No conclusion is provided  Updated after Author response:  I am still not happy that the authors did not do any expts. While theoretical results only provide a bound, the usefulness can only be found by thorough evaluation. I would also urge the authors to add a conclusion section since the takeaways become more informative after reading the whole paper.