Added comment post feedback: The authors propose to add a comparison with Greenkhorn which addressed my main criticism; hoping that the comparison will not be overly obfuscated by differences in implementation. The main concerns of reviewer 2 appear to be very relevant and I am curious to see whether reviewer 2 is satisfied with the authors' feedback.   I maintain my rating (i.e. I am in favor of acceptance for this paper but wouldn't be upset if it is rejected). The proposed method is novel, it can be interesting to approximate the Sinkhorn divergence even in the case where eta is not that small (i.e. even if the Sinkhorn divergence itself is a poor approximation for the Kantorovich-Wasserstein distance), and I find the paper honest about the fact that the computational gains might come at the cost of approximation error that strongly depends on eta (i.e. Figure 3). The proposed theoretical results might have flaws (i.e. unknown constants in the bounds) but it can be the starting point for further work.  === The regularized OT problem can be solved with Sinkhorn iterations with a computational cost in n times m, where n and m are the numbers of atoms in the input measures. By considering the dual problem, and by screening/thresholding some of the dual variables before performing the optimization, the authors reduce the cost to n_b times m_b, where n_b and m_b are chosen by the user. This comes with an additional approximation error, which is analyzed theoretically.  Experiments are provided in toy settings and in a realistic ML pipeline.  The article is interesting and participates to a growing literature on fast approximations of optimal transport.  The experiments are quite convincing: the proposed method can provide a way of reducing the cost while maintaining a reasonable accuracy. The gains are not always groundbreaking but clearly significant and the method appears to be widely applicable. It is also very nice that users can specify the approximation parameters in terms of n_b and m_b, rather than epsilon and kappa.  One criticism is that the method is compared only with the "vanilla" Sinkhorn algorithm, so it is not easy to see whether the proposed method would provide gains compared to other recently proposed variants, such as the Greenkhorn algorithm mentioned in the introduction. It is also unclear whether the proposed thresholding strategy could be combined with these alternative techniques, e.g. with Greenkhorn, for further gains, or whether it is incompatible.