This paper proposes a neural network search strategy for object detection task. The problem is interesting and useful for many real applications. This paper gives a three stage solution that can search pre-training based detectors effectively and efficiently. Experiments on both COCO and VOC are conducted to show the effectiveness of the proposed solution, and detection based models are superior than classification based models.  The idea of searching network structure for detection with pre-training stage is novel and interesting.   Firstly, the authors give detailed introduction about existing NAS related works. Then NAS for object detection naturally becomes an important task to solve. And state-of-the-art detection models are usually pre-trained on large classification datasets such as ImageNet. So the authors give a three steps pipeline to solve this problem.  The paper is written clearly and easy to understand. And the solution is clever and efficient. It only takes 44 GPU days (twice of training a normal detector) to finish the DetNAS on COCO.  There are also some concerns about this paper.  (1) In order to reduce the training instability, evolutionary based solution  is adopted to generate new models. Since model search space is really large, how to sample in this space is crucial for the final performance. Will the evolutionary solution be sub-optimal? From the experiments, we can see that the best one of 5 random models can achieve pretty close results (less than 1 mAP) compared to the carefully searched model. And it’s interesting to see the performance curve  of using different number of  random models such as 1,5,10,20 and so on. (2) Although the search space is claimed to be “large” already, actually only four candidates are supported for each block. Other choices such as Pooling positions, channel size, complex connections are not considered in this paper. (3) Shufflenet block based models are efficient on CPU and ARM platforms, however, the latency of shufflenet is supposed to be much higher than resnet under same model complexity (FLOPS).  Post Rebuttal: The rebuttal has answered my questions. I will keep my score.