[Update after author's reply:]  The authors have produced a strong response, with important additional results.   I am switching my assessment to "moderate accept", UNDER the condition that the authors include these new results in the paper AND  replace occurrences of "convolutional" with "retinotopic".   [Original review below:]  First, the author oversell their results considerably, claiming to observe the emergence of "convolutional" and "pooling" cells in the sense of convolutional neural networks, which would indeed be an interesting result.   However, the learned receptive fields are not "convolutional": there is no feature-specific filter being replicated across the map. Indeed, there isn't any feature selectivity at all! They cannot be called "pooling" either, unless the term is extended to apply to any receptive field whatsoever. The proper term that the author are looking for is "retinotopy" - the neurons learn to restrict their inputs to a specific topological neighbourhood, i.e. they become retinotopic.  This is considerably below the state of the art from the 90s, when various authors demonstrated the emergence of feature-selective neurons, with orientation maps and higher-level selectivity.   I encourage the authors to consult the work of Poggio (Riesenhuber and Poggio, Serre and Poggio, Masquelier and Poggio) and Rolls (especially Treves & Rolls, Stringer & Rolls). Miikkulainen is cited, but not for his work on the highly relevant LISSOM map-learning system. All of these systems showed selectivity for features of varying complexity - certainly much more complex than pure spatial location (i.e. retinotopy) as shown here.  (Note: I am not affiliated with any of these authors)  The text is otherwise clear  and well-written and seems technically sound.  Originality: 1/5 Quality: 4/5 Clarity: 4/5 Significant: 1/5  My overall score is 4 rather than 3, in order to encourage the authors to work more on this project and improve it for future re-submission (possibly at a workshop). See "Improvements".