Overview: ------------- This paper proposes and studies a general framework for generating surrogate loss functions for structured prediction problems. In particular, the loss is defined in terms of Bregman projections, and some examples are given for when the projection (or a relaxation thereof) can be computed efficiently. Surrogates in this family are shown to be calibrated wrt the true loss. This paper generalizes SparseMAP [26] and Fenchel-Young losses [6] to Bregman projections. It seems to make an interesting contribution to the field of structured prediction, by proposing a family of calibrated surrogate losses. Limitations of the paper include questionable practicality of the approach (due to expensive training and inference), and proximity to previous work [6,26] which is generalized (the calibration results here seem novel).   Comments/questions: ----------------------------- Since computational-statistical trade-off is central to the paper, consider reporting runtimes in experiments so the reader can get a sense of what this looks like for particular problem instances. Further, I think a simple structured-prediction baseline (pick your favorite, maybe SPENs?) is missing in the experiments in order to get a sense of how the proposed framework compares to existing approaches in terms of accuracy and complexity (the only comparison is between variants of the proposed method).   At the end of section 4 results are described for projected averaged SGD, but experimental results are reported for L-BFGS. What is the reason for this discrepancy?  For multilable classification, can you comment on calibration of the losses used here w.r.t. the F1 measure?  Might be good to explicitly include somewhere the general training algorithm (minimize the surrogate S). Haven’t seen it anywhere.   Minors: ---------- - Line 19: not sure I understand the statement saying structured objects are more difficult than mere vectors. It seems like the structure should actually help learning since otherwise every vector output is equally possible. - Line 78: not tractable => intractable - Line 101: “\Psi = 1/2||u||” => “\Psi(u) = 1/2||u||” - Can you please explain the inequalities in line 114? Psi and Omega are functions, so does it mean that this holds for any input? - Line 133: “we will we” - Line 198: would be good to mention a couple of common losses here in addition to referring to the appendix. - Lines 268, 275: better mention that Tables 3, 5, 6 are in appendix B. 