This paper studies the problem of lerning optimal reserve price in repeated auctions. The paper focus on non-myopic bidders (i.e. bidders who show up in more than 1 round and strategically reason about how the current bid may affect gain in future rounds).   The paper shows algorithm that obtain non-trival regret if one of two following conditions are satisfied: 1)large market: each bidder only participate in sublinear number of rounds. 2)impatient bidders: bidders have discount factor o(1).  Overall, I like the results of this paper. The myopic assumption of many previous work is not very realistic and avoids the game-theoretic difficulty in the problem. The split of regret into game-theoretic regret and learning regret is a much better way to think about the problem. I also like the connection between dynamic mechanism design and differential privacy/jointly diffential privacy shown in the paper.  Comments: 1) The paper uses the big-O notation in the following way: f(x) >= O(g(x)). I feel this is confusing as O(g(x)) is a subset of functions. It could mean there exists h(x) = O(g(x)) such that f(x)>=h(x). This is meaningless as you can always pick h(x) = 0. I guess what the authors actually mean is there exists h(x) = \Theta(g(x)) such that f(x)>=h(x).   2) Page 3: in the statement of Informal Theorem 2, despite the big-O notation problem mentioned above, it's hard to parse what regret is achieved. Maybe the statement should just tell what regret is achieved when picking the best alpha. 3) In the informal statements, it's a bit misleading to not mention the tradeoff between regret and discount factor or number of rounds of a bidder. The statements of informal theorems are only true when the discount factor is constant away from 1 or each bidder participates in constant number of rounds.  Reply to Author Response: Some additional comments for comment 3): yeah it would be nice to make discount factor (or number of rounds of a bidder) explicit in the informal theorems. I am thinking you can remove alpha in the informal theorem and directly state the optimal regret. For example, informal theorem 1 for discount factor would have regret roughly T^{3/4} (1-\gamma)^{-1/4}.  