Originality: as far as I am aware, the idea of adversarial *model* manipulation is a new one, and their citation of related work, e.g. [Ghorbani et al], seems sufficient.  Quality: although I have confidence that the submission is technically sound, I think the experiments are insufficient and missing important categories of model/explanation method. I elaborate on this below.  Clarity: the paper seems fairly clearly written and I'm confident that expert readers could reproduce its results.  Significance: I think the strongest selling point of the work is the core idea -- adversarial model manipulation might have significant practical implications. It could be a real danger, allowing bad actors who *want* to deploy unfair models to hide their tracks. However, it could also be a real benefit, e.g. to help hide private personal information that might be revealed by model gradients. So I think this submission could help open up a new line of research. (Unless that line has opened up already and I've missed it, arXiv moves fast...)  However, despite the significance of the idea, I have reservations about how well this paper examines, discusses, and tests it (again, elaborated on below). So I'm a little bit torn. Right now I lean slightly towards rejection, but I am open to changing my vote based on the rebuttal and other reviews.  ---  Updates based on author feedback and reviewer discussion:  Although I was initially leaning towards rejection, the author feedback actually fully addressed my concerns! I really appreciate the new experiments and changes they plan to make, and think they will significantly strengthen the paper.  I do think the new result that this attack can't easily fool SmoothGrad is very important and worth emphasizing in the paper -- in part because it points out a limitation in the attack, but also because it highlights a meaningful difference between explanation methods (i.e. is evidence that SmoothGrad is "better" or at least more robust). So I hope that experiment is featured prominently / discussed. But overall I'm happy with the submission!