------------------------------------------------------ After rebuttal:  Thank you for the responses. As all the reviewers agreed, the paper is interesting and strong and definitely needs a better organization. In that sense, the authors should consider all the suggestions including moving Sec 2.3 to the appendix and mentioning it from the main text. On the other hand, as this is a single-cycle reviewing process, I will keep my current grade as is, which I believe is fair for this submission in its current form (without the potential improvements, which won't go through reviewing).  ------------------------------------------------------  Originality: The overall method is basically a modification of the variance-reduced SGLD algorithm on an online sampling problem. While the method is not very original, online sampling with SG-MCMC algorithms has been an open problem and the whole paper (i.e. the way the algorithm is applied on online learning + theoretical guarantees + the proof technique) is sufficiently original.   Quality: The paper is quite solid in terms of theoretical rigor. The authors summarize their proof technique in Section 4, which I believe establishes the main theoretical contribution of the paper. I didn’t go over the proofs line by line but they look correct overall. I also particularly enjoyed section 2.1, which provides important intuition about the assumptions. The experiments are rather weak; however,  as the paper is a theoretical paper, I think they are sufficient.   Clarity:  My main concern is about clarity. Even though the grammar and the language are quite good, I must admit the organization of the paper is rather poor. The authors explain the theoretical results before they explain the algorithm. There several algorithm-specific terms that appear in the theory and they are not even properly introduced before page 6. Before reading the whole paper, it’s not clear why section 2.3 exists.   In its current version, it is unnecessarily difficult to read/follow the paper. I have decided to lower my overall grade due to this issue, which I believe is an important one, given that the papers are written in order to communicate information.   Some small points: At the beginning, it’s not clear why t should start from 1. This becomes clear when the authors state f0 is the prior and f1 is the first likelihood term. This should be made clear in problem 1.1, otherwise it’s a little bit mysterious.   The title of section 3 is misleading. It doesn’t really explain the proof techniques.   Significance:  Online sampling with SG-MCMC algorithms haven’t been investigated in detail. In that respect, the paper addresses an important problem and is definitely of interest to the community.  