Originality: somehow high since those concepts have not been analyzed before together.  Quality: The claims are correct, they formalize somewhat a limitation of the equalized odds (it cannot provide partition independence, it can behave strangely as new points are added).   Clarity: The paper is clear, with the exception that the motivation or implications (beyond theoretical curiosity) might be simply hard to comprehend.  Significance: On the one hand, it's good to clarify but one could argue that the premise on testing equalized odds (or equal opportunity, or statistical parity) on those axioms was doomed to begin with. Partition independence (refered to as consistency here) states that you could divide people and run the algorithm among those newly formed groups separately and come to the same conclusion. But, precisely, equalized odds is meant to be sensitive to the composition of the applicants pool. For hiring or school admission, if you transform arbitrarily the applicant pools, say by removing a bunch of high-quality or low-quality from a protected group, that certainly has to transform the classification for equalized odds. Unless a form of base rate imbalance is maintained, it does seem impossible to reconcile with that axiom outside of corner cases.   The violation of population monotonicity is more surprising. Consider an admission process is not just merit based but corrected for fairness for equal odds (for instance because of some bias in the data). The addition of a high applicant from a protected group will certainly improve the odds of protected group, hence remove the pressure not to give the resource among other applicants. But it also increases competition, so in that case it does not seem too easy to predict. It's not super clear, however, why not satisfying this particular axiom will bring real concern on that definition. Adding someone in the competition can help you, such as removing someone in the competion can hurt. Would that really bring concern to a metric of fairness that is anyway very new and not terribly satisfying to begin with?  I have read the author response and my opinion remains the same.