The paper aims to simulate video trajectories of multiple pedestrians in the presence of interactions. In this regard a graph based GAN method is proposed. It also integrates recent ideas such as cyclic GANs and a recurrent decoder-encoder module. Empirically it is shown to achieve promising results. It is overall a potentially interesting paper while its present form has a number of issues to be discussed below. *Problem. Instead of taking image sequences as input, the goal seems to be simplified to considering a top-view only scenario, and taking partial temporal sequence of multi-pedestrian 2D locations so far as inputs. It is better to state this clearly in the very begining to avoid potential misunderstanding or disappointment.  *Presentation.   **The presented algorithmic techniques are somewhat incremental. Meanwhile, the developed model, as illustrated schematically in Fig.1, is rather complicated. And it may not be intuitive why certain modules/parts are there, and thorough evaluations including w vs. w/o parts are useful to understand what is going on, and why all the parts are necessary.  **Notations. As a result of a complicated model, many internal parameters are mentioned during the development, but quite a few of them lack clear and concrete definations,  interpretations, and suggestion of practical values. For example, what are the definitions of the random variables W_emb, W_en in Eq.1, and W_cnn in Eq.2, and W_p in Eq.3, and W_gat in Eq.4, and W_dec & W_d in Eq.7, and W_clf in Eq.8, and all the new parameters introduced in the remaining equations 9-16. It is always expected that when a new parameter is introduced, it needs to be properly defined, its role explained, and its practical value setting set/suggested.   *empirical experiments is somewhat limited. It would be much more convincing to visually present in demo videos how things are working in real image sequences, which is precisely the goal of the paper. The numbers presented in Tables 1&2 are helpful but lacking intuitions. The Figs. 4&5 are not very easy to be understood. For example, it is unclear from Fig.4 how the multi-modality nature of the multi-pedestrian motion prediction problem could be well addressed. Fig.5 seems to be an attempt in this direction, while after multiple attempts, I am still not sure whether I properly interpret the content. I will suggest the authors to at least consider providing video demos in the supplementary. 