Fifty years of child height and weight in Japan and South Korea:
Contrasting secular trend patterns analyzed by SITAR

Abstract
Objectives Japanese and South Koreans have traditionally been shorter than Europeans, but have recently become appreciably taller. The aim was to quantify the
secular trend patterns in height and weight growth in the two countries over 50 years
using the SITAR growth curve model.
Methods Data on mean height and weight by sex in 1-year age groups from 1 to 20
years were obtained by decade in South Korea (1965–2005) and Japan (1950–2010).
The data were analyzed using SITAR (SuperImposition by Translation And Rotation), which estimates a mean curve and three adjustments–size, timing and
intensity–reflecting how the individual surveys differ from the mean. A sensitivity
analysis compared results for the Japanese data based on cohort as well as period.
Results Growth patterns in the two countries changed dramatically over the study
period, affecting not only height and weight but also developmental age, in that the
growth period advanced in timing and shrank in duration. SITAR fitted the data well.
The trends were larger in South Korea than Japan, and puberty timing in Japan stabilized by 1970. Most of the height increment seen in adults had already accrued by
age 1.5 years, whereas the adult weight increment accrued throughout childhood.
Conclusions The secular height trend in these countries represents increased growth
in the long bones during infancy, so it can be viewed as the inverse of stunting. There
are striking country differences in growth pattern, but they are not easily explained
by differences in national income, diet or lifestyle.
1 | INTRODUCTION
The Japanese have traditionally been much shorter in height
than their European counterparts, particularly Scandinavians,
though they have experienced a dramatic secular increase
in height since World War II (Matsumoto, 1982). Tanner,
Hayashi, Preece, and Cameron (1982) showed this to be due
primarily to an increase in leg length, possibly arising from
the shift from rice to a dairy-based diet during the 1970s.
South Korea is another East Asian country whose inhabitants are materially shorter than in the West—indeed in 1978
South Korean children were shorter even than the Japanese (Y.
S. Kim, 1982). However they, like the Japanese, have
experienced a steep increase in height in recent decades, and
they are now taller than the Japanese (J. Y. Kim et al., 2008;
Mori, 2017). Furthermore, South Koreans are among the tallest
peoples in the Asian continent (Schwekendiek & Jun, 2010),
and South Korean women are 20 cm taller now than they were
a century ago, a larger increase over the period than any other
group (NCD Risk Factor Collaboration, 2016).
It is of interest that these two neighboring countries have,
over a similar period of time, experienced remarkable secular
increases in height, and yet in detail the patterns of change
have been very different, with the South Koreans “leapfrogging” over the Japanese, by starting out shorter and ending up taller.

The secular trend in height as seen in children combines
two distinct processes: not only does height itself increase,
but the age at peak height velocity in puberty gets earlier,
due to accelerated maturation. Thus, over a period of time,
the curve of mean height plotted against age shifts upwards,
and at the same time it shifts to the left.
The recently developed SITAR growth curve model provides a way to examine these components of the secular trend
in more detail (Cole, Donaldson, & Ben-Shlomo, 2010). It
does this by explicitly modeling the two separate components
of the growth curve: increasing size and accelerating maturation. It can also be applied to “growth curves” based on mean
height by age in representative cross-sectional samples, where
“individuals” correspond to particular surveys.
The way SITAR works is to summarize the pattern of
growth in individuals as a mean growth curve plus a set of
adjustments for individuals that transform the mean curve to
match their individual curve. The three transforming adjustments reflect differences between individuals in size (mean
height), timing (or tempo, similar to age at peak height
velocity), and intensity (similar to peak height velocity).
When modeling the secular trend, the adjustment of size
represents the change in adult height, while the adjustments
of timing and intensity reflect the change in rate of maturation. Thus, the secular trend can be decomposed into three
separate components. The technique represents an extension
of the approach by Ali, Lestrel, and Ohtsuka (2000) who
analyzed growth curves of Japanese height over eight decades using kernel regression, and identified turning points on
the curves reflecting age at take-off and age at peak velocity.
This article aims to decompose the secular trends in height
and weight among Japanese and South Korean children and
young people over long periods of time (40 years in South
Korea, 1965–2005, and 60 years in Japan, 1950–2010), and to
show how the trends can be explained in terms of countryspecific changes in SITAR size, timing, and intensity.
2 | METHODS
2.1 | Data
Mean values of height (cm) and weight (kg) for boys and
girls, tabulated in 1-year age groups from 1 to 20 completed
years, were obtained from national samples of child anthropometry. Half a year was added to each year group age to
reflect mean age. The data represent periods, i.e., children
measured in particular years, not cohorts of children born in
the same year. South Korean data were available only for the
years 1965, 1975, 1984, 1997, and 2005 (J. Y. Kim et al.,
2008), while the Japanese data came from annual National
Nutrition Surveys carried out between 1949 and 2011 by the
Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare (latterly Ministry of
Health, Labor and Welfare)—see Funatogawa, Funatogawa,
Nakao, Karita, and Yano (2009) for details. The South
Korean surveys were very large, with each age group mean
based on 15,000 to 60,000 children, while the Japanese samples were much smaller, ranging in size from 500 to 3500
for all ages 1–20 years. To make the two datasets more similar, the Japanese data were merged in 3-year groups at 10–
year intervals as follows: 1949–1951, 1959–1961, 1969–
1971, 1979–1981, 1989–1991, 1999–2001 and 2009–2011.
Supporting Information Tables S1–S4 give the mean values by age group, sex, country and year of measurement,
and Figure 1 shows the corresponding period growth curves
for height and weight (discussed in more detail later).
2.2 | SITAR growth curve model
SITAR (SuperImposition by Translation And Rotation) is a
shape-invariant mixed effects growth model (Cole et al.,
2010). It fits a mean curve to the data as a natural cubic Bspline, on the assumption that the growth curves of individuals (i.e., individual surveys here) differ from this mean curve
shape in just three ways, corresponding to three subjectspecific transformations. The three transformations are size,
i.e., how tall individuals are relative to the mean; timing, i.e.,
their relative timing of the pubertal growth spurt based on
the age at peak velocity, and intensity, the relative rate at
which they pass through childhood and puberty. Intensity is
effectively a measure of accelerated developmental age, in
that biological time passes faster when development is
advanced and slower when it is delayed.
The geometric impact of the three SITAR transformations on individual growth curves, reflecting how they differ
from the mean curve, is as follows: they are shifted up/down
(size, reflecting the curve being above or below average size)
or left/right (timing, corresponding to early or late timing),
and the age scale is stretched/shrunk (intensity, this transformation having the effect of making the curve respectively
shallower or steeper, a positive value indicating advanced
growth). The transformations are in units of cm or kg (for
size), years (timing) and percentage (intensity). So for example a height curve with size 15 cm, timing 20.5 years and
intensity 14% indicates that the individual is 5 cm taller as
an adult, peaks in velocity 6 months earlier and completes
growth 4% faster than the mean curve. Using their fitted
transformations, individual curves can be back-transformed
to match the mean curve; if the model fits well the adjusted
curves will all be superimposed (hence the name SITAR).
The SITAR model was fitted in the statistical language R
version 3.3.2 (R Core Team, 2015) using the sitar package
version 1.0.9 (Cole, 2016). Four separate models were fitted,
for height and weight in boys and girls, with the seven surveys by decade for Japan and five for South Korea treated as
12 individual growth curves. The sexes were analyzed separately due to their differing mean curve shapes.
The transformations size, timing and intensity were estimated as random effects, with zero mean, included in the
model along with corresponding fixed effects. For presentation intensity was multiplied by 100 to convert it to a percentage. The goodness of fit was measured as the percentage
of variance explained by adding the random effects to a simpler model fitting just the mean curve (Cole, Pan, & Butler,
2014).
2.3 | Optimizing the SITAR model
The SITAR models were optimized by choosing the degrees
of freedom for the cubic B-spline curve to minimize the
Bayesian Information Criterion or BIC (Schwarz, 1978). The
fitted curves had either 6, 7, or 8 degrees of freedom, with
knots placed at the corresponding age quantiles.
Other models were explored, optimized by transforming
the age and/or size scales. The main model summarizes the
differences between surveys on the age and size scales in
absolute terms, e.g., shifting the height growth curve
upwards by say 5 cm, or shifting it left by say 0.5 years;
these adjustments are the same at all ages. If instead age and/
or size are logarithmically transformed, then the predicted
effects at each age are proportional rather than absolute, e.g.,
shifting the curve up or shifting it left by say 4%; in absolute
terms these adjustments are smaller at younger ages. The
square root transformation is intermediate between linear and
log, and hence is midway between absolute and proportional
effects. All three transformations were explored in sensitivity
analyses, with the fitted curves back-transformed for presentation purposes.
2.4 | Velocity curves
The first derivative of the (back-transformed if necessary)
growth curve shows the difference in size by year of age, a
measure of growth, which for convenience is here termed the
“velocity” curve (although based on cross-sectional rather
FIGURE 1 Growth curves for height (left) and weight (right) by country and year of measurement, boys (above) and girls (below)
than longitudinal data). The area under the velocity curve
corresponds to the total increment in size, and so the curve is
useful to illustrate how the SITAR effects of timing and
intensity impact on size at each age. Sensitivity analyses
explored which transformations of the measurement and age
scales best captured the secular changes in the velocity
curve.
2.5 | Cohort versus period
Height and weight in the two countries were tabulated by
age and year of measurement. Analysing the data in this
form assumes that the growth pattern depends only on the
period, the time when the measurement was made. However,
the time when the children were born—their birth cohort—
could also be relevant, so that both year of birth and year of
measurement may affect the growth curve’s shape.
The Japanese data being available annually allowed
growth curves to be constructed both by cohort (i.e., successive years of age for a given year of birth cohort correspond
to successive years of measurement)—see Funatogawa,
Funatogawa, Nakao, Karita, and Yano (2009)—as well as by
period. (Note though that this was not possible for the
Korean data, which were available only by decade of measurement, so the primary country comparison here is necessarily based on period.)
If one assumes that the secular trend in growth is monotonic (i.e., that it does not change direction at any point),
then the cohort and period approaches will lead to broadly
similar results—children of later-born cohorts and later measurement years will be taller and heavier than for earlier
cohorts and measurement years. However, it is not clear how
the trends in the corresponding SITAR parameters might differ when viewed the two ways.
As a sensitivity analysis the Japanese growth curves
were analyzed both by period and by cohort, to see how the
SITAR growth parameters were affected; to do this the
“period” curve for a given measurement date was compared
with the “cohort” curve for the birth cohort born 11 years
earlier (e.g., those born in 1939 were compared with those
measured in 1950; this ensured that in mid-1950 the mean
age of the cohort was 11.0, matching that for the period dataset). The cohort data were inevitably incomplete for the early
and late years.
3 | RESULTS
3.1 | Height and weight in Japan
and South Korea
Figure 1 shows the growth curves for height (left) and
weight (right) in boys (above) and girls (below). Each
quadrant contains 12 curves, i.e., the seven surveys in Japan
(solid lines) and five in South Korea (dashed lines). There
was a clear secular trend to increasing height and weight
over time, with Japan shortest and lightest in 1950, and
South Korea tallest and heaviest in 2005.
There was also an obvious secular trend to earlier maturation, with the curves shifting to the left over time. To
express these differences in terms of size, timing and intensity, separate SITAR models were fitted to each quadrant of
Figure 1.
Figure 2a illustrates the model fit for height in boys and
girls, where the 12 boys’ curves are shown in black and the
12 girls’ curves in red, and the two countries are indexed by
line type. The individual curves by sex are all superimposed,
with 97% of the variance in Figure 1a,c explained, indicating
that the models fit well. The mean curve shapes for the two
sexes, with the girls (red) spurting earlier but ending up
shorter than the boys (black), are clearly visible.
The other three quadrants in Figure 2 illustrate the random effect estimates of SITAR size, timing and intensity for
each of the 12 surveys, indicated by the year label and country color (Japan black, South Korea red), and joined by lines
to indicate the temporal trend. The values for boys and girls
are plotted against each other, and the diagonal line of equality demonstrates that the values for the two sexes are very
similar.
Mean height size (Figure 2b) increased by about 8 cm in
Japan and 5 cm in South Korea (for both sexes) over the
period of study. Note that this is after adjusting for concurrent trends in timing and intensity, so it reflects the increase
in adult height. However, the bulk of the increase occurred
before 1980 in Japan and after 1984 in South Korea (in
1980/1984 the two countries were similar in height). In addition Japan showed no change from 1990 to 2010, an indication that the secular trend had stopped, whereas in South
Korea mean height increased slightly from 1997 to 2005.
Figure 2c compares the timing of puberty in the different
surveys, where again the two sexes were in close agreement.
However, there was a dramatic difference between the two
countries in that Japan showed virtually no change in timing
after 1970, whereas in South Korea puberty occurred 6
months earlier in 2005 than in 1997. Ali et al. (2000) also
found that in Japan, age at peak height velocity plateaued
after 1970.
Finally Figure 2d compares growth intensity in the two
countries, where the sexes are again almost identical. Intensity increased by 15% over the period, this indicating by how
much the duration of growth had shrunk. However, the
increase was more rapid in South Korea, occurring over a 40
year period as against 60 years in Japan.
The results for weight are shown in Figure 3. Again the
SITAR models fitted well (Figure 3a), with 97% of variance
explained. There was more sexual dimorphism than for
height, with the size, timing and intensity effects in Figures
3b-d less close to the line of equality. Boys increased in size
over the period by twice as much as girls (6 vs. 1.5 kg in
Japan, 7 vs. 4 kg in South Korea). For timing (Figure 3c) the
results again showed a greater effect in South Korea than
Japan, an advance of 2.5 years, and within Japan the effect
was greater in girls than boys. Weight intensity (Figure 3d)
showed a similar pattern to size, increasing more in South
Korea than in Japan, and in boys more than girls.
3.2 | Height and weight increment by age
Figure 4 explores the increments in height and weight by age
and sex in the two countries over the period of study, i.e., 60
years for Japan and 40 years for South Korea. The increments are strongly age-dependent, depending as they do on
the underlying changes in size, timing and intensity; thus,
the maximum increments occurred in puberty, at around 14
years in boys and 12 years in girls. Figure 4 shows both the
observed increments and those predicted by the SITAR models, and the two agree well. The increments at age 20 indicate the adult secular trends, and the adult height increments
were appreciably greater for Japan than South Korea, reflecting how short the Japanese were in 1950. Conversely the
weight increments were greater in South Korea.
There is a particular interest in the size of the height increment in early life, as it has been suggested that the size increment as seen in adults is accrued as early as age 2 (Cole,
2000a). The youngest infants (mean age 1.5 years) were 5 cm
taller at the end of the period than at the start (Figure 4a,c).
This is the same as the adult increments in South Korea, but
slightly less than in Japan (10 cm in boys and 7 cm in girls).
So in South Korea the 5 cm increment in adult height
had already been accrued by 1.5 years, whereas in Japan an
extra 2–5 cm in height was gained during childhood after
infancy.
FIGURE 2 SITAR summary of height growth by sex, country and year of measurement: (A) SITAR-adjusted height curves (boys black, girls red);
(B) changes in size (cm) for boys plotted against girls (Japan black, Korea red); (C) changes in timing (years) similarly; and (D) changes in intensity (%)
similarly. See text for details
With weight, the adult increments were much smaller for
girls than boys in both countries. The early life increments
were all considerably smaller for weight than for height. For
Japanese girls the adult weight increment matched that in
early life, while for South Korean girls, and boys in both
countries, it was greater.
3.3 | Secular trends in height velocity
Figures 2–4 confirm the good fit of the model to changes in
size over time. A more subtle aspect of model fit is the shape
of the predicted velocity curve and how it changes over time.
This is explored in Figure 5 for height velocity in South
Korea, and in Figure 6 for weight velocity in Japan.
Figure 5 contrasts two alternative SITAR height models
(left and right) for boys (above) and girls (below). The models on the left are those for height versus age as already discussed, while on the right are better fitting models with age
on the square root scale, where the BIC is 30–50 units
smaller (and hence better fitting). The figures contrast the
predicted height velocity curves in 1965 and 2005, showing
how puberty advanced over time.
The simpler models (left) imply that before age 10 velocity
was greater in 2005, whereas the optimal models (right) show
it was unchanged from 1965. This reinforces the impression
from Figure 4 that height velocity after infancy did not change
over the period. The corresponding figure for Japan (not
shown) indicated that height velocity up to age 10 was slightly
greater in 2010 than in 1950, which accords with the observed
secular increase in height in Japan beyond 1.5 years.
Figure 6 looks at weight velocity in Japan similarly. It is
clear in all four quadrants that weight velocity before age 10
was considerably greater in 2005 than in 1965, thus explaining the observed secular trend in weight. However, the better
fitting models (log weight and square root age, BIC 80
units less, on the right) show that this applied much less to
FIGURE 3 SITAR summary of weight growth by sex, country and year of measurement: (A) SITAR-adjusted weight curves (boys black, girls red);
(B) changes in size (kg) for boys plotted against girls (Japan black, Korea red); (C) changes in timing (years) similarly; and (D) changes in intensity (%)
similarly. See text for details
peak weight velocity in puberty, which did not change
materially.
3.4 | Cohort versus period
As a sensitivity analysis, Figure 7 compares the Japanese boys
height growth curves as defined by cohort and by period.
Figure 7a contrasts the two mean curves, where the
cohort curve (solid red line) is lower than the period curve
(solid black line) at younger ages but higher at older ages.
This is because within each cohort, the younger and older
ages correspond to earlier and later measurement dates,
whereas the corresponding period data are all measured at
the same time. The net effect is to make the mean cohort
curve steeper, so the peak height velocity for cohort in
Figure 7a (dashed red line) is greater than for period (dashed
black line). This is equivalent to increased intensity for the
cohort curve, i.e., the age scale is foreshortened.
Figures 7b-d compare the corresponding trends over time
in the SITAR effects for size, timing and intensity by cohort
and period. Although there are differences, the size and timing effects are broadly similar the two ways, lying close to
the dotted line of equality. However, the intensity trend is
much steeper for period, the range of values being twice that
for cohort (15% vs. 7%). A similar though less extreme pattern was seen for girls height and boys and girls weight (data
not shown). This confirms that the main difference between
cohort and period curves lies in the SITAR intensity parameter, the secular trend in intensity for the cohort curves being
as little as half that for the period curves.
4 | DISCUSSION
The results demonstrate the dramatic secular trends in child
height and weight that have taken place in Japan and South
FIGURE 4 Increments by age for height (left) and weight (right) in Japan (1950 to 2010, black) and South Korea (1965 to 2005, red), boys (above)
and girls (below). The increments are shown observed (solid lines) and predicted by SITAR (dashed lines)
Korea during the past 40–60 years. The trend has been
appreciably greater in South Korea, where the children were
shorter and lighter than in Japan in 1965, but taller and heavier in 2005.
The results also show how well SITAR summarizes the
secular changes in growth pattern, with over 97% of the variance between surveys being explained by differences in
mean size, growth timing and intensity. This emphasizes that
the secular changes over time that occurred in height and
weight, which one might think were simply a reflection of
increasing body size, were also driven by similar changes on
the developmental age scale—earlier puberty and faster
passage.
The results demonstrate in three distinct ways how well
SITAR represents the changing growth patterns in the two
countries. In Figures 2a and 3a, the individual survey growth
curves are all superimposed after SITAR adjustment, with
the curves for the two sexes clearly distinct. In Figure 4 the
increments over 40 or 60 years are well characterized by the
SITAR models, and in Figures 5 and 6 the changes in velocity curve shape over time are convincingly captured.
The SITAR analysis adjusts mean height and weight for
differences in the timing and intensity of growth. For this
reason the mean size results in Figures 2b and 3b directly
reflect the corresponding secular trends in adult size, i.e.,
after growth has stopped. For height, they show that in Japan
the growth pattern did not change after 1997, whereas in
South Korea it continued changing up until 2005.
A similar picture emerges for weight, with much larger
secular changes in growth pattern among South Koreans
than Japanese. However weight, unlike height, is still
increasing in Japan. There is also sexual dimorphism in the
weight growth patterns, with girls changing less than boys
in terms both of size and intensity. This confirms the
FIGURE 5 Changes in height velocity curve shape for Korean boys (above) and girls (below), from 1965 (red dashed lines) to 2005 (black solid
lines). The curves are predictions from SITAR models of height on age (left) and height on age (right), where the latter models have lower BIC and fit
better
observation by Maruyama and Nakamura (2015) that the
Japanese gender difference in BMI secular trend was due to
a difference in the weight trend not the height trend.
Tanner et al. (1982) pointed out that the Japanese secular
height trend from 1957 to 1977 was driven almost entirely
by an increase in leg length. Ali et al. (2000) studied secular
changes in Japanese leg length for birth cohorts from 1943 to
1978, showing a steep rise in leg length as a percentage of
height from 1943 to 1968 but a plateau thereafter. In addition
they showed that this percentage increased with age until
puberty, i.e., 13 years in boys and 11 years in girls, and then
either stabilized (girls) or fell slightly (boys). Thus, in terms
of length (cm) the trend in leg length was greater than the
trend in height (and even greater than the trend in sitting
height) up to puberty (though not thereafter). So the height
trend was until puberty primarily a leg length trend.
The secular increment in adult height (i.e., at age 20)
amounted to 8–10 cm in Japan and 5 cm in South Korea
(Figure 2b). Figure 4 shows how this increment developed
through childhood, and the pattern is striking; 5 cm of it, i.e.,
the majority, was already apparent at age 1.5 years, the mean
age for the youngest age group. The increment appeared to
be greater at later ages, but this reflected only more advanced
maturation. In South Korea the peak increment was at age
12–14 and exceeded 15 cm, but by adulthood it had shrunk
to 5 cm, the same as at age 1.5. So there was no net increase
in height after infancy. By contrast in Japan the adult increment of 8–10 cm was greater than the 5 cm increment at age
1.5, showing some growth in childhood after infancy, so the
two countries differed in this respect. The secular increment
in length at birth is known to be very small; in Shanghai for
example mean birth length increased from 1985 to 2005 by
just 0.2 cm (Zhang & Li, 2015). So, it is reasonable to state
that in South Korea the secular increase in adult height
occurred during the first 18 months of postnatal life, driven
primarily by extra growth in the long bones of the leg, which
confirms and refines the previously suggested 2 years (Cole,
2000a).
FIGURE 6 Changes in weight velocity curve shape for Japanese boys (above) and girls (below), from 1950 (red dashed lines) to 2010 (black solid
lines). The curves are predictions from SITAR models of weight on age (left) and log weight on age (right), where the latter models have lower BIC and
fit better
This, it should be noted, is the exact opposite of the malnutrition state of stunting, where infants in the first 1000
days of prenatal and postnatal life fall behind in terms of linear growth (Dewey, 2016). It is tantalizing to think that the
beneficial changes over time that have driven the secular
trend to increased stature may well be the inverse of the factors that are driving linear growth retardation in millions of
poor infants.
The secular increase in adult weight was also substantial,
but rather greater in boys than girls and in South Korea more
than Japan (Figures 3b and 4). In addition the increase
accrued throughout childhood and puberty rather than being
restricted to infancy (Figure 6b,d). It is for this reason that
the best data transformation for size (as seen in Figures 5
and 6) was linear for height and log for weight; the absolute
increment in height was the same in early and adult life
(Figure 4), whereas for weight the proportional increment
was closer to constant—this corresponds to the log transformation (Cole, 2000b).
The best data transformation for age was the square root
(Figures 5 and 6). In principle one would expect differences
in developmental age to be multiplicative, corresponding to
the age scale being stretched or shrunk, and this in turn corresponds to the log age scale, as seen in the original SITAR
publication (Cole et al., 2010). Conversely the linear age
scale would imply the whole growth curve being shifted left
or right, which could fit poorly in infancy with age becoming
negative. The square root scale is a compromise between
FIGURE 7 SITAR summary of Japanese boys height by year of measurement, with growth curves constructed by period and by cohort: (A) mean
curves (period black, cohort red; height solid, velocity dashed); (B) changes in size (cm) for period plotted against cohort; (C) changes in timing (years)
similarly; and (D) changes in intensity (%) similarly. See text for details
linear and log, implying that differences on the developmental age scale are somewhere between multiplicative and
additive.
The sensitivity analysis showed that secular trends in the
SITAR size and timing parameters were broadly the same
whether based on cohort or period curves. However, the
cohort-based intensity parameter changed over time only half
as fast as the period-based intensity. This can be explained
by reference to Figure 7a, where the mean cohort curve
(solid red line) is slightly steeper than the mean period curve
(black). This is because within each cohort, the younger and
older ages correspond to earlier and later measurement dates,
whereas the corresponding period data are all measured at
the same time. Expressed the other way round, the period
curves include some cohort information as their data are
spread across 20 birth years, with the younger children born
later and the older earlier. The net effect is that the secular
trend in intensity based on the period data is up to twice that
for the cohort data, and hence provides a biased estimate of
the cohort-based trend.
However, it is important to emphasize that the SITAR
analysis, in summarizing the secular trend, does not claim to
provide any extra insight as to whether the trend is driven by
cohort or period differences. Probably both apply, in that
children’s individual growth patterns are inherited in early
life (i.e., a cohort effect) but are subsequently influenced by
the changing environment (a period effect). The two effects
can be distinguished in Figure 4, which shows the agespecific increments in height and weight over the period of
study. Thus, it contrasts growth in children born 40–60 years
apart. In South Korea, the height increment for boys and girls
was 5 cm both in infancy and in adulthood, which means
that the growth pattern did not change during childhood.
This corresponds to a cohort effect, not a period effect. However, the weight increment for South Korean boys was much
greater in adulthood than in infancy (13 vs. 2 kg), indicating
a strong period effect in addition to the cohort effect. Note
that these inferences could have been based either on the
observed increments in Figure 4 (solid lines) or the SITAR
modeled increments (dashed lines), so the SITAR analysis is
useful here but not essential.
As noted at the outset, Europeans have historically been
much taller than Asians. The Dutch are recognized as the
tallest nation, and their secular increase in height has recently
stopped (Sch€onbeck et al., 2013). Figure 3 of Sch€onbeck
et al. (2013) shows how height in The Netherlands has
increased since 1955, equivalent to Figure 4 of the current
article. The adult increment amounted to 7 cm in both sexes,
but the pattern by age was quite different from Figure 4. The
increment increased linearly from birth to 15 years in boys
and 11 years in girls, when the increments were respectively
10 and 8 cm, after which they fell back to 7 cm at age 20; so
there was no infant increment at all. However, the Dutch in
1955 were already taller (175 and 164 cm by sex) than the
South Koreans were in 2005 (Sch€onbeck et al., 2013), so
both the nature of the secular trend and the factors driving it
were clearly different in the two countries.
What factors might have caused Japanese and South
Korean children to grow so differently from each other?
There are several possibilities: genetics (e.g., different height
potential), economic status (e.g., per capita gross domestic
product or GDP) and diet (e.g., per capita national food supply). Grasgruber, Sebera, Hrazdira, Cacek, and Kalina
(2016) explored many factors that might explain the differences in male height in 105 countries. They found that GDP
was a strong predictor but national health expenditure was
stronger, as was the mortality rate for children under 5 years.
This obviously relates directly to living conditions in
infancy, when long bone growth is important. Among the
strongest predictors was the Human Developmental Index
(HDI), which had a correlation of 0.80 with adult height
based on 100 countries.
Several dietary factors were predictive, notably animal
protein in the form of dairy, eggs, meat and fish, while a rice
diet was generally associated with shorter stature (Grasgruber
et al., 2016). The strongest single positive influence was
dairy protein (r 5 0.79 for 93 countries), while rice had a
strongly negative effect (r 5 20.74).
So how do Japan and South Korea compare in terms of
these predictive factors? GDP was considerably higher in
Japan than South Korea, as was the HDI, while child mortality was slightly lower in Japan. (However, the reviewer
points out the very different development paths taken by the
two countries—Japan achieved a miracle of economic development but then stagnated after 1995, whereas Korea was
initially poorer but developed and maintained strong growth,
its GDP now matching that for Japan. This may well be
relevant.)
In terms of diet, South Koreans ate appreciably less animal protein than Japanese (17 versus 23 g/person/day protein
from dairy, eggs, pork and beef). So in all these respects
Japan looks healthier than South Korea, and the Japanese
ought to be the taller, as predicted by Grasgruber et al.
(2016) (their Figure 12). Schwekendiek and Jun (2010)
emphasized the impact of primary school feeding programs
set up by the South Korean government after the Korean
War, which have continued until now. However, Mori compares in detail the national income and dietary intake in the
two countries over time, and shows that as recently as 1995,
both per capita gross national income and milk intake were
three times higher in Japan than in South Korea (Mori,
2017). Mori (2017) also highlights the recent striking
increase in South Korean intake of fruit and vegetables, at a
time when Japanese intake has fallen, particularly among the
young, and this may explain the recent increase in South
Korean height.
In conclusion, child height and weight have increased
dramatically over the past 40–60 years in Japan and South
Korea. The changes have affected both size (i.e., cm and kg)
and developmental age, in that the growth period has
advanced in timing and shrunk in duration. Most of the
height increment seen in adults has already accrued by age
1.5 years, indicating that the secular height trend in these
countries (though not in The Netherlands) represents
increased growth in the long bones during infancy. The
trends have been larger in South Korea than Japan, but there
are no convincing differences in national income, diet or lifestyle to explain them.