What Predicts Intergenerational Change in Anthropometry?

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that children
now are taller, heavier and fatter than their parents
and grandparents were. Trends in adult height over
the past 100 years have recently been documented in
detail by the NCD Risk Factor Collaboration, comparing
mean adult height by sex in 200 countries between 1896
and 1996 [1]. Some countries have seen height increase by
up to 20 cm. In addition, the pace of growth in childhood
has accelerated, so that adult height is now reached at an
earlier age. This has the effect of inflating the apparent
increase in height during childhood, as children of a
particular age are both taller and more advanced in
developmental age [2]. Weight has also been increasing in
line with height; but over the past half-century, it has
outstripped height, and this has led to the secular trend of
rising body mass index (BMI) and the public health
concerns of increasing obesity.
Documenting these secular trends in child growth
usually involves comparing anthropometry in crosssectional studies at different times; for example national
surveys carried out every 10 or 15 years [3,4]. It is unusual
to be able to make a direct comparison of the growth of
children with their parents.
The article by Sinha, et al. [5] in this issue of Indian
Pediatrics uses an interesting and unusual
intergenerational study design to do just that – the growth
patterns of children born around 1970 and recruited to the
New Delhi Birth Cohort were compared with those of their
own children as measured more recently. The comparisons
focussed on the age groups 0-5 and 5-10 years, where the
outcomes were the intergenerational Z-score changes in
height, weight and BMI, adjusted for age and sex. The
findings were striking – over the follow-up period, the
children increased in height by a whole standard deviation,
corresponding to 3.9 cm in the younger children and 6.4
cm in the older. Weight increased similarly, by 1.3 and 5.4
kg in the two age groups; while BMI changed only in the
older children, by 1.9 kg/m2, and in the 0-5 year group it
remained the same. The authors concluded that children
tend to “grow up” before they “grow out.”
This is one surprise, that the younger children were not
fatter than their parents were at the same age, despite the
steep rise in obesity prevalence that has occurred over the
period. But the intergenerational study design also
provided other interesting insights, some of them counterintuitive: the increases were greater for smaller and older
parents, with poorer sanitation and higher education, and
for older children. It is instructive to consider each of these
associations in turn, and to explore their relevance to
health policy. By far the strongest association was with
parental size – the secular increase was appreciably greater
for shorter parents. The authors provide three potential
explanations for this: “statistical regression to the mean,
narrowing of socio-economic inequalities and greater
biological response among deprived strata”, and they are
optimistic that it represents a reduction in height inequity.
However, they are perhaps over-optimistic, in that the
most likely explanation is the first of the three, regression
to the mean, which is a statistical not a social or biological
construct. It states simply that extreme measurements (e.g.
height) are on average less extreme on remeasurement; so
shorter parents tend to produce somewhat less short
children, and vice versa for taller parents and children. It
was first described by Francis Galton, working in the same
context as here, with the heights of parents and children
[6]. As a statistical phenomenon, regression to the mean is
substantial and ever-present; so it tends to dwarf any other
factors that may be operating.
The next strongest association the authors found was
with parental age; the children of older parents tended to
be relatively taller. The authors speculate that the parents
being older meant they were exposed longer to improved
living conditions, and passed this on to their children.
However, there is another more likely explanation; the
parents were all born around 1970, so if they were older
when their children were born, the children must have been
born later and hence experienced more of the underlying
secular trend. In this sense, parental age is simply a
measure of passing time, and the child’s year of birth
would have been similarly predictive.
The child’s age was another important predictor of
secular change, which was appreciably greater in the older
age group. The authors view this as a proxy for exposure
duration, but again it is more likely to be structural,
reflecting the advanced developmental age of the children
compared to their parents; so they reach milestones
relatively earlier than their parents and hence appear taller.
This effect increases with age until puberty and then
disappears once adult height is reached [7]; so one would
expect it to be greater for age 5-10 y than age 0-5 y.
The secular change in developmental age may also
explain why BMI did not increase in the 0-5 year group.
The BMI curve typically rises steeply in infancy, peaks just
before 1 year, then falls until adiposity rebound at age 4-5 y
when it rises again [8]. The advance in developmental age
shifts this pattern to the left, with both the age at BMI peak
and the age at adiposity rebound getting earlier [9,10],
independently of any secular increase in BMI. Because of
its shape, the age-shifted curve is slightly lower than the
original curve at some ages (Fig. 1), and this generates an
apparent fall in BMI that partially compensates for the
secular BMI rise. So, in this sense the authors are right that
children tend to “grow up” before they “grow out.”
The WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) score, was
the one socio-economic factor to have a measurable effect
on the secular change in height, weight and BMI. It
presumably means that the children brought up in better
conditions than their parents grew better as a result. Weight
and BMI were also relatively greater in children whose
parents were more educated; this though looks more like
greater obesity than improved growth, as there was no
associated height effect.
In summary, the study confirms intergenerational
increases in height, weight and BMI, and identifies several
factors that predict them. However, most of the factors
reflect either statistical or biological associations that may
not be very relevant to policy. In terms of policy relevance,
only sanitation in the parent cohort impacted significantly
on the secular height trend, suggesting that improved
sanitation is a worthwhile policy goal. Sanitation in the
child cohort did not show an effect, but this may be because
it has improved materially in 30 years, making its impact
harder to detect.