Yang et al. explore the potential for of recombinant human gelsolin as a therapeutic intervention in a PR8 H1N1 mouse flu model. They use CD1 mice and use a variety of doses and dosing schedules with a pooled statistical analysis to infer benefits across a range of groups despite some variability in results. Benefits were seen in terms of survival and morbidity scores but not in terms of weight loss. They went on to perform transcriptional profiling and to detect reductions in inflammatory responses and increases in responses associated with tissue repair. Strengths of the study are the investigation of a therapeutic approach for a potential life threatening infection and the preliminary hypothesis generating transcriptomic data set which provide clues to potential mechanisms. A few areas of the text should be addressed to strengthen the main conclusions. The authors have had significant statistical input but some further explanation of the statistical approach and its potential benefits to a study such as this would be useful. The study used CD1 mice which may explain some of the variability. A few further details should be added to the methods. The authors should confirm the reason for just studying males. They should confirm animals and groups were co-housed and, in a study with such large numbers, explain whether there were any majors groupings or time periods used in the study which might have contributed to variability. Were mice bought in in small groups or are the subgroups from predominantly the same larger pool bred in house? Also they should confirm the mice were infected at similar times of day. The authors might also comment on the rationale for using human gelsolin. Some differences in response between human and mouse gelsolin have been detected and the authors might wish to comment on this and their similarities and differences. The authors did not find any major differences in weight. Can the authors comment further on this since this is usually a marker of outcome. In addition the mortality curves appeared to be still showing deaths at the end of the study period. Can the authors confirm that the main biologic affect was a delay in mortality rather than prevention? Clarifying this in the text would resolve any uncertainty relating to the conclusion and title. The transcriptomic data is of interest. Can the authors drill down further and confirm any sub-groupings related to inflammation or tissue repair? In particular is their any evidence of an epithelial protective affect such as enhancement of barrier function or epithelial apoptosis inhibition, since this is potentially one of gelsolins biologic functions. I assume there is no additional data from BAL cytokines, cell counts or histology to back up the transcriptomics but if there are any further data, they would strengthen the conclusions. 