In this manuscript, Farman et al described an approach to search for network modules based on p-values collected from differential gene expression analysis to address pathway crosstalk, which cannot be addressed in conventional pathway enrichment analysis approaches. During the past decade, many network module-based approaches have been developed to understand the functions of genes collected from differential gene expression analysis and other omics approaches (for a review, see Mitra et al, 2013 1 ). Though the network approach described here has some innovative ideas (e.g. searching for sources and sinks in subgraphs), however, the authors introduce their approach in the context of pathway analysis, without mentioning these previously published similar approaches, let alone comparing their approach to others. Also, it is worthy of mentioning that the described approach in this manuscript is very similar to jActiveModule (Ideker et al, 2012 2 ), the first of this kind, widely used for network-based data analysis. The manuscript used the Ebola virus (EBOV) time course gene expression data set to show case MSF, trying to demonstrate the validity and usefulness of the approach. Indeed, the authors found that IFNA1 and IFNB1 are source genes in subgraphs across multiple time points, as reported by literature references. However, the authors have not discussed other genes in the found subgraphs, though the whole lists of them are provided in their GitHub site. IFNA1 and IFNB1 are among other source genes. The authors should develop a statistic approach to evaluate p-values and FDRs for subgraphs and individual source genes, therefore, providing users a way to choose the most significant genes for unknown phenotypes or biological processes. The current way to showcase the usefulness of the approach is not stringent and may not be useful if too many genes are collected in the subgraphs. The authors compared MSF results with raw gene lists based on p-value cutoffs (Table 1). However, Table 1 is not a fair comparison. Only the largest subgraphs are listed for edgeR + MSF, while all subgraphs are listed for raw gene lists (e.g. for 6 hpi, 3 for edgeR + MSF, 39 for edgeR (p-value = 0.1)). For a fair comparison, all subgraphs should be listed for edgeR + MSF too. Section “Comparison to Reactome pathway analysis tool” and Figure 4 compare results produced by Reactome pathway enrichment analysis for different gene lists. The whole section is confusing. First, the section title is misleading: the comparison is for results generated from Reactome pathway analysis tool, not to that tool. Second, I cannot see too much value in this setting using different adjusted p-value cutoffs for gene lists, probably one (e.g 0.05) should be enough, to reduce the clutter in Figure 4. Third, the authors want to point out MSF can enrich Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, but not the raw gene lists. However, such a comparison has not clearly indicated in Figure 4. The set comparisons include too many gene lists. Fourth, the authors should point out what p-value or FDR cutoff value used to choose pathways from the Reactome analysis tool. It is not correct to choose all pathways listed in that tool for comparison. Finally, where “ Ten ” toll-like receptor cascade pathways come from? Searching for sources/targets in individual MSF subgraphs based on the directions in the Rectome FI network and then drawing the schematic diagrams as illustrated in Figure 2 are interesting. It will be better to show directions in the Cytoscape network view (the right-side networks in Figure 2). The schematic diagrams in Figure 2 are interesting, but may dramatically simplify things occurring inside cells. The Reactome FI network provides functional relationships among genes or proteins, which are not necessary gene regulatory relationships. The authors should point this out in the manuscript. Finally, the writing of this manuscript is under question. The authors should really read their manuscript much more carefully. There are far too many typos, wrong uses of punctuations, and grammar errors. For examples, “the Filoviridea family; filamentous” should be “the Filoviridea family: filamentous”; “pathogenesis of Ebola. Thereby facilitating” should be “pathogenesis of Ebola, thereby, facilitating”; “among the most significant gene in the DGEA” should be “among the most significant genes in the DGEA”, and many others. 