In this manuscript, the author discussed the diversity of the NMD pathway according to the variation of NMD factors in different eukaryotes, and briefly summarized some popular NMD models. Furthermore, the author also discussed the relationship between intron gain/loss and NMD. Several interesting and unsolved questions in this field were also mentioned by the end of the manuscript. Interestingly, the author came up with a novel classification system (although it needs to be further modified, see below) to classify NMD mechanisms into different types based on the new criterion. Namely, it classifies NMD mechanisms according to the presence or absence of key factors that related to the well-characterized Upf1 C-terminus phosphorylation events. The manuscript is clearly written, and this work is likely to be of general interest to the NMD field. My main criticism is about the novel classification system. Major As it is still unclear whether excavates have functional NMD, the type 4 NMD may not need to be taken into account. Or question marks should be included in the figure 2 and figure 3D, and in the main text. Type 1 NMD seems to be SMG1-dependent and EJC-dependent (see figure 3A). Hence it cannot be exemplified by C. elegans (EJC-independent NMD). The author could modify the figure a little. For example, one could draw EJC with a dashed line to indicate it is dispensable for NMD in some organisms, like C. elegans. Besides, the presence of Smg1 and Upf1 orthologs in N. gruberi does not necessarily mean it possesses a functional NMD pathway, thus I suggest not consider it has type 1 NMD. Or, as I mentioned above, excavates need not be discussed too much. As mentioned by the author, some organisms (e.g., D. melanogaster and D. rerio) are considered to have SMG1-dependent type 1 NMD, yet their SMG1 proteins are dispensable for NMD activation and therefore similar to the type 2 NMD. I am wondering whether this issue can be solved by defining another type of NMD, namely in between type 1 and type 2. Besides, an additional figure (e.g., figure 3 in (Lareau and Brenner, 2015 1 ) could be provided to show the evolutionary relationship between different types of NMD. Figure 2 needs to be modified. Clearly, solely based on the pattern of these icons (NMD proteins), readers may get confused why organisms with the same pattern are not classified into the same group. For example, like C. rubella, Tetrahymena also has a red square and a blue triangle. However, they are classified into different types. Although, in this case, it can be easily solved by adding another icon to indicate Upf1 with phosphorylatable S/TQ motifs. Additional modifications are required to let readers understand, for example, why Dikarya and Mirosporia are considered as type 1, but not type 2. Minor Page 2, left panel, lane 10. Ciliates should be mentioned here as well, because NMD was also proved to be required for regulating many of their transcripts (Jaillon et al. 2008 2 , Tian et al. 2017 3 ). Page 2, right panel, lanes 19 – 20. I suggest deleting this sentence. Or, I would rather say that, even in animals, NMD factors were simply defined by their requirement for NMD. Because phosphorylation of Upf1 seems to be not essential for eliciting NMD in some animals (e.g., SMG1-independent NMD in fruit flies and zebrafish). Page 2, figure 1, the bottom panel. I suggest moving Upf2, Upf1 and its associated proteins (especially the endonuclease Smg6) to the left side of the EJC, close to the endonucleolytic cleavage site. Page 2, figure 1, the title of figure legend. The word “Animals” is probably too general, hence the author may want to replace it with another word (e.g., vertebrates). Because it is known that EJC is not required or dispensable for NMD in some invertebrates (Longman et al. 2007 4 , Gatfield et al. 2003 5 ). Page 2, figure 1, the last sentence of the figure legend. Replace “phoso-UPF1” with “phosphor-UPF1” or “phos-UPF1”. Page 3, right panel, lane 8. Smg7 recruits CCR4–NOT deadenylase complex instead of exonuclease (Loh et al. 2013 6 ). Page 3, left panel, lane 14. Reference 34 (Rosains and Mango, 2012 7 ) suggests that Smg8 is not required for NMD in C. elegans. Page 3, left panel, lane 28. Change the word “animals”, see comments #3. Page 3, left panel, the first paragraph of the section “Variations on a common pathway”. Since it is still unclear whether NMD exists in excavates, it is inappropriate to say that they have “the most divergent NMD pathway”. Some following sentences in this paragraph are also against the existence of NMD pathway in excavates. To support the hypothesis “a complex NMD pathway involving… in the last eukaryotic common ancestor”, the author could start the discussion from plant NMD mechanism, and then use the existence of orthologs of NMD core factors in excavates as a supporting evidence. Page 4, figure 3 legend. “In T, it has been shown” should be “In T. brucei …”. Page 5, left panel, lanes 2 – 3 and lanes 20 – 21. The author should mention that the interaction between Upf1 and Smg6 can also be phosphorylation-independent (Chakrabarti et al. 2014 8 ). Page 5 and many other places. It is better to use a unified way to indicate different organisms (groups). For example: change “C. elegans, humans, and moss” to “C. elegans, H. sapiens and P. patens” or “worms, humans and moss”. Page 5, right panel, lane 5. Is there experimental evidence to support that S/TQ sites have undergone phosphorylation? If not, I suggest replacing “S/TQ dipeptide phosphorylation sites” with “phosphorylatable S/TQ motifs”. Page 5, right panel, “PNRC2 is a vertebrate-specific NMD factor”. The author may want to remove this sentence because a recent study has shown that PNRC2 may not be required for NMD (Nicholson et al. 2018 9 ). Page 6, left panel, lanes 19 – 21. The author should modify this sentence a little. Despite the splice junctions downstream of the stop codon (DSJ) are enriched in potential Tetrahymena NMD targets (Tian et al. 2017 3 ), it is still insufficient to conclude that “NMD in T. thermophila is dependent on DSJ”. Page 6, left panel, bottom. The description of DSE model could be removed because evidence from a few studies are against this model (for example (Meaux et al. 2008 10 ). Page 6, right panel, lane 12. The fungus N. crassa should also be mentioned here, due to the requirement of EJC for its NMD pathway. Page 6, right panel, section “The origins of NMD”, the second sentence. The word “clear” is too strong here. Page 6, right panel, section “The origins of NMD”. Firstly, the author may want to change the subtitle of this section. In this section, a clear answer to origins of NMD is not given, and discussions are mainly about the relationship between NMD and the intron evolution. Secondly, when discussing the relationship between intron evolution and (the evolution of) NMD, an earlier study from Michael Lynch and Avinash Kewalramani is deserved to be mentioned here (Lynch et al. 2003 11 ). Page 7, left panel, section “unanswered questions”. Regarding the question 2, the author should consider the existence of phosphorylation-independent interaction between Upf1 and Smg6. The question 4 should be modified as the existence of “an EJC mode of PTC recognition” in Tetrahymena has not been proven yet. 