The authors introduce a Shiny application that are developed as a user-friendly tool for conducting omics-data analysis with their published methodology work. The article provides detailed description of the inputs and outputs for the shiny application, and shows working example for the use of this application. This article is index-able with some necessary modifications. The following are my major comments. Before introducing the shiny application, the authors should provide a brief summary of their methodology work, including clear definitions of important terminologies and a description of their model. It would greatly help the readers to understand the contents followed subsequently. With a glimpse on the methodology paper, I found the terms such as “molecular profile”, “feature” are defined misleadingly in this article. What is a change point model? For the input element (4), where to select the number of breaks? Is it the max Q allowed? What is the max Q? What are the options for “Changes Using” in the bottom right of Figure 1? For the output element (2), it is better to include a figure with the description. In the “Use case” section, Why GISPA is used? What’s the relation of GISPA and SISPA? How many genes are used? Is it 16? Where are the 7 patients in Figure 1? Are they the orange bars? What is “using change point v2.2.2”? “We found seven samples with profile activity to be significantly ( P 0.0001) associated with poor survival as compared to the 300 samples without the profile activity (HR = 9.81; 95% CI = (3.39, 28.37)).” Previously mentioned, there are 377 patients. Why are 70 samples missing? For the reproducibility of the work, please upload a default dataset in the shiny application, so that the readers/users can replicated the analysis for the first time. Also, I provide my minor comments below. Please consider a thorough revision of the English writing for this scientific article. There are a number of grammatical errors, and sentences do not flow smoothly. Please avoid using colloquial words in scientific writing. Please modify the legend of Figure 1. In the brackets “(shown in grey)”, it is hard to locate where it is referring to since there are many grey colors in the figure. Also, please add labels to the subfigures that are referred in the text. 