This case report of PION occurring ipsilaterally after a resection of a frontal AVM is very interesting. It is a reminder that PION can occur in many different types of procedures outside spine, cardiac, and head and neck surgery. During craniotomies, more direct insult to the blood supply of the optic nerve may be an additional etiologic factor via direct trauma to the nerve or blood supply, or compromise of the blood supply with edema or brain retractors. It is difficult to ascertain with the available information the proximity of the AVM to the optic nerve and its blood supply. For the readers of this case report, it might be helpful to discuss the blood supply of the optic nerve with a diagram, including both the superior hypophyseal artery and the opthalmic artery and branches. The patient's preoperative angiogram and MRI/CT of the head, showing the proximity of the AVM and venous drainage to the optic nerve and its blood supply would be helpful information for the clinician. Other useful information would include a statement re: any other postoperative complications; any signs of edema/ischemia on later CT/MRI of the head; later opthalmologic findings such as optic nerve pallor on fundoscopy (confirmation that it was PION); and if formal assessment of visual fields was performed after discharge. It will remain difficult to definitively ascertain the etiology of PION in this case, even if all the requested information is provided. Fortunately, perioperative PION is relatively rare; however, its low incidence, high severity of injury, and the multitude of perioperative and patient variables make it exceedingly unlikely that studies with a high level of evidence will be conducted in the future. Animal models of PION simulating perioperative conditions may provide important insights into etiology, prevention and treatment of this problem. Unlike most patients with perioperative PION, this patient seems to have had good recovery of vision. (N.B. The lack of reports of craniotomies and POVL in the ASA POVL Registry is more likely a result of exclusion of cases in that Registry where direct trauma to the optic nerve or its blood supply was possible.)