 Summary: The authors describe a set of Galaxy tools collectively referred to as “Query Tabular” (but composed of 3 individual tools “Query Tabular”, “SQLite to Tabular”, and “Filter Tabular”). This tool allows user-defined database operations to be performed on tabular files within Galaxy through the use of generated sqlite intermediate files. Tabular files are very common outputs of bioinformatics tools, and a significant number of Galaxy tools exist for manipulating these types of files. By enabling the the use of SQL statements to transform tabular files, a great deal of effort that currently requires several tools from the ‘standard’ Galaxy text manipulation toolbox can be performed in far fewer steps. General comments: Query Tabular does enable powerful manipulations to be performed, and it can simplify a workflow which may otherwise have many simple text manipulation tools connected together to achieve a similar result. A significant caveat is that the most powerful functions require the user to have working knowledge of SQL (‘simple’ things like filtering do not). For pre-canned workflows, this is not a problem, but for a typical ‘bench scientist’ attempting to use Query Tabular this may prove to be a formidable barrier to usage when developing their own analysis pipelines. This isn’t necessarily a problem with the tool, just a fact of the intended tool design, but it does place it into more of the power-user category. This does enable someone with SQL knowledge to easily do a bunch of neat things inside of Galaxy, and it might be beneficial to include a link to a resource with general help on writing SQL and perhaps provide an additional resource that provides examples of some typical operations relevant to common Galaxy tools. Essential changes: Figure 1: Have “Table Options” section expanded to show that table name is being set and that header line is being used for column names. It would also be helpful to provide a small snippet (~5 lines or so) of the input tabular file that is selected in an additional panel. Provide direct downloads for each example input file and exported workflow (perhaps at Zenodo or a Github repository, etc). Currently a reader needs to visit and register an account at two separate Galaxy servers to gain access to these examples. Minor suggestions: It might be useful to provide a link to, or list by name, the specific Galaxy Training material tutorial that currently makes use of Query Tabular ( https://galaxyproject.github.io/training-material/topics/proteomics/tutorials/metaproteomics/tutorial.html ) when mentioning the online training available. More examples of ‘real-world’ usage could be helpful, especially to users that are less experienced with SQL. Perhaps as a linked external Github page, or similar. 