This manuscript presents a machine-learning analysis of the published sequences of the novel 2019-nCoV. The authors use the Informational Spectrum Method (ISM), a virtual spectroscopy method for protein analysis based on the electronic properties of each amino acid. Their goal is to identify sites on the virus most likely to interact with other molecules like drugs, antibodies or viral receptors. Due to the rapidity of this field and the time elapsed since the manuscript was submitted (Jan 27), most of their conclusions are no longer new: nCoV is most related to SARS-CoV and less to MERS-CoV, ACE2 is a likely receptor, the natural reservoir might be civets and poultry, human actin proteins participate in internalization, ibuprofen that interacts with actin proteins should be investigated as a therapeutic, and finally that domain 266-330 of the S1 protein should be targeted by drugs or vaccines. It is a nice piece of work. The conclusions could be updated, for example they could say that the first of these predictions are supported by recent publications, that bat CoVs now appear to be the most closely related and bats are more likely to be the natural reservoir, and the link between ibuprofen/actin interactions and viral entry remains an exciting path for future therapeutics. Minor corrections In the first sentence of “Update” the authors refer to ‘these proteins’…do they mean Actin and SARS-CoV proteins? If they only mean actin they should say so, and then the sentence would read: “…actin protein is suggested as a host factor that participates in infection and pathogenesis of 2019-nCoV. Drugs modulating the biological activity of actin (e.g., ibuprofen) were suggested as candidates that should be investigated for the treatment of 2019-nCoV infection.“ In the UPDATE, last sentences should say "...which are presented in Figure 5." Introduction pg 3 “Fears are mounting worldwide over the cross-border spread of the new strain of coronavirus (denoted as 2019-nCoV) originated in Wuhan,….” Instead say “…that originated in Wuhan…” Introduction pg 3 “…eight human 2019-nCoV isolates are available without any additional information about biological properties of the virus, beyond the morphological confirmation…” Replace “morphology” with “morphological”, it is an adjective. 