Thank you for the opportunity to review the work of Stankovic and colleagues on the prevalence of reporting of academic degrees on the title pages of 100 leading medical journals selected based on journal impact factor. The resulting brief communication is short, clear and to the point. My main question is why the authors undertook the study, and what they make of the findings? Do they believe that authors should receive public credit for the hard work involved in their studies? Do they believe that readers should take into account authors’ academic degrees when interpret research findings? Or do they find collecting and submitting information on academic degrees burdensome and pointless (particularly if it was never actually published with the article)? Or think that research should be judged on its merits and not on the qualifications of its authors? The latter point is particularly pertinent given the increasing discussion of including patients as authors on articles in medical journals. 1 , 2 , 3 Readers of this brief communication will be interested to hear the authors’ take on their findings. I have some minor comments below: What was the impact factor of the top 100 journals? It would be helpful to know if the impact factor cut-off was 1 or 10. Or, to look at it a different way, how many medical journals are listed in total, and what % of those journals was included? This could be mentioned in the Methods or when discussing generalizability. While considering generalizability, the fact that the selected journals included both general and specialist journals, from both the US and Europe, and published under both open access and subscription models, is a clear strength of the study. Journals were characterized as ‘general’ or ‘specific’ – the authors should consider the alternative term ‘specialist’. The information the authors collected on fellowship designations and job titles is of interest. As the authors have collected it, perhaps it could include these in the main article on a descriptive basis, as a single short sentence in the Methods and Results. The following sentence needs splitting in two: “To our knowledge, no studies exist on the impact of reporting academic degrees in medical journals, why further research is needed to explore the implications of listing academic degrees on the readers’ attitude towards research quality.” For example: “To our knowledge, no studies exist on the impact of reporting academic degrees in medical journals. Further research is needed to explore the implications of listing academic degrees on readers’ perceptions of research quality.” Another idea for further research would be to study trends in the prevalence of reporting of academic degrees in medical journals. Furthermore, it would be interesting to look at how the degrees of authors (in journals that report them) are changing over time. Perhaps you could include these ideas among your avenues for further research, and cite the references suggested by Marusic, which suggest that the number of authors with a Bachelor’s degree as their highest degree is increasing. Thanks again for the chance to review this interesting and worthwhile manuscript. 