The authors make a clear case for more openness in engineering research. They give a well-balanced set of arguments for researchers to perform open research, and argue that it increases the societal impact of the research. They also discuss potential obstacles that researchers may encounter when making their work more open. Finally, they also give a set of recommendations for university leaders to improve and support openness. I have some minor questions/comments, which I hope can help in further strengthening the points made in the article. The funding paragraph in the introduction is currently very much focused on US public universities, which of course does not cover the entire readership. The arguments provided in this article mostly hold for publicly funded academic research in engineering. A lot of engineering research is also performed in industry, or at universities (partially) funded by industry. In such projects, contracts often do not allow full openness of publication, code and data. It could be a useful addition to mention this (more) clearly in the paper. Regarding my work on citation analysis of image processing papers with and without code, I recently presented an update of this analysis at the WIC Symposium (see Vandewalle, 2019 1 ). Just providing this information for your reference. I do not fully agree with the argument of establishing priority by releasing preprints to avoid being "scooped". This is true, but when researchers fear to be "scooped", I believe they generally fear that others will be faster in their further exploration of a data set or a piece of code and hence do not allow the original authors to take full advantage of their initial efforts. Meanwhile, I believe the risk of being "scooped" is generally overestimated and does (in most cases) not provide a real threat. In the section "It's nice", the authors argue that it prevents unnecessary repetition of work. I fully agree with this argument, and see this improved efficiency as one of the strong benefits of more openness. Meanwhile, there are also some advantages to such an independent repetition of an experiment, as it reduces the risk of repeating or overlooking the same bugs. It could be useful to add a comment in that sense to the article to keep arguments well-balanced. Finally, in the introduction to "Open science and the scholar's research agenda", the authors mention that "sometimes it is enough to simply be more open than the current norms in their field." While this makes sense for researchers wanting to get some benefits of being open by doing somewhat better than their peers, I believe we should set sufficiently high standards for open research, and at least aim for full openness where possible. As already mentioned above, these comments were mostly my views about some aspects of the present opinion article. In general, I think it is already a well-written article and I would like to thank the authors for their efforts in putting this opinion article together to further promote open science. 