This short article describes a comparison of 'housekeeping genes' with 'information processing genes', across 19 Campylobacter jejuni genomes. I cannot fully evaluate this paper as the data is not available. I understand that this is a new journal, and as such perhaps F1000Research has not agreed that all sequences should be deposited to GenBank or EMBL before publication, but I find this frustrating that the results are published, but the data is missing. Since currently there are only 11 C. jejuni genomes listed as 'complete', I was curious as to what additional genomes were used in this study. See: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/browse/ Unfortunately, it seems that only about half of the finished genomes were used (that is, 6 out of 11), and an additional set of apparently randomly chosen 6 unfinished, draft genome sequences were used, in addition to the apparently draft sequences of another 7 genomes of sequence type ST-474. Although it is stated that seven of the genomes have been deposited to GenBank, they are still not present in the database of complete genomes, as of 1 May, 2013 (the article was published about 6 weeks ago, on 14 March, 2013). In Table 1, I can see accession numbers for DRAFT sequences for two of the seven ST-474 genomes, and the remaining five do not appear to be listed in the NCBI genomes project pages, which includes even planned projects with no data yet. But the two ST-474 genomes listed in Table 1 do not appear to have the sequence type (ST-474) in the GenBank file; instead, all that is listed is "rare MLST strain". This missing meta-data makes it difficult to know if the other five genomes are perhaps there, but I cannot find them, even if I search for the strain name (e.g., P179a) provided for in Table 1. Figure 1 shows the location of the housekeeping genes in the NCTC 11168 genome (which I recognise because I know that the GenBank accession number is for that strain - but wouldn't it be much more clear to just label this chromosome as ' C. jejuni ', and then put the strain name (NCTC 11168)? I am curious as to whether there's a significant AT content difference in the genes in the top half (e.g., closer to the replication origin), compared to the lower half (replication terminus). How does this difference compare to that found between the two gene sets? From my perspective, Figures 2 - 9 are not very informative at all. These could be collapsed perhaps into a SINGLE box and whisker's plot, where the distributions could easily be compared with each other.