The scope of this article is to provide essential clues about orofacial manifestations of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. Considering the target readers are Dental Surgeons, this manuscript has several imprecision's and inaccurate messages which need to be corrected. Abstract section: The affirmation that "oral mucosa may be the primary site of the disease manifestation" is contradictory with the discussion and findings of this report as well as the existent and well-characterised clinical description of MCL. Almost all cases (except case 4) were manifested as disseminated Leishmaniasis with a significant and predominant cutaneous involvement. In the discussion section, paragraph four, line 5, authors state that primary and exclusive oral mucosa involvement is exceptionally uncommon. Then, what is described in the abstract is contradictory. Regarding that "All had mucocutaneous leishmaniasis with oropharyngeal involvement" is also incorrect. Due to the lack of detail in cases 5-7, it is not possible to accept these cases are definitively MCL. Case 6 is not a case of MCL; then, it needs to be removed from this article. Introduction section: Paragraph 2, line 1-2: It's not clear if authors suggest that MCL is particularly frequent in immunosuppressed individuals. This affirmation is highly dependent on the prevalence of immunosuppressive comorbidities (as HIV). Considering that immunosuppressive conditions are not highly prevalent in endemic areas (except some African or Asian regions), this affirmation is inaccurate. Mucosal involvement in new-world Leishmaniases ranges from 5-20% 1 . Then, in any case, this affirmation is not correct or requires clarification. Paragraph 2, line 5-6: development of primary lesions in oral mucosa is very infrequent and mainly described in old-world Leishmaniasis 2 OR in individuals with immunosuppressive conditions (4/7 cases in this report). For this reason, authors must consider changing the scope (title as well?) of this review from orofacial manifestations of MCL to atypical manifestations of leishmaniasis among immunosuppressed individuals. Case reports: Case 1: more than MCL, this is a case of disseminated leishmaniasis (DisL) in an immunosuppressed individual. Here the predominant mucosal involvement appears to be nasal (no details are provided regarding the degree of nasal involvement), and the oral involvement is confined to the upper lip involvement. This is unusual even in immunosuppressed individuals, considering that lips, gums, tongue, and hard palate are extremely infrequent in new-world MCL 3 . Case 2: again, this is a case of DisL in an immunocompetent individual. Here the mucosal involvement is more typical, but an HIV seronegative status is not enough to classify the patient as immunocompetent. A better characterisation of this individual is required. Case 3: again, another case of DisL in an immunocompromised patient. It's recommended to improve the quality of picture 1d. As mentioned before gums are unusual in new-world MCL. MCL is not commonly associated with lymphadenopathy. Both findings, and in the absence of parasitologic or histologic characterisation of the oral lesion makes it essential to consider other infectious diseases, importantly in an HIV-seropositive individual. Case 4: this case is MCL, but the pathophysiology is different from the prior cases. Here, more than a lymphatic/hematologic dissemination, what generated the MCL was a direct inoculation on the lip or a skin inoculation close to a mucosal structure. This case is clearly, utterly different from the rest and hard to classify as an unusual manifestation or among immunosuppressed individuals. Case 5: again, another DisL in an apparently immunocompetent patient. No details were provided here regarding the HIV serologic status or other potential sources of immunosuppression. Case 6: again, another DisL in an immunosuppressed individual. In this case, there is not any oral or mucosal involvement (only cutaneous lesions are described). Then, this case must be removed from the report. Case 7: there is a lack of evidence to catalogue this case as MCL. Besides the facial cutaneous lesions (only localised cutaneous leishmaniasis?), lesions described in the oral mucosa are unusually located, and an alternative explanation must be considered (metastatic melanoma?). It's not clear where the sample for PCR was obtained. With this unclear clinical and parasitological description, it's inaccurate to define the case as MCL. Discussion: Paragraph 3, lines 1-2: MCL is potentially fatal, mainly when larynx or trachea are affected. From that scenario, it's incorrect to describe them as a facial involvement. Paragraph 4, lines 1-2: as suggested in the first observation of the introduction section, authors are suggesting MCL is generally associated with VL or immunosuppression. That is probably acceptable in the context of Sudanese MCL; however, this is not the epidemiological context of the study. Regarding immunosuppression, as discussed in the same observation, due to the lack of coexistence between Leishmaniasis and immunosuppressive conditions, there is not any evidence supporting this affirmation. The references used to support this statement are case reports which were not designed to measure the prevalence of MCL among immunosuppressed individuals. Paragraph 5, lines 6-7: the high rate of recurrences observed in these cases are not necessarily related to therapeutic issues. Immunosuppression is probably the primary determinant of therapeutic failure. Paragraph 6, lines 6-8: again, this affirmation is contradictory with the findings of this report. Only one case was purely a "primary" MCL, in the rest, the predominant manifestation was the development of disseminated cutaneous lesions. Paragraph 8, lines 5-6: the reason why systemic therapy was administered in all these cases is that systemic treatment is the only standard therapeutic regimen for MCL (not due to resistance issues). For a better understanding of current therapeutic recommendations, authors must review citation four 4 and update reference 9. Paragraph 9: no local therapy is currently recommended for MCL. This information must be improved or removed. Conclusions: Paragraph 2: what other infections must be considered as a differential diagnosis among oral lesions? 