The authors present some novel data showing the expression of a truncated version of the ABCA4 protein in primary human keratinocytes. They determine that primary keratinocytes from patients with retinal disease-causing ABCA4 mutations have lower viability at later passage. The article is generally well written and the data is novel and interesting, however I would recommend addressing some points I raise below. Abstract . The final sentence a little vague. Without having read the paper this statement is not too clear. As the abstract should draw the reader into the article, a better summarising/concluding statement should end the abstract. Also, the authors state that ABCA4 is important for cellular proliferation. Their paper does not however provide any measure of proliferation so they should only state that viability is affected, in the absence of such data. Figure 1A Western blot bands prominent but rather spread-out, particularly in the ms retina. What do the other bands present correspond to, are they non-specific? Other known splice variants? Do the authors know the antibody epitope and are they confident it cross-reacts appropriately with ABCA4 in different species? Figure 1D Cells from how many patients were used for each measurement? The figure legend suggests 3, but the materials and methods states different numbers of patients/donors for each condition. This needs clarifying in the figure legend. Also, why no indication of statistical significance on the graphs? The authors claim to have performed one-way ANOVA but don’t show the result in the figure? Figure 1B/C What was the passage of the cells used to generate these images and are they matched? The image in Figure 1C appears to have many more large, senescent cells in which the staining pattern appears less perinuclear and more punctate, throughout the cytoplasm. Can the authors provide more details and comment on this? Figure 1E The DAPI staining appears absent in the basal layer in places, why is this? The description of the staining is somewhat inadequate. What about subcellular localisation? In the basal layer it almost looks membraneous in places, however as you move through the stratum spinosum and granulosum, the staining becomes strongly and uniformly cytoplasmic. This Figure would benefit from additional annotation, showing the dermal-epidermal junction and highlighting the different layers of the epidermis. This would help readers identify the changes in localisation that appear to occur as the keratinocytes differentiate. Conclusions Given the authors finding that ABCA4 is expressed in keratinocytes, plus my own previously published findings that it is also strongly expressed in human hair follicles, is it appropriate to still call ABCA4 “retina-specific”? I would say not. Can the authors expand on exactly how and why this study will be useful for determining the pathogenicity of novel ABCA4 mutations? Overall – I understand that iPSCs derived from epidermal keratinocytes are used as a retinal surrogate in lieu of being able to access retina’s from living patients. I now understand that keratinocytes express a truncated version of ABCA4, which has some unknown role in maintaining the viability of the isolated primary cells. What is not clear to me is how this can help with studying the pathogenicity of ABCA4 mutations? If only a truncated version of ABCA4 is present in keratinocytes, how does this form relate to the full-length protein? And can the mutations that are commonly found in patients with retinal disease be mapped to this truncated version? Overall I think this is really interesting phenomenological data, but for me the authors do not clearly describe how their findings could be useful for studying novel mutations in full-length ABCA4, as would be present in the retina? It would be really useful to have some sequencing data that might show differences in the truncated ABCA4 present in the primary keratinocytes from control vs. stargardt patients.