F. Nosten and colleagues report two cases of fatal melioidosis in the Myanmar border and remind the international community that this disease was discovered in Myanmar. Melioidosis is probably a forgotten public health issue in Myanmar and this article has the advantage of emphasizing it. However a description of the Myanmar environment, healthcare system and available antibiotics could help to better understand the general background around these two cases. I have a few comments on the cases: The first case illustrates a chronic pulmonary melioidosis with a fatal septic choc due to B. pseudomallei . “ lived in close proximity to the farm ” - Could you please reinterate the context of the Myanmar border; are there irrigated rice fields in the area? Is the patient in close contact with wet soil or any kind of water sources? “ Abdominal examination revealed a 1 cm liver and spleen ” - This statement is not really clear. Do you mean that there are an hepatomegaly and a splenomegaly? “ died more than 8 weeks after the onset of symptoms ” - It would be more helpful to have the time from hospitalization. The second case is about a fatal disseminated melioidosis from cutaneous inoculation. What is less clear is the global clinical presentation. The patient had initial pulmonary oedema. Maybe it would be helpful to discuss pulmonary melioidosis and to have the result of the chest X-ray (if it could have been done in this setting). “ stool sample was noted to be of black color ” - This statement doesn’t bring out any new evidence. “ A second blood culture obtained one day prior to his death grew Burkholderia pseudomallei after one day of incubation .” - Does that mean that you got the result after his death? How long did it take to get the result? Do the authors think that earlier result of blood cultures could have had a positive impact on the outcome of their two patients? It could be interesting to discuss it. Do the authors have any comments on the Ashdown media, which is a cheap, specific and easy-to-make medium. Could it be implemented in the Myanmar border to help diagnosing cases? Is ceftazidime available in Myanmar? 