The authors describe a method to generate transgenic mouse embryonic stem cells by knocking in a constitutive or conditional expression vector to the ROSA26 locus by a recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE) approach. Although the authors already state in their abstract that this can be a simple and efficient procedure to generate transgenic mice in many laboratories, this is not proven by this article. Additionally and as already mentioned by the other two reviewers, this story clearly lacks novelty and does not refer to the most recent publications describing similar and even more efficient ROSA26-based RMCE technologies. Major comments: The introduction is not up to date as it does not refer to the most recent reports on RMCE-based transgenic technologies. More importantly, it does not describe how this study is of added value to the field or how it distinguishes itself from these other reports (see reference list reviewer Juergen Bode). It is not clear why one particular RMCE-compatible ES cell clone was chosen over the others. It would be nice to see Southern blot confirmation of correct and single transgene integration, karyotyping data, pluripotency analysis and ability of these ES cells to establish transgenic animals after in vitro manipulation. A more schematic overview of the constructs, RMCE-strategy and expression mechanism should be given to enhance the clarity of this method for less-experienced readers, e.g. include the splice acceptor which is required to obtain endogenous ROSA26 promoter-based expression of the RMCE-inserted transgene. As already mentioned by the other two reviewers, Figure 2C is not clear at all. Additionally, the PCR strategy should also be backed-up by Southern blot analysis to give an idea on possible secondary, random integrations. Separate targetings should be performed to get a real, statistically significant estimate on the efficiency of this RMCE approach. Figure 2D: Did all correctly targeted ES cell clones express the same levels of GFP and was this expression equal in all cells of one particular clone? In other words, how robust and wide spread is this ROSA26-based system? No experimental data is given for the pFLSL-WF3 conditional vector system (Cre/loxP). Was this vector tested? Please include data. If it did not work, the authors cannot state they have also developed a conditional system Summary: the authors state this is a very efficient system for gene knock-in at the ROSA26 locus, both constitutive and conditional. However, this approach still requires traditional cloning of the cDNA of interest into the targeting vectors and the picking and screening of approximately 100 individual ES cell clones per construct. It is not clear to me how this method is superior to a very similar but previously published ROSA26-based approach, which even makes use of homologous recombination instead of RMCE (Nyabi et al. Efficient mouse transgenesis using Gateway-compatible ROSA26 locus targeting vectors and F1 hybrid ES cells Nucleic Acids Research; 37(7), 2009), especially because no data is provided to prove that the method described here can generate transgenic animals. In general, I am convinced that there are other, more reliable, tested and efficient systems available to generate such ROSA26-based transgenic ES cells and animals than the RMCE approach described here.