In this interesting and well-executed review, Grubauch and Andersen 'navigate' the literature to provide a clean, well-driven and totally enjoyable text about the current situation generated for the Zika outbreak in the Americas. Based on the bibliography, they conclude there is no scientific evidence that the Brazilian Zika strain presents a higher pathogenicity compared to others circulating elsewhere. In addition, as was discussed in previous reports, they agreed with the role played by urban and weather factors to particularly enhance this outbreak. The authors also believe that is totally necessary to confirm the connection between Dengue and Zika as a risk factor in disease severity. Finally, given the sample size of the recent outbreak, we could have under estimated rare diseases associated to this virus in the past. The article itself is very nicely written and provides a very balanced viewpoint of Zika virus, which is something that has been lacking from several media sources. The authors have put significant thought into the attributes that affect the severity of the outbreak, but perhaps the most important statements concerning the evolution of the virus and the neurological phenotypes recently observed. With their calculations for the number of microcephaly cases that could have been detected on Yap Island (quite possibly none due to the size of the outbreak), they suggest that statistics and surveillance, rather than genetic differences, affect disease severity. Of course, additional research is necessary into understanding the severity of the Zika virus outbreak and its connections to microcephaly and Guillain-Barre syndrome and whether the genetic differences between the strains of Zika virus are or are not responsible for these newly observed phenotypes. The authors also expand on the details on how Zika virus could infect a traveler in Brazil and then induce an outbreak in their home country, which they estimate to have a much lower probability than popular media sources might suggest. Though the commentary surrounding the possibility of the Olympics enhancing Zika virus comes after the games, the thoughtful consideration of the risks supplies rational thinking that has been lacking, especially when juxtaposed with the hysteria prior to the games. The review superbly quells the hyperbole that has surrounded the Zika outbreak in the Americas. Regardless of this low possibility of traveler-associated transmission of Zika virus in new locales, regions with the proper conditions for Zika virus transmission should remain vigilant, and continued campaigns of mosquito control, especially given the breadth of viruses spread by mosquitoes (including dengue, chikungunya and West Nile viruses). We would like to highlight that the authors didn’t cite any of their previous works, which surprised us in a positive way, showing the author’s will to deliver a clean and not biased opinion about the topic. Minor comments: The article is written for any kind of reader, which we found excellent, but in that case would be nice to clarify what is El Nio . Even if wouldn’t be necessary for most of the readers. The paragraph that starts with “One main reason behind …August is winter in Brazil…” Brazil is huge, is the he largest country in South America and in the Southern Hemisphere. Is placed 5 th in the list sovereign states and dependencies by area in the world. Particularly, the weather in Rio, still in august, can be warm enough for mosquitos. Last August the lower temperature registered was 71 F and the higher 78 F.