This is a case of a young man presenting with a metastasized extragonadal germ cell tumor. The case is impressive and has educational value. The report is well-written but I have the following questions/suggestions: What was the timeline (days since presentation) for the various diagnostic procedures? E.g. at how many days after presentation was beta HCG checked? What was the level of other markers for germ cell tumor (AFP, LD)? Was the histology of the GCT nonseminoma or seminoma? Histology of liver biopsy showed undifferentiated carcinoma, which suggest nonseminoma (this would also be in line with the high levels of HCG). Was the histology of liver biopsy/colonic resection revised? Any presence of subtypes of nonseminoma (e.g. embryonal carcinoma, choriocarcinoma). I would suggest to revise the first and third learning point. The first learning point can be stated more firmly. My suggestion: Testicular or extragonadal germ cell tumor should always be considered in young males presenting with an abdominal mass. The third learning point can be moved up to the second spot. I would suggest to rewrite it as follows: The diagnostic workup of young males presenting with an abdominal tumor or tumor of unknown origin should always include workup for germ cell tumor (beta-HCG, AFP, LD, scrotal palpation and testicular ultrasound). I believe the first sentence of the Discussion is not correct. An EGCT originates outside the gonads and therefore does not originate from a (burned out or occult) testicular tumor. Please include a statement that although it is a cancer of the germ cells, it can also originate in the retroperitoneum or mediastinum. The Discussion would benefit from a more extensive description of (E)GCT. What is the survival rate for EGCT? Is it better or worse compared to testicular GCT? I think it is also important to note that GCT is the most common cancer type in young men, but that the extragonadal subtype is rare (of course the testicular subtype being much more common). Is the incidence of GCT and EGCT known for this age category? I would also suggest a more extensive discussion of tumor lysis syndrome and neutropenic sepsis. How common is this? How should this be treated according to the guidelines? How often succumb patients to this condition? 