This manuscript by Young et al. does an excellent job aiming to propose an intervention and evaluation of it for self-management among heart failure patients discharged from rural hospitals. With the prevalence of heart failure, self-management of patients plays a critical role in their improvement of quality of life, relief of exacerbation of symptoms and readmission to hospitals. Patients discharged from rural hospitals especially need education and guidance to improve adherence. The authors tried to solve this needs and described in detail the innovative intervention of a 12-week patient activation (Patient AcTivated Care at Home [PATCH]). And this paper is well-organized in clarifying the rational and design of the study to evaluate feasibility and efficacy of PATCH. Moreover, the authors showed us a vision of implementation of this intervention. The genesis of this study based on solid nursing and patients activation theories. And a prospective, two-group, randomized experimental design with three data collection points (baseline, 3 months and 6 months) were chosen to assess the feasibility and efficacy of the intervention. Sample size was carefully estimated. Also, different measures on biomarkers, outcomes and self-management were designed. In order to prevent the possible cognitive or psychotic confounding factors, simple screening tests were required to conduct prior to enrollment. The article was well constructed, the study was well designed, and interpretation was prudent. However, there are some comments and suggestions for authors to consider. First, is it practical for a rural heart failure patient to complete so many questions on measurements of self-management knowledge, self-efficacy, patients activity and strategies at one visit? Suggest simplified measurable scales. Second, for measurements of adherence of self-management, only data at 3 months were collected. Will it help to analyze extended effects of the intervention by record data at 6 months? Finally, this work is a good reminder for all the cardiologists to pay more attention to the management and education of heart failure patients. The novel intervention of PATCH might acts as an example to help more and more heart failure patients. 