The authors use the Portfolio-To-Impact (P2I) version model to estimate funding needs to move candidate vaccines to potential launch. P2I is a cost modeling tool. It is unclear to a reader unfamiliar with this tool who are the target stakeholders of the outcome of the analysis: manufacturers, non-for-profit developers, donors, public health policy makers? Although the authors provide references, this should be summarized and clarified. It is also unclear how this tool articulates for a given vaccine with the development of the Business Case component of the Full Public Health Value Proposition and the Total Systems Effectiveness (TSE) and the Vaccine Innovation Prioritization Strategy (VIPS) developed by WHO. What is the added value of the P2I model compared to the other models referred in Table 3? This should also be clarified. It might also be useful to remind how EVI prioritized their vaccine candidate portfolio (no reference cited) and why they selected some of them for this P2I analysis. The clinical trial duration as defined on page 6 may be misleading. The added duration of safety and immunogenicity analysis (the latter may be long) is not taken into account while these are key data driving the next phases of development. The term "launch" may deserve some clarification. Are the authors talking about registration for launch on the public market in LMICs, private market in LMICs, or per Gavi scheme for eligible countries? What about MICs which are no longer Gave-eligible and whose list is increasing? It is unclear whether the model considers vaccine manufacturing by traditional big western pharmas or developing country vaccine manufacturers (DCVM) and consider bringing the vaccine to WHO prequalification. This latter point is of importance as often this may require additional clinical studies adding to the overall development costs and duration before launch. It is difficult to understand Tables 6-7 (Title of Table 7: delete 'of' based...) and Figures 3-4 of 'expected launches'. What do the data presented mean? For example, in text '0.69'. Is it a probability? Similarly Tables 8 and 9 would need ample explanation about what is considered in these tables. Coming back to the estimated cost of vaccine development to launch, it is difficult to weigh the value of the findings compared to real life costs. For example, the cost of RTS,S malaria vaccine developed by GSK is estimated to be close to $500M. For Nipah and Zika, what is the development cost estimated by CEPI? How does it compare to EVI estimates? What the P2I model ever tested a posteriori for vaccines already developed and for which the development cost is know in order to measure the accuracy of the model prediction? 