The authors have made a reasonable attempt to address the points raised in my previous review of this manuscript however a fundamental concern remains. There is no laboratory evidence that this patient had chronic HBV infection, there is only evidence that the patient had chronic hepatitis and that hepatitis B infection was detected at the point the patient was investigated. It is not possible to say that the patient had chronic hepatitis B virus infection. Abstract: “Hence, we isolated the complete genome of a HBV/C2 strain collected from a patient with chronic HBV infection carrying the virus for a long time” . Yet the text of the paper does not support the statement of virus carriage for a long time, in methods we find: "The infected patient had chronic liver disease, as determined by ultrasonography. The patient was diagnosed with chronic HBV infection, suggested by the presence of ascitis and enlarged spleen, after the positive reaction of anti-HBc total and with a high viral load in the plasma" and in Results/Discussion we find: "The patient was diagnosed with chronic HBV infection. Although, the patient was tested positive 1 month prior to obtainment of the plasma sample, he might be infected much earlier as he had a minor surgery few years back and his brother was positive for HBV years ago" These findings confirm that the patient had chronic hepatitis they do not confirm that the patient had chronic hepatitis B infection . As previously outlined, the standard definition of chronic hepatitis B infection is the detection of hepatitis B surface antigen in serum for more than 6 months . As there is no laboratory evidence of carriage of hepatitis B virus surface antigen for more than 6 months it is only possible to say this patient had chronic hepatitis and suggest that it is likely to represent chronic hepatitis B infection. Thus the title text “ a patient with uncomplicated chronicity” is misleading. The abstract text “ from a patient with chronic HBV infection ” is misleading. The introduction text “ HBV chronic strain of subgenotype C2 ” is misleading as there is no laboratory proof that the patient had chronic hepatitis B infection The methods text “ The patient was diagnosed with chronic HBV infection ” is misleading as there is no laboratory proof that the patient had chronic hepatitis B infection Results and discussion text “ The patient was diagnosed with chronic HBV infection ” is also misleading the result present show the patient had chronic hepatitis And an HBV infection and that is all without laboratory proof that the patient had chronic hepatitis B infection. Also “ current genomic substitutions of HBV/C2 and to decide treatments against chronic HBV infections” is again misleading as there is no laboratory proof that the patient had chronic hepatitis B infection There is a further statement in the introduction “ Most of the HBV cases are chronic” that is not factually correct – most cases of vertical transmission of HBV result in chronic infection, most cases of post-natal acquired HBV infection result in clearance of HBV surface antigen. All cases of HBV infection result in virus latency in the form of HBV cccDNA in liver.