Population receptive field (pRF) modeling is an incredibly important and common technique in visual and perceptual neuroscience. PRF mapping is also complex, and, despite its popularity, few examinations of how the many incidental complexities of collecting pRF maps affect the maps themselves have been reported. This lack makes comparison and interpretation of pRF results across sites and studies difficult. In this article, Morgan and Schwarzkopf provide a straightforward examination of two of these incidental complexities of retinotopic pRF mapping: the field-strength of the scanner and the choice to low-pass filter the BOLD time-series. Encouragingly, they find that the effect of the field-strength is minimal; however, the effects of the filtering are non-trivial. I have no major concerns regarding the methods of this paper, but I do have a few suggestions. First, it is not clear if the authors used the same hemodynamic response function (HRF) for all subjects or if a single canonical function was fit to empirical data from each subject individually, nor do the authors explain which canonical HRF was used; I would like to see the HRF form(s) reported explicitly. Secondly, the use of linearly-spaced eccentricity bands for the various further analyses is a somewhat questionable choice given that the number of vertices between 8.5 and 9.5 will be substantially smaller than the number of vertices between 0.5 and 1.5. This effect may partly explain why the errors in some figures (e.g. Figure 6) are quite large at higher eccentricities. A principled way to obtain similarly-sized eccentricity bins might be to use Horton and Hoyt's 1991 equation 1 for cortical magnification [CMF( e ) = (17.3 / (0.75 + e )) 2 (mm/deg) 2 for eccentricity e ], integrate it over the visual field to obtain an estimate of cortical surface area in terms of eccentricity [SAF( e ) (mm 2 )], then to invert this [SAF -1 ( a ) (deg) for cortical surface area a ] and choose eccentricity values that correspond to values of SAF -1 ( a ) for linearly-spaced surface-area values of a . Despite the above suggestions, the results of the paper are quite clear: (1) pRF models are robust to changes in the field strength of the scanner, and (2) temporal filtering inflates the R 2 and size parameter of the pRF fits without substantially changing the topographic structure of the retinotopic maps. Both of these insights are useful additions to the field, especially given the rapid rate of change in MRI technology and the frequency with which temporal smoothing is applied to pRF mapping data. More work is needed throughout the field to quantify these kinds of effects, and this paper is a useful contribution to that effort. One minor suggestion is that the authors might explicitly state in the discussion that the two scanners share a manufacturer; this is both a limitation of the comparison, in that the results may not generalize across manufacturers, and one of its strengths, in that one can be more confident of the findings with respect to field-strength because the manufacturer was not an additional variable across sites. My biggest concerns about the paper center on the supplemental data. Although the authors have provided enough data to reproduce the figures and aspects of the study, the data provided are incomplete and fail to conform to contemporary standards of reusability and interoperability. For one, all of the supplemental data files could have been provided in well established community-vetted formats (such as NIFTI files), yet none of the data are provided in such formats (in fact many of the files cannot be easily read without an expensive MATLAB license). Additionally, only some of the data are provided: FreeSurfer reconstructions, anonymized anatomical images, and various raw data are not provided. These data really ought to be part of the dataset, and ideally should be provided in accordance with the BIDS spec 2 . A few examples of things that cannot be examined with the current dataset: concerns about field distortions, questions about partial voluming artifacts, concerns about signal attenuation near vessels, questions about how the results relate to the surface area of the visual areas, and questions about how the results generalize to frontal cortex. To be clear, none of these examples are likely to impact the conclusions of the study, but I point them out as examples of how the current dataset fails to meet the evolving standards of data-availability in the field. Beyond these comments, I have only minor concerns that are largely aesthetic in nature: The use of the prime symbol (′) and the single quote (') is inconsistent and, due to the occasional adjacency of variable symbols with subscripts next to commas, can be a bit confusing. Figures 3, 4, and 6 contain a lot of information, and I feel that a panel that summarizes or combines the data across subjects in some way would be useful and easier to interpret. The eccentricity colormap used in Figure 2 is circular, which causes some ambiguity between very different values. Figure 1 seems to have a larger range (along the y axis) for the filtered data than for the unfiltered data. It is not clear to me how the filtering described would produce a signal with nearly twice the range of values as the original signal. This might be a plotting error. 