This manuscript presents a simple and interesting hypothesis about how human activities could drive the increase in abundance of invasive species. It is based on two important observations; 1. Invasive species have in general higher abundances in their new environment than in the native ranges, and 2. The patterns of invasive species differ between invaded regions. The authors realized that human land management activities explain the difference in abundance of species, between both the invader and native range and between different invader regions. Specifically they put a new role for human activities into the second stage of plant invasion ( Diez Edwards, 2006 ). I think that it is an interesting hypothesis, which provides a new vision and background for future research on invasion ecology and conservation management. Finally, I have some suggestions that may help to a better understanding of this article and future development. The need for a clear definition of active landscape maintenance by human. The authors at the end mention the frequency of weeding and trimming, as potential indicators of active landscape maintenance. But could human maintenance be defined as any human activity developed in order to sustain the same physiognomy, structure, floristic composition or/and biomass? Active landscape maintenance is for me too general. If active landscapes involve just the maintenance of biomass, it could be defined as in the context of intermediate hypothesis. But perhaps it might be more than just biomass. Did this hypothesis explain the species abundance in both the native and the invaded range? Please check the third paragraph in the introduction with the third paragraph in the page four. From the manuscript I understand that it explains the abundance in both situations. In the second paragraph of the introduction: I dont find the aim of the last line. Moreover, the author could improve the first paragraph after the subtitle The Human Release Hypothesis, because I also dont understand the logic among that paragraph. It seems to be two important sentences (important), but I dont find any cohesion between them. It is also quite hard to understand what the paragraph aims for. Future context. 1; how this hypothesis works for different life forms (competitor; stress-tolerator; ruderal plant strategy). I find really interesting thinking of this. Maybe the context of Fig. 1 of Diez and Edwards (2006) is a good scene. 2; the manuscript focus on Europe as the principal and the only example, but maybe Asia is another possible example. On one hand it provides a great amount of invasive species and on the other hand it has a higher proportion of dense settlements. Species like Cotoneaster, Ligustrum and Pyracantha that are native from Asia are the most invasive species in the earth and cover at least in Argentine, an significant portion of landscape. 