Overall a very nice paper on EPAS1 and high-altitude pulmonary hypertension (HAPH). Only time will tell if the more important outcome of this paper is the determination that the G610S alleles likely the causative mutation for HAPH (over A606T), that multiple EPAS1 alleles could together cause/impact some version of HAPH, or that there is finally a public database to compare whole genome sequence data between studies. As cattle producers and breed associations move to use more genetic tests to minimize genetic variants that cause economic loss in the breed the first 2 points above will be very useful, especially with “50% of calf mortalities… attributed to PH in some high-altitude ranches”, as noted in the manuscript. For researchers studying other genetic diseases the latter point will be more important as such a public database is needed to help filter out non-causative alleles. Currently such researchers have had to turn to other scientists that have their own WGS databases, or to semi-private database like the 1000 bull dataset where you must be a member to access the data. In the past I personally have had to use the former option and was grateful that the bovine community is full of gracious scientists that would help. This is a very well written paper and was a pleasure to review. Overall I do approve of the manuscript to be indexed and advise only minor edits and some suggestions listed below. Suggestions: In the abstract you state that the “existing bovine WGS dabases… diversity in US beef cattle”. Suggest this be changed to global beef cattle or similar as this issue is not confined to the USA. Page 3, 4 th paragraph: While it’s a semi-private WGS dataset, given its size, I do recommend including the 1000 Bulls project when talking about population-scale WGS data. You could mention that it’s there but not publicly available which is one of the main advantages your WGS data has as reported in the manuscript Recommended: Introduction: You state that “114 Mendelian traits with known causative mutations” and reference a 2014 paper. I advise updating that number as OMIA lists (23/9/2016) that 130 Mendelian disorders have their causative mutation known in cattle. I’m fine if you keep the reference you have and include a OMIA reference as your reference is an excellent review paper. Table 1: You present a large amount of data about each variant and this is wonderful as so many publications would only list one or two of your columns. I would like to see the flanking sequence be increased from 5bp per side to 15bp. Ensemble returns 0 hits for all 6 of your flanking sequences with BLASTing against the UMD3.1 assembly. Increasing it to my recommended length allows BLAST to find unique placements of the sequence. For future researchers to be able to test for disease causing variants having minimal information listed in publication makes it a challenge to make sure you are correctly designing diagnostic probes. I speak from experience in designing diagnostic probes for the IDB cattle chip used in Ireland. Table 3 appears to be only a subset of Table 4 with no additional information. Recommend removing Table 3 and only using Table 4. If you have a justifiable reason for keeping Table 3 than advise listing the breeds in alphabetical order and not in variant 3 frequency order. Table 4. In this you show no animals having the variant 7 allele, yet in the 5 th paragraph on page 14 you state that “the F701 substitution was only observed in one of the 1250 animals tested (Salers,…)". Please include the frequency of this allele in the Salers row in Table 4. Figure 5: Why is node ‘3’ in grey? It's not stated in the Figure. For multiple Supplementary tables: Advise including this information from Table 1: cIUPAC/IUBMB ambiguity codes used for nucleotides:….. Or stating that IUPAC ambiguity codes are used, right now the reader just have to figure it out that a S means the individual is G/C for that SNP. Table S1: Don’t see why columns C, G, or H are needed: Distance between markers (Mb), Nearest gene (UMD3.1), Distance to nearest gene (kbp), respectively. The rest of the data in the table is excellent and wish more papers provided SNP data at this level. Really like that the ambigious SNP in the flanking sequence are shown in bold and capital. I recommend removing column C, G, and H as they are meaningless as to information on Parentage SNP. Table S2: You need to note that a “A, C, T, or G” shown as the genotype indicates that this is a homozygous SNP. One can figure it out since you also show the IUPAC ambiguous letters for heterozygous genotypes, but it would be better to state. Table S5: Column E is labelled as “ EPAS1 protein variant diplotype”. In Table 1, 2, 3 you use the phrase “HIF2A protein variant". I advise using the same here, otherwise you can easily confuse the reader. Especially as HIF2A is the name of the protein coded by the EPAS1 gene, so if you are referring to protein variants HIF2A is more appropriate than EPAS1 . 