Darras et al. present their findings about avian biodiversity in primary swamp forest, secondary swamp forest, and shrub swamp. However, I have some major concerns regarding the way the study was conducted and little information is provide to explain the study areas. “We surveyed birds in Berbak National Park, a peat swamp situated in the province of Jambi, on the east coast of the island of Sumatra in Indonesia (Figure 1). Berbak National Park is a Ramsar site25 and an Important Bird Area26. A severe drought in 1997 facilitated forest fires which were aided by human disturbance due to natural rubber collection (Dyera costulata). The burned areas subsequently developed into shrub swamp. Tree stumps also reveal that illegal selective logging affected several areas of the park, resulting in secondary forest habitats.” Comments: Provide additional information, size area of each study area? When the secondary forest was logged? Explain about the shrub swamp here. “We recorded audible sound in all 12 sites. We used autonomous sound recorders (SM2+ recorders with SMX-II microphones, Wildlife Acoustics Inc.) and did not carry out visual surveys, since acoustic recording constitutes a valid survey method for assessing bird richness27, especially for cryptic birds in tropical forests. From February to November 2013, we sampled all three habitats at one site each month for 48 hours, starting at midnight.” Comments: I’m quite confused about the field survey because not much information is provided in the current text. Do you have enough number of spatial replicates to perform GLMMs. And with just data from 12 sites, you can confidently say the results really have answered the research questions. In addition, the sample size is small i.e. 12 sites. Why you did not move the autonomous recorders to other points or sites? You established four sites in each habitat. I think you need to use point method. For example, 30-40 points at each site. I suggest the authors to write a caveat regarding the small sample size in the discussion. The 48 hours were continuous? The sound recording method should be complemented with other sampling methods next time. “we counted and measured the diameter at breast height (DBH) of all trees with a circumference above 20 cm (diameter at breast height of ~6.4 cm) inside an area of 14 14 m delimited by spanning 10 m coloured ropes from the central tree where the sound recorder was attached to all cardinal directions.” Comments: Provide the summary statistics for each variable. “For all models, we used tree number, tree basal area, and habitat type as predictors.” Comments: Did you include the different sampling month into the modelling work? “We detected 379 birds overall, belonging to 90 species.” Comments: After doing bird survey for ten months, your results are not very impressive compared to conventional sampling methods. Perhaps you need to have more sites or at least 30-40 points/lines per site. How many endangered/vulnerable species were recorded? References Comments: The reference list is not comprehensive. Authors should search and cite recent published bird studies in tropical peat swamp forest of SEA. Some articles cited in the text are not about studies from tropical peat swamp forests. 