 Title:  Although the title is appropriate and clearly leads to the risk of YF re-emergence in the Americas, the manuscript is more centred to South and eventually Central Americas. Also, for this matter (i.e. maintain the title), the authors could emphasize strongly on the risk of imported cases in temperate zone (i.e. Central and North Americas) during the boreal summer and Aedes spp. activity in Central-North America (e.g. as it is documented elsewhere for Dengue virus - New Mexico or Texas – and, Airport malaria in the US). Abstract: “Angola” appears at first, also if the authors want to focus on the Americas, it will be better, in my opinion, to have a short sentence at the end of the abstract that focus on imported risk from endemic area outside of Americas (i.e. Africa). The authors wrote “despite high YF vaccination coverage”, this is not accurate: Indeed, in many areas and populations worldwide, YF vaccination coverage is discouraging low for years (e.g. Nigeria). This needs to be clear: YF vaccine is certainly the best live attenuated vaccine among all, the less expensive and the first of its kind, consequently there is no reasons today – except politics and funding allocation - to have the people of endemic areas not yet entirely immunized with a real 100% vaccine coverage. Introduction: For the reader, CFR needs to be expressed as a number of a general historical consensus. Needs also to document the historical dimension of multiple consistent re-emergence of Yellow fever since it discovery beside the excellence of the vaccine(s). While frequency and size of outbreaks are recently (a decade ago) increasing. Recent outbreaks : China emergence needs to be more specific (i.e. risk) from where (climatic zone) these imported cases were observed. “Concern raised from Brazil” : From the general title or this of such chapter section, one is misleading “Americas (title) or Brazil (this section)”? I suggest something like: “From Brazilian experience, a concern of YF risk for the Americas” Line 3: “epicentre:” this needs to be more precise geographically or the sentence clearly linked to the following one, starting by “Indeed, …“ Second section, line 4: “a long history of high YF vaccination coverage”, I am not sure this is applicable to Minas Gerais’s remote areas, at least for “long history”. The lack of YF vaccination coverage was raised several times by the Brazilian provincial health authorities back in the early 2000s, unable to reach the remote western zones of the province. Section 3, line 3, top of the page: to be politically correct we do not use anymore “Latin America” but “South America”. Conclusions : Main concerns, regarding the YF risk of emergence/re-emergence, seems to be missing: Vaccine: 1/ The recent outbreaks and the lack of Yellow fever vaccine stock piling (WHO). This needs to be strategized (YF vaccine availability) by the country health authorities and international community. 2/ Also the lifelong protection of the vaccine, its inocuity, and the reduction by 1/10 of the immunity dose are new and of extremely high importance (i.e. for the public public health). Biosurveillance needs to be stressed: Mosquito biosurveillance is an important issue to control the epidemic risk, also Haemagogus and Sabethes are specific for South America and have well studied, the risk and ability of Aedes albopictus (expansion) to transmit the virus in the Americas needs to be assessed and an entomological priority set up when needed (i.e. Public health priority in at risk areas). Trans-border risk. Ultimately traveler’s from/to endemic areas need to be covered by a mandatory international certificate of vaccination to protect the borders (trans-border risk). The long time mystery of the absence of YFV in South East Asia can be also stressed in term of global risk. 