This paper describes the effects of intermediate frequency (100-300 kHz) alternative electric fields in a mouse model of breast cancer. Specifically, the authors examined expression (by immunohistochemistry and/or qPCR) of several genes. These were immune factors known to be associated with tumor cell proliferation and angiogenesis (CCL2 and IL18), a marker of cell proliferation (PCNA), a growth factor receptor (ErbB2), a marker of leukocyte differentiation (CD68) several other immune factors (IL18, IL23-alpha, TNF-alpha), and a marker of apoptosis (caspase-3). Changes were seen in gene expression consistent with decreased cell proliferation and increased cell death, though pro-inflammatory changes were not seen. These results provide evidence that supports a biological effect of alternating electric fields on cell proliferation, and it is this reviewer’s opinion that publication is warranted. There are a few minor modifications that I would suggest making before indexing this manuscript, which center around experiments described in figures 2-4. Minor English language corrections: In some instances, “none” should be changed to “non” throughout the document, as in “non DMBA-induced” (this is sometimes correctly stated, for example the animal methods section is correct). In the conclusion, change “purpose” to “propose” Methods: It would be beneficial to give more specifics about the protein quantification done using ImageJ. Was the scoring automated in anyway? What was the process or procedure used for determining whether a cell was positive for a given marker? Figure 2: The figure supports what is described in the text; however no quantification is given regarding the stated observations regarding the cell composition of the tumor and the structural changes with and without treatment. I do not consider this to be essential for indexing, however it would strengthen the conclusions drawn from this experiment if these results could be quantified. Figure 3: The figure supports what is described in the text. See comments related to the scoring method above. In the statistics, it is a bit unclear as to what was counted as an individual n. Was each slide counted as a single n? Was each image (50 images / slide)? It would be helpful for context to describe in a bit more detail either in these results or the methods section what was counted as an individual experiment for interpretation of the statistical comparisons. Figure 4: This figure supports what is described in the text. The graphs would benefit from changing the Y-axes to be consistently labeled with the same amount of significant figures. Also – if the CCL2 expression is 100-fold different than NIT, etc., it might be beneficial to point this out in the discussion, as this increase is substantially more than other differences seen that are 2-fold different, for example. 