In this paper, the authors propose a methodology aimed at forecasting milepost moments of an epidemic in the early outbreak. This is then applied to the COVID-19 outbreak in China. The method lays on the definition of the relevant involved variables : E t : number of new confirmed cases at date t O t : number of recovered cases at date t D t : number of deaths at date t N t : number of infectious cases in hospital at date t K t : infection rate at date t I t : removal rate at date t R t : outbreak status at date t The milepost moments to be predicted are the first turning point, T1 – when the number of newly diagnosed patients E t starts decreasing; the second turning point, T2 – when number of active cases N t starts decreasing; the first zero point, Z1– when the number of newly diagnosed patients E t becomes null ; the second zero point, Z2– when the number of active cases N t becomes null. The procedure depends on the starting point t 0 , and on the size of the time window used, m. It is assumed that K t and I t change gently within time window m before t 0 , so that the average change rate of both K t and I t within that period are reliable values. Under those assumptions, recurrence formulas allow predicting the required time points. The results reported from the application of the proposed methodology to the China Covid-19 data are quite good, predicting well the observed time points, and hence show that the method is well founded and useful. The manuscript is quite well written, and is easy to follow. The pertinence and actuality of the topic go without saying. The method appears sound to me, and is not extremely complicated, neither relying on extraordinary assumptions. I consider this is an interesting and nice piece of work, and I am therefore in favour of acceptance. However, a few issues need consideration/correction, as described here below. The authors should revise the manuscript taking these aspects into account. Major points The success of the proposed methodology lays on the fact that the values of the average change rate of both K t and I t , within the considered time window period, are reliable and stable - so that they may be used for prediction. It is not clear to me how this condition may be assessed, or what are the criteria involved. This should be clarified. The fact that the reported predictions for China are indeed good, result, in my opinion, from the fact that the local situation has been stable, measures taken and local conditions not changing before the general end of the outbreak (or so it is perceived from the outside). If this were not the case, I wonder whether the method would still apply – which then questions its applicability in other countries /regions where such stability is not guaranteed/observed. This emphasises the need for a clear establishment of applicability conditions. This is my major concern. I am curious about the prediction results if the starting point is a bit earlier, and not as close to T1 as January 29 th . N t is defined as “number of infectious cases in hospital at date t”. I believe this is what is generally referred to as “active cases” – also because in many countries not all diseased people are actually in hospital. I suggest using this terminology, so that it becomes clear to a general reader. In that case, the reference to “in hospital” should be updated along the manuscript. Algorithm 1 : there are some typos here, that require attentive correction: in point 3, - formula 1: it should be K and not R , in both left and middle terms - formula 3, right term: R should be replaced by K Minor issues Page 1, line 15 of the Abstract : assumption - assumptions Page 1, line 16 of the Abstract : COVID-19 - COVID-19 outbreak Page 1, line 25 of the Abstract : counties - countries Page 3, line 35 : results - result Page 4, line 30 : generalized - used Page 4, line 36 : assumption - assumptions Page 8, Algorithm 1, line 2 : satisfying - satisfy Page 8, Section 3, line 7 : in Jan 23rd - on Jan 23rd Page 9, line 12 : decreases - decrease Page 10, line 15 : in Jan 29th - on Jan 29th Page 10, line (-13) : zero - turning Page 11 – Figure 5 : the labels along the horizontal axis are not centered, therefore the figure is not clear. 