Harish and Morrison explore rooting the tree of Life given recently proposed hypotheses. They might consider the following in editing/improving their manuscript: First sentence of the background. Not sure I agree; it depends on what the authors think a 'model' is in this context. Are they referring to an explicit substitution or transition rate matrix model, or some more general concept? Definition of 'domains' would seem to be more ambiguous than defining particular amino acids that are discrete subunits with a very simple genetic basis. Admittedly, the alignment of such amino acids can entail ambiguity, especially at these divergences, so I suppose all inference at this level is a challenge. But, determining whether a particular 'domain' is even a 'domain' (or not two domains or one and a half domains or a different domain) is in my view squishy. Rooting using asymmetrical abstractions (models) is squishy too. This is basically never done except for when there is no outgroup. In this case, there is none, but I am disturbed by the authors confidence (e.g., Fig. 1a with maximum support) in rooting an ancient tree based on this model or that. Page 4 left column. I think that the following is an assertion, not a fact, "Substitutions between structural domains do not occur, unlike amino acid replacements, since each domain defines a distinctive biochemical function". Who says that one domain cannot transform into another? I do not understand this assertion. The authors have extreme confidence in this statement it seems, but perhaps this is the problem? Were they there, back 100s of millions of years ago to observe that one domain could not have evolved into another or that similar domains did not evolve convergently into what the authors assume are the same domain (even though it might not be the same 'domain')? Page 4 left column. I am assuming that the authors' preferred models, "The natural bias in gain/loss rates, arising from the difficulty of parallel gains and the relative ease of parallel losses, is useful for implementing directional (rooted) character-evolution models". The idea that there is some general rate across all domains for gain and loss and convergent gain seems naive to me, or at least, a poor criterion for rooting a tree with awesome confidence and high probability. I am not buying the idea that these domains are 'non-redundant'. I believe that the authors believe this, but that is about it. So, I do not think there is "built in directionality" if the authors' initial assumptions/assertions are accepted. It is true that one can root a tree if one assumes one can identify homologous domains accurately and apply a very specific general model to a situation that is not specific and surely not general in terms of rate. Rooting the tree of Life will always be depedent on some sort of model that assumes this or that about gains and losses and convergent gains as there is no outgroup (whether gains or losses of domains or genes or nucleotides or amino acids), but this just reinforces the authors' initial assertion in the paper that models that people imagine (which are poorly understood in terms of process) will drive results. The fact that the amino acid trees (unrooted) are completely in conflict with the domain-based tree is not a good sign as no congruence among different data, even in an unrooted context. I suppose it is okay for the authors to assert their tree is better, but I think many people will not agree or be convinced by trust in some general asymmetry model and domains that may or may not be the same thing in very divergent taxa. From the amino acid analysis side of the debate, their tree seems to refute the domain tree, even though it is unrooted (and vice versa I guess), so as an outside viewer of this debate, there seems to be a lot of work to do on an admittedly challenging problem. But, that was likely known before this contribution. Do the authors' asymmetry models take lateral transfer of domains into account as well? Since the authors admit that, "Further, such incompatibilities are likely to make estimating the absolute origins of single-domain families and single genes difficult, since a majority of genes are formed by duplication and recombination of distinct domains", if their asymmetry domain models for rooting do not take lateral transfer into account, this would seem problematic to me, given that they argue for the importance of lateral transfer of entire genes (and genes include 'domains'). I think the following from the authors is an assertion, not a fact, "Since parallel evolution of homologous protein-domains or distinct domain permutations is very rare, the KVR model adequately captures the evolution of unique features." If not a necessarily true, nothing the authors argue is either? The authors note that, "The systematic covariation of homologous domains among the clades is best explained as phylogenetic effect". I have studied phylogenetics for 30 years, yet I still have not seen any compelling or useful definition of this term that makes any sense. This just seems like a vague explanation for an observed pattern of covariation. Many of the things that the authors seem to consider 'clade-specific' could just be 'grade-specific'. For example, 'fish' have lots of common features that sort of make sense together as all primitively swim around in water, have tails for propulsion underwater, and breath oxygen and feed underwater. Similarly, 'domains' characteristic of eukaryotes or archaeans might not define monophyletic groups, but might instead be characteristic of paraphyletic groups (e.g., Asgards or 'Others' in Fig. 1b). So, one wonders whether the robustly rooted tree of Life based on specifics of a particular model mean that much, or not. The fact that the tree strongly contradicts an unrooted tree based on independent data (Fig. 1b) does not give me much confidence as an outsider to the debate. This has to be a gross overstatement? "The KVR model is an optimal explanation of the evolution of clade-specific composition of homologous features." For example, the authors note that, "More complex models are available, such as the no- common-mechanism model, an extremely parameter-rich model that allows each character to have its own rate, branch length and topology parameters." For this model, surely there would be fewer evolutionary steps; wouldn't that be more 'optimal'? What is the result for this model that could be interpreted as a better (more optimal?) fit to the data - certainly not optimal in terms of minimizing evolutionary steps, unless the tree topology for the model based analysis and parsimony are identical. 