Thanks for the efforts in revising the paper and the software according to my points. Almost all my points were addressed by you. In particular the Multiplication Model is now more clearly explained in the paper and also some obscure parts in the Cytoscape app were properly explained. I have still few concerns about the paper, that I report in the following: The Google Doc link to the documentation of the app in the web page of NetworkRandomizer in the Cytoscape App Store seems to be broken. I had to download the manual from the gitHub page of the software. Please fix the link. Concerning point 5 of my first review, you mentioned NetMatch*, GASOLINE (please change GASO-LINE to GASOLINE in the paper) and DynNet, but you forgot to insert references for these apps. Please add the references. For GASOLINE, please also cite the main paper ( http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0098750 ), not just the cytoscape app paper. Concerning point 11, I need to better explain my observation. Suppose that I complete a first statistical experiment with some selected input networks, some selected random networks and one or more selected attributes from the list. Now, suppose that I would like to make another experiment by changing only the attributes. In such a case I need to start again from scratch, by selecting input networks and random networks and finally the new attributes. So, every time I want to make a new statistical experiment I need to start from scratch. This can be tiring for the user. You should somehow fix it. Anyway, I also observed that the red text near "Selected" buttons is always visible, even though I haven't still selected any network and even in the case I want to make a new experiment. I would suggest to show red texts only after the user has selected some networks, and clear them off whenever the user wants to make a new experiment. Moreover, I would also change the text of the buttons from "Selected" to "Add selected networks" to make the meaning of the button clearer. As soon as these points will be addressed, I will definitely approve the paper.