The present work by Dinas et al. is a descriptive study that investigated the association of NPRA mRNA of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) with fat mass, fat-free mass, body mass index (BMI) and arterial blood pressure in thirty-two medication-free healthy volunteers. The authors observed a negative association between NPRA mRNA with %fat mass and BMI. Based on these results the authors suggest a possible role of ANP-NPRA axis in the control of FM accumulation. Although the topic is of interest, some issues need to be addressed in order to improve the quality of the manuscript. Given that NPRA plays a role in lipolysis, it would have been interesting if the authors could determine the levels of triglycerides and cholesterol as well as ANP plasma levels in order to verify a possible correlation between these parameters and the percentage of fat and/or NPRA mRNA levels in SAT. This issue should be considered in the discussion section and mentioned as a limitation of this study. Please provide more details about blood pressure registers (for example: number of measures, guideline used to define hypertension, brand of the device used). Yu et al. 1 suggested that adipocyte size is an important determinant of ANP-stimulated lipolysis. In this way, expressed higher mRNA levels of receptor (NPR)-A and hormone sensitive lipase as well as more NPR-A on the membrane than small It would have been interesting if the authors had determined the NPRA mRNA according to the size of the adipocyte. This issue should be considered in the discussion section and mentioned as a limitation of this study. (see also Laurencikiene et al. 2 ) It has been reported that obesity is associated with low circulating levels of BNP and recent evidences suggest an altered expression of BNP receptors-both the signaling receptors (NPR)-A and the clearance NPR-C receptor-in Pivovarova et al. 3 ; Gentili et al. 4 ). Moreover, increased tissue secretion of adipokines and cytokines has been implicated in the chronic low-grade state associated with obesity (Schindler et al. 5 ; Moro et al. 6 ). This issue should be considered in the discussion section and mentioned as a limitation of this study. 