EGSEA is a new gene set analysis tool that combines results from multiple individual tools in R as to yield better results. The authors have published EGSEA methodology previously. This paper focuses on the practical analysis workflow based on EGSEA with specific examples. As EGSEA is a compound and complicated analysis procedure, this work serves as a valuable guidance for the users to make full use of this tool. I’ve gone through the workflow line by line, it seems to work well. However, authors can improve their work by addressing the following issues. There should be an R code script which includes all source code and concise comments like the one in company with the vignette in any Bioconductor package. It would be much easy for the users/reviewers to try the example code. It is not convenient to follow the code in this manuscript, the code need to be edit to remove the prompt symbols ( or +) at each line when copying/pasting. It takes too long to run the egsea analysis example on modest machine. It is advisable to show a lesser example in the workflow with only one gene set collection like kegg and just a few base methods like: gsa = egsea(voom.results=v, contrasts=contr.matrix, gs.annots=gs.annots$kegg, symbolsMap=symbolsMap, baseGSEAs=baseMethods[1:4], sort.by="med.rank", num.threads = 3, report = FALSE) The rank of the gsa results shown following the t = topSets(..) line is confusing. The p.adj for the top 1 gene set is not the smallest, actually much bigger than top 2, 6 and 8. Presumably, the gene sets are ranked by med.rank instead of p.adj here. However, the opposite was described in the text above near the egsea.sort() line: “Although p.adj is the default option for sorting EGSEA results for convenience, ...” In addition, there is big difference between the final rank and med.rank (e.g. 1 vs 36). This may suggest inconsistent results came from different base methods. This may also be due to the large number of gene sets being tested. Again, using a smaller gene set collection and a few base methods could make the ranking more consistent. All visualization functions, i.e. plotHeatmap, plotPathway, plotGOGraph, plotMethods, plotSummary and plotBars share largely the same set of arguments, they can have a unified wrapper function like plot.gsa() with an extra argument type to specify the plot type. Functions plotPathway, plotGOGraph are wrapper functions for those in the pathview and topGO package as the author noted in the text. It would be good to explicit show some message like “calling plotting function from pathview or topGO package etc”, just like the message when running egsea(). HTML report of the results is a very valuable feature for the users. However, the code can run a long time, it would be helpful to add some progress reminder message to generateReport() function like egsea(). BTW, the KEGG Pathway graphs are not shown properly in the report example at http://bioinf.wehi.edu.au/EGSEA/mam-rnaseq-egsea-report/index.html . 