This article requires additional information to be included. Also some of the information provided needs clarification. In the abstract it is reported that dysmenorrhea is seen in almost 50% of women but in the introduction it is reported that overall prevalence is 60-90% in adolescent girls. This seems contradictory? The sentences in the abstract results “Physical activity was calculated by MET scale (minutes/week). This index measured the amount of consumed energy at the time of activity relative to that consumed at resting time” would fit better in the abstract methods. In the abstract please say how many of the 250 girls were in each comparison group. It appears that the cases had greater physical activity than the controls (cases: 5518.75 vs controls: 4666.42). Please clarify and interpret accordingly. In the abstract conclusion it says: “A healthier and more favorable nutrition style and more regular physical activity reduces the severity of dysmenorrhea in girls.” But the comparison is between cases and controls rather than a study of the effect of physical activity and nutrition on the severity of dysmenorrhea? Also this conclusion implies a causal effect but this study is a cross-sectional study of association? It mentions “proper nutrition” in the abstract conclusion. Does this mean some of the study participants were not getting proper nutrition? What were the actual questions used to determine exposure status (i.e. dysmenorrhea)? More information is required on the sample of participants included in the study. How many students were approached? How many participated? What were the reasons for any exclusions? How were the controls matched? The inclusion criteria for cases is not clear e.g. what does “painless (0 to 3) mean? What were the inclusion criteria for controls? What were the actual parameters assumed for the sample size calculation? E.g. what effect size was assumed? I could not follow the methods on how socioeconomic status and nutrition scores were obtained? Please clarify. In the data analysis section please clarify which test was used for which data. Were all the potential confounders included in the analysis? E.g. what about smoking, alcohol, and other drug use? In Table 2 I couldn’t understand what “3182/03” and “1930/12” meant? The education result was not included in table 2? Was there any missing data? Why were the variables reported in Table 3 included in the logistic regression? Did you use a multivariable model? Why is the result for nutrition score no longer “statistically significant”? Please interpret the main findings of the study in terms of clinical significance. Please include a section on limitations of the study including missing confounding variables, potential for selection bias, potential for exposure/outcome misclassification. 