The advances of biomedical technologies and biomaterials is bringing about staggering improvements in clinical care, especially in dentistry that has always been at the forefront of adapting and utilizing the latest scientific advances. The authors do a good job of compiling the literature on this topic. This is a timely article as there is much excitement of how the rapid pace of technological advancements that are improving routine patient care. However, there seems to be fundamental confusion on what exactly constitutes a ‘Smart’ approach or technology. While digital impression, robotic surgery or precision additive (3D printing) manufacturing are phenomenal advances that are enabling individualized care, the techniques by themselves are not, in my personal opinion, a smart approach. The following are examples of what may not be considered ‘Smart’ based on their ability to simply perform an enhanced passive or active function. Precision-designed implant surface is NOT considered smart because it is passively driving a directed osseointegration response; Drug eluting biomaterial is NOT considered smart despite actively releasing an antimicrobial or disease modifying agent. The classical definition, I believe, of a ‘Smart’ approach is a measured, controlled response to modulate a biological response based on some input/sensing. Some examples of Smart approaches are: pH or enzyme activated payload release from biomaterials; Sensors on appliances that enable (hardware/biomaterial) improved compliance or dose/treatment modulation; Big data (clinical, laboratory, epidemiological) and artificial intelligence enabling (software) improved precision and personalized care; Of the key topics/focus areas identified, the ‘smart’ aspect of each area could be specifically highlighted. For example, robotic surgery is a major technological advance but the use of diagnostic approaches, such as real-time radiographic or ultrasound imaging has enabled increased precision. Another key example in dentistry is the use of protease-sensitive dressings or materials that indicate active tissue turnover providing a visual cue for a clinical intervention. 