I suggest to consider this work for indexing. I think the subject is interesting, the presentation is appropriate and the arguments in favor of the advantage provided by propranolol are consistent. The mechanism by which this drug adds therapeutic advantage in this type of tumor remains an enigma, but I think that as a clinical case the arguments presented are sufficient. The description of the case is correct and detailed. The clinical evolution is surprising and the role that propranolol can exercise together with temozolamide is promising and frankly novel. The clinical improvement and its maintenance over time are striking, particularly after the failure to previous standard therapies. An especially positive feature of this study is to focus on a relatively rare pathology and in which the therapeutic possibilities are limited. For a definitive evaluation of the role that propranolol may have in the treatment of these neoplasms, together with chemotherapy, it will be necessary to develop a multicenter phase III study, which, judging by the data provided by the authors, seems to be appropriate. It is of course necessary to investigate the mechanism by which propranolol potentiate the anti-angiogenic effects and antitumor efficacy of chemotherapy. Suggestions for the authors: At the beginning the phrase "Hereditary paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma syndromes (HPP) are characterized by rare tumors called pheochromocytomas (PHEOs) and paragangliomas (PGLs)." Should be reversed by "Hereditary paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma syndromes (HPP) are characterized by rare tumors called paragangliomas (PGLs) and pheochromocytomas (PHEOs). ​​​​In the description of the case it should be mentioned that the study carried out presumably was an 8F-DG-PET (no data is provided other than the SUV value). I would suggest modifying "National Institutes of Health" by its name in Spanish, mentioning the specific hospital center. I would suggest modifying the expression 'spectacular' by a more restrained one as 'striking'. 