We highly appreciate that the authors carefully addressed all our concerns and we now have no further reservations. We also add a detailed response to the rebuttal letter: Point#1 of our summarized comments to the first version of the manuscript: “The authors do cite Raff in the first sentence of their introduction, but should state more clearly in which manner their model was inspired by Raff's hypothesis.” Authors' response: The reviewers are right to highlight the connection between our “increasing regulatory sp ecificity” assumption and Raff’s hypothesis. We have included a paragraph in the Discussion section to put Raff’s hypothesis in the context of this work. A first remark is that our assumption is consistent with Raff’s basic premise that modularity increases as the embryo develops. Second, Raff’s hypothesis (see chapter-6 of [1], and in particular Figures 6.6 and 6.7) also states that the “level of interaction” or the “interconnectivity between (body) elements” is maximized at the phylotypic stage. This may be viewed initially as a contradiction between Raff’s hypothesis and our increasing specificity assumption, which states that the density of regulatory interactions is maximized at the earliest stages of development. Note however that Raff’s hypothesis was not stated in terms of gene regulatory interactions -- he was referring more generally to “developmental flexibility”, arguing that early development is flexible because it governs robust and general global patterning processes, late development is also flexible because “signaling events within the primordia are little influenced by events in other primordia”, while mid-development (phylotypic stage) is least flexible because of the “high interconnectivity between elements that will later come to represent separate modules.” If we think of “developmental flexibility” as the ability of an embryo to survive gene mutations and rewiring at different stages of the developmental process, Raff’s hypothesis is actually consistent with our results regarding the “lethality probability” at each developmental stage (see Figs 6-B, 7-B amd 8-B). The lethality probability is maximized at the phylotypic stage, and it is significantly lower at early and late developmental stages, following the same pattern with Raff’s “developmental flexibility”. Our comment to authors' response: We appreciate that the authors now differentiate between Raff’s hypothesis concerning the modularization (interconnectivity) between body elements (modules) and their "increasing regulatory specificity“ assumption. We agree that Raff’s hypothesis is consistent with the "lethality probability“ proposed by the authors in terms of the observed pattern of maximal interconnectivity and maximal probability of lethal effects during the phylotypic stage (mid embryogenesis). However, we would like to point out that a causal relationship between the observed patterns remains to be tested. Point#2 of our summarized comments to the first version of the manuscript: “Correlate and reference major assumptions of the DGEN model that seem plausible with findings from experimental studies that validate this plausibility.” Authors' response to Point #2: First, to the extent of our knowledge there is no prior work that directly validates the assumption of increasing regulatory specificity as formulated in our paper (i.e., with the specificity of a developmental stage defined as the topological density of regulatory edges in that stage). We are planning to examine the validity of this assumption in the future using various approaches: First we plan to analyze the aforementioned developmental GRNs for the sea-urchin that have been directly examined by Dr. Davidson’s lab at Caltech. Second, we are in the process of examining other genomic metrics, which can be viewed as “proxies” to regulatory specificity. For example, we have defined new measures to quantify how specific a gene’s expression profile in a developmental stage is compared to other developmental stages, which we have tentatively named as “developmental stage specificity index (DSI)”. Similarly, we defined “tissue specificity index (TSI)”, measuring the bias of a gene’s expression in a specific tissue compared to many other tissues. Analyses of these measures using genomic data from Drosophila so far have revealed generally increasing trends, which are consistent with the idea of increasing specificity. However we are still working on generalizing these analytical tools to data sets generated by different methods and from different species. Importantly, our model focuses DGENs underlying development, and genomic data can obscure the true signals from genes constituting DGENs. Thus we are also working on examining these specificity measures using inferred DGENs. Additionally, we are developing other methods to approximate functional specificity. We hope to complete these analyses as a follow-up paper. The current paper provides theoretical motivation. Third, as the reviewers also point out, there is a large body of prior work in developmental biology that confirms the increasing modularity in the developing embryo (for instance, see Wagner et al., 2007 ) as well as the increasing specificity of the developmental process at the signaling or genomic level. The connections between this pattern of increasing modularity and the structure of the underlying gene regulatory networks are still not well understood however. We think that it would be misleading if we had argued that these modularity patterns provide a direct validation for our “increasing regulatory specificity” assumption. Please note that we have cited the paper by Wagner et al. at the Introduction and Model Description sections, providing some connections between this work and earlier work on the role of modularity in developmental biology. Our comment to authors' response: The authors point out that "the connections between this pattern of increasing modularity and the structure of the underlying gene regulatory network are still not well understood“. This statement is valid for experimental studies that aim to address this presumptive causal relationship in a systematic manner and we appreciate that the authors share their future plans to introduce sufficient measures (DSI and TSI) to better understand the nature of this relationship. Point#3 of our summarized comments to the first version of the manuscript: “Correlate the output of the DGEN simulation with existing findings of studies addressing similar questions of the causality of the developmental hourglass phenomenon and discuss potential simplifications of the model assumptions that do not fit experimental results or that are not derivable via experiments yet.” Authors' response to Point #3: This is a very interesting idea and we thank the reviewers for this suggestion. We are planning to pursue this investigation in a follow-up paper that will also include the previously mentioned analysis of sea-urchin GRNs as well as the DSI/TSI results. We believe that it would be distracting to try to include all these results in this first paper, given that the main focus of this work has been on the computational model and the computational results. We are also open to collaborate in this investigation with the reviewers or other researchers working in this area, if they are interested. Our comment to authors' response: We are delighted to hear that the authors address this question in a follow up paper. We gladly offer our expertise to collaboratively investigate the evolutionary process on the regulatory level that might have led to a correlation between the maximized evolutionary age of expressed genes during mid-embryogenesis and the interconnectivity of (body) modules that are hypothesized to cause the morphological patterns during the phylotypic stage. Points#4 and 5 of our summarized comments to the first version of the manuscript: Include a clear statement how the exact values of the stage specificity (regulatory specificity) s(l) have been derived. State more clearly that s(l) is the crucial parameter determining the observed phenomena.” Authors' response to Points #4 and 5: The regulatory specificity functions we experimented with are arguably the simplest one could think of. Specifically, we start (Model-1) with the simplest hypothesis that the regulatory specificity does not vary across developmental stages (in the paper we show results for s=0.5 but we have generated results for all values 0.1, 0.2, ... 0.9 and the conclusion remains that when the specificity is constant the network does not evolve into an hourglass shape). Then, we consider (Model-2) a linearly increasing specificity function. We do not argue that this is realistic or that there are experimental results that suggest this linearity or even the increasing trend. It is just the simplest and most parsimonious model that leads to the emergence of an hourglass pattern. Finally, in Figures-9 and 10 we consider a more general specificity function that increases in a non-linear manner, providing a simple way to control the stage at which it gives the mid-range value 0.5. This allows us to examine how the shape of the specificity function s(l) affects the location of the hourglass waist. We hope that follow-up work will reveal experimentally the actual shape of the regulatory specificity function s(l) and there is no doubt that it will not be identical to any of these simple mathematical functions. Please note that we have revised the paragraphs about “Model-1” and “Model-2” in the Simulation section to clarify these points. Our comment to authors' response: We thank the authors for clarifying the paragraphs about "Model-1“ and "Model-2“. Specific reviewer comment on the first version of the manuscript “For the probabilities P_{DL} and P_{DP} the explicit formula to compute the corresponding probabilities could also be included within the paragraph analogous to P_{RF}. This would enable a clearer reproducibility.“ Authors' response: Actually there is no formula for the gene deletion and duplication probabilities. They are given probability values that do not depend on any other parameters. At each round of the simulation, a gene is duplicated with probability P_{DP}. If not rewired or duplicated, the gene is deleted with probability P_{DL}. Our comment to authors' response: We thank the authors for clarifying this point for us. Point#7 of our summarized comments to the first version of the manuscript: “Explain why merging OrthoDB results with OrthoMCL results might be plausible and why comparing it with results obtained from phylostratigraphy is reliable.” Authors' response to Point#7: The phylostratigraphy technique as employed by Domazet-Loso et al. and Quint et al. involves the assignment of an evolutionary age to each gene in a given species, by tracing the most distant ancestral node containing at least one immediate daughter species with a detectable homologue. A phylogenetic tree of divergent species ranging from cellular organisms transitioning into simple and more complex eukaryota served as a reference to divide phyla radiating from consecutive ancestral points into distinct phylostratum layers. To determine the homologues, BLAST sequence similarity searches were done against complete genomes reliably annotated across the different phylostrata. Similarly, we obtained known homologues of each Drosophila gene from OrthoDB5 and OrthoMCL5 (that also use BLAST based searches) in the species depicted in Figure 4, and mapped them to six different “phylostrata” (marked in Figure 4). Akin to the method described in the above references, we assigned each gene to a specific “phylostratum” based on the farthest detectable homologue of that gene, and this is referred to as “age index” in the paper. This made it possible to compare the age index based results we obtain in Drosophila to the phylostratigraphy based assignments in Arabidopsis. Homologues for Drosophila genes were sourced from these two databases, to increase coverage across the species depicted in the tree in Figure 4. Since these two databases use slightly different parameters to identify orthologs, we examined whether the usage of specific databases introduce bias by analyzing data from each database separately and observed that age index of each gene remained the same. Our comment to authors' response: We are glad that the authors carefully addressed our initial concerns about the reliability of results obtained from merging methods of gene homology detection. Since the observed age indices are not influenced by the database used to assign gene homology relationships, we agree that merging OrthoDB5 and OrthoMCL5 results do not bias this specific analysis. Reviewer summary All remaining concerns were carefully revised and we thank the authors for investing the additional time to respond to our review in such detail.