The manuscript describes the study protocol of a planned phase IIb study (INVICTUS) that aims to determine the safety and efficacy of an MVA vectored influenza NP-M1 fusion construct combined with a conventional influenza vaccine in adults aged 65 years or older. The conventional influenza vaccine (split virion) will be administered by standard intramuscular injection followed, within 5 minutes, by saline (placebo) or MVA-NP + M1 vaccine, also injected intramuscularly close to the influenza vaccine injection site. The trial intends to recruit 2030 volunteers, 1:1 randomized over the 2 study arms. The study will for the most be conducted in primary care settings in the UK. An immunology sub-cohort of 100 volunteers is included as well for the monitoring of seroconversion (influenza hemagglutination inhibition) and cellular responses (ELISPOT). The primary outcome is to assess the efficacy of MVA-NP + M1 combined with a conventional inactivated influenza vaccine in terms of the number of days the volunteers experience moderate or severe influenza-like symptoms based on a self-reported symptoms. Secondary outcomes include comparison of the occurrence of hospitalization and death due to respiratory illness, the rate of laboratory confirmed influenza (based on RT-PCR) and the magnitude of the immune responses. In a WHO bulletin published in November 2017, it is recommended to omit “sore throat” from the clinical case definition of influenza-like illness. This may be taken in consideration for the primary endpoint determination. The peptides that will be used to determine the magnitude of the influenza-specific T cell response should be specified. Only NP and M1-derived peptides? Corresponding to the Panama/99 virus or also to recently circulating influenza viruses? The analysis of the breadth of the antibody responses could be better defined. The statement on influenza vaccine efficacy in older adults should be supported by more recent references (e.g. Beyer et al. Vaccine, 2013 1 ; Demicheli et al., Cochrane DSR, 2018 2 ). The first sentence of the 3 rd paragraph under Statistics is incomplete. 