This work by Hladik addresses one of the most important problems of HIV research: the persistence of a latent reservoir in spite of the virtually complete suppression of viral replication. Indeed, despite dramatic progress in the cure of HIV infection, we have failed to eradicate virus from the infected organism. The author suggests that the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), in particular tenofovir, have a side effect: they suppress a natural anti-inflammatory activity, thus, probably indirectly, facilitating inflammation. Also, ART does not prevent cell proliferation and in some cases even facilitates it, thus increasing the number of cells with the integrated provirus. This proliferation may contribute essentially to the establishment and increase of the HIV reservoir. The hypothesis suggested in this paper was not tested directly, but the author presents significant arguments in favor of it. His arguments are based on his and others research on the effect of tenofovir on tissue explants. One of the strongest effects of tenofovir on human tissues is a blockade of transcription and protein production of IL-10. Moreover, analysis of gene activation in rectal tissue of patients under ART led the author to imply that because of the drugs inhibitory effects on transcription of genes hosting integrated provirus, NRTIs select over time for cells in which latent HIV survives. Finally the author discusses the case of a Berlin patient as well as the curing of non-human primates (rhesus macaques) who have been vaccinated before SIV challenge with SIV protein-expressing rhesus cytomegalovirus vectors. In none of these unique examples of cures was ART used. In summary, the author suggests that ART suppresses anti-inflammatory responses, indirectly promoting inflammation. This may be true not only for tenofovir and HIV but also for acyclovir and HSV, as these drugs, despite suppressing HSV facilitate HIV in the treated individuals. This is an original and interesting hypothesis that may explain some aspects of HIV infection that are not understood yet. By the way, it may explain why HIV-1 patients under ART never return to normal even if their virus, which has been suppressed for years, is undetectable, while the immune activation persists, probably leading to various AIDS-unrelated diseases and to premature aging. The author may further develop his hypothesis to cover the area of age-related diseases in functionally cured patients under ART On the other hand, it is important for the author to emphasize more strongly the success of modern ART as a universal treatment. Even if the authors hypothesis be proved, the effects he described would be at most the side-effects of the successful treatment, although very important ones. Moreover, in my opinion, the establishment and persistence of the HIV reservoir hardly can be explained by only one factor. Finally, the association of the cure with the lack of ART application in just three cases is of course anecdotal, and this fact should be emphasized more strongly. All these critical remarks are rather of an editorial nature, and Hladiks original hypothesis certainly deserves to be indexed and to be tested in targeted basic and epidemiological research.