This article reframes the concept of heritability in a developmentalist and evolutionary framework. Although the article makes several interesting points and advances the discussion of the heritability of behavior, I think it could be improved in two complementary ways: better attention to the past, and better attention to the future. Starting with the latter, my strongest point on the level of peer review is that the decision to limit the BG portion of the article to twin studies is a serious limitation on its overall relevance. Twin studies are getting rarer and rarer, as they are replaced by GWAS and related methods that are based on measured DNA obtained from samples of unrelated participants. These new methods have changed the field in many profound ways. They have, for example, reduced most estimated heritabilities considerably. They have changed the way analysis of variance is used to compute heritability, and in some ways found ways to estimate heritability without analysis of variance (e.g. polygenic risk scores). They have also changed the way we think about questions of the relation between ANOVA and causation, as we are now able to at least consider the causal properties of some DNA-based effects on behavior. I do not mean to say that modern genomics refutes the argument that is presented here. In some ways it supports it, but in general it complicates the picture, and this paper would be much more relevant to the current state of affairs if it grappled with the field as it is now rather than what it was like 20 years ago, in the heyday of big twin studies and Richard Lewontin. Even as a reflection of older models of behavior genetics, the limitation of heritability to twin studies is problematic. It omits, for example, adoption studies, which are in many ways more directly related to issues of parent-child transmission that interest these authors. Even more generally, twin and adoption studies are actually special cases of a larger paradigm called quantitative genetics, which involves estimating variance components from analysis of familial relationships, which includes twins and adoptees but potentially many other relations as well. More complicated quantitative genetic models incorporate much more sophisticated results than the simple ACE or AE models the authors present here. Again, I don’t necessarily think consideration of such models would invalidate the authors’ arguments, but as it stands they run the risk of being accused of arguing with a very dated straw man. My final point along these lines is that I don’t really think it is correct to characterize what this model of heritability as heritabilityBG. Quantitative genetics as applied to humans doesn’t actually have anything to do with behavior per se, and as the authors demonstrate the methods can be applied just as easily to height. There is a very large domain of twin studies of medical conditions. The authors are correct that the deep issues are about variance and causation, not behavior per se. I would call it heritability QG. As for the inclusion of the past, there are several places along the way that the authors don’t recognize previous versions of very similar discussions. It’s not a matter of citing this or that study, it is a question of recognizing that this discussion has been going on for a very long time. I will include those issues as I proceed to enumerate more specific concerns below. The discussion of cytoplasmic effects, while potentially interesting, is introduced without evidence that it is actually relevant to analyses of human behavior. It is also an instance of a broader issue - the equal environments assumption - that has a very long history in the theory of twin studies. The discussion of anova and causation is incomplete. The classic article on the subject, Lewontin’s Analysis of Variance and Analysis of Causes, is mentioned but not considered in any detail. Much of what is said here is a recapitulation of that article. The authors might also want to look at the critiques of behavior genetics made by the developmental biologist Gilbert Gottlieb in the nineties, along with replies from myself and Irving Gottesman. I’m not sure I see the point of the first full paragraph in the right column of Page 5. If a correlational study of food intake is sufficient to establish causal effects of dietary intake on BMI, why wouldn’t an adoption study showing that BMI of adopted away children is correlated with that of their biological parents (or a polygenic score computed from their genome) do the same for genes? It seems to me that two issues are being conflated here. The first is Lewontin’s concern with variation and cause. Down’s syndrome is a cause of reduced IQ, but it is not a source of important IQ variance in the population. The other is correlation and causation. Observing that environmental or genetic variables are correlated with BMI is not the same as showing that they cause BMI because of all the complex developmental issues the authors discuss. The statement, “It leaves us entirely in the dark as to which specific genes are involved in the formation of that trait (Sober, 2001)” is no longer true in the DNA era. We are hardly enlightened about such things nowadays, but we are not as in the dark as we used to be. In the discussion of both variance and causation, and heritability and malleability, the authors might want to have a look at recent philosophical work on causation, focusing on the idea of actual and potential difference makers. Heritability is about actual difference makers; malleability is about potential difference makers. These issues also come up in the Turkheimer and Gottesman responses to Gottlieb. That brings me to heritabilityX and the authors conclusion, so I will stop numbering and consider the conclusion broadly. I don’t object in principle to their characterization of heritability as arising from causal consistency of any kind across generations. My objection to such developmentalist views are more practical than principled. It seems to me that they encourage a view of development that says all cats are gray in the dark, whereas in fact we can make real distinctions about cats, at least out on the edges of the forest where a little light gets in. Whether those principles apply to more complex problems deeper in the dark forest of human behavior is another question, but I don’t think it helps to ignore the distinctions that can be made. So start with single gene disorders. Huntington’s disease is transmitted across generations because the gene is transmitted, and because the environment that supports the expression of the gene (which, as far as we know, is all environments) is also transmitted. We wouldn’t want to conclude, however, that distinctions between genetic and environmental transmission of HD are pointless, because we understand how it works. It could in principle turn out that there is an environmental treatment for HD, and if that happens the story will change, but for the time being it is meaningful to talk about HD as genetic. The case for PKU is more complex because there is a therapeutic environment. But it still doesn’t create a major problem, once again because we generally understand the mechanism. In fact, no one actually bothers to compute the heritability of PKU, because in the presence of biological understanding it is pretty much irrelevant: the etiology of PKU is what it is, regardless of how various components of that etiology happen to vary at a particular time and place. Now do height. Why is height transmitted across generations? OK, it is because both genetic and environmental causes of height are preserved. But if you are taller than me, and we are both well-fed modern Americans, we are willing to presume that the cause of that difference is genetic, on the reasonable assumption that relevant environmental causes are not operating. If we observe that Americans are taller now than they were in 1900 we conclude the opposite, because we presume that relevant genetic causes are not operating. On this planet, we don’t have to conclude that no distinctions can be made between genetic and environmental transmission of height. But for IQ, it is more problematic. We know that there are both genetic and environmental causes, and that both of them operate among individuals in the contemporary world. In addition we know that these causes are correlated (rGE would be a useful concept throughout) and that they interact (so would GxE). If you are smarter than me, is that because of genetic or environmental difference between us, or some complex combination of the two? We have no mechanistic knowledge, and no reasonable way of finding out, so the problem becomes intractable. Polygenic human behavior is by and large a gray cat. My conclusion from all this is that the deep problem in understanding the heritability of human behavior is more practical than theoretical. The problem is not so much with the notion of heritability that is applied, but more with the limitations of our knowledge about how G and E work together to produce human behavioral phenotypes. I think this article does an excellent (albeit, as I have said, somewhat incomplete) job of laying out these issues, even if I don’t fully agree with their conclusion. 