 Abstract : Some typos were evident, first line (teeth) should start with an upper case T as it is a new sentence. The same applies to (the) at the beginning of the results section. Also in the results section the authors report findings from groups II, III and IV without any previous definition of what each group consist of. The abstract should be readable as a separate entity without having to refer to the full article. In conclusions (which were more marked) should read (which was more marked) as it refers to the degenerative effect. Alternatively, the first sentence in the conclusions section should read "Maxillary molars extraction has degenerative effects.... Introduction : This section is well written but needs to be structured and reformatted into paragraphs rather than isolated sentences. Methods : First paragraph, there is an extra bracket () before standard polycarbonate cages that needs to be deleted. Results : Describing deformity of taste buds is very subjective and a more objective way of defining the degree of deformity is needed. Figure 4A is of a very poor quality and there are some concerns that it does not belong to this experiment at all due to different light conditions and degree/type of stain. It seems like a texbook image rather than an experimental one. Please replace this image. Unfortunately, nothing was reported about the differences between the four groups using a one-way ANOVA. Even if there were no significant findings, it should still be reported. For the independent t-test results, please report the actual P value and standard deviations rather than (P0.05). This is important to inform the readers about the degree of variability within your samples and the level of statistical significance. Discussion : It is recommended to discuss the difference that extraction of lower molars and wisdom teeth (in humans) would make to taste sensation as well. Conclusions : It is misleading to report that extraction of maxillary molars had a degenerative effect on circumvallate papillae in general as no data from this study supports this statement. The data from this study only shows degeneration in comparison to the non-extraction side. Also the claim that the degeneration improves by time is only an observation and is not supported by statistical analysis (No data from the one way ANOVA) was presented. The conclusions need to rewritten both in the abstract and the full article text as it is over presenting the limited findings obtained from this study. 