Peat et al. reveal the first methylome of a cartilaginous fish. A valuable contribution to comparative epigenetics that sheds light on the emergence of DNA methylation as a regulatory mechanism in vertebrate genomes. The lack of any published methylomes between Sea Squirts and Zebrafish emphasises just how important this paper is for understanding the evolution of epigenetics as a mechanism for transcript regulation. The paper is a great read and an excellent example of how to present genome-wide methylation data in an interesting and compelling format. The main claim that the elephant shark genome has a “higher vertebrate” like methylation profile is convincingly made in Figure 3. I am also persuaded by the higher vertebrate like correlation of CpG methylation and transposable elements (Fig 4B) and TSS (Fig 5 A-D). It is particularly encouraging that they managed to show such a convincing correlation in a non-model species, where genomic annotation is often inaccurate and incomplete. It is tempting to infer that the differences between the elephant shark methylome and those of higher vertebrates indicate an evolutionary intermediate/transitionary stage in the functional importance of TSS methylation to repress transcription (authors indicate there may be "less absolute repression than in higher vertebrates"). However, the authors appear to be very cautious in limiting their claims and acknowledge that the reduced amplitude of the TSS methylation correlation in Fig4B compared to mouse and zebrafish could be due to TSS miss-annotation in a non-model genome. It will be interesting to see if improvements of TSS annotation with CAGE or similar data alter the differences in the TSS methylation ratio. Given the authors carefully qualify their claims on the observed differences of elephant shark methylomes to higher vertebrates, it would be unreasonable to request that they improve on the reference annotation. Similarly, the transcript correlation differences between elephant shark and higher vertebrates in Figure 5 E-F could be the result of incomplete or erroneous transcript models. However, it is very interesting that compared to higher vertebrates there appears to be underrepresentation of CpG methylation for gene bodies in low-level expressed genes and for TSS an slight overrepresentation of CpG methylation in highly expressed genes. Again it is a tantalising finding but difficult to draw conclusions because of the annotation quality differences and the differences in the RNASeq datasets. It is a shame the WGBS Sea squirt and Zebrafish data is muscle rather than liver (Table 1) but the authors made use of what was available. I use a similar Babraham pipeline for BS data and all the methods appear to be appropriate. 