 Review and Replication Report for Arrizabalaga et al. (2020) General Observations The paper addresses an important issue on a dynamic and moving subject, the availability of research on COVID-19 within the context of the pandemic. This is a useful and potentially important record of the state of the literature at a particular point in time. Its timeliness is also related to some of its weaknesses in terms of how the state of the relevant literature is changing. Nonetheless, it presents a useful record and, with some relatively minor alterations, will provide an important record of a moment in time. Recommendations for clarification There are a series of changes and clarifications I would recommend to the paper as the conclusions depend on the specificity of categories of open access referred to. It is important to be clear about the details of what is meant by categories such as 'hybrid' and 'bronze' and how closely these relate to the heuristics that are used to detect them, which are necessarily imperfect. Specifically, it is important to distinguish between the category of articles that are temporarily released by publishers from behind a paywall, and those articles that are detected by a process of identifying free copies on a publisher website without an explicit license ('bronze'). As the argument of the paper hinges on the identification and categorisation of these articles and implicitly on the motivations of publishers in releasing them it is critically important that the category of access models (promotional or emergency release) is distinguished from the categories that can be detected ('bronze'). Specific suggested changes to address these and related issues: Under 'Data analysis' it is not immediately clear to me why the Web of Science classification is referred to. I would argue that what should be presented is the detailed implementation of exactly how the categories are assigned in this article (see Replication report below for an example of this). If the categories provided by Unpaywall are used directly this should be explained. More detail on the process of data preparation would be helpful. The provision of the finalised data is very useful but details of how the Unpaywall data was collected (via the API in OpenRefine or by upload of a set of DOIs?) and exactly when (because this makes a difference to analysis, see below). Throughout the discussion, there is a potential for confusion with terms like 'non-licensed Bronze'. I would use 'Bronze' throughout, perhaps repeating the point that it is by definition non-licensed. Similarly the statement '...many of these Bronze OA publications have been published in Hybrid journals...' is confusing as by the definitions used here Bronze will always be in a hybrid journal. A related issue is that I would prefer to explicitly use a term like 'DOAJ Gold' to refer to articles in purely open access journals as there is significant variation across the literature in the application of this term and being explicit throughout would help. There is also some confusion in the description of Green OA. Specifically, the definition of Green adopted here is one that applies only to those articles that are not also Gold. This is standard practice, although I personally think it inadvisable, here it leads to significant confusion. In fact, the contribution of repository access to this corpus is nearly as great as that of publishers with 43% being described as "shadowed green". I would argue for a more detailed analysis of the repositories being used in the results section. In policy and analysis terms this is arguably as important a contribution to access as that of publishers. I would argue for a greater analysis of this part of the corpus (see replication report for further details). The choice of Pubmed Central to accept the deposit of articles with no guarantee of long-term access is a significant potential issue. This both raises questions about definitions of "green" open access and licensing that deserve a little more attention in the discussion in my view. The paragraph in the discussion that commences "In line with this..." is difficult to parse. It is not clear to me that the lack of a license on the publisher site (which results in categorisation as bronze) necessarily flows through to the licensing of the Pubmed Central version. This deserves further analysis (see below). The paragraph reads as though the assignment of only 3% to green implies that the repository copies are not guaranteed. My reading of the methodology does not agree with this. This strengthens the argument for an explicit description of the category assignment. Finally, I think the conclusion is probably too strong on what the analysis demonstrates vs what the concerns of the authors are. While I agree with their conclusion that it is unfortunate that the release of otherwise restricted content in the context of the pandemic has such limitations in terms of the time frame and re-use this analysis cannot show the downstream effects of those restrictions, which will need to await future analysis. I think a sharper distinction between the observations made and the concerns of the authors would benefit the article. Minor issues Figure 1 has a number of misleading characteristics. In Figure 1a a bar chart is presented that shows both all articles and the oa subset but adding the two together. Figure 1c is also confusing. As noted below I don't understand why the data has been divided up the way it has. Both the conflation of the two evidence types for which Unpaywall found free articles, combined with leaving out of DOAJ as evidence source for the second pie chart seems odd and these results are not used elsewhere in the paper. I would leave 1c out and use a Venn diagram for 1a and a bar chart for 1b Figure 2 and related text. The license category of 'cc' is presumably cc0. I find Figure 4d confusing. Would it not be better to show some quantitative parameter for each of the publishers rather than the -OPEN and +OPEN? Perhaps open licenses as a proportion of all articles or something similar? In analysing past outbreaks the issue of increases in repository-mediated (green) OA over time should be explicitly mentioned. This might particularly be included in a comparison of those repositories that are contributing to access. This does not directly affect the conclusions of these sections as the proportion of green is not otherwise interpreted but the potential for confusion means this should be at least mentioned with a statement saying that it is not therefore possible to directly compare the levels of green open access across these outbreaks. Replication Report I report on a direct replication using the supplied data. Broadly speaking I confirm the overall results with some reservations and slight differences which are noted below. There seems little value in reproducing the Unpaywall data from the supplied DOIs. A manual search of PubMed could be used to confirm the numbers and identity of DOIs but I do not conduct that here at this point. The full code for the Replication report can be found at Github as a Jupyter Notebook at: https://github.com/cameronneylon/replication_report_Arrizabalaga_2020 And on Mybinder.org at: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/cameronneylon/replication_report_Arrizabalaga_2020/master Here I provide only the main points in summary. See Github for the fully worked analysis and code for comparison purposes. Minor issues The dataset has 5621 rows of data, not 5611 as specified in the paper. Is this to do with blank entries or entries without DOIs? There are 4989 oa articles by my analysis, not 4986 as specified in the paper. Comparison to the provided data provides 4991 oa articles, and the difference is explained by the two entries for which the JSON does not parse. Not immediately clear why for Fig 1c the two categories of free articles have been combined? Why in Figure 1c are the oa types reported only for those articles where the evidence type is either free article or free pdf? Why are the DOAJ evidence examples not included? Figure 2. Slight variation in the percentages calculated from the dataset. There are slight issues in 4b and 4c with the license assignment. As noted in general comments I would drop Figure 4d as it is confusing and it is not clear to me that it is supported by the data where Wiley does not appear to have many more open licenses than Elsevier. Major Issues The numbers in the paper do not seem to correspond directly to those in the dataset provided It appears the article does not use DOAJ as the criterion for gold but the is_oa_journal field from unpaywall. This explains the variance between my analysis and that in the article for "gold" as defined by my code (16% vs 19% using the data provided, vs 21.5% given in Figure 1). In Figure 5-7 I think there may be an error in the counting of OA articles, counting all those articles for which there is an 'is oa' entry and not only those where it is set to True. 