 Abstract The second sentence under background should read: "Livestock waste, in form of poultry feather and cattle blood, are of value ..." The 1st sentence under subsection methods should read: "The growth of selected bacteria and fungi were monitored in different media prepared from varied concentrations of peptone, CFPH, ..." Nitric acid was written as nitic acid throughout the manuscript. This should be corrected. Methods Reference citation should be provided for preparation of blood meal from cattle blood (one is provided below 1 ), preparation of feather keratin hydrolysate and the microbial growth studies. The authors need to state where the bacteria and fungi used were obtained from; e.g. from the stock culture of the Microbiology Laboratory of their University, how the organisms were previously stored and if they were sub-cultured on agar plates before introduced into broth. The optimal growth temperature for pathogenic microorganisms (bacteria and fungi) is 37C and not 24C. This should be corrected. Statistical analysis: There was no evidence that LSD post hoc multiple comparison test was carried out. The growth performance of each microorganism tested in each formulated growth medium should be compared with that of standard peptone broth, and where there is no significant difference, such medium can easily replace peptone water. Results The results are well written, but statistical comparison of the growth rates of the microorganisms in the formulated media with those of peptone broth will make the results better presented. In many places in the manuscript, medium was used in plural form as against media. This should be corrected. Discussion Should take into consideration the results obtained from statistical comparison of the growth rates of the microbes in the formulated media with that of standard peptone broth. Conclusion The 2nd sentence in the 1st paragraph could be written as: "The was able to utilize waste chicken feathers as a substitute for peptone in microbial culture". The 3rd sentence may not be necessary. The second paragraph should be re-written. "Following a thorough statistical analysis, the chicken feather hydrolysate may show excellent growth performances for other microorganisms apart from E. coli ". 