This article describes the application of the P2I model to the vaccine development portfolio of EVI. The intent of the exercise is to provide a portfolio funding estimate from late preclinical through completion of phase III. The authors proceed in four steps by classifying their vaccine candidates into archetypes, running the standard P2I v2 model, re-running the model using modified assumptions based on EVI's own data, and conducting a sensitivity analysis for the model assumptions. The authors conclude that the P2I model, despite several limitations, is suitable and sufficiently flexible to study EVI's vaccine portfolio. There are a number of methodological questions that merit further consideration or clarification. First, the notion of product launch is vague. The model calculates costs from late preclinical up to completion of phase III, so this approach seems to provide numbers for 'launch readiness' rather than product launch and should be clearly stated. Second, significant other costs for vaccine development do not seem to be included, for example process development, GMP lots and investment into manufacturing. Due to this limitation, the calculated funding needs provide only a partial view of the overall required investment. Third, clinical phase duration does not take into account the time to prepare for clinical trials, perform data analysis and generate a study report. Together with the author's comment that each clinical trial phase is likely to comprise several iterative studies, the time (and cost) assumptions appear very optimistic. Fourth, the classification into archetypes is somewhat arbitrary. One could argue that the RTS,S and M72 (out of scope of this exercise) vaccines provide precedents for malaria and TB, respectively, and should increase the phase II and III probability of success assumptions. Overall, this study seems to demonstrate that the usefulness of any model depends on the quality of the assumptions. Unfortunately, as the authors indicate, there is a scarcity of data in type II and III disease vaccine development, thereby rendering the generation of assumptions unreliable. In the reviewer's opinion, the article would benefit from answering two questions: how has the model helped EVI to prioritise its portfolio and how can the model be improved. Minor comments: Table 5 and figures 2 and 3 are redundant Table 6 and figure 4 are redundant. It would also help to clarify what 'cost' and 'cumulative annual' means. Is that 'cumulative cost'? Table 7 'of' needs to be deleted in the title 