The review provides a comprehensive summary of a WHO meeting on vaccine development and also includes reference to some relevant publications published afterwards. Unfortunately, the review is somehow unbalanced in several instances (see below) and in several cases uses specific immunologic details which are insufficiently explained and therefore may be hard to understand for a non-expert reader (see below). Moreover, in several cases, the article was written in a sloppy way (see below). Some comments (not at all comprehensive): P. 4, left column: Compare writing of US dollar here and p. 4, right column, 2 nd paragraph. Be consistent. P. 4, right column, 1 st paragraph, 2 nd sentence: It doesn’t make sense to me the way it is written. P. 7, 2 nd paragraph: What is a truly effective vaccine? A vaccine which protects everybody lifelong? Or a vaccine which protects everybody for a certain time? Or some for a certain time? P. 8, left column, 1 st and 2 nd paragraph: Need references P. 8, right column, 2 nd paragraph: It is likely that BCG does not protect against bladder cancer, but is a therapeutic immunomodulator. P. 8, right column, 2 nd last paragraph: VPM is being tested at different sites in Sub-Saharan Africa, not just South Africa. P. 9, left column, 1 st paragraph: What does the discussion about epitopes really mean for vaccine efficacy? Does this assume that every epitope is equally important (dominant vs. subdominant)? Discussion of different vaccines: a) This whole section from page 8 to 12 to this reviewer appears quite imbalanced both in length and details of individual candidates. B) Wherever possible, registration numbers of trials should be included. C) For some candidates a very detailed description is being given which may be understandable for those in the field, but may be less so for outsiders. P. 30, 3 rd paragraph: Another example for highly specific details which are not explained and therefore may be difficult to understand since text mentions all the different presentation molecules for T cells (CD1, MR1 etc.) without further explanation about their relative importance (e.g. compared to canonical MHC molecules). P. 13, right column, 2 nd last paragraph: Role of antibodies in animal models: To this reviewer, several experimental animal models and experiments argue against a role for B cells. This topic would need to be discussed more carefully (this reviewer agrees that antibodies likely play a role in human TB). P. 15, right column, end of 2 nd paragraph: A kind hint: The paper is now out (Weiner et al., Nat Commun, 2018) P. 16, right column, 2 nd paragraph, Ref. 110: incorrect. Best to provide relevant website? P. 19: Discussion about memory T cells could benefit from the short description of the different subtypes and their biological function. P. 19, right column, 2 nd paragraph: Is there a reference or is this a personal communication (from whom)? P. 20, left column, 2 nd paragraph: Is there a reference or is this a personal communication (from whom)? P. 21, left column, last paragraph: Is there a website for GTBVP? P. 21, right column: paragraphs about Aeras: It might be worth to mention that this entity does not exist anymore (reviewer is aware that this happened after the meeting). Text has no direct relationship with Aeras, but rather describes strategies in general. P. 21, right column: EDCTP paragraphs: It would be helpful to mention TB vaccine trials supported by EDCTP (several!). 