The article I reviewed is a case report of 66 year old African American who presented to the hospital with recurrent chest pain whose initial evaluation was thought to be consistent with coronary artery disease. He was subsequently found to have Acute pulmonary embolism on Chest CT angiogram and normal coronary vessels. This case is quite intriguing because of the presentation. It throws up some question I would like the authors to try to answer and offer explanation. The initial presentation with chest pain which resolved with administration of 325mg aspirin: did the team think it was pulmonary embolism.Is it usual for embolism to respond with single low dose aspirin. The relief of patient's pain with Nitroglycerin, is it typical with chest pain from embolism. Is it possible that we are dealing with Non ST segment myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) coexisting with pulmonary embolism. Myocardial infarction occurring in the setting of normal coronary arteries have been reported. Could this be the case here knowing fully well that this patient had multiple risk factors for coronary artery disease. The EKG findings observed in the index patient have been described in pulmonary embolism as well as the elevated troponin. They could as well be found in NSTEMI. Treatment for submassive pulmonale embolism and NSTEMI both require anticoagulation. I dont know how many pictorials that are allowed for case report by the journal but I would like the authors to include the baseline EKG of the patient on his first presentation to the hospital. If also permissible the Chest CT and Coronary angiogram images.This I think will enable readers agree with their conclusions. Overall the case report was well written. The take home message is that diagnosis of pulmonary embolism can be difficult especially when the features mimic other conditions such as acute coronary syndrome. EKG changes may give a clue to the diagnosis. As clinicians we know the inexactness of scientific data and we should have an open mind to other differential diagnosis. 