This article describes the use of the BridgeDb framework and associated tools to map gene and gene variant identifiers. The authors produced and made available 5 ready to use mapping databases focused on different categories of human gene variants extracted from the Ensembl database (version 91). They also document in the article the use of these databases in 4 different environments. As stated by the authors BridgeDb is integrated or used by different tools or resources such as wikipathway and pathvision. In this context, it makes sense to enrich the BridgeDB ecosystem with additional mapping databases such as those produced by the authors and focused on gene/gene variant associations, and it makes sense to publish an article describing the new available features. However there are fundamental flaws in the article that seriously undermine the findings and conclusions: The different databases which are provided are not described sufficiently. The point here is about informing the user about the level of exhaustivity (relative to the original data source) he can expect when performing a mapping between genes and gene variants. What is the number of SNPs and genes covered by each of them? What were the formal criteria used to include a SNP in one or the other database? (They can be found in the config file but they are not described and the list of other possible options is not given) The authors do not report if and how they check the content of the databases they produced according to the original data source (Ensembl 91). What is the overlap between the different bridge databases? The selection of the database for mapping gene identifiers to gene variants can be done according to variant criteria under focus But how to select the relevant database to achieve the opposite task: finding a gene associated to a gene variant? This concern is exemplified by the IMS use case provided by the authors: the number of variants found associated to the ENSG00000198947 gene using the IMS method (603) is smaller than the number of variants found with the methods relying on the PolyPhen bridge database (720). An greater, or at least an equal, number of SNPs was expected since no specific database is specified in the IMS query. Does it rely on the same information than available in bridge databases? The authors claim that the Bridge databases they provide contain a selection of attributes that can be retrieved. I could only test this feature using the cytoscape BridgeDb app, trying to reproduce the Figure 3. I could install the SNP_r91_PolyPhen.bridge database and use it to retrieve 720 variants associated to the ENSG00000198947 gene. Then, I tried to get all the attributes for the 720 SNPs. The query took more than 3 hours to run (Processor: Intel i5-6300U 2.40Ghz; RAM: 8GB; OS: Windows 10 Enterprise 64-bit; Cytoscape 3.6.1; BridgeDb app 1.1.0.2). Such long runtime should be mentioned in the article. The Polyphen score was not available among the listed attributes which prevented me to reproduce the figure 3. Also, the Polyphen scores are reported by transcript in Ensembl and the authors do not document how it is recorded by gene in the Bridge database: do they take the average, the maximum or the minimum score? Moreover I got only empty arrays for the MAF attribute (no value). Only one allele was returned as Variant Alleles attribute for each SNP. In addition to these flaws, other major issues need to be addressed: Introduction The authors do not cite services/tools already available for finding SNP/gene cross-references. Among possible candidates: Ensembl BioMart ( https://www.ensembl.org/biomart ) and MyVariant ( https://myvariant.info/ ). The authors should explain in the introduction why they develop a new resource and describe in the discussion the advantage or the differentiating features of their solution. The authors list 3 categories of users but they do not describe their needs and how those needs would be fulfilled by their solution (this could be part of the discussion). Method In the introduction the authors mention the selection of the best source for mappings as the first step to build the bridge database. However, they selected the dbSNP information provided by Ensembl without explaining why they made this choice. What were the criteria used to define this resource as the best one? Why not use the files provided by dbSNP directly? As mentioned above, the author claim the following attributes are available for the SNPs: MAF, chromosome and chromosome potion and variant alleles. Beside the flaws identified above, these attributes should be described more precisely: In which population the MAF has been measured? What are the ancestral and minor alleles of each SNP? What is the genome version used for chromosome position. Use cases I could download and use the databases to reproduce the code provided by the authors. However, the SNP provided as an example in the script is not the one described in the article (rs5927022 in the script and rs104894790). It is annoying since the SNP provided in the script could not be found in any of the 5 bridge databases (it’s an intronic SNP actually: http://www.ensembl.org/Homo_sapiens/Variation/Explore?db=core;r=3:52224867-52225867;source=dbSNP;v=rs5927022;vdb=variation;vf=15937754). Also it was not easy to find in which database the variant described in the article was available. I’ve tried all of them and could find this variant in the “SNP_r91_Exon.bridge” and “SNP_r91_PTV.bridge” databases. The script should be in accordance with the article. The authors should also provide a strategy to identify the relevant database to map a SNP or several SNPs to a gene (as mentioned above). Is it possible to get SNP attributes from the R interface as it is from cytoscape? Finally minor issues could also be addressed to improve the quality of the article Method The authors write that they are able to rely on Ensembl API. But they’ve used files downloaded from Ensembl site and not the API. This sentence should be modified accordingly. The author mention problems introduced by Ensembl user interfaces. What are these problems? Implementation How long does it take to create each bridge database? Why not creating a complete database with more attribute for variant annotation? The vcf file mentioned in the article is not available anymore. It has been split by chromosome since the Ensembl release 93. Is the database creation workflow compatible with this new organization of the original files? The figure 1 is not very informative. It does not describe the database creation workflow which is only a box in this figure. I think it would be more informative to focus on this box and to explain what are the different steps in this box. Indeed, according to the information found on github, it seems that there are 2 java programs “VariantReader” and “VariantCreator” which are called sequentially in order to produce the database. Results The dates in table 1 are misleading. They probably refer to the date of the database creation in June and July 2018. However the Ensembl version used as data source is from December 2017/April 2018. The authors should clarify this point in the table legend. Use cases It would be very useful to add the attributes of the SNPs in the PathVisio backpage in addition to the hyperlinks. Being able to access SNP information from cytoscape is a nice feature. However I don’t think that the use case provided by the author is very relevant. Indeed I don’t know how a network with 1 gene linked to 720 variants can be used or interpreted as such (In this case a table with all the variants related to the gene and their attributes should be sufficient). Maybe, an example of a network with more gene would be more interesting. The link to the cytoscape app is missing. The 3 first paragraphs of the “BridgeDb identifier Mapping Service (IMS)” should go in Methods. 