Very well composed article, very timely and it must appeal the decision makers and donors. The authors' contribution must be appreciated. As stated by the authors, this paper might draw the attention to the policy makers to design possible preventive measures. Therefore I would like to recommend for its publication. I would like to recommend the authors to look into following minor comments. Introduction, second paragraph: it would be better to add - what proportion of the total area of the country is water i.e. roughly 7% of it is covered with water. Introduction, third paragraph: Would it be possible to highlight the neglected importance of drowning research that the data collected in 2003 that hasn't yet been utilised to uncover the problem of drowning among adult population. Keeping in mind, children related findings were already published with the support of Unicef and other children's agencies. Methods: In the first paragraph, you can also refer previously published Methodological details. Case ascertainment: Please make it clear that the "individuals 18 years and above who drowned resulting in a fatality were included as a case" is for this paper. However, BHIS might have collected much more. Although case identification has been clearly described under "Data collection and interview", the 'mother' is the primary source of information. Therefore there are chances that this study under-reports the adult drowning rates (as compared to GBD estimates are nearly 4 times higher for the year 2003). This can be something that should be considered for adult injuries in future. Discussion: the term 'Regular Travelling' should be replaced by 'Commuting' in the sentence - "a large number of the population use water transport for regular travelling" Discussion: As indicated in #5 above, it is suspected that this study under-reports adult drowning mortality. But the estimates for children are closer to GBD estimates. Is it due to the fact - "In this study, the main three causes of death due to drowning were bathing, working and travelling." or the authors' intention was to say the disaster related drownings for adults were not included. 