In general it is a good paper, the results are shown in an orderly sequence, but some data of the results are confusing; the discussion is very concrete. The authors performed an interesting computational analysis with a battery of bioinformatics tools for the screen of the SNPs; these analyses are the strongest of the study. Other comments specific to the study: According to the objective of the study, it would have been very interesting if the authors also studied the polymorphism ‘rs104252272 (Pro72Arg)’, identified in different populations and associated with risk to different types of tumors. Regarding the classification of the variants I would recommend the authors use the ACMG nomenclature throughout the manuscript to homogenize the information, instead of using "deleterious SNPs, missense SNP”; by pathogenic variant, benign variant, VUS, etc. The abstract does not mention the objective of the article or the size of the sample: In the results it appears "Six out of ten of TP53 gene mutations occurred in exon 5", but the authors describe that the mutated samples were 20 (40%) and not 10 mutations; exon 5 has more than six mutations. The authors should clarify this confusing data. The authors should also describe in Table 2 the mutations identified using the international nomenclature to show exactly the position in which the substitution occurred and the type of mutation (example: c.595 G T, GGA / TGA.) Table 2 shows 18 mutations in exon 5, two in exon 6 and one in exon 8, but these data do not agree with the text, and the percentages are made from 10 mutations - these data must be reviewed to agree. The description of the mutated SSC cases is not agreed in the manuscript - it is mentioned that there are 15 cases, but 16 cases are described (13 in exon 5, 2 in exon 6 and 1 in exon 8). In this situation, the authors must also present the most clear information. Finally, in the discussion the authors compare their results of mutations in the TP53 gene only with studies from China - it would be very interesting if they would also compare them with similar studies carried out in other populations (European, American, Hispanic American, etc.). 