 Skefos et al. reported that administration of H1 receptor antagonist pyrilamine with NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (daily for 4 weeks) reversed the impairment of auditory prepulse inhibition (PPI) caused by dizocilpine (MK-801) administration alone. Pyrilamine treatment resulted in an increase in 7 nicotinic receptor binding in the insular cortex, which also correlated with PPI improvement. A change in 7 nicotinic receptor binding in the insular cortex after pyrilamine administration, in correlation with PPI improvement, is a novel result. 7 nicotinic receptor binding in the anterior cingulate cortex also correlated with PPI, but did not change with pyrilamine treatment. The participation of histamine in cholinergically mediated arousal forebrain circuits is known for some time and nicotinic agonism, and possibly an increase in 7 nicotinic receptor binding in the insular cortex, may improve PPI. However, how administration of an H1 antagonist resulted in increased 7 nicotinic receptor binding is not known. The authors inference of a "wide distribution of networks capable of influencing PPI of startle" is likely correct. While a direct participation of insular cortex in PPI is not excluded, correlation of binding with PPI may suggest two separate and parallel events after pyrilamine treatment, without cause and effect relation. The title is appropriate. The abstract reads well, but should state chronic pyrilamine treatment. The paper is generally well written. However, some methods and results, and sample sizes (n) should be presented more clearly or explicitly before indexing. The methods included testing PPI every week, and the result presented in Fig. 2 was apparently for the final PPI test at 4 weeks. Were similar results observed for the PPI tests at earlier times? Did the groups differ in their startle response (without prepulse)? To be clear, the Results section should state pyrilamine with dizocilpine administration (not just pyrilamine) significantly attenuating the dizocilpine-induced PPI impairment. Did pyrilamine alone in Fig. 2 significantly alter PPI as compared to saline alone? The equation for PPI should have x100% on the right side. The Results and figures/legends did not state the sample sizes, and in some cases, the inclusion criteria were not clear. There were apparently 4 groups as indicated in Fig. 1 (control, saline administered; pyrilamine alone; MK-801 alone; MK-801+ pyrilamine). In the Methods, the number of rats (n=9) was only stated for the last two groups. (The data sets do clarify that the other two groups also had n=9). Do data points of no pyrilamine Pyr(-) in Fig. 3 correspond to the MK-801 group without pyrilamine or also include the saline control group? Or does the Pyr(+) group include data with and without MK-801? Did Pyr have the same effect with and without MK-801? Similar questions can be asked for other figures, and the authors should be explicit as to which groups were included. Currently, Fig. 3 appears to have 13-14 points for each of the Pyr (-) and Pyr (+) groups, and ~24 points for the correlation in Fig. 4 [Fig. 5: 15 17 points, and Fig. 6, 30 points]. These are unclear to the reader, and should be stated in the figure or figure legend. If the authors had used more than one point for each rat, this has to be explained. Statistics should include degrees of freedom (df) or sample size (n); e.g., 37 19% (give n), and R 2 statistic should include df. 