The opinion article on reframing and rethinking the science and policy of nicotine, illegal drugs and alcohol is an interesting article that challenges some of the current ‘frames’ to analyze addictive substances and the governance of these substances. The surplus value of the article lies in the insights provided from a truly interdisciplinary approach, including disciplines beyond the ‘usual suspects’ of health economics, criminology and psychology. It will stimulate discussing on governance approaches that promote public health. Overall, this is a well-written article addressing the important topic of reframing the science and policy of nicotine, illegal drugs and alcohol. The main messages of the paper are clearly described and sufficiently accentuated. There is one important opinion that is included in the article that should be substantiated more extensively though. On p. 7 (final paragraph) and again in the overall conclusion, the authors plea to ‘legalize’ (p. 7) illegal drugs and they plea for approaches ‘that avoid criminalization’; in the conclusion, gain they plea for a ‘regulated legalization’ (p. 9), and for a ‘legalization (p. 10). First, the concepts used are not synonymous, as they are different legal concepts with a different meaning/ with different implications. Avoiding criminalization is not the same thing as legalization (avoiding criminalization does not require legalization, but can be reached through depenalization or by making use of the expediency principle on the prosecution level to settle drug offences); neither is ‘regulated legalization’ and ‘legalization’ (neither alcohol nor tobacco are legalized for that matter). I would advise the authors to reconsider the terms used and to extend on the implications of the option they suggest. Second, and linked to this, the transition from the paragraph on the consequences of criminalization (in Mexico) and the plea for legalization on p. 7 is too abrupt. Next, there are some minor questions that arise at some paragraphs in the article we would like the authors to elaborate on. On page 3, section ‘Harm done by drugs’, the authors refer to the use of DALYs as a standard way to quantify the harm caused by drugs. The authors propose to use DALYs as a measure for the health footprint. I agree with this since the use of DALYs enables to make comparisons associated with the burden of drugs across substances and/or countries possible. It is well known that the (mis)use of drugs result in an increased risk of a number of conditions (somatic diseases, mental disorders, injuries). Relative risks (together with prevalence data) can serve as input to estimate substance-attributable fractions (SAFs) which can be used to quantify the economic burden of drug (mis)use. So, please elaborate a bit on this in the section ‘Harm done by drugs’. On p. 5, the authors state that the heavy use over time of sugar can be placed in the same category as alcohol and other drugs. Do the authors imply that heavy use over time of sugar should be governed to the same extent as, e.g., the heavy use of heroin (and that heavy use should be the main element in policy decisions)? Or do the authors plea for a differentiated substance policy between different types of substances? Does this mean that the focus should be on rewarding healthy lifestyle behavior? In addition, policy initiatives to reduce the use of sugar should be integrated together with other lifestyle-related interventions such as the promotion of more physical activity, healthy eating (not restricted to only reducing the use of sugar). Please, add some comments on this. On p. 6, the authors state that suitable dose-response data have to be available and they continue to state ‘which is not the case for most drugs and many well-being indicators’. Could the authors add what the main reasons are why these data are missing and how this lack of data could be overcome? On p. 6, the authors only briefly touch upon the intoxicating power of substances in the moment and upon the behavioral consequences of taking them. One might argue that taking one of these elements is suitable for prioritizing risk management as well? Could the authors thus more clearly argue why, they suggest to use MOE and not, e.g. intoxicating power? On page 9 section ‘Policies and measures’, ‘Banning commercial communications’, ‘increasing price’, and ‘reducing availability’ are incentives that impact individual behavior. Generally, these incentives could be considered as more or less ‘restrictive incentives’ that impact individual behavior. On the other hand, incentives can also be considered as ‘rewards’. What do the authors think about e.g. the use of financial incentives to reward ‘healthy behavior’? How could/should these be incorporated into an integrated governance approach? Some of the concepts in figure 3 are not explicitly discussed in the article, or at least not in a logical/sequential order (e.g. regulating private sector and research and development are, resource allocation and incentivizing individual behavioral are not). Could the authors briefly discuss each of the elements in this interesting figure? Could the authors please elaborate a bit more on the advantages (added value) and limitations of the conceptual model?