The paper titled "Immunoblotting validation of research antibodies generated against HS1-associated protein X-1 in the human neutrophil model cell line PLB-985." by Kristina and Cavnar focuses on the validation of two commercial antibodies generated against the human Hax1 protein. The experiments are in most part well designed. The research approaches, methods and the reagents used for the experiments are well described. The researchers have shown the entire Western blot and have also used Hax1-deficient PLB-985 cell lines to demonstrate the specificity of the two Hax1 antibodies. The data presented in the article strongly indicate that both the antibodies, especially the rabbit anti-Hax1 polyclonal antibody, can be used for specific detection of the human Hax1 protein and also shows the minimum cell density of neutrophils that can be used for immunoblotting experiments. The manuscript is suitable for indexing, provided the authors address few issues, which are described below: It is not clear if the antibodies were purchased commercially or were generated by the research laboratory with the help of a commercial company. This should be clarified. Hax1 interacts with the polycystic kidney disease protein PKD2, located in the ER membrane/plasma membrane protein. Have the authors checked the efficiency of protein solubilization in their experiments? Have the authors done western analyses on a blot which has proteins transferred from a SDS-PAGE gel that has the intact stacking gel? If the solubilization is incomplete, insoluble proteins will be detected by the respective antibody in the stacking wells in the blot. This experiment can help to confirm the minimum cell density of neutrophils to be used for immunoblotting and might help to improve the sensitivity of the Hax1 detection by these antibodies. The authors should specify the detailed composition of the Laemmli sample buffer as the composition of this buffer varies slightly from lab to lab. Some research labs add 2M-4M urea in the Laemmli buffer for complete solubilization of membrane bound- hydrophobic proteins that have a tendency to precipitate in SDS when heated at 95C. If urea plus SDS are used for sample solubilization, samples are incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes [as heating causes urea to break down]. Have the authors tried immunoblotting with the pre-immune serum to make sure that these antibodies do not have any non-specific interactions? The authors should make this clear in the manuscript. The authors should clearly state the duration of the secondary antibody incubation which is missing in the manuscript. The authors state that the background protein bands are due to the goat anti- rabbit IgG secondary antibody (Figure 5). But there are background bands with the goat anti-mouse IgG secondary antibody (Figure 5). Have the authors performed the same experiment with the goat-anti-mouse secondary antibody? Is the background due to the cell line used in the experiment or due to the specific batch of the antibody? It would be nice to discuss this issue in the discussion section of the manuscript. No explanation was given for the observation why the control shRNA cells show more intense staining intensity than the wild type cells. This should be addressed in the discussion. Figure 3B does not clearly state how many replicates were used for the quantification of the band intensities. The authors should quantify the Hax1 knockdown in the Hax1 shRNA cell line (Figure 4). Without quantification, it is hard to accurately distinguish the specific Hax1 reduction from the background non-specific weak binding of antibodies. 