I would make two major comments: The title will be confusing for a lot of readers as it is reminiscent of the two signal hypothesis, which concerns naive T cell activation and the requirement for a co-stimulatory signal. Here, the issue is very different since the whole idea is that what happens to a T cell in the lymph node and in the inflamed tissue is substantially different. Here, everyone will agree, the set of effector functions that is displayed in the lymph node is meant to produce differentiation and proliferation. Whereas in inflamed tissue the effector functions will be the destruction of infected cells. In other words, the question could instead be asked as "Why do we have lymph nodes?. Here, the discussion and hypothesis could go wild - but the concept of concentrating immune cells in a constrained space to optimize communications is very attractive. Tissue versus lymph node - I agree with the author when he says that not enough is known about the trafficking of T cells to lymph nodes and tissues. Which comes first? It is counter-intuitive to follow the idea that priming of T cells is exclusively a lymph node process. Indeed, the molecular cues that allow T cells to enter tissues are coming from the tissue itself and the site of inflammation, not the lymph node. It is much easier to understand the story of the monocyte/dendritic cell if we consider the resident population - it will be at the site of injury and will receive the information to pickup antigen and migrate to lymph nodes. One thing that the author may want to consider in a revised version is the role of tissue anatomy in the circulation and recirculation of lymphocytes in tissues. Much of the ingress of lymphocytes into tissues has been studied from the capillary side. However, in tissues, lymphocytes are concentrated in the lymphatics, not in the capillary end of blood circulation. When taken into consideration, this factor appears essential for the priming in lymph nodes. In other words, what requires further study is the concentration of lymphocytes in tissue lymphatics and the demonstration that molecules such as TNF family members participate in the first phase of priming. Minor comments: the description of the various T cell subsets (twice) is distracting from the important question - it should be simplified or simply referenced.