The paper describes a synchronisation method across multiple research information systems Holding CV information and full-text articles with metadata) in Portugal using ORCID as the essential linking / identification mechanism. The synchronisation protocol is specified formally and a prototype has been constructed which is reported to have been received successfully. The paper provides a useful advance in attempts to ensure consistency in research output publications and thus should be made widely available. There are several aspects of relevance which are not covered - or covered poorly - in the paper. The paper does not stand back and describe that the need for synchronisation arises because of a lack of policy by national research funding organisations in terms of what should be recorded/stored and how it should be recorded/stored. This policy vacuum has led - in all countries not just Portugal - to the provision of multiple independent incompatible systems and inconsistent information; The synchronisation discussed covers only publications; there are many other aspects of research information that may be recorded inconsistently in multiple systems. This restriction should be made clear; The data models do not seem to be recording temporal information about (a) the valid time (interval) relating to the publication and (b) the transaction time relating to the publication appearance and any subsequent changes in the digital stored representation. These temporal elements are necessary for precedence, provenance and version differentiation. The need for and lack of temporal information should be discussed; The mechanisms for grouping publications are likely to produce inconsistent results. Relying one one or more equivalent identifiers is clearly not sufficient and the paper correctly indicates that metadata may be inconsistent. However, some measure of separation distance based on metadata element values could - and probably should - be used. This would be facilitated by point 5 below; The data models used in the participating systems are very simple and do not really reflect the real world. There exist in the real world complex inter-relationships between (versions of) publications (and indeed between publications and other entities in the research world such as persons, organisations, projects, funding, datasets, software, equipment...) and their correct representation requires a syntax and semantics beyond simple identification. The use of an overarching, superset data model in PCTRIS with formal syntax and declared semantics (thus ensuring referential and functional integrity) and providing a superset over the metadata of the collection of connected systems would give a greater chance of correct assignment of publications to groupings of publications; However, as indicated, the paper provides a useful advance in the state of the art and forms a good basis for discussion of more complete solutions to a very difficult problem.