The review article by Musumeci et al . under the title "Post-operative rehabilitation and nutrition in osteoarthritis" is well written, with appropriate title and abstract. The article largely accomplishes to underline importance of exercise, combined with an appropriate daily diet, in postoperative rehabilitation for osteoarthritis (OA) patients. However, I have several comments which I hope will help the authors to bring across this important message even more efficiently. Major points: It is not very clear how the selection of articles was performed. The authors state: "The literature search was conducted from in March 2014 to April 2015 on PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science and Google Scholar using appropriate keywords (osteoarthritis, rehabilitation, exercise and nutrition). Of approximately 160 papers (original articles, systematic and meta-analysis reviews) only 67 have been chosen and considered appropriate for the purpose of the review. The other papers, have not been considered as they resulted outside the scope of the research." However, out of these 67, only 7 are from 2014 and 3 from 2015. The rest range from 1995-2013 (References). The authors should clarify the selection criteria and perhaps include more of the more recent papers. Suggestions of the papers to include: OARSI Clinical Trials Recommendations: Design and conduct of clinical trials of lifestyle diet and exercise interventions for osteoarthritis Knee osteoarthritis: Clinical connections to articular cartilage structure and function Exercise for osteoarthritis of the knee Regular Exercises in Knee and Hip Osteoarthritis Exercise, nutrition and managing hip fracture in older persons The authors state: " OA is a degenerative process involving the progressive loss of structural features and functionality of the articular cartilage caused by an imbalance between anabolic and catabolic processes in the cartilage tissue, so that cartilage degradation exceeds reparative processes and OA progresses " - this is not sufficiently precise, since the subchondral bone is also involved in pathogenesis of OA. The authors should also mention this and further on, comment on the effects of weight loss/gain and exercise training on bone mineral density in OA patients. Suggested paper: The independent and combined effects of intensive weight loss and exercise training on bone mineral density in overweight and obese older adults with osteoarthritis. Minor points: " Cartilage is a slow adapting tissue, indeed it undergoes 75% adaptation in approximately 2 years. " - Reference for this statement? The paragraph under title Second step post-operative rehabilitation in OA - the whole paragraph is very repetitive, with the same kind of information provided in the table as well. Can be shortened. It would be good to give short overview of the available surgical procedures to treat OA. The authors mention Arthroscopic procedures, such as chondroplasty or microfracture, may resolve faster than osteochondral autograph transplantation (OATS) or autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) that involve larger incisions, requiring a slower exercise rehabilitation program , but it would be better if they gave a short description of each procedure (not more than a sentence long). 