The manuscript by Germanguz et al. investigates potential roles of active DNA demethylation and the component of DNA base excision repair (BER) pathway, thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) in cell cycle progression using human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) as a model. The authors first examined the expression levels of TDG in hPSCs, hPSC-derived neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) as well as in the tissue-derived NPCs. Although the authors report a significant increase in expression of TDG in the hPSC-derived NPCs compared to the NPCs derived from tissues, it is unclear how comparable these two NPCs derivatives are and, therefore, the rationale behind this comparison is not fully clear. Interestingly, the authors find that expression of TET enzymes responsible for active DNA demethylation mimic TDG expression pattern in hPSCs and NPCs. Taking this into account together with the fact that cellular proliferation diminishes following birth in neural tissues, the authors sought to examine whether this pattern of TDG expression is linked to the cell cycle progression. To this end, the authors found that TDG levels increase during G0/G1 and decrease following entry to S and G2/M phases of the cell cycle. Next, the authors enquired whether the decrease in the differentiation potential of NPCs following TDG KD is due to prolonged proliferative status and show 34 cell cycle related genes amongst the genes differentially expressed upon the TDG knockdown. Finally, using a cell cycle reporter, FUCCI, the authors attempt to link the dynamics of TDG levels during cell cycle with active demethylation of the hPSC genome. Although, the authors show that TDG levels increase in G0/G1 cells and that 5fC and 5caC begin to accumulate in S phase, given the absence of what happens to the levels of 5fC and 5caC during cell cycle following TDG KD, it is not possible to conclude if TDG impacts the cell cycle dynamics of these modifications from the presented results. Overall, I think that this manuscript presents some novel and interesting data and the authors have a potential to develop this story much further. At the same time there is a number of issues with the current paper that should be fixed before it can be indexed, in my opinion. In addition to the discrepancies mentioned above that need to be, at least explained in the text, there are following points that would be necessary to address: The authors do not show how their findings on the involvement of TDG in cell cycle regulation impact differentiation of NPCs to either neurons or glia (This can be done by performing MAB-seq on the genes directly involved in neuronal/glial differentiation). It is difficult to understand why TDG depleted NPC have the same ratio of neuron to glial differentiation as the wild type ones (Figure 2E). This is especially strange since it is now well established that affecting the methylation status of differentiating NPCs either directly through modulation of DNMT proteins or by modulating the active DNA demethylation pathway via TDG/TETs, impacts the neuronal to glial differentiation lineage switch. It would make sense to confirm at least the most important findings using an independent siRNA. Moreover, there is no catalogue number for the siRNA used in the manuscript. The effects of TDG depletion on the cell cycle regulation shown in Figure 5 are rather mild. I understand that this can be explained by transient nature of the siRNA mediated depletion but the conclusion that “Taken together, it seems clear that TDG plays a role in human pluripotent stem cell cycle regulation” is an overstatement from my point of view. It is unclear from the Methods section what type of microscopy (conventional or confocal) was used for the cell imaging. Multiple images of the cell nuclei should be shown in Figure 6 for each condition. The nuclei are incorrectly called “nucleotides” in the Figure 6 legend. Both the introduction and discussion are rather short and extremely superficial. Some of the references are cited incorrectly or in improper place. Furthermore, there is a large number of factual sentences in these sections that are lacking any references. Taking this into account, both Introduction and Discussion should be completely rewritten. 