This article reports the influence of global and local features on parallel object identification using one, two or three visual objects. Author's efforts to conduct a proper study needs to be mentioned/recognised. The author provided a clear and testable hypothesis and the article is straightforward. 1) The introduction is somewhat unfocused. The author rapidly switch from discussing theoretical and physiological aspects of visual perception, but do not strongly compare their assumptions with alternative theories. Although it is already brief, I reckon the Introduction could be made more concise and should be edited to improve flow. - There are a considerable number of obvious and/or dubious statements (e.g., Visual information is processed in the brain in both parallel and serial *what?*; Features such as color, orientation, motion, spatial frequency and stereodepth are detected in parallel). Although it is true that we can not ignore the complexity of retinal information, seems like the author ignored the boundary completion. When one take part in some assumption (e.g., parallel; apologise if I got it wrong), it is fundamental that both sides (parallel vs serial) could be briefly discussed. - The author reported some *old* references to support assumptions. Some of them appear to have been poorly chosen/incorrect. Maybe the author could update them. I reckon this will strengthen the arguments. - Scene context discussion (one or two sentences) could be interesting to improve Introduction. 2) Overall, some parts of the article is difficult to understand due to the insufficient English language quality (examples are listed below) and many typographical errors throughout the text. I suggest that the authors enlist an editor/colleague to improve the English. English quality examples: "Visual information is processed in the brain in both parallel and serial." - What? Processing? Yes, I understood, but seems like we need a complement. "Much less research" - What about "Research on interaction between objects... are underreported..." ? "For better control of the global features of objects, new categories were selected and new objects were produced" - It is not clear what the authors' intent is in this paragraph. Further, it is not clear if the authors are making a prediction if producing new objects would affect parallel identification. 3) The absence of relevant information in the Methods section is worrisome. There is a lack of detail about study procedures. - The subjects were assessed for neuropsychiatric disorders? - The subjects were assessed for substance use? - "normal or corrected-to-normal"; Do you mean 20/20? Using eye chart? Freiburg visual acuity? - Don't you think that the sample characteristics biased the results? (e.g., only young subjects; significant gender differences; menstrual cycle influence; cognitive performance). If you disagree, please update Subjects subsection. - "All *of the* objects were transformed into grayscale pictures and resized in such a way ... 100x100-pixel" I see your point. However, the readers also need to understand your point. Why grayscale? Why 100 x 100? - Luminance of the monitor screen? - Why 60 cm? This was based on previous studies? - Why you chose 106-ms blank interval? Seems like an odd number if you do not explain. Further, in my opinion some of methods could be reorganised into more relevant sub-sections. 4) Statistical analysis needs to be reformulated. I reckon the Bayes Factor would be an interesting approach. Nevertheless, I recognise this may take a long time to update. My main concern is about the ANOVA. I see your point for merging results (2-2s and 2-2). However, it seems worrisome. I suggest to you performing the analysis without merge the results (multivariate analysis). - Why the use of chi-square (fit test) for normal distribution? - Why the Newman-Keuls post-hoc (and not the REGWQ)? - Effect size? Confidence Interval? Please provide such additional information. I agree with the other reviewer about the possibility of Type I and/or Type II error. Thus, you will need to reorganise this section. 5) I am unsure what implications are to be drawn from the study at present. I mean, you need to better address this on Discussion. - Although the author can not drawn physiological conclusions, it should be - at least - mentioned. - You supported the hypothesis "that visual objects of the same category are identified in parallel..." I see your point. However, this needs to be better addressed. The Discussion should have more references. I am providing some references to help in the organisation. 