 "A Software Tool Article should include the rationale for the development of the tool and details of the code used for its construction. The article should provide examples of suitable input data sets and include an example of the output that can be expected from the tool and how this output should be interpreted." The authors present a software tool which claims to detect AMR genes from raw metagenomic FASTQ reads. However, there are several problems with the manuscript and the source code. The discussion of existing tools, methods and databases is confusing. The term "AMR genomic signature" is not defined. ResCap is mentioned, but that is a wet lab set of probes, not a bioinformatics method per se. CARD does have a command line tool, it is called "RGI". This section would benefit from a table of methods which explain if they are a tool, a database, or both; whether they work with contigs or FASTQ reads; and whether they work on bacterial isolates or metagenomes. The algorithm is poorly explained. Why was Magic-BLAST chosen as an aligner? Did you turn splicing off (as bacteria don't have introns). It is stated that reads were removed of adaptors etc using Fastx_Clipper but no details of which adaptor files were used. The database used was CARD, but not explaination of how it was split into HGT and SNP/Variant parts. Alignment to Bacterial RefSeq is also done to get a species distribution, but it is unclear why or how, and how it links to the genes found. No examples of output results are provided, nor is it described how you identify the SNPs. I was unable to install and run the software. The github site https://github.com/NCBI-Hackathons/MetagenomicAntibioticResistance is very confusing also. It seems I have to use Docker to just get MagicBlast, but it doesn't include all the other dependencies. The primary script is called "main.h" but it appears to have lots of hard-coded parameters (eg. -threads 12) and refers to reference database files that do not exist. It also has bash syntax errors like "var= wc -l file" which should probably be "var=`wc -l file`" or "var=$(wc -l file)" - it appears something has lost characters in the file?The docs say "The pipeline use three databases that should be downloaded with the script". But there is no such script. I tried hard to find more info, but I was unable to. In summary, more detail is needed, and the software needs to be installable and have some basic tests. 