Cusco and co-workers present an evaluation of both a mock community and the dog skin associated microbiota. The authors made use of the single-molecule Nanopore DNA sequencing technology and compared two different technical approaches by studying the nearly-full 16S rRNA bacterial gene and the nearly-full bacterial rRNA operon. In my opinion, this work represents an important advance regarding the application of nanopore technology in the field of microbiome research. The main strength of the work is its detailed technical description regarding the protocols for library preparation, sequencing and basecalling, that altogether facilitate the reproducibility. Moreover, the genetic data generated was properly deposited in a specialized database for public accession to whomever may want to replicate the analysis of long reads by similar approaches or new ones. The figure quality is good and the information disclosed by them is well accompanied with appropriate captions. Notwithstanding, I have some minor concerns about the work that should be clarified, at least for me: The last paragraph of page 7 describes the level of reads correctly assigned to species level for the microbial isolate Staphylococcus pseudintermedius . However, some of the values cited in the text do not match, at least, explicitly in Table 3. So, the authors should revise this issue or better describe the information obtained. The authors found that the study of a nearly-full 16S rRNA gene reflects in a better way the expected abundances of microbial species present in the mock community tested. This comparative analysis with regard to the results obtained by using the rrn operon should be accompanied by a linear regression analysis, declaring respective Pearson's "r" coefficients, that can measure more accurately the efficiency of both methods and better support the authors' observations and conclusions. Additionally to the observed richness (observed species) and Shannon diversity, the authors could also include a microbial community evenness evaluation of reference and observed microbiome data from the different approaches evaluated in the study, so that additional conclusions could be addressed. Given the issues with underrepresentation of "rrn" data as a consequence of mixing this type of synthetic DNA with nearly-full 16S rRNA amplicons, the authors should highlight this observation as a major issue of this approach and state a clear recommendation to avoid this type of multiplexing for future studies. It is necessary to better describe the contamination issues described in the last paragraph of the results (page 9). I'm not sure if this cross-contamination came from re-utilization of a flowcell or if this came from contamination of the barcoded-primer, used during nested PCR, with amplicons/DNA from the mock community. In a similar manner, the estimation of 6% of contamination has to be explained in detail (species/proportions discarded or having been taken into account to calculate this percentage). 