 Meuthen et al. describe the results of experiments to test whether the cichlid fish Pelvicachromis taeniatus discriminates between alarm cues produced by kin and non-kin upon being injured by a predator. They manipulated alarm cues (as a proxy of predation risk) in three treatments by exposing individual fish to one of the following: (1) Alarm cues derived from kin (from familiar and unfamiliar siblings); (2) Alarm cues derived from unfamiliar, unrelated conspecifics (non-kin); (3) Distilled water to control for disturbance effects upon introduction. They showed that activity of fish receiving alarm cues from treatment 1 and 2 was reduced compared to the control (treatment 3), but familiarity of siblings (treatment 1) and kinship (treatment 1 vs 2) had no effect on activity. Meuthen et al . conclude that P. taeniatus fish do not discriminate between alarm cues from kin and non-kin. Finally, they argue that kin selection can only play a role if this fish usually lives in groups of kin and that alarm cues are more likely to have evolved as a by-product of wound-healing or immune responses to pathogens colonizing cells wounded by predators. While their experiments are clearly described and carefully designed, we question whether the question in the title of the paper by Meuthen et al. is well posed: Evolution of alarm cues: a role for kin selection? First, alarm cues represent public information and we see no reason why kin and non-kin should respond differently to these cues (except in the very special case where predation risk differs between kin and non-kin). Hence, we disagree where the authors state: “Higher sensitivity to kin-alarm cues may result in an improved response to predation, and thus higher survival of individuals related to the sender which in turn may increase the indirect fitness of the sender”. Why would a higher sensitivity to kin alarm be expected in the first place? Second, the experiments by Meuthen et al. were designed such that they exclude the possibility for wounded fish to decide on what and how much to send depending on whether it is surrounded by kin or non-kin. This presupposes that the wounded fish has some form of control over the amount of alarm cues that are released. In our view this extent of this sender control is an essential target for kin selection. Thus, to answer the question posed in the title of the paper the experiments should have been designed so as to allow the potential sender to perceive who are the potential receivers and so as to measure the amount of alarm cues released depending on their environment. Side remarks: (1) In the Materials and Methods section the authors state: “(experimental stimuli) … were introduced at the point of 1h 15min and then fish behavior was recorded for another hour. Thereafter, all experimental subjects were sized accurate to the nearest millimeter and weighed accurate to one milligram on an electrical precision scale (LC 2215, Sartorius, Germany)”. However, the results of these measurements are not described in the paper. (2) In the Results section the analysis focuses on activity as the difference in distance covered by the fish before and after application of the treatment. These values may differ (as they do between treatments 1 and 2 vs 3) due to differences before treatment, but the authors seem to assume that any difference in this activity parameter is due to differences after application of the treatment. We strongly suggest the authors to provide a statistical test to show that the distances before treatment were not significantly different among the three groups. 