The authors have submitted a study protocol for a study in which they set out to determine the outcomes of core decompression (without any augmentation procedure) for non-traumatic avascular necrosis of the femoral head. They aim to carry out a systematic review in line with PRISMA-P guidelines, with the review and screening carried out by two independent reviewers. Their study design and the described methods are completely appropriate.The outcomes will be based on clinical and radiological outcomes, and the mean time to Total Hip Replacement will also be calculated. Finally the GRADE tool will be used to assess the cumulative confidence in evidence from all the data collected. Previous authors have concluded from their meta-analyses, which mostly employed augmentation treatments, that as they could not find any differences in the rates of THA conversion and radiologic progression across all core decompression modalities and non-operative treatment, their results question the assumption that core decompression changes the natural course of avascular necrosis of the femoral head. The authors need to consider this. One of the potential limitations with previous meta-analyses has been the relatively low numbers of cases, and so the authors of this study need to be able to aim for higher numbers in their review. Previous studies have concluded with a call for very large scale randomised controlled trials to confirm the effectiveness of core decompression in itself. This further systematic review may well add to this call. I have also added in two citations that the authors should review, as these further inform the subject. The study is a very valuable one that aims to inform on the outcomes of decompression alone (without augmentation techniques) for AVN of the femoral head. This is a very important topic in the hip preservation setting and these results will add significant value to the existing literature. I therefore fully support this study, with only the minor points I have detailed above. 