 Recommendation The manuscript by Fitmawati and co-workers describes the antioxidant profiling of Sumatran wild mangoes ( Mangifera spp. ). I noted that the manuscript had been revised from the previous submission. Overall, it is a more organized and constructed paper that reports the findings from a sound and interesting study. This manuscript showed a good similarity checker as well. Thus, the manuscript may be recommended for publication in F1000Research after some revision. The author(s) need to revise the title of the manuscript. The term ‘antidegenerative medicine’ is uncommon in a scientific paper. There are no antidegenerative medicine and antidegenerative drug as well, but there is a term ‘antidegenerative effect’. Hence, I suggest that the title should be ‘…..Phytochemical Screening and Antioxidant Profiling of Sumatran Wild Mangifera Species…..”. Why the author(s) decided that the compound gallic acid and quercetin are representing the phenolic and flavonoid compound, respectively? Based on the reference Barreto and co-worker ( https://doi.org/10.1021/jf800738r and the author(s) have cited the paper), the major phenolic compound was mangiferin, a precise compound isolated from Mangifera. In my view, the mangiferin is a more noteworthy compound from Mangifera species. Moreover, there is no report on quercetin as the aglycone form (as the author(s) applied as a standard compound) in Mangifera species. Thus, I suggest the author(s) verify the qualitative component of both ethanolic extract, leaves, and bark, by using the Liquid chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS). Check whether the standard compound exists in the desired ethanolic extract by mass spectrometry. This is necessary to ensure the selection of the specific standard compound. The statistical data is missing. The author(s) should provide extensive statistical analysis in this manuscript, i.e. standard deviation (SD) is missing in Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3 as well. While presenting research data, the author(s) should be aware of using adequate statistical measures. The validation of the analytical procedures of HPLC is missing, including accuracy, precision, specificity, etc. The author(s) needs to improve the conclusion. The manuscript was not employed Mangifera species as an immunomodulatory agent. 