For those who perform computational analysis in the fields of statistical genetics, bioinformatics, or population genetics, it is no exaggeration to say that the lion’s share of one’s time is spent formatting data so that it can be input into a specific analysis program. Having worked in statistical genetics for over two decades, this reviewer recalls a time when commonly used linkage programs such as LINKAGE, GENEHUNTER, S.A.G.E., LIPED, SIMWALK2, and others, each had different data input formats. For those format conversion programs that existed, they worked for one or a small number of other programs (e.g., conversion from LINKAGE format to S.A.G.E. format). Also, the programs were usually lab-specific, in that they were not publically available, or if they were, there was no “accountability”; that is, there was no error checking for the code, nor was there a way to send “bug reports” to the programmer. That all changed when the first version of Mega2 was released. It was the “Rosetta Stone” for researchers who performed computational analyses. Not only did it allow for one to convert from one format to another seamlessly, it performed data error checking, created log files with each run of the program, and critically, it created Unix/Linux shell scripts that greatly simplified analysis runs. The importance of data storage and format conversion has only grown over time. Like the adage states, the only constant in life is change. The genomic data employed for linkage, association, and other computational analyses has grown in complexity and storage requirements. A list of genomic data employed in computational studies, from an approximate chronological standpoint, contains: di-allelic RFLPs, multi-allelic VNTRs, di-allelic SNPs, quantitative copy number variants (CNVs), next generation sequence, and RNA-seq data. As an example of the complexity of statistical methods to analyze these data, a PubMed search using the key terms “next generation sequencing”, “statistical method” and “software” yields over 350 hits. The practice of program-specific formatting continues. Programs like PLINK, MACH, and METAL have their own input formats. While some of the input files (like the pedigree files) may be similar, other files like those that contain chromosome and base-pair position for a given item (e.g., SNP), may be different. Given the number of statistical methods being employed, that they will most likely have different formats, that error checking is critical, and that data storage for the volumes of data now being generated must be efficient, it is critical that Mega2R be recognized. Mega2 has enjoyed a long-standing tradition as the “gold-standard” program for data format conversion. Because Dr. Weeks has directed the updating and stability of Mega2 in its various versions, and continues to do so with Mega2R, one can reasonably expect that Mega2R will be widely used, widely cited, and most especially will make the life of computational geneticists much easier. 