The research describes the development of a sequence-model (profile hidden Markov model), which can be used to give insights into the inter- and intra-family relationships of protein families – based on their structure. The provided tool is, in particular, faster than the conventional tools to assess phylogenetic relationships. A phylogenic tree of over 10000 LPMO sequences was made to illustrate the usefulness of the LPMO-model developed. The authors show that their model indeed shows the expected AA families as listed in the CAZy database. But, what is less clear for me, is how could this LPMO-model be used to make phylogenic trees within one AA family? The authors mention that their model has only a length of 165, starting from the N-terminal histidine. Others (various papers, please check) have shown that LPMO-segments important for substrate recognition, all neighboring the active site, are spread over the total sequence. Hence, using the 165 amino acids only would lack information of certain binding-segments. Do I understand correctly that such information cannot be picked up? I would appreciate if the authors can better highlight for which applications their pHMM-approach could be used and for which it would not be suitable. As far as I can judge, still, the tool is an asset to make complex and more complete phylogenetic trees (more sequences) in a relatively short time. The research shown is relevant. Overall, the manuscript is clearly written, although several choices made could have been explained better (see itemized points below). Abstract: please specify "speeds several orders of magnitude" to be more specific. Abstract: remove the last sentence, it is not relevant. Or explain. Intro: "aid breakdown by conventional enzymes". Not absolutely clear, please reformulate. Intro: "sequence similarity between LPMO families". The sequence similarities within for example the AA9 family is also rather low even. Add? Results: phylogenetic tree: The authors refer to a paper in which phylogenetic trees per AA family are described, and subsequently write that this approach was not sensitive enough to show the relationship between the different families. Are these two not based on completely different research questions? Instead of being not sensitive enough, could the authors rewrite this section to better highlight the value of trees within and between AA families and which tools/models are best to use? Figure 5: for clarity, the y-axes could be converted to minutes. Figure 6: the model seems to pick up well the large AA families (AA9 and AA10), but in some of the others extra branches appear (i.e. AA16 LPMO16). Is this a ‘real’ branching or the result of using the short 165 amino acid model? Please discuss and explain the consequences in the manuscript. 