In the review article the authors highlight the potential importance of tertiary lymph follicle like structures in the meninges of MS patients as driving forces for tissue damage and in particular cortical demyelination. They provide a very good summary of immunological mechanisms, which are involved in the organization and function of secondary lymph follicles in the peripheral lymphatic tissue and in particular highlight the importance of the interaction of CXCL13 with other cytokines and chemokines in these processes. They then describe in detail the evidence for the presence of structures with features of tertiary lymph follicles in the meninges of MS patients and their association with disease severity and cortical pathology. Finally they also review in detail the observations that CXCL13 is present in the CSF and may serve as a biomarker associated with poor prognosis of the disease. Based on the experimental observation that CXCL13 blockade or genetic ablation ameliorates EAE the authors propose that therapeutic blockade of CXCL13 in the CNS compartment of MS patients may be beneficial. There is now good cumulative evidence that such follicle like inflammatory aggregates in the meninges are an important substrate of disease pathology in MS and that B-lymphocytes play an important, but so far not fully understood pathogenetic role in the disease. It is also clear that CXCL13 is an important chemokine, involved in B-cell recruitment into the central nervous system. However, it may be premature at the present time to propose intrathecal CXCR13 blockade as a therapy for MS patients. The EAE studies are only of limited value. It is not a surprise to ameliorate EAE with a therapy, which has major effects on the organization and function of peripheral lymphatic tissue. Although some EAE models show lymphocytic aggregates in the meninges, which share some features with those in MS, this is not the case in the majority of the models. Furthermore, in the respective mouse EAE models with lymph follicle like aggregates in the meninges there is no cortical demyelination. Thus lesion pathogenesis apparently is quite different between these models and MS. To what extent an intrathecal blockade of CXCL13 has an effect on CNS inflammation and what kind of effect will be achieved, is currently unknown. Whether this may induce dangerous side effects is also unclear. The suggestion to combine such a treatment with simultaneous intrathecal elimination of B-cells, T-cells and other immune cells is also far away from realization. Elimination with currently used antibodies requires complement of antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity, and whether this is safe to induce within the CNS compartment in patients is also rather uncertain. Thus this review addresses a topic, which is interesting in a disease such as multiple sclerosis, but the suggestions for therapeutic translation are currently premature and potentially dangerous. 