The author proposes to better exploit the vast and varied datasets that are being generated around -specifically- chronic diseases to break these down in a set of 'health states' that can be used to guide improved prevention and treatment. Implementing such a view ('platform') requires the breakdown of barriers to Open Access and (paraphrasing) a revolution in health economics. These ideas are familiar to many who have spent time in the Pharma industry and sometimes lead to heated discussions. This reviewer, for one, subscribes to the majority of the views that are expressed here. The only real criticism I have is that the piece attempts to cover a lot of ground, and that the ideas could be presented in a more easily digestible way. Some very complex issues are lightly touched upon (the added Glossary is quite helpful). There are few specific, actionable recommendations- the way I read this is to prepare the mind-set for how better to tackle the great medical challenges of the 21 st Century. In itself that is OK if the message is clear. Some of the language is awkward- I would not focus on boring ' health states ', for, in analogy with Tolstoy, ' all happy families are alike '. I guess what is actually meant here is ' disease states ', and I would make that ' disease stages ' to convey the dynamics of healing and worsening disease. Overall, I had severe difficulties reading the title and abstract to make out what the article is about (dawned upon me much later). I initially half-expected this to be about holistic or anthroposophical medicine, or equivalent nonsense. In terms of informing and capturing the reader's attention I feel these sections can (and must) be much improved. The Journal Nature typically throws in 'Boxes' where complex concepts are explained. If the author is to reach a broad readership that includes academics this might be a good idea. The section of a changing medical landscape towards chronical diseases is interesting but the author does not specifically say why Pharma is inept to deal with these. The casual reader might ask here- "so what?" It is not clear how the 'Islands of healthy aging' fits in; I guess it is to say that genes and environment play important roles, and this analysis promotes the article's system approaches but then we are told that " Other conclusions may be valid as well, and it can be difficult to choose among the alternative conclusions, to inform action ."- suggesting the problem is in fact intractable. Examples are given where modern systems biology has made good progress with improved diagnostics and interventions: oncology and AIDS. Fair enough, but these are diseases where the 'enemy' is crystal-clear. These disease states can almost be reduced simply to the metastatic tumour mass resp. virus load- it is not obvious the elegant solutions in this area are transferrable to 'regenerative medicine', the focus of the article. At some point it is said that ".. biology of their [AIDS] interactions with host (defense) biology, has enabled the development of highly personalized combination therapy approaches ". I disagree- almost all HIV drugs I know simply target viral enzymes or HIV's binding to CCR5. I just fail to see how these successes illustrate how we can tackle Alzheimer's, diabetes and similar diseases. The article would really gain from better suggesting how the proposed approach could help us in the right direction here. What I like however is the author's suggestion to be comprehensive in evaluating datasets that may affect the dynamics in disease stages. Also, his suggestion for better, global monitoring and standardized data collection merits follow-up. In this context the NHS could be cited, which is in a position where it can, and actually does such things. Also, I agree with the insight that we must let go of our ambition to fully understand systems. Some people understand how computers work, and some computers play better chess than any human being- likewise we will eventually understand the nuts and bolts of life- but remain unable to predict how humans will behave. I am a bit surprised that biomarkers are mainly presented as helping to understand 'disease states'. For me the main asset is that they can accelerate the evaluation of experimental drugs in patient (proxy outcomes). I am not too familiar with P4 and 'personalized medicine' for chronic diseases. I think the goal for now is to identify any treatment for, again, e.g ., Alzheimer's for any category of patients- in my time we called that 'patient stratification'- but renaming elusive targets may provide some relief to frustration… Another topic that could easily be expanded into a doorstopper is combinatorial interventions. This reviewer fully agrees that the concept of treating complex diseases with a single molecule is outrageous. However, evaluating multiple combinations in a factorial clinical trial design is just impossible, to mention just one problem. The other topic that is (too) lightly touched upon is the disconnect between health care investment, outcomes and payback (health economics). I haven't seen much “value-based care”, with country-by-country (differential) pricing and too many clinical trials where NCEs are tested against placebos rather than the best existing care. Pharma (and Biotech) companies still behave as if they are just competing against each other, zero-sum-wise, spending more on marketing than on RD in the process. As this article implies, they should rather be playing the game where they try to guess the cards that Mother Nature holds- and this requires cooperation. It is refreshing (and not wholly surprising) that such a proposal emerges from Novartis, one of the more enlightened Pharma Companies (no commercial interests with this reviewer). Many of the points raised above are intended to improve the important messages in this article and are to be seen as constructive criticism. 