To be appropriate, this scientific work and the manuscript produced needs important improvements. The authors do not explain the reason why an organic extract from A. arborescens and an essential oil from A. glutinosa are studied. The results are not compared with the current knowledge of the plant species selected. In scientific literature there are hundreds of references regarding the bioactivity and secondary metabolites production from A. arborescens and A. glutinosa. The authors apply a well-known method to assay the antifungal activity. I strongly recommend to review the guidelines provided by the CLSI (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute) to set the conditions to perform an antifungal assay. In this document, the standard conditions to evaluate antifungal agents are clearly stated, including inoculums concentration and dilutions range for antimicrobial agents. The introduction of the manuscript needs revisions. This sections needs to highlight the valuable information resulted from this work. The relevance of medicinal plants for traditional medicine, the side effects of current antifungal agents are well known. The first paragraph must be at the end of this section, presented according to a frame constructed from the current knowledge of plant-based antifungal agents. In the Methods sections there are several bulk mistakes Vegetal material: “plant material” is correct, rather than “vegetable material”. The geographic (not geomorphologic) data from the collection sites of the plant material are not suitable to be presented in a table. Besides, the data are repeated in the text and the table. The consideration for drying conditions are confusing. Fungal population . The use of this title is completely wrong. I guess the authors tried to state the fungal strains used for the bioassay. In this section the ATCC codes must be provided. Obtaining extracts : Please change this title as well. In this work one plant extract and one essential oil were obtained from the plants studied. Start with the plant extract preparation. I assume the authors preparing the extract contacting the plant material with 96% ethanol. “placing percolation” is not correct. Do not use the first-person plural for writing this section (this advice applies for all the manuscript!) Evaluation of antifungal activity: The writing style need serious improvements. This is not a laboratory report, the audience of this papers understand that the concentration of the substance and the inhibition halo are related. In the first paragraph, the authors refers the work with bacteria (?) , since the target microorganisms are fungi. The activation of lyophilized spores is routine lab work, please drop it from this section. Why was the concentration of the inoculum was not tested in the same way? The use of a Neubauer chamber allows to express the inoculum concentration in UFC as well. Expressing the “planting value” of the inoculum as 106 makes no sense. Then comes another situation: parts per million as concentration unit for plant extracts dilutions in an antimicrobial assay is never used. If the authors review the literature, they will note that the unit used is micrograms per milliliter (mg/mL). Please, use an space between the unit and the figure. DMSO is a solvent, not a diluent. The extracts and essential oils were placed, not planted, in the plate prepared for the bioassay. Please read more scientific papers regarding the agar well diffusion method to present a coherent methodology. In the results, the authors are presenting tables copied directly from the software used to process the data. This is not admissible, even for undergraduate work. Besides, the antifungal activity of the extract and the essential oil are rather questionable. The highest antifungal activity of A. arborescens extract towards T. metagrophytes, T. rubrum and M canis, according to the results of this paper is 700 mg/mL. An antimicrobial activity for a plant extract is considered promising in concentrations below 100 mg/mL (Rios Recio, 2005). Since the authors do not present the yield the essential oil extraction, is not possible to assess the feasibility of obtaining matico essential oil to scale the bioactivity in a pharmaceutical product. The results sections just limit to present the statistical analysis, without an evaluation of the real potential of the bioactivity of the plants studied. The conclusions are a mere repetitions of the results of the laboratory work and statistical analysis. 