The present article is devoted to the analysis of differences in ERP parameters depending on genetic differences (COMT, BDNF, and HTR2A gene polymorphisms) during facial recognition. The idea is interesting, however, some issues occur: In the Introduction (P. 3, left and the right column) it is stated “… in carriers of polymorphisms of COMT, HTR2A, BDNF genes.” From a genetics point of view, this sentence is incorrect, since everyone has genetic polymorphism, the authors should rephrase this sentence. In the Introduction (P. 3, left column) it is stated “As a result, carriers of the Met allele have a thicker cortical layer in these particular areas.” Although it is indicated later, what SNP the authors selected for the analysis, its designation (Val158Met), and functional significance have to be reported in the Introduction section. In addition, it is well documented that Val158Met alleles are codominant. Please, indicate this information also. There is a mistake in the Introduction (P. 3, right column) “In the 5HTR2A gene, a 1438A/G polymorphism located in the promoter region is possible…”. Please report “-1438A/G”, since this SNP is located in the promoter gene region. Although, mention the data regarding on association of HTR2A allele with reduced/enhanced expression. In Materials and Methods (P.4, left column) the authors have to transliterate or to present unique designations for the Russian phrases ≪Биологические решения и технологии≫,ООО “НекстБио”, ≪Терцик≫, ДНК-Технология, Литех, МКС. In Materials and Methods it is indicated that the authors conducted real-time PCR using “Tertsik” DNA-analyzer; however, this PCR machine is not used for Real-time PCR. The authors should report the correct DNA Analyzer and the appropriate determination of genotyping. It remains unclear, why the authors did used GelDoc UV-transilluminator for TaqMan-based fluorescent PCR. They have to use Real-time DNA Analyzer. In Materials and Methods Section please provide information regarding to % of women, mean age, since sex differences may modulate recognition of emotions. In Materials and Methods Section (P. 4, left column) the authors use the term “mutation” for the studied SNPs instead of polymorphism or SNP. In Materials and Methods Section (P. 4, left column) the authors should indicate genotype frequency of the observed genotypes. Statistical analysis should be based on the appropriate statistical criterion. Since the authors deal with quantitative data (the amplitude of the ERP), the use of unpaired Student t-test requires the testing for the normality distribution and the assumption of the homogeneity of variance. Assuming small sample size (N = 73), the normality of distribution is unlikely. Please, provide required normality of distribution testing or in the case of its failure, use non-parametric statistical tests. In addition, operations with genetic data (allele and genotype frequencies) require the check for the Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium. Please, report this information. I suggest to include BDNF Met/Met-genotype together with Met/Val-genotype into one group (Met-allele carriers) for the statistical analysis. The study sample is rather small (N = 73), therefore I suggest to indicate a preliminary character of conducted study and to mention this issue in Limitations. The text has to be checked for the sequence of tenses. The article can be indexed after all corrections (including appropriate statistical analysis). 