This is a well written case report of an unrecognized, but only possible, association between use of Ritalin and delayed puberty. The discussion offers a very nice commentary on the available literature, and this paper overall generates appropriate consideration for this potential serious adverse effect of methylphenidate. The patient reported had almost lifelong use of methylphenidate throughout childhood and adolescence, but stopped several years prior to presenting with delayed puberty. Another reviewer made several very important comments that I was going to make, so I will not repeat them. A few additional considerations to improve this very nice manuscript are discussed below: This patients particular situation was unusual in that he presented with normal gonadotropins along with hypogonadism, and this should be discussed. Delayed puberty is not typically a testicular problem, but rather one with the HPG axis. The hypothesis would be that the methylphenidate has a direct suppressive effect at the level of the testicles. The combined use of exogenous testosterone and hCG has been reported by Hsieh et al. to maintain spermatogenesis in hypogonadal men, but the combination has not been previously reported to initiate puberty. It certainly would be the most physiologic manner to initiate puberty, and this point could be highlighted. The options for treatment should be discussed. These can include several options such as exogenous testosterone, high dose hCG, or a combination of the two using a lower dose of hCG which was ultimately chosen. Please include the dose of Testopel used. The androgenization of the patient is noted through the use a exogenous testosterone. An improvement in testicular function is not documented by the authors. This can include post-therapy changes in testicular volume, or more accurately a post-therapy semen analysis. In the Follow-up and Outcomes section, the sentence beginning, "As for his fertility..." falls flat with mere speculation. A brief discussion of the potential benefit from ultimately stopping exogenous testosterone and reversing its effects with higher dose hCG is warranted, as it is unclear from this report that the patient has irreversible testicular atrophy and hypofunction that would result in long-term non-obstructive azoospermia requiring testicular sperm extraction. A simple follow-up semen analysis would be the most accurate way to update the manuscript and frame this discussion. 