Andreas Halman and Alicia Oshlack prepared and submitted a very interesting manuscript dealing with the results of their comparison of four selected STR genotyping tools (LobSTR, HipSTR, GangSTR and RepeatSeq), which are designed to process data from massively parallel sequencing (here used for exome sequencing data sets). More precisely, they compared five tools in the initial phases of the experiments, however, GATK HaplotypeCaller is not a dedicated STR tool and was disregarded in later phases of the study because of its several limitations. Although the study is well designed, well evaluated and also well written, it has one substantial limitation - the study design itself. The authors chose an elegant and low-cost, but still high-throughput approach that relies on the biological fact that healthy males (at least in humans and other mammals) bear one X chromosome in their genome, so they are hemyzygous for the major part of this chromosome (when not considering the pseudoautosomal regions). Based on this phenomenon, they “ expect( ed) all calls (coming from the X chromosome) to be homozygous ” therefore they evaluated the proportion of “ incorrect calls revealed by a heterozygous call ” to determine the “ accuracy of genotyping ”. Genotyping accuracy, however, has several aspects and the number of incorrectly called heterozygous positions (i.e. the false heterozygous rate) is only one part of it. The approach chosen by the authors, therefore, does not allow to determine the total genotyping accuracy, only the rate of false heterozygous calls, i.e. the ability of tools to discriminate between heterozygous and homozygous state. We need to mention here, that this limitation is clear from the study and is properly acknowledged by the authors in several places in the manuscript (both in the Introduction and also in the Discussion). We would like to emphasize, therefore, that we do not consider this limitation for an insufficiency of the study design. On the other hand, because of the inadequate wording chosen by the authors ( genotyping accuracy ) we consider the conclusions described by these words only partly supported. We agree with the authors, however, that they present a “ different but complementary approach ” to evaluate the performance of STR genotyping tools, at least with respect to their ability to make a call, and to correctly assign homozygous calls to homozygous STR positions. We are sure that this approach will become a well established approach not only in future research studies, but also in everyday practice. Following thorough review of the manuscript, we would like to suggest some major and several minor points to be considered by the authors: Major suggestions: We would like to suggest rewording of “ genotyping accuracy ” (and similar formulations, such as “ accuracy of genotyping ”, “ performance of genotyping tools ”, etc.) with a more appropriate formulation - throughout the manuscript, everywhere, where they are used with respect to the results of the authors evaluation. Maybe with “ false heterozygous rate ”? Page 10; Part “ Effects of repeat unit and quality scores on accuracy ” - the conclusions, according to which: In case of GangSTR “ We can also see that the accuracy of 1 bp repeat calls improves with the highest quality score (1.0) and a stronger filter for this repeat unit may be appropriate” , seems not to be correct, since there is a relatively wide range of lower quality scores in which GangSTR leads to lower false heterozygous rates (and also with larger dot sizes) - at least according to Figure 6a For HipSTR and 1 bp repeats there is a similar exception from the general trend that “ keeping only the ones with the highest quality score will improve overall accuracy ” Figure 5 and results for the dinucleotide repeats: Why is the GC/CG dinucleotide missing from the compared possible dinucleotide sequences? If it is by mistake, it would be useful to add this dinucleotide to the comparison. If it has a specific reason, this should be discussed in the text. Similarly to dinucleotides, there were also higher error rates found for homopolymers. It would be interesting to try to evaluate the error rate also for each of the four possible homopolymers and to see whether there are different trends between them (like the marked AC/TG trend with GangSTR and LobSTR). Minor suggestions: Page 3; First indent of Introduction: with regard to the standard methods to genotype STRs it would be better to change “gel electrophoresis” to “capillary electrophoresis”, since gel electrophoresis most commonly refers to agarose or polyacrylamide gels Page 6; Third and fourth indents of the part called “ Dataset ”: We would suggest to merge the two parts dealing with GATK (“ GATK-HC reported a median... ” and “ GATK only makes calls at positions... ”) into one, because they are now unnecessarily separated by the part dealing with the “ ...23 loci for which the reference STR length was longer… ” Figure 2.: We recommend to: Use the same order of tools in the part A) and B) of the figure Include GATK in the charts, since GATK was also evaluated and compared in this step of the study (even if it resulted in small numbers of calls and its numbers does not necessarily reflect its ability to call genotypes, since it calls only alleles which are different from the reference genome). Although this will most probably lead to “simple rows” in the lower parts of the chart, because of the significantly lower numbers obtained with GATK, we believe that such inclusion will strengthen the visual recognition of the significant differences between the tools We believe also that adding the respective numerical values for each tool (for example up to the top of each bar in the bar chart, and under the median in the box-plot) can further enhance the informational value of the charts Provide also comparison of number of calls after applying the optimal filters (mentioned at the end of the “ Dataset ” section) Page 7; Part “ Effects of repeat unit and coverage on accuracy ”: With few exceptions, nearly each experiment of the study is visualized through plots. We think that the number of heterozygous calls as a function of repeat unit length for each compared tool would deserve a plot too, since we believe that readers would appreciate the visualisation of these results We think that the last sentence on the page (“ While dinucleotide repeats showed a trend towards a lower error rate with increasing coverage for RepeatSeq and LobSTR, the trend was reversed for GangSTR ”) does not describe accurately the complex trends visualised by the plots on Fig.4 (for LobSTR and HipSTR). LobSTR for example shows a lowering trend only up to a certain point, where it sharply increases. This seems to be, moreover, an opposite trend to that seen for HipSTR, which has a rather increasing error rate (although with little fluctuations) up to a certain point when it suddenly drops Do the authors have an explanation for the sudden change in trends encountered in the LobSTR and HipSTR results for mono- and dinucleotide repeats? Figure 4. (and other line plots): The lines in the plots are difficult to read, especially in a printed form. We suggest reworking of the graphs for better clarity, for example with thicker trend lines, white background instead of grey, etc. Figure 6: Can the authors include an explanation (or at least a hypothetical reason) to the “strange” trend encountered in the HipSTR results? Page 13; The very last sentence of the “ Results ” section: We recommend to specify the respective time also for RepeatSeq, determined after the utilisation of more cores ( while RepeatSeqs time improved to .... ) Although they comprise only a relatively small part of X chromosome, the pseudoautosomal regions (PAR1 and PAR2) should be mentioned in the study. Together with the information, whether these regions were excluded or included in the target regions for the present study - alternatively, whether any of the called STR loci mapped to these regions (and if yes, then their proportion to the remaining region should be mentioned) Page 13; “ Discussion ”: We suggest to move the actual fifth indent (“ Here, we have presented one way of performing... ”) after the first one (“ We used a novel way... ”), because together they will form a more consistent “introduction” to Discussion. 