General overview: This manuscript presents an interesting aspect of the effect of ROS on proteins – the possibility of converting one type of amino acid into another one. It briefly describes the idea and presents results of a single mass spectrometry experiment that identifies two forms of a peptide obtained by trypsin digestion of Prx6 protein. One form contains proline residue and the other form contains modified form of the proline residue. The modification mass is +31.990 Da and based on that the authors conclude that oxidative stress can lead to carbonylation of proline and its further conversion to glutamic acid. No evidence is provided to proof the link between protein oxidation, ROS and the conversion of proline to glutamic acid. Detailed comments: Abstract. Modified proteins are degraded by multiple enzymatic mechanisms not just the proteasome. Well established roles for lysosomes, LON protease and other proteases have been demonstrated. The authors suggest that the Pro and Arg conversion to Glu is “interchangeable”. This statement suggest reversibility of the process, which is clearly not the case – it is a one-way reaction. The conversion of one amino acid into another via oxidative reactions is definitely not a “revolutionizing concept”. It is very well established that His is converted to Asn and Asp, that Trp (and also other amino acids) can be converted to Gly (via side-chain elimination reactions), that Cys can be converted to Ala. Introduction section is written with a focus on authors own work and its relevance to this work is actually not 100% clear. At the same time a lot of information is missing: Have similar processes been observed before ( in vitro and/or in vivo )? Can other amino acids undergo similar conversion processes? What is the state-of-art in this field? Carbonylation is not limited to Pro and Arg ! Unfortunately this is not clear from the abstract or the introduction. Methods are described in a very short form and a number of details are missing e.g. conditions for immunoprecipitation or protein digestion, amount of starting material and material used for LC-MS analysis. RAW files and processed files should be submitted to MS data repository like for example PRIDE archive. It is not clear at all why the cells where starved prior the experiment and how this is linked to oxidative stress and protein carbonylation. No comparison to non-starved cells had been made. It is unclear from the text that the Cys in the DFTPVCTTELGR peptide is modified. Although not stated in the methods section it seems that the samples have been reduced and alkylated because the Proteome Discoverer search parameters included carbamidomethylation of cysteines as a fixed modification. +31.990 is the modification mass of proline residue. Are there any other types of post translational modifications that would result in a similar mass change? Are there any other modifications present in Prx6? The MS/MS spectra in figure 3 is the only evidence of the Pro to Glu conversion. Is this the only spectra that have been observed? According to methods section six samples have been analysed by LC-MS. How many times this peptide was fragmented in each sample? Presentation of multiple spectra would increase the credibility of the observation. Additionally the quality of the figure is not very high and it is very difficult to read the masses of the ions present in the spectra. Therefore again submitting the results to a MS data repository would help to validate the quality of the obtained results. The basis of this selective oxidation is not addressed. It is unclear why the authors do not test the functional significance of this modification, if they have already purified the material – it is not a very difficult assay. Additional experiments where cells are collected at different conditions involving oxidative stress would help to provide the link between the carbonylation and conversion of Pro to Glu. For the moment is in not clear if this conversion is driven by oxidative stress or another unknown process. The authors should not quote amino acid conversion levels based on ion intensities to 2 decimal places (7.43 +/- 1.78%). Unlikely to be this accurate. The comments in the Discussion about “altered amino acids having functional roles” betrays a lack of knowledge of the protein oxidation field – this is very well established (e.g. all the work on oxidised Cys residues). Many of the references cited are rather old. The most recent publications is authors own work. The field has moved on since many of these works were published. The authors final statement “ROS-mediated amino acid conversion may be a tightly regulated process” should be tempered (or completely omitted). “ROS” is a very generic term, and the vast majority of oxidants do not show marked residue and site specificity. They are not “tightly regulated” in the vast majority of cases. No discussion on the limitations of the presented results and conclusions is given. 