The study protocol is written well. However, authors need to mention clearly how this protocol is different from the one published in 2018. This has been referred as: Neogi S, Negandhi H, Sharma J, et al. : Diagnostic efficacy of digital hemoglobinometer (TrueHb), HemoCue and non invasive devices for screening patients for anemia in the field settings-a proposal. Indian J Comm Health. 2018; 30 (Supp): 86–8 1 . Beside comparing three devices in previously published protocol, what other generic features are included in this protocol. Currently, to me, its just an updated version of previously published protocol and thus should not be indexed again. Instead authors should have mentioned what progress they have made since publishing their previous protocol and how many individuals have been screened until now. In the methods section, canvassing of EQ-5D questionnaire is mentioned but in cost-effectiveness analysis this information has not been used. It is not clear to me why this instrument is required (to measure changes in HRQoL or QALYs between individuals screened by invasive and non-invasive methods, which doesn't make any sense to me when individuals who are screened are not going to be followed-up). More importantly, the very generic concept of Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) can't be applied here due to absence of follow-ups (i.e. no data is collected at two points in time). Authors can only compare cost per correctly detected screening outcome between four types of method/equipment instead of computing ICER. Authors have not included details of costing information for enhanced training to field workers/ANMs to be used for various screening equipment in the clinical/community setting. Finally, there is a huge difference in purchase prices between equipment and how these will be used in cost-effectiveness analysis is not clear to me. For instance within invasive method, the cost of Tru Hb equipment is 8-10 times higher than HemoCue. And if one is just comparing the purchase cost per correctly detected screening outcome within invasive method would be a terrible blunder. Therefore, one needs to account for the case loads as well as the mixed-use for varied purposes for an equipment during its lifetime or becoming obsolete. I think these are serious issues in the published protocol and most things are replicated from the previously published protocol. 