Herein is my response to the manuscript entitled “A new paradigm for the scientific enterprise: nurturing the ecosystem”, by Alexander Lancaster and colleagues to F1000 Research. The authors present a criticism of the concept of the ‘academic pipeline’, and instead introduce a new ecosystem model that includes more dimensions and scope for understanding the complexity of academic culture. My relevant ‘expertise’ in reviewing this manuscript comes from being a researcher interested in developments in scholarly communication. As this is an opinion piece, the only real substance I can offer is that of my own opinion, as well as attempt to help improve the clarity and argumentation style of the article. I hope the authors find the comments useful and know that this was an enjoyable and provocative read for me. Figures Figure 1. The arrows in the green academia arrow seem to be misaligned. Yes, I am making this comment. Do you by any chance have statistics that could help to quantify this flow diagram? I know the Royal Society have a very similar one for the UK, but would be cool (but not obligatory) to get some numbers on this. Great figure though, and very easy to interpret. Figure 2. Given that this is an open peer review, it should perhaps come as no surprise that I think Open Access should be changed to Open Science. So I found this a little annoying flicking between the caption and the image to interpret it. Is it possible to put a very simply coloured legend on the side as well to help maintain focus? Abstract The abstract is concise, interesting and impactful, and onveys the context and main findings of the article. Introduction The first paragraph of the Introduction is basically identical to the Abstract, which seems a bit odd to me. Can one be rephrased, or is there a different way of introducing the issue? Second paragraph, can early career be defined. And does every country use dollars? Here, I think it would be worth mentioning that it is not just a funding issue, but that this has been exacerbated by the incentive/reward system, which has become virtually divorced from the issues raised here (i.e., anything vaguely scientific). The final sentence of this paragraph needs a couple of citations to support too, or to be stitched to the beginning of the following paragraph. Third paragraph. Do you think there are phases between training and permanent positions? I’m thinking of short-term contract postdocs, for example. Box 1. Can it be mentioned here that, as a PhD student/ECR, you are often almost guilted into this state, as leaving for a job outside of academia is perceived as ‘failure’ by those within? As well as this, many bright young students come into this system, full of so much potential and energy, and then become disillusioned by it and leave as a result. Which basically creates a bias in which it is those who are conformist, the privileged, or have more support (or just a stronger desire) who end up staying. In the paragraph on families, I would make it clear that this present state is “actively discriminating” against those who cannot conform to that lifestyle. True, and impactful. The content of this box though is very well written and conveys many of the large issues in academia very well. Paragraph 5. What is the fundamental cultural change? The introduction is well-written, provides sufficient context and background for the piece, and finishes with a nice summary of the work within. Fixing the pipeline First paragraph. Should make it clear here, I think, that by framing it as a pipeline it constrains the potential scope for solutions. Adjusting the flow. I think it is imperative to make the point here that adjustments at this end do not impact all demographics equally. For example, by raising costs to reduce student numbers, this discriminates against different groups based on their financial status. Here, could one or two specific examples of changes to the supply side be provided, and what their impact was. Adapting to the pipeline. Here, I think a comment is needed about the divergence between what it means to be a good academic in order to conform to the system and advance one’s career, and the fundamentals of research. For example, this has repercussions on how research is performed and communicated. Finding another pipeline. In the final sentence, do you think this goes wider than just science though, and is an outcome of an increasingly neoliberal academy? Thinking outside the pipeline. So, once you’re ‘in the pipeline’, is it very difficult to see outside the pipeline, do you think? And do you think reform is so slow because we are waiting for it to come from the top down? “I made it here, so why can’t you. Nothing needs to change.” The science ecosystem Personal preference, but I would love it if somewhere here the UN Sustainable Development Goals could be mentioned ( https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/ ). Do you feel that, within the rapidly developing Open Science ‘movement’, researchers are being taught the core skills and competencies they need to maintain their careers? See the EU report on this from 2017: https://publications.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/3b4e1847-c9ca-11e7-8e69-01aa75ed71a1/language-en . Fundamental development of the scientist. For me, journey implies pathway, which is kind of similar to a pipeline. I think the key here is that development is part of an immensely complex network, where every interaction, every thought, every event has some sort of untraceable impact. You could say, to use your own analogy, that each individual has their own ecological niche within a hierarchical network, and that niche is defined by an incredibly multi-dimensional series of developmental traits. I like this analogy. Does an increased diversity of developmental traits decrease the chance of extinction? Multiplicity of niches. A key here is the recognition that an individual is the product of their ecosystem. Therefore, it takes into account developmental history (point 1), as well as external factors over which they have no control. As well as genetic heritability, which I think in academia is manifested as privilege. Is there any data out there on the proportion of researchers who have secondary jobs or income-generating activities? Thinking things like teaching, writing, public talks etc. Open ecosystem flows. As someone who is independently pursuing research beyond academia, I think that this section is critical. Academia is vastly prohibitive to numerous dimensions of social mobility, and allowing greater physical flow is also important for researchers to take advantage of the power of networked worlds. Research does not need always need a desk. Box 3: As well as what is already mentioned, how about support fairer research evaluation initiatives like DORA ( https://sfdora.org/ ), as well as organisations like Future of Research ( http://futureofresearch.org/ ). There could be whole papers written about this, so appreciate if the authors don’t want to list all possibilities here! Diversity of scales and budget. I would mention here the impact that this can have on research. Salami slicing for publications, claims of data ownership and generally selfish attitudes, data doctoring and manipulation, fraud, other questionable research practices – all driven by hyper-competition and the modes of research evaluation. Box 4 might be better for this though. Box 4. ““High profile” journals also tend to favor work done at larger, and therefore more expensive, scales.” – citation needed. Peer to peer networks. It’s a shame the way the present power dynamic works. Even if such a research apprentice should be fortunate enough to sit on a high-level council, they might not be granted the rank of master. This can have disastrous consequences for the Galaxy. Box 5. I like this idea of sort of decentralised power structures within academia. Are there any examples you can think of where Wiki- or FLOSS-like communities exist within research specifically? A recent study by Hartgerink and van Zelst 1 on peer to peer networks might be interesting to mention here too. What impact do these approaches have on inclusivity, as well as prestige or reputation for belonging to such a community? Fluid communication networks and shared access to resources. So, this is about exposing just the outputs of research, then? What about wider engagement in science, especially from citizens? And more transparency into the processes, to help enable verification, trust, and collaboration in research? Note that this aspect also includes factors such as open evaluation, and therefore incentive structures within academia. Box 6. Should probably mention something about the principles of the scholarly commons ( https://zenodo.org/record/569952#.Wy0XHIjRBPY , and other links). I would perhaps mention some of the causes for this open science movement, such as negative feelings towards the publishing industry, non-scientific evaluation criteria, reproducibility issues, a demand for greater transparency and public accountability etc. If you really wanted, you could discuss some of the wider impacts of Open Access too 2 . Might also be worth mentioning that commercial publishers are rapidly moving into this area too, such as the recent launch of the EU Open Access Monitor, which was sub-contracted to Elsevier, one of the scholarly publishers with the worst reputation (which I’m sure I don’t have to tell you; https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/strategy/goals-research-and-innovation-policy/open-science/open-science-monitor/about-open-science-monitor_en ). Broader distribution of resources. How many researchers does Ronin currently support? And how do we work out which questions are more valued by society? Institutional change. How about institutes recognizing different forms of scholarship, beyond just research papers? So, training, software, code, tech support, educational resources, among other things. I think that it’s important to mention the link between institutional change and incentives. Writing a new cultural narrative This sums up the content of the work nicely, and makes it clear what the intention of it was. I wonder, just to strengthen it, could you perhaps provide just several simple, concrete steps that the different stakeholder groups can take towards reaching such a new culture? Otherwise, I find this section very inspirational! Congratulations to the authors on a great piece of work. I think that this could be very impactful and spark substantial new discussion and action in this area. 