 General comments: This research note describes preliminary results from the application of a new nanopore sequencing device (the MinIon), under development by Oxford Nanopore Technologies, to the analysis of three amplicons of pharmacogenetic interest. The paper is suitable for a research note. Although the findings are very preliminary, this is a new technology and there is a lot of interest in understanding its current capabilities, longer-term potential and limitations. Positive aspects of the report are description of long-read nanopore sequencing on long amplicons (4-5kb), and description of data handling and bioinformatics approaches this team is using, which may aid others working with the MinIon device. Negative aspects of the report are that all the data are from only one reference sample, and one run on the device; rather than being utterly convincing, the data suggests haplotyping on unknown samples may be possible only once error rates on the MinIon reduce; and there is an unresolved question about the CYP2D6 CNV or haplotype analyses, potentially due to sample contamination. Despite these issues, the report is still of merit and will be of interest to many in the field. Specific comments: Methods Long PCR has been widely used for specific amplification of CYP2D6, with reaction conditions and primer sequences well established. It is not clear why the authors designed their own primers for this task, or how these novel primers were validated. This should be spelt out more clearly. It would have been useful to have non-diploid control samples for the CYP2D6 CNV assay for example a haploid (CYP2D6*5) case or multicopy case, to provide confidence that the assay was working as expected. This is relevant because of the question raised by the *2 haplotype which shows up in the MinIon analyis of NA12878. Results Page 6, first para: This description of the possible origins of the mystery CYP2D6*2 haplotype needs some editing for improved clarity. Not clear what is meant by *3 and *4 duplexes forming. Also not clear what would cause PCR biases alluded to in the last sentence of this paragraph (and of the following paragraph). Typos/suggested edits: Abstract MinIOn MinIon Should refer to NA12878 as reference sample rather than just Suggest sentence be modified thus for clarity: statistically phased genotype data from Complete Genomics and Sequenom. Suggest delete in penultimate line. Introduction Suggest this sentence be changed: However, existing methods have various limitations, which may lead to adverse drug responses. However, existing methods have various limitations, which may lead to failure to detect variants of pharmacogenetic significance. Methods Page 3, 2 nd para: indels expects indels expected Page 4 para 2 clarify The HuRef sample Figure 1 title: Integrate Integrative Results Page 5, para 4. First sentence should read thus, for improved clarity: CYP2D6 haplotype proportions in MinIon data were identified by interrogating clinical marker positions Supp File S1 It would be helpful to indicate which of the sequences is CYP2D6 and which is CYP2D7.