Dr Hunter and colleagues have written an excellent, very timely and thought-provoking paper outlining the key issues in tackling metastatic breast cancer. It is almost unique in its ability to appear years or even decades after successful treatment of the primary tumor. They accurately pinpoint our failures so far to control metastatic disease and suggests that a 3-pronged attack will be required to improve survival: prevention of further spread, eradication of (or maintenance of dormancy in) disseminated cells and, most important of all, destruction of established micrometastases. The latter is certainly the main challenge: most primary breast cancers are successfully and completely removed by surgery, it is the already-disseminated tumor cells (DTC) that are the potential seeds of destruction of a human life. Much attention has been given to the early stages of metastasis: release of cells, motility, invasion, adhesion to endothelia, extravasation perhaps because these steps are the easiest to manipulate experimentally. The onus is now on scientists to address whether any of these processes and their molecular mediators are still required once DTC are established at secondary sites. We need to know if they represent the starter motor (essential initially but redundant once the process is underway) or the (powering the continued progress) of metastases. Even if we can prevent further spread, it is important to define whether existing micrometastases (probably generated very early in the course of the disease) would prove fatal before any later waves of circulating cells take hold possibly a case of shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted. Metastases break one of the fundamental of multicellular organisms that of cells being able to survive and thrive in quite disparate, alien tissue environments they no longer know their place. If we could define how this is achieved we may discover some common denominator actionable molecular targets for intervention that could be effective against widespread metastatic disease. Such studies, with the precision tools of genetic manipulation could perhaps be achieved in lower organisms as a starting point. So, key additional questions raised by this interesting piece are: which if any of the molecular mechanisms required to initiate and maintain primary tumors are also essential for establishing metastases and for how long do any such dependencies persist? Or are the determinants of successful secondary colonisation quite distinct? Do different organs have similar or unique requirements that enable cancer cells to form overt metastases? The paper touches on these considerations, but much more research is required in this challenging area. It is therefore essential, as Hunter rightly states, to facilitate better access to clinical material, especially relapsed and drug resistant secondary disease (which may only be practical at autopsy). Dr Hunters paper will certainly recalibrate the way we think about translational research in metastasis. It should inspire new generations of basic scientists and clinicians to work together to tackle more logically and effectively this last hurdle in our efforts to improve cure rates in breast and other cancers.