Thank you for the opportunity to review this review. I think this article is of significant importance for indigenous peoples and links ancestral wisdom with some evidence. I do think that the article is weak in some areas: Abstract I think the abstract could stronger. It is unclear what you conclude and what evidence you have. e.g. Evidence suggests that language maintenance can be associated with improved health, social and education outcomes for American Indians an indigenous populations. This is evidenced by ... Introduction The links between language and well-being need to be stronger. Need more evidence that language is associated with well-being. What is the theories about how language and cultural maintenance, cultural connection improve outcomes? Think your paper would be stronger if it maintained its international literature focus - there is more evidence if you use Australia, NZ and other indigenous people. Need to state what the purpose of the paper is. What you intend to review. Health status This section could be stronger. There is a lot of evidence about poor health among indigenous peoples. What is health from an indigenous perspective? Indigenous language and loss Talking about 'language loss' suggests that it was somehow accidental. Language was a purposeful way to colonise indigenous peoples. Existing studies (Evidence to support language revitalisation?) Not sure about this heading - what is meant by existing studies? Watch causation language - these are associations e.g. "speaking an indigenous language was found to reduce several health risks (p.3) " - should read speaking and indigenous language was associated with reduced risk. Why focus on language? Think this section should come earlier - what is the theory that language is a powerful protective factor? The table provided is unrelated to the content and doesn't add much. Unsure what this is for - link to purpose statement at the beginning. e.g. The purpose of this review is to review the literature about the importance of language to indigenous well-being and identify the programmes and data available that might be evaluated? Need more on this as it is not clear from your review. Conclusions Should be more focused. Overall - I think this is useful information for indigenous peoples but it requires a significant restructure and rewrite to make it cohesive. 