This paper describes an analysis method and some results related to multicellular organization and complexity. While the study could be interesting, it is not well written. It is difficult to understand what is measured and what those measurements mean as described in the specific comments. Specific comments: In the introduction there are a few general statements that should be supported by general references. The “eukaryotic unicellular ancestor” in the introduction represents a single cell, the ancestor of all eukaryotic cells. Is this the same as the Last Common Universal Ancestor, or LUCA? Maybe not. LUCA has been studied a lot and it appears as the ancestor of all cells including bacteria and archea. But is there a eukaryotic ancestor as well? Is it known that there was only one ancestor and only one transition from bacteria/archea to the eukaryotic cell? If so, is there any study that can back up such a statement? Is dB on the right hand side of equation 1 supposed to be d_B (i.e., B in subscript)? Similarly, dk is likely supposed to be d subscript k in equation 2. Please explain where equation 4 comes from. Please explain better what the data represent. There is a statement that N is the total number of cells in an organism. What is then N_B? Is it the number of different types of cell? And what is the network itself? There is a statement that “boxes have a degree exponent d_k” (page 2, right column, first line). But what is a box? Is it a cell itself? And what is the network inside the box? Or is it that the smallest box is a single cell and inside a box can only looked at when the box represent an organ? Yet towards the end of the Result, it is stated that “rather protein networks responsible for the multicellular organization of eukaryotes”. But I do not see any analysis on protein networks. All these questions arise because the methods is unclear and incomplete. If complexity here means intercellular network complexity characterized by the degree distribution, then it is obviously different than the complexity of protein networks. It is not obvious why one should expect protein network to be self-similar with cell networks. 