The manuscript contributes important information on glycoalkaloids in potato tubers in Kenya. The experimental design was sound and good quality data was collected. The statistical analysis and presentation needs improvement, however. Comments and recommended revisions are below: Abbreviations used in the manuscript should appear in full name followed by abbreviation in brackets afterwards on first appearance in the text. In the “Sampling” section indicate number of replicate samples used for determination of moisture and glucose. Was there pooling of tubers together for a replicate? Or were there one tuber in each replicate? In the “Sample analysis” section indicate if repeated measures were take for each sample? Recommend that “Sample preparation” section be placed after “Sampling” Recommend that “Chromatographic analysis” section is added to the “Determination of glycoalkaloids” section. In the “Chromatographic analysis” indicate what standard stocks were used and where they were sourced from. What is GAS/kg? More information on the determination of moisture content method summarized in brief would be helpful. Were tuber samples weighed before and after drying? In the “Statistical analysis” section, where was the GenStat version 15 software sourced from? Indicate manufacturer and location. Include information on the Tukey’s test that was done. Table 1 Why are the samples in column 1 numbered from 1-24? Why are there numbers after the letters representing each variety? Do these represent the replicate number for the variety? It is recommended that one-way ANOVA tables are presented for analysis done on moisture and glycoalkaloid data. For just the Shangi variety there are multiple locations sampled. Here a one-way ANOVA comparing locations for Shangi samples only can be done and presented in separate tables for moisture and glycoalkaloids. Table 2 Similar comments as for Table 1. The same one-way ANOVA tables are recommended for the glycoalkaloid analysis as for the moisture analysis in Table 1. Example of one-way ANOVA table https://psychohawks.files.wordpress.com/2010/10/anova.png If the F statistic is showing a p-value (Sig.) that is less that 0.05 for between groups (varieties) then a Tukey’s test is done. The authors have done a good job in collecting the data. Addition of one-way ANOVA tables showing analysis for each of moisture and glycoalkaloid data will be helpful in interpreting data and enable authors to draw stronger conclusions. 