In this manuscript entitled “Oral mucositis in patients undergoing radiotherapy for head and neck cancer: An observational cross-sectional study”, the authors reported the cross-sectional analyses of oral mucositis of 50 head and neck cancer cases which had undergone radiation therapy. They presented 36 out of 50 cases (72%) manifested oral mucositis. Location of the tumor and gender were revealed to correlate the incidence of OM significantly, but no parameter was detected with significant difference regarding unplanned break of the therapy. The data and curation result have several matters to address. Major points: This manuscript shows limited impact of scientific novelty, nevertheless has a potent importance for indexing when considering the mean of regional statistical studies in Iraq. The number of studied cases looks inadequate for the strength of statistical analyses. Even after the first publication in F1000 Research, the authors should make an effort to increase the number of analysed cases and revise the data. It might be expected that type of therapy should reveal a statistically significant difference in the incidence of OM. Regarding the scoring system of OM, the authors employed WHO scale of OM only. This scale system should be simple and easy to value but there are more precise novel scoring systems such as Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (Toro et al. , 2007 1 ). The authors should at least refer to the OM assessment system in the discussion part. In the method part, it looks inappropriate to test the significance using simple t-test in each parameter. At least, the authors should employ the multivariate analysis which might be available on SPSS software. There was no presented data regarding the chemotherapy (type, timing, regimen as well as actual dose value). The authors should manifest the data and show the statistical analyses regarding this point. Settings of the radiation therapy were not described in detail and also there was no data about surgery. If the patients got RT and chemotherapy only, the authors should describe it. Minor points: In the introduction part, the authors described Human Hepatitis Virus as a risk factor, but in the cited references, it looks like Human Papilloma Virus should be the risk factor. Figure 1: The presentation of the pie chart looks unsuitable. Improvement of the colour usage (it’s not necessarily in colour figure) is recommended. In the results (Table 2 and 3), it looks like smoking should be a big risk factor of incidence of HNC. The authors might be better to mention it more strongly. Conclusion: It might be better to conclude in medical scientific terms. 