This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later sections are more controversial and contain serious flaws that have to be brought up to speed with the current literature. These concerns are summarized here: 1) The terminology is quite fuzzy. For instance, when the author refers to 'perception' he seems to mean 'detection' or 'processing'. In most people's minds, and in most extant models of perception and action, perception is specifically tied to the ventral stream. Therefore, it can, almost by definition, not also be a property of the dorsal stream. This is best exemplified in the Abstract: The author states: 'I propose that the primary role of the auditory dorsal stream (ADS) in monkeys/apes is the perception and response to contact calls.' This misstatement can be fixed by replacing 'perception' with 'detection'. Similarly, in a later sentence ('Perception of contact calls occurs by the ADS detecting a voice...'), 'Perception' can be substituted by 'Processing'. Thirdly, in the Abstract's second paragraph, the following sentence does not make any sense: 'Because the human ADS processes also speech production and repetition...'. Here, 'processes' needs to be replaced with 'performs'. 2) In the third section, the author first makes a strong case for a role of the ADS in auditory spatial processing, for encoding of sound location in memory and for use of this information in guiding eye movements. The published literature is well represented, though a key reference is missing here ( Tian et al., Science, 2001 ). Then, in a surprising turnaround, the author suddenly concludes that 'audiospatial input is first converted into a visuospatial code and then processed via a visuospatial network'. The evidence cited stems from 15-year old studies of monkey area LIP, which is part of a visuospatial network; auditory signals, however, are relayed to a different part of IPS (area VIP; Lewis VanEssen, 2000 ), for which corresponding studies have not been performed. Figure 2, which pertains to this section, reflects this misinterpretation: While the version on the left is neuroanatomically acceptable (with the only difference that parietal cortex is not just a visuospatial but a multisensory or amodal network, the versions in the center and on the right are incorrect on multiple grounds, most notably by postulating the 'duplication of the IPS [pivoting around an imaginary blue asterisk] and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections'. The assumptions about anatomical connections of the IPL with ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) are largely unsubstantiated and the characterization of VLPFC as a motor representation is plain wrong. I assume what the author may be referring to is ventral premotor cortex (PMv), which is indeed the terminal point of the auditory dorsal stream and is closely interfacing with Broca’s area. 3) According to a third hypothesis put forward by the author, " the Homo genus emerged as a result of duplicating the IPS and its frontal projections. This duplication resulted with area Spt and its projections to the VLPFC. In contrast to the visual dorsal stream that processes audiovisual spatial properties, the human ADS processes inner and outer speech ." This hypothesis is seriously flawed, because both ADS and VDS process spatial properties and both process sensorimotor signals. In fact, they may be one and the same structure. Thus, there is no fundamental difference between visual and auditory processing that would require duplication of IPS or its projections or special evolution of speech (see Bornkessel et al., 2015). 4) Additional citations that the author should add: DeWitt and Rauschecker, 2012 1 DeWitt and Rauschecker, 2013 2 Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, et al ., 2015 3 Mesulam, et al ., 2015 4 Roux, et al ., 2015 5 References 1. DeWitt I, Rauschecker JP: Phoneme and word recognition in the auditory ventral stream. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2012; 109 (8): E505-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. DeWitt I, Rauschecker J: Wernicke’s area revisited: Parallel streams and word processing. Brain and Language . 2013; 127 (2): 181-191 Publisher Full Text 3. Bornkessel-Schlesewsky I, Schlesewsky M, Small SL, Rauschecker JP: Neurobiological roots of language in primate audition: common computational properties. Trends Cogn Sci . 2015; 19 (3): 142-50 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Mesulam MM, Thompson CK, Weintraub S, Rogalski EJ: The Wernicke conundrum and the anatomy of language comprehension in primary progressive aphasia. Brain . 2015; 138 (Pt 8): 2423-37 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Roux FE, Miskin K, Durand JB, Sacko O, et al.: Electrostimulation mapping of comprehension of auditory and visual words. Cortex . 2015; 71 : 398-408 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Rauschecker J. Reviewer Report For: From where to what: a neuroanatomically based evolutionary model of the emergence of speech in humans [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :67 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6619.r7964 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-67/v1#referee-response-7964 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 21 Jan 2016 Oren Poliva , Bangor University, UK 21 Jan 2016 Author Response This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later ... Continue reading This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later sections are more controversial and contain serious flaws that have to be brought up to speed with the current literature. These concerns are summarized here: 1) The terminology is quite fuzzy. For instance, when the author refers to 'perception' he seems to mean 'detection' or 'processing'. In most people's minds, and in most extant models of perception and action, perception is specifically tied to the ventral stream. Therefore, it can, almost by definition, not also be a property of the dorsal stream. This is best exemplified in the Abstract: The author states: 'I propose that the primary role of the auditory dorsal stream (ADS) in monkeys/apes is the perception and response to contact calls.' This misstatement can be fixed by replacing 'perception' with 'detection'. Similarly, in a later sentence ('Perception of contact calls occurs by the ADS detecting a voice...'), 'Perception' can be substituted by 'Processing'. Thirdly, in the Abstract's second paragraph, the following sentence does not make any sense: 'Because the human ADS processes also speech production and repetition...'. Here, 'processes' needs to be replaced with 'performs'. Response: As far as I understand it, perception refers to all elements of the external world that reach our awareness. In accordance with this definition, through the AVS we perceive the identity of sounds and through the ADS we perceive the location of sounds. As human speech production is also processed in the ADS, I would expect that we also perceive elements of speech preparation through the ADS. A good example is a study that reported of patients who were electrically stimulated in the left inferior parietal lobule and consequently believed they produced sounds, when in fact they didn’t (Desmurget et al., 2009). This study can be argued to demonstrates perception of speech preparation in the ADS. Nonetheless, considering that different researchers might have different definitions for perception, I replaced instances that describe perception with detection wherever it was applicable. Desmurget M, Reilly KT, Richard N, Szathmari A, Mottolese C, Sirigu A. Movement intention after parietal cortex stimulation in humans. Science. 2009 May 8;324(5928):811–3. 2) In the third section, the author first makes a strong case for a role of the ADS in auditory spatial processing, for encoding of sound location in memory and for use of this information in guiding eye movements. The published literature is well represented, though a key reference is missing here ( Tian et al., Science, 2001 ). Then, in a surprising turnaround, the author suddenly concludes that 'audiospatial input is first converted into a visuospatial code and then processed via a visuospatial network'. The evidence cited stems from 15-year old studies of monkey area LIP, which is part of a visuospatial network; auditory signals, however, are relayed to a different part of IPS (area VIP; Lewis VanEssen, 2000 ), for which corresponding studies have not been performed. Figure 2, which pertains to this section, reflects this misinterpretation: While the version on the left is neuroanatomically acceptable (with the only difference that parietal cortex is not just a visuospatial but a multisensory or amodal network, the versions in the center and on the right are incorrect on multiple grounds, most notably by postulating the 'duplication of the IPS [pivoting around an imaginary blue asterisk] and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections'. …. According to a third hypothesis put forward by the author, " the Homo genus emerged as a result of duplicating the IPS and its frontal projections. This duplication resulted with area Spt and its projections to the VLPFC. In contrast to the visual dorsal stream that processes audiovisual spatial properties, the human ADS processes inner and outer speech ." This hypothesis is seriously flawed, because both ADS and VDS process spatial properties and both process sensorimotor signals. In fact, they may be one and the same structure. Thus, there is no fundamental difference between visual and auditory processing that would require duplication of IPS or its projections or special evolution of speech (see Bornkessel et al., 2015). Response: Although I don’t entirely agree with the reviewer’s perspective in this regard, given that the paper is already rich in evidence and hypotheses, I removed the sections (last paragraph of section 3 and section 7) discussing these hypotheses in the revised version. Also, I removed figure 2 from the revised version, and accordingly modified the manuscript to accommodate this change. 3) …I assume what the author may be referring to is ventral premotor cortex (PMv), which is indeed the terminal point of the auditory dorsal stream and is closely interfacing with Broca’s area. Response: Thinking back, I agree with the reviewer that referring to this region as the ‘ventral premotor cortex’ is more accurate. The reason I referred to this region as the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is to be consistent with previous papers (e.g., Romansky et al., 1999). As it possible that the area most often referred to as Broca’s area encompasses both parts of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and ventral premotor cortex, in the revised manuscript I replaced the term ‘ventrolateral prefrontal cortex’ with its anatomical equivalent, the ‘inferior frontal gyrus’. Romanski LM, Bates JF, Goldman-Rakic PS. Auditory belt and parabelt projections to the prefrontal cortex in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Jan 11;403(2):141–57. As a final note, I want to thank the reviewer for his time and effort, and hope he finds the revised version even more enjoyable to read. This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later sections are more controversial and contain serious flaws that have to be brought up to speed with the current literature. These concerns are summarized here: 1) The terminology is quite fuzzy. For instance, when the author refers to 'perception' he seems to mean 'detection' or 'processing'. In most people's minds, and in most extant models of perception and action, perception is specifically tied to the ventral stream. Therefore, it can, almost by definition, not also be a property of the dorsal stream. This is best exemplified in the Abstract: The author states: 'I propose that the primary role of the auditory dorsal stream (ADS) in monkeys/apes is the perception and response to contact calls.' This misstatement can be fixed by replacing 'perception' with 'detection'. Similarly, in a later sentence ('Perception of contact calls occurs by the ADS detecting a voice...'), 'Perception' can be substituted by 'Processing'. Thirdly, in the Abstract's second paragraph, the following sentence does not make any sense: 'Because the human ADS processes also speech production and repetition...'. Here, 'processes' needs to be replaced with 'performs'. Response: As far as I understand it, perception refers to all elements of the external world that reach our awareness. In accordance with this definition, through the AVS we perceive the identity of sounds and through the ADS we perceive the location of sounds. As human speech production is also processed in the ADS, I would expect that we also perceive elements of speech preparation through the ADS. A good example is a study that reported of patients who were electrically stimulated in the left inferior parietal lobule and consequently believed they produced sounds, when in fact they didn’t (Desmurget et al., 2009). This study can be argued to demonstrates perception of speech preparation in the ADS. Nonetheless, considering that different researchers might have different definitions for perception, I replaced instances that describe perception with detection wherever it was applicable. Desmurget M, Reilly KT, Richard N, Szathmari A, Mottolese C, Sirigu A. Movement intention after parietal cortex stimulation in humans. Science. 2009 May 8;324(5928):811–3. 2) In the third section, the author first makes a strong case for a role of the ADS in auditory spatial processing, for encoding of sound location in memory and for use of this information in guiding eye movements. The published literature is well represented, though a key reference is missing here ( Tian et al., Science, 2001 ). Then, in a surprising turnaround, the author suddenly concludes that 'audiospatial input is first converted into a visuospatial code and then processed via a visuospatial network'. The evidence cited stems from 15-year old studies of monkey area LIP, which is part of a visuospatial network; auditory signals, however, are relayed to a different part of IPS (area VIP; Lewis VanEssen, 2000 ), for which corresponding studies have not been performed. Figure 2, which pertains to this section, reflects this misinterpretation: While the version on the left is neuroanatomically acceptable (with the only difference that parietal cortex is not just a visuospatial but a multisensory or amodal network, the versions in the center and on the right are incorrect on multiple grounds, most notably by postulating the 'duplication of the IPS [pivoting around an imaginary blue asterisk] and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections'. …. According to a third hypothesis put forward by the author, " the Homo genus emerged as a result of duplicating the IPS and its frontal projections. This duplication resulted with area Spt and its projections to the VLPFC. In contrast to the visual dorsal stream that processes audiovisual spatial properties, the human ADS processes inner and outer speech ." This hypothesis is seriously flawed, because both ADS and VDS process spatial properties and both process sensorimotor signals. In fact, they may be one and the same structure. Thus, there is no fundamental difference between visual and auditory processing that would require duplication of IPS or its projections or special evolution of speech (see Bornkessel et al., 2015). Response: Although I don’t entirely agree with the reviewer’s perspective in this regard, given that the paper is already rich in evidence and hypotheses, I removed the sections (last paragraph of section 3 and section 7) discussing these hypotheses in the revised version. Also, I removed figure 2 from the revised version, and accordingly modified the manuscript to accommodate this change. 3) …I assume what the author may be referring to is ventral premotor cortex (PMv), which is indeed the terminal point of the auditory dorsal stream and is closely interfacing with Broca’s area. Response: Thinking back, I agree with the reviewer that referring to this region as the ‘ventral premotor cortex’ is more accurate. The reason I referred to this region as the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is to be consistent with previous papers (e.g., Romansky et al., 1999). As it possible that the area most often referred to as Broca’s area encompasses both parts of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and ventral premotor cortex, in the revised manuscript I replaced the term ‘ventrolateral prefrontal cortex’ with its anatomical equivalent, the ‘inferior frontal gyrus’. Romanski LM, Bates JF, Goldman-Rakic PS. Auditory belt and parabelt projections to the prefrontal cortex in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Jan 11;403(2):141–57. As a final note, I want to thank the reviewer for his time and effort, and hope he finds the revised version even more enjoyable to read. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 21 Jan 2016 Oren Poliva , Bangor University, UK 21 Jan 2016 Author Response This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later ... Continue reading This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later sections are more controversial and contain serious flaws that have to be brought up to speed with the current literature. These concerns are summarized here: 1) The terminology is quite fuzzy. For instance, when the author refers to 'perception' he seems to mean 'detection' or 'processing'. In most people's minds, and in most extant models of perception and action, perception is specifically tied to the ventral stream. Therefore, it can, almost by definition, not also be a property of the dorsal stream. This is best exemplified in the Abstract: The author states: 'I propose that the primary role of the auditory dorsal stream (ADS) in monkeys/apes is the perception and response to contact calls.' This misstatement can be fixed by replacing 'perception' with 'detection'. Similarly, in a later sentence ('Perception of contact calls occurs by the ADS detecting a voice...'), 'Perception' can be substituted by 'Processing'. Thirdly, in the Abstract's second paragraph, the following sentence does not make any sense: 'Because the human ADS processes also speech production and repetition...'. Here, 'processes' needs to be replaced with 'performs'. Response: As far as I understand it, perception refers to all elements of the external world that reach our awareness. In accordance with this definition, through the AVS we perceive the identity of sounds and through the ADS we perceive the location of sounds. As human speech production is also processed in the ADS, I would expect that we also perceive elements of speech preparation through the ADS. A good example is a study that reported of patients who were electrically stimulated in the left inferior parietal lobule and consequently believed they produced sounds, when in fact they didn’t (Desmurget et al., 2009). This study can be argued to demonstrates perception of speech preparation in the ADS. Nonetheless, considering that different researchers might have different definitions for perception, I replaced instances that describe perception with detection wherever it was applicable. Desmurget M, Reilly KT, Richard N, Szathmari A, Mottolese C, Sirigu A. Movement intention after parietal cortex stimulation in humans. Science. 2009 May 8;324(5928):811–3. 2) In the third section, the author first makes a strong case for a role of the ADS in auditory spatial processing, for encoding of sound location in memory and for use of this information in guiding eye movements. The published literature is well represented, though a key reference is missing here ( Tian et al., Science, 2001 ). Then, in a surprising turnaround, the author suddenly concludes that 'audiospatial input is first converted into a visuospatial code and then processed via a visuospatial network'. The evidence cited stems from 15-year old studies of monkey area LIP, which is part of a visuospatial network; auditory signals, however, are relayed to a different part of IPS (area VIP; Lewis VanEssen, 2000 ), for which corresponding studies have not been performed. Figure 2, which pertains to this section, reflects this misinterpretation: While the version on the left is neuroanatomically acceptable (with the only difference that parietal cortex is not just a visuospatial but a multisensory or amodal network, the versions in the center and on the right are incorrect on multiple grounds, most notably by postulating the 'duplication of the IPS [pivoting around an imaginary blue asterisk] and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections'. …. According to a third hypothesis put forward by the author, " the Homo genus emerged as a result of duplicating the IPS and its frontal projections. This duplication resulted with area Spt and its projections to the VLPFC. In contrast to the visual dorsal stream that processes audiovisual spatial properties, the human ADS processes inner and outer speech ." This hypothesis is seriously flawed, because both ADS and VDS process spatial properties and both process sensorimotor signals. In fact, they may be one and the same structure. Thus, there is no fundamental difference between visual and auditory processing that would require duplication of IPS or its projections or special evolution of speech (see Bornkessel et al., 2015). Response: Although I don’t entirely agree with the reviewer’s perspective in this regard, given that the paper is already rich in evidence and hypotheses, I removed the sections (last paragraph of section 3 and section 7) discussing these hypotheses in the revised version. Also, I removed figure 2 from the revised version, and accordingly modified the manuscript to accommodate this change. 3) …I assume what the author may be referring to is ventral premotor cortex (PMv), which is indeed the terminal point of the auditory dorsal stream and is closely interfacing with Broca’s area. Response: Thinking back, I agree with the reviewer that referring to this region as the ‘ventral premotor cortex’ is more accurate. The reason I referred to this region as the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is to be consistent with previous papers (e.g., Romansky et al., 1999). As it possible that the area most often referred to as Broca’s area encompasses both parts of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and ventral premotor cortex, in the revised manuscript I replaced the term ‘ventrolateral prefrontal cortex’ with its anatomical equivalent, the ‘inferior frontal gyrus’. Romanski LM, Bates JF, Goldman-Rakic PS. Auditory belt and parabelt projections to the prefrontal cortex in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Jan 11;403(2):141–57. As a final note, I want to thank the reviewer for his time and effort, and hope he finds the revised version even more enjoyable to read. This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later sections are more controversial and contain serious flaws that have to be brought up to speed with the current literature. These concerns are summarized here: 1) The terminology is quite fuzzy. For instance, when the author refers to 'perception' he seems to mean 'detection' or 'processing'. In most people's minds, and in most extant models of perception and action, perception is specifically tied to the ventral stream. Therefore, it can, almost by definition, not also be a property of the dorsal stream. This is best exemplified in the Abstract: The author states: 'I propose that the primary role of the auditory dorsal stream (ADS) in monkeys/apes is the perception and response to contact calls.' This misstatement can be fixed by replacing 'perception' with 'detection'. Similarly, in a later sentence ('Perception of contact calls occurs by the ADS detecting a voice...'), 'Perception' can be substituted by 'Processing'. Thirdly, in the Abstract's second paragraph, the following sentence does not make any sense: 'Because the human ADS processes also speech production and repetition...'. Here, 'processes' needs to be replaced with 'performs'. Response: As far as I understand it, perception refers to all elements of the external world that reach our awareness. In accordance with this definition, through the AVS we perceive the identity of sounds and through the ADS we perceive the location of sounds. As human speech production is also processed in the ADS, I would expect that we also perceive elements of speech preparation through the ADS. A good example is a study that reported of patients who were electrically stimulated in the left inferior parietal lobule and consequently believed they produced sounds, when in fact they didn’t (Desmurget et al., 2009). This study can be argued to demonstrates perception of speech preparation in the ADS. Nonetheless, considering that different researchers might have different definitions for perception, I replaced instances that describe perception with detection wherever it was applicable. Desmurget M, Reilly KT, Richard N, Szathmari A, Mottolese C, Sirigu A. Movement intention after parietal cortex stimulation in humans. Science. 2009 May 8;324(5928):811–3. 2) In the third section, the author first makes a strong case for a role of the ADS in auditory spatial processing, for encoding of sound location in memory and for use of this information in guiding eye movements. The published literature is well represented, though a key reference is missing here ( Tian et al., Science, 2001 ). Then, in a surprising turnaround, the author suddenly concludes that 'audiospatial input is first converted into a visuospatial code and then processed via a visuospatial network'. The evidence cited stems from 15-year old studies of monkey area LIP, which is part of a visuospatial network; auditory signals, however, are relayed to a different part of IPS (area VIP; Lewis VanEssen, 2000 ), for which corresponding studies have not been performed. Figure 2, which pertains to this section, reflects this misinterpretation: While the version on the left is neuroanatomically acceptable (with the only difference that parietal cortex is not just a visuospatial but a multisensory or amodal network, the versions in the center and on the right are incorrect on multiple grounds, most notably by postulating the 'duplication of the IPS [pivoting around an imaginary blue asterisk] and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections'. …. According to a third hypothesis put forward by the author, " the Homo genus emerged as a result of duplicating the IPS and its frontal projections. This duplication resulted with area Spt and its projections to the VLPFC. In contrast to the visual dorsal stream that processes audiovisual spatial properties, the human ADS processes inner and outer speech ." This hypothesis is seriously flawed, because both ADS and VDS process spatial properties and both process sensorimotor signals. In fact, they may be one and the same structure. Thus, there is no fundamental difference between visual and auditory processing that would require duplication of IPS or its projections or special evolution of speech (see Bornkessel et al., 2015). Response: Although I don’t entirely agree with the reviewer’s perspective in this regard, given that the paper is already rich in evidence and hypotheses, I removed the sections (last paragraph of section 3 and section 7) discussing these hypotheses in the revised version. Also, I removed figure 2 from the revised version, and accordingly modified the manuscript to accommodate this change. 3) …I assume what the author may be referring to is ventral premotor cortex (PMv), which is indeed the terminal point of the auditory dorsal stream and is closely interfacing with Broca’s area. Response: Thinking back, I agree with the reviewer that referring to this region as the ‘ventral premotor cortex’ is more accurate. The reason I referred to this region as the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is to be consistent with previous papers (e.g., Romansky et al., 1999). As it possible that the area most often referred to as Broca’s area encompasses both parts of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and ventral premotor cortex, in the revised manuscript I replaced the term ‘ventrolateral prefrontal cortex’ with its anatomical equivalent, the ‘inferior frontal gyrus’. Romanski LM, Bates JF, Goldman-Rakic PS. Auditory belt and parabelt projections to the prefrontal cortex in the rhesus monkey. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Jan 11;403(2):141–57. As a final note, I want to thank the reviewer for his time and effort, and hope he finds the revised version even more enjoyable to read. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Poremba A. Reviewer Report For: From where to what: a neuroanatomically based evolutionary model of the emergence of speech in humans [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :67 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6619.r8933 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-67/v1#referee-response-8933 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 17 Jul 2015 Amy Poremba , Department of Psychology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6619.r8933 This contribution is a wide-ranging theory of how speech evolved in humans, which incorporates the dorsal and ventral auditory processing streams, but primarily focused on the auditory dorsal stream. There are several large leaps in the proposed trajectory for language ... Continue reading READ ALL 