The authors tried to find the evidence of positive selection in 13 mitochondrial proteins, involved in oxidative phosphorylation, in 11 species of darters. Darters are the second largest family of North American fishes and only the minnows (Cyprinidae) have more species. Kral and Watson have found some evidence for positive selection acting on 6 mitochondrial genes, by at least one method used (M8 in Selecton, FEL and MEME in Datamonkey). However, they found that only CYTB gene has evolved under positive selection by all three methods used. The authors expect that a more extensive analysis of mitochondrial gene evolution in all extant darter species may identify lineage specific adaptations and their contributions to the relevant life history traits. I found a number of problems in the present version of the manuscript: Biology and some special adaptations of darters should be explained in the Introduction. Are there any differences between darter species regarding their life styles, ecology, physiology, metabolism etc.? This information can be used in the interpretation of the observed positive selection in some mitochondrial genes. The authors have just listed the codon positions that have been found to be under positive selection. From the codon numbers, it is very difficult to see what the impact of positively selected sites is. It could be actually biologically important or meaningless. Therefore, the authors must use 3D models of the analysed mitochondrial proteins to show the consequences of the positively selected sites (PSS)/amino acids on the protein secondary and tertiary structure. These amino acids may be functionally important or neutral. The authors should follow some good examples of such analyses (e.g. da Fonseca et al. , 2008 1 , Castoe et al. , 2008 2 ) The authors should indicate the chemical nature of amino acids that are encoded by positively selected codons. Some particular polar amino acids are highly mutable and may not be associated with positive selection (e.g. Xia and Kumar, 2006 3 ). The authors should compare their results (e.g. PSS) with the data from literature (e.g. from fishes and other vertebrates) to demonstrate that some positions are conserved PSS or are unique/different PSS. Discussion is very poor and should be strongly improved by obtaining new data about the locations of PSS on the 3D models of the analysed mitochondrial genes. In such a way, their data can be put into biological perspective. The title is uncompelling, merely indicating that the authors haven't obtained any serious conclusions. 