This paper presents a comprehensive and very useful introduction to the shark fisheries of Peru, a topic about which very little has been published until now. The authors have expended considerable effort to compile historical data and I agree with them that this paper " sets up a baseline for future research ". However, some of the conclusions in the paper lack sufficient justification to be reliable and should be presented as hypotheses for further study rather than findings from this paper. The main shortcoming of the datasets used in the paper is the over-reliance on landings data to represent the state of the shark stocks. Landings data are a function of fishing effort and the recording system (coverage, consistency and species-specificity). These topics are mentioned but not given the depth of discussion that they deserve. Lack of effort data is a common problem in historical fisheries datasets and the authors may have extracted all the useful information they could from available records, but the paper does provide some information on trends in vessel numbers over time. It would have been useful to provide such numbers in a table or figure, or further to make some assumptions about the number of fishing days based on trip length for certain vessel classes and the number of landings recorded. Even a rudimentary estimate of effort would have assisted in converting catch data to catch rate and thus provide a potential index of abundance. Furthermore, it seems there could have been more discussion on how the coverage and consistency of the landings data changed over the 61 years of the study period, and when species-specific recording practices were implemented for each of the main shark species examined. Given that only landings data were used, and as explained above biases are largely unknown, the complexity of the analysis is probably unwarranted. It is not made clear why trends were analyzed as 10-year intervals and why this is considered appropriate. Fitting a linear model to a noisy time series is not an appropriate means of determining a trend. Even if the fit is statistically significant, the slopes and correlation coefficients are often very small and this does not support a conclusion that a meaningful trend is present. It is noted that only half of the twelve species/time intervals analyzed had statistically significant slopes, though all are presented and discussed. The findings regarding the proportion of Perus landings of chondrichthyans in the Pacific from 1950-2010 should be checked. Using the FAO FISHSTAT database, my calculations show that Perus highest proportion (17%, not 80% as suggested by Figure 1) occurred in 1984 and over the 60-year time period it averaged 6%. Of course, the figures from other countries are also subject to the time-dependent biases in fishing effort and reporting systems as mentioned for Peru above. Therefore, this comparison should be heavily caveated. With regard to the discussion of trade, it would have been better to present annual values (perhaps in a table) rather than aggregated amounts for 1997-2012. The important point about Peru having picked up the trade in shark fins when Ecuador banned this trade in 2008 should have been illustrated in a table or figure. I wonder if the authors were able to explore how much of the Peruvian imports during this period were from fishing vessels choosing to land shark products in Peru versus from traders re-routing their consignments through Peru. What role do foreign fishing vessels play in Peruvian shark landings and has this changed over time? It would also have been interesting to hear about the trade in skate and ray wings, and whether this follows similar patterns as shark fins or is primarily for the domestic market. In terms of management, the authors should be clear in recommending whether a maximum size or a minimum size is a better strategy--the discussion seems to make points on both sides of this argument. Also, what is the status of implementation and enforcement in Peruvian fisheries? Finally, since the authors claim that shark finning is not practiced because sharks are utilized for their meat, it is not clear why a shark finning ban is recommended as a management priority. It seems under current circumstances in Peru that recommending catch limits might be a more effective way of controlling shark mortality within sustainable limits. 