The manuscript “The effects of microchipping C57BL/6N mice on standard phenotyping tests” by Bains et al. describes the comparison of phenotyping data from 12 male and 12 female mice that were microchipped in the groin with unchipped animals (10 males and 10 females). The mice were wild-type C57BL/6N and were analyzed in the IMPC phenotyping pipeline. The experiment is highly interesting, as in the mouse phenotyping community there is a lot of effort put in the development of home cage monitoring systems for an undisturbed observation and analysis of mouse behavior in their normal environment. State of the art technologies require microchipping of the mice for a proper identification of individual mice in the system. Thus, it is of importance to investigate the impact of microchips on other tests that are carried out within the IMPC phenotyping pipeline. The experiments and results are well described in the manuscript, however, there remain some questions about the selected methodology and the possible conclusions: we are missing a clear conclusion in the abstract. In the conclusion part there are three statements: “Insertion of microchips in the groin has no significant effect on the phenotype of mice when assessed using the standard IMPC phenotyping pipeline”. “The implant does not appear to have any adverse welfare effects on the health of the mice”. The third conclusion is “The current study does not detect any noticeable effects on the phenotype of the mice”. How far is it via the selected approach possible to obtain information about effects of microchipping on other phenotyping tests – or in other words: how probable is it that there are really no differences if under the given conditions and analysis no differences were detected? For example, the neurological, behavioral and sensory analysis data: The authors decided for an alpha value of 1% and in addition did a correction for multiple testing. Thus, the observed differences need to be very high to reach statistical significance. Additional comments: Statistical analysis: On which parameters and which tests was the sample size and power calculation based? More detailed information on the power calculation would be desirable. Is there a special reason why the authors select an alpha value of 1%? Also, a more detailed description on the method for multiple testing correction would be helpful. Maybe the results part should reflect the order of the tests in the phenotyping pipeline. For a couple of tests from the mentioned phenotyping pipeline there are no results mentioned. For example, in the open-field and SHIRPA analysis the authors report only data from locomotion related parameters. What about the other areas that are covered by these tests (e.g. anxiety and exploratory behaviors)? Body weight: According to the provided graphs, at the age of chip implantation (7 weeks) the body weight data flips. In females, non-chipped mice are below, and afterwards are heavier than chipped mice. In males, non-chipped mice are below the chipped mice and then are heavier. Is there any idea about the reason? What is the weight of the RFID? Can the weight of the chip itself make a difference in body weight? It might be interesting to know whether the authors also considered other types of RFID’s for the experiment, and why they selected the used one for the study? DEXA analysis: Is it possible to cut out the area that is covered by the chip from the DEXA image for the analysis? A DEXA-Image of a mouse with chip compared with an unchipped mouse might be helpful. Is there more detailed information available about the material contained inside the chip? If it contains some metal, it might cause scattered radiation that could be harmful for the mouse, and if the DEXA-system is not completely shielded (as it might be the case for older DEXA-systems), also for the experimenter. 