Morphological differences between evaginated and everted telencephali hampers comparisons between brain morphotypes and complicates establishing homologies. This manuscript presents a comparative analysis of the expression pattern of a few transcription factors in the everted pallium of the zebrafish. These data will help us understand the organization of the zebrafish pallium and compare it with the pallium of other vertebrates. The manuscript will be of interest for readers working on comparative neuroanatomy and development, among other fields. The manuscript is generally clear, well written and appropriate. The analysis of data is generally well performed, but maybe authors could clarify the following points: Based on their expression analysis, authors identify five subdivisions of the pallium that they name as Dm, Dlv, Dld, Dc and Dp after adapting nomenclature from Mueller et al. (2011) . I think it could be clearer in the text how data supports the division between and at rostral levels. In addition, as authors show that represents a different histogenic unit to , I wonder if could be equivalent to of other teleosts. Maybe authors could comment on this in the manuscript. eomesa and Prox1 seem to show differences between anterior and posterior regions of Dld. Yet, authors consider Dld as a continuous unit. Dc also seems to show differences from rostral to caudal levels (e.g. emx2+ is only expressed in a caudal portion of Dc, while eomesa is only expressed in a rostral portion). Thus I wonder if more subnuclei could be identified in the zebrafish pallium, thus the organization of the pallium being even more complex. Maybe authors could comment on these observations (if correct). Authors discuss the divisions of the zebrafish pallium as corresponding to histogenic units of other vertebrates (ventral, lateral, dorsal and medial pallium). In addition, they propose certain homologies for specific nuclei, such as being homologous to the pallial amygdala or caudal part of Dld homologous to the dentate gyrus. In my opinion, it is right to propose and discuss about such putative homologies in the manuscript. However, in my opinion, they are too speculative to be included in a summary figure, as this could mislead readers. I suggest removing these homologies from diagrams A-D in Figure 5, just referring to putative homologies for histogenic units. Minor comments: Discussion: authors state that Our gene expression data is consistent with the second part of the modified pallial eversion model of Mueller and colleagues To me, it is not clear what to authors mean by second part of the modified pallial eversion model. Figure 1C-D: ventricular expression is not clear in the original data sets. Figure 2C: Authors state that red lines indicate subdivisions based on the current marker. However, emx2 only seems to be labelling a central area at this telenphalic level (Dc). So, it does not seem to support the limits between Dm, Dl and Dp. Figure S3: stages of development of the larvae are missing. Image C: in my opinion, OB limits are not accurately marked. Although the stage of development of the larva is not shown, the OB is certainly bigger than labelled between 3-5dpf (it seems correctly marked but not labelled in E-D). I find the abbreviation TGD unnecessary. 