This short commentary article presents an opinion on the ongoing discussion of quality control of commercial antibodies. This is an important topic given the importance of these reagents to progress in a wide range of biomedicine, and of the large economic costs involved in their successful use. But more importantly of the costs when they fail, are subject to variable success, or when they introduce error and artifact. The comments come from the CEO of PhosphoSolutions, one of many companies who provide and generate general and state-specific antibodies to a wide variety of proteins and epitopes, and who have a vested interest in providing a high quality product. Two general issues are discussed, namely antibody variability and antibody validation. These are closely interconnected aspects of quality control, and two reasonable solutions are presented. In terms of variability, which arises for a number of different reasons, including batch-to-batch differences in a single source reagent, to multiple variants of protein or epitope-specific reagents generated by different individuals or companies, the suggestion to provide a catalog number and supplier is a reasonable start. These sorts of detail should be a minimal requirement, and have been discussed in other recent initiatives (see for example Helsby et al cited; Bandrowski et al http://dx.doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.6555.1 ). But why not be more specific and provide full details of the characterization of the antigen, epitope if known, and precise lineage related to the origins of the reagent. Importantly, there needs to be specific information that indicates which particular batch is being sold. One could even consider some sort of unique bar code that would enable investigators to keep track electronically of the reagent they receive. Greater transparency and greater detail would benefit all parties involved. In terms of variability, the reasonable suggestion is made to pool batches to avoid batch to batch variation. The context of the suggestion is that the discussion here is most relevant to the generation of rabbit polyclonal antisera and it makes sense. But in logistical terms, typically initial studies of a particular rabbit serum is done on a pilot basis to establish quality, and antibodies are often affinity purified in batches. Decision points may vary depending on whether the best strategy is to pool sera, or pool batches of purified antibody. A key missing element is the establishment of robust criteria to establish a quantitative threshold of an acceptable quality that will consistently ensure success of whatever pools of serum or purified antibody are used eventually in the desired application, be it immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry or ELISA. A third short ending deals with the strengths and weaknesses of monoclonal versus polyclonal antibodies. This is really a different issue from the rest of the discussion of validation and variability which is most relevant to rabbit polyclonal antiserum/antibodies. I suggest that the material in the last paragraph be used as part of a slightly revised introduction and used to set up the context for the later discussion. Monoclonal antibodies clearly have the capacity to overcome the variability issue and are more routine to validate once an assay is standardized. The second sentence This is unnecessary and unwise would be best removed, and the strengths of polyclonal antibodies (price and amount per rabbit, superior use in different applications) still made. Another suggestion would be to remove the ambiguous comparison that validation is the hardest nut to crack while also saying the variability problem is most important. Better to say that variability and validation are two inter-connected issues, both of which need to have improved quality control.