Sandoval and collaborators investigated the antibacterial effect of the hydroalcoholic extract of Mauritia flexuosa leaves on gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. They tested this effect on standard strains of 3 gram-negative and 2 gram-positive bacteria using the agar diffusion method. They found that the extract had antibacterial effects against the pathogens S. aureus , B. subtilis and P. aeruginosa but not against E. coli and S. typhi . Inhibition was observed at 60 mg/mL (4.2 mg/well). Overall the article is clearly written, however it could benefit from some English grammar and style editing. Although the Introduction expresses the present art well, I suggest including a short explanation of why the authors decided to use the leaves of M. flexuosa for their study. Additionally, references 16 and 17 do not seem appropriate to support the use of leaves because they deal with fruit and total aerial parts. In the Methods section authors say: "The sample was transported in a wooden press inside a labelled vacuum bag and kept at an ambient temperature of 37˚C ". Usually ambient temperature is approximately 25˚C. I request the authors clarify the temperature used. Why was it necessary to reactivate the bacterial strains for 18 days? That seems like a very long time, please clarify. The reference used (18) to describe the method used for the phytochemical analysis of the extract is not easily accessible to the reader. I recommend referencing a standard review or book in which these common procedures are explained. In the Results section, the authors show that the extract has antibacterial effect against some bacteria. This is useful data as it may point to new leads for antibiotics. However, it seems that there are some deficiencies in proper experimental controls. First, distilled water was used as a negative control, but the extract was dissolved in ethanol. Therefore, it is possible that some residual ethanol may be causing a bacteriostatic effect. Second, no positive control with a standard antibiotic was performed. This makes it difficult to make clear comparisons of the antibiotic activity of the extract to known antibiotics and to establish what halo size determines sensitivity. The discussion expresses the importance of this type of study and makes some comparisons of the present results with other studies. However, the way it is written can mislead the reader to the idea that any hydroalcoholic extract from any plant has an antibacterial effect against the bacteria tested and does not highlight the importance of using the extract from M. flexuosa leaves for antimicrobial use. I recommend including a statement and explanation about this. 