The study topic is important as it clearly illustrates the need for optimising the production of the enzyme L-ASNASE. I however have a few suggestions that can contribute towards improving the work: The authors should consider revision of the topic to capture the gist of the study which isolation endophytic bacteria that produce the enzyme glutaminase free L-ASNASE mangrove forest. Suggestion: Isolation of L-ASNASE producing endophytic bacteria and optimization of production of the enzyme. The topic as it is suggest that the study was targeting the isolation of the Lysinibacillus fusiformis B27 yet this was the finding of the study rather than the intentional target as from the start. The study is not clearly bringing out the problem of the study: For example: the study rightly points out the limitations of L-ASNAS in paragagh 2 and 3. However, it does not point out the source of L-ASNAS with these limitations and the reason for advocating for alternative sources such as the endophytic bacteria from the mangrooves. Furthermore, the reason given for advocating the sourcing from microbes is not consistent in solving the prior identified limitations of the enzyme: the rapid multiplication and easy management of microbes vis avis the sensitivity to high temperatures (ie. need for extremophilic enzyme). The study has not clearly stated the relationship between substrate glutamine and the enzyme L-ASNase and the need for microbes able to produce asparaginase and not glutaminase nor both. This needs to be established in the introduction. Is it because the two enzymes are antagonistic? The idea was to screen for bacteria isolates capable of producing only the enzyme asparaginase and not glutaminase or both gluataminase and asparaginase., Why discriminate on glutaminase? What is the basis for this? This has not been explained. Is is because the two enzymes are antagonistic? Again, how did you identify isolates that were producing the enzymes? Formation of clearance zones, testing of media for presence of substrates and substrate level reduction, change of media colour especially due to bromothymol blue indicator? Explain to make this clearer. The methodology on screening of enzyme producing bacterial isolates is not conclusively described. Suggestion: state that the plating of the bacteria on the two media types was done by replica plating. The molecular study is adequate in methodology, results and interpretation. 