I found this scoping review very exciting to read since it addresses a very important issue that needs to be managed daily in post-stroke rehabilitation. I believe that the interest in post-stroke fatigue is great from both researchers and clinically active colleagues. I am positive to and welcome this type of “game-changer” by a transparent scientific publishing. The title identifies the manuscript as a scoping review and reflects the population (individuals post-stroke) and the construct (post-stroke fatigue). The abstract is presented with a clear structure, including background, methods, results and conclusion, of which all parts relate to the aim of the study. The rational for the review is described; there is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of the interventions related to post-stroke fatigue in conducted trials and more robust research with adequate sample sizes is required. In addition, it was time to make an update. The objective is well described, to identify and summarise the most recent research related to post-stroke fatigue in order to update the evidence base. The update covers new research studies between 1 st March 2016 and 19 th January 2020. The search strategies for the databases are reported in a separate link ( Extended data) . In the results, data related to the objective of the study is presented with a clear structure in six tables. These tables include characteristics of, and summary of the findings from, the included interventional and observational studies, risk of bias and a summary of included guidelines. Due to the heterogeneity of studies, no meta-analysis for fatigue outcomes was performed. The interventional studies were limited by either having high risk of bias or small sample size. Consequently, transferring the research findings to practice was hard. The current manuscript is well written and easy to follow. It is clear that you have put in a lot of effort and made a great job. Even so, I have following minor comments/suggestions that could possibly improve your article: Method: As written, I am uncertain about limitations to language. According to the manuscript, there were no limitations to language. However, in the Extended data , English language seems to be a limitation in the search strategies. Please, clarify so there is no doubt about this. Figure 1: Please, consider clarifying the number of excluded reports per each specified criterion regarding the 473 excluded reports; no clarification (in numbers) has been made for them as for the 86-excluded full-text reports. Figure 1: Please, give the readers more information about the nine additional sources. Which was your strategy, how did you found them? Did all arrived from the other articles reference lists? Results: Are MIDAS (presented in Table 1), and ARCOS-IV and LAS-1 (presented in Table 3) examples of studies not yet published? (In Table 1, the fourth column, there is space available (two rows are already used) for you to write “Number of participants” or “No.” instead of using the symbol “#”.) Table 2: I like the use of different colours, and red and green are instantaneous to understand. However, in color blindness, the most common difficulty is to distinguish between red and green. Perhaps you can choose another colour combination. In the online version of Robot Reviewer report, I think that the table Risk of bias has a more easy to read layout than Table 2 in the main manuscript. (Table 3: Consider using “Number” or ”Number of” or “No.” or “No. of” instead of “#” in the third and the fifth column?) Table 3, sixth column, “Stroke type”: Please, review the use of “/”. Should you use “and”, “,” or delete the “/” somewhere? Regarding Kuppuswamy and NotFAST: “First”, but which stroke type? (Table 4, fourth column: I suggest you to use “Post-stroke fatigue finding” instead of the use of the abbreviation “PSF finding”. Avoiding unnecessary abbreviations makes reading easier.) (In Table 5, consider if you should specify “Finding” to “Post-stroke fatigue finding” in the light blue heading (in line with the selected sub-heading in Table 4).) In the data commentary related to Table 6, you state that the Canadian guideline was the only one with comprehensive recommendations on post-stroke fatigue. In Table 6, under the heading “Recommendation” the reader is referred to page 15-16 of the guideline. I suggest that you present vital parts of the content in Table 6, in addition to this reference. I lack information on age and gender of the patients in the different studies from which the review is based. Is it possible to add this information? Is it possible to give the reader even more specific information on which quantitative measures the post-stroke fatigue findings are based? (Although the level of significance is arbitrary set and statistically significance results does not need to be clinically meaningful for the patients.) Discussion: I suggest a sentence about time-dependent concerns regarding the construct (post-stroke fatigue) in the research studies conducted years after stroke and its potential significance for validity. International recommendations regarding outcome measures related to, and time points for measuring, post-stroke fatigue in research studies on recovery after stroke would probably reduce the heterogeneity of studies and facilitate further summarises and updates. You could possibly include that post-stroke fatigue might be an issue for future Stroke Recovery and Rehabilitation Roundtable (SRRR) work. You have a separate paragraph regarding limitations. Have you thought about including a sentence related to strengths of your study, in a paragraph in close proximity to “Limitations”? 