This is a well-written, clear, and concise article describing the conceptualization, development, and implementation of the Elixir Excelerate train-the-trainer pilot programme (2016-2017). The article highlights best practices for training bioinformatics trainers in how to deliver bioinformatics training to others. The article itself, together with the programme’s freely available materials (links provided within the article), comprise an excellent resource for those interested in learning about, and/or running, a train-the-trainer programme themselves. I have 5 additional comments, for consideration: Paragraph 2 and 3 of the Introduction outline the current state of bioinformatics training in Europe. While these statements might be widely accepted in Europe, it is suggested that citations are added, where possible, for a non-European audience. In paragraph 2 of the Introduction, the authors state that ‘Bioinformatics seldom forms a core part of formal life-science degree programmes in Europe’. Perhaps slightly outside the scope of this article, however, it would be interesting to spend one or two more sentences explaining the interplay between formal degree programmes and ‘point of need’ training courses in Europe. In doing so, one might contextualize some of the challenges that bioinformatics trainers encounter as well as the level, and type, of training that they would be expected to deliver against a backdrop of increasing demand for bioinformatics training. Further, it would be interesting to hear the authors’ opinion on why bioinformatics has not been formally incorporated into formal life-science degree programmes in Europe, especially given its increasing importance in the sciences. Page 4 para. 9 – there should be two separate hyperlinks to ‘EMBL-EBI TtT’ and ‘Carpentry Instructors’, respectively. Currently, it is formatted as one long hyperlink with no clear distinction. Further, the full url is only provided for the Carpentries website and not for the EMBL-EBI website. Page 8 para. 6 (‘presentation’) – mentions supplementary files 2 and 3, but links to these are not included at the end of the article? From the text it is apparent that the ‘infrastructure for training set up’ workshop was run as a separate event to the train-the-trainer workshops. Could one argue that infrastructure requirements are integral to teaching bioinformatics as they speak to the learning environment? Perhaps one might consider incorporating an element of this into the core train-the-trainer curriculum, if not already included? 