The paper under review, 'Revisiting inconsistency in large pharmacogenomics studies' by Zhaleh Safikhani, Petr Smirnov, Mark Freeman, Nehme El-Hachem, Adrian She, Quevedo Rene, Anna Goldenberg, Nicolai J. Birkbak, Christos Hatzis, Leming Shi, Andrew H. Beck, Hugo J.W.L. Aerts, John Quackenbush, Benjamin Haibe-Kains, reports an updated analysis of results from two previously published systematic drug screening projects[1,2]. As explained in their introductory material, this report is motivated in part by the expansion of data from these earlier studies, and as a means to document alternative data analysis strategies that have been proposed for improving the original publication[3]. The authors address two highly important areas in basic and clinical research: data reproducibility and predictive (gene expression) biomarkers based on drug sensitivity data. The former issue represents a hallmark of basic science research; where results derived from different labs and measurement techniques serve to establish strong confidence in a proposed experimental protocol. The latter issue pertains best to highly confident (e.g. reproducible or consistent) experimental measurements; while data inconsistencies foreshadow a Pandora’s Box of alternatives in the search for the origins of these differences. With respect to the issue of data reproducibility, I find no fault in the new manuscript. All of the results reported in the original 2013 paper and current paper under review can be obtained from their Supplementary R code. With a bit of diligence and tenacity, sequentially stepping through their R-code will yield the reported figures and tables. Towards that end, the original R-code is tedious, but their addition of an open-source R-package, PharmacoGx, relieves much of the tedium. In fact, the authors must be applauded for making their analysis completely reproducible, a feat rarely achieved with biological results. Notwithstanding, the results remain largely the same; inconsistencies remain in the drug sensitivity profiles between the GCSC[2] and CCLE[1] groups. Data analysis based on alternative methods appear to be constructed around the arguments proposed in the pair of Brief Communications Arising from the original paper[4,5]. The general idea of this alternative data analysis is based on the limited role of weakly responsive tumor cells, and thus a failure to contribute to meaningful statistics. While segregating the data into three classes (drugs with no observed tumor cell activity, activity in a few tumor cells and activity in a large number of tumor cells) improves the statistics, the differences largely remain. Speculations about the differences between the two datasets focus, naturally, on each measurement platform. The current manuscript’s proposal of internal standardization may help identify the origin(s) of these differences, but this alone may not be sufficient. In this regard, I would recommend the Supplementary Information (all 47 pages) from the original article[3]. Specifically, Section 3, Comparison of experimental protocols, and the included Comparative table. The details of this section identify a number of platform differences that may underlie their measurement differences. Although not within the scope of the current article, a future study focused on these differences, combined with standardization, rather than looking for answers by segregating the data into three response classes, would be highly informative. An alternative speculation regarding data inconsistencies considers the ‘dated’ possibility that each tumor cell’s drug sensitivity and underlying phenotypic architecture (expression, mutation, snp, etc.) exemplifies a ‘snowflake’ phenomenon. Each tumor cell represents a unique circumstance, which can be modulated by any sort of environmental condition. Thus a drug response, even for the same tumor cell, may exhibit variation. Under these circumstances, the functional pathways, represented by groups of genes and their concordant expressions, become the focus, and derivation of pathway-based scoring schemes may significantly overcome inconsistencies between experimental groups. Clearly an appropriate pathway fitness scoring scheme has yet to be devised. In summary, the analysis is sound, the results are clear, and the analyses of inconsistent data, as a means to obtain predictive biomarkers, remains a significant challenge. 