In this manuscript, Day et al. provide a protocol for preventing signal loss resulting from deconvolution of low-intensity fluorescence microscopy images by the Huygens deconvolution software. The authors convincingly demonstrate that image pre-processing using a Gaussian filter prevents loss of low-intensity fluorescent objects in the deconvolved image. Their method is well-described except for the omission of a few details (see below). Their experimental validation demonstrates the power of the method but might be further strengthened by small additional experiments that confirm a one-to-one correspondence between low-intensity structures derived by their image processing and the same structures derived by detection of higher-intensity signals. Description of methods: The authors clearly describe the rationale for their method and how it fits with pre-existing deconvolution technologies. The flow of their analysis pipeline is generally well-described, though some important details are left out: How is the standard deviation (sigma) of the Gaussian filter determined? Is it empirically optimized to produce minimal loss of signal? After optimization for one image, can the same sigma be reliably applied to other images from the same dataset with consistent results? The authors should address possible artifacts that may arise from spreading fluorescence detected by an SPC to adjacent pixels. Is it appropriate to artificially spread photons from single pixels to adjacent regions that may not contain excited fluorophores? How does this relate point-spread fluorescence of multiple photons to adjacent regions in high-intensity images? Figures 3-4 contain all essential information for intepretation of the figure and do not require additional work. Minor adjustments are recommented for Figures 1 and 2, and a small additional experiment is recommended for Figure 1: Figure 1: Because of mobility of imaged structures within the cell, it is difficult to fully ascertain whether blurring and deconvolution of low-intensity fluorescence results in the appearance of biologically relevant structures or artificial creation of structures from background noise. This issue could in principle be resolved by: 1. repeating the experiment in Figure 1 with fixed cells in which the structures are immobile, allowing more direct comparison between visualized structures with 8 scans vs. 1 scan; or (to avoid potential cell fixation artifacts introduced by the above approach) 2. a high-abundance protein that colocalizes with the dim structures could be fluorescently labeled in a second channel and co-visualized (alternatively, a second copy of the same protein could be fused to a bright fluor). This would help validate the expection that the blurred, deconvolved weak signal co-localizes with a stronger marker for the same structure. Blurred, pre-deconvolution intermediate images should be shown for both the high-intensity (8 scans) and low-intensity (1 scan) images. Figure 2: Blurred, pre-deconvolution intermediate images should be shown as indicated for Figure 1. 