 General This is a well designed study using appropriate methods. The authors demonstrate convincingly that prism adaptation does not impact on either within or between object attention shifts. The introduction is, overall, scholarly and concise and the discussion provides a comprehensive explanation of the findings by arguing that a biased normal baseline performance is a pre-requisite for observing significant changes in attention biases following prism adaptation. I only have a few very minor suggestions/comments the authors may want to consider: Introduction As Radek Ptak pointed out not all studies using prism adaptation in neglect yielded positive results. I agree regarding the inclusion of conflicting results but it is clear that the methods used varied between studies such as the extent to which the hand/arm was seen by the subject during pointing (full view of the arm vs. view of the finger only during adaptation). In addition, the type of prisms used varied across studies i.e. some used Fresnel prisms that do not provide a seamless shift of the visual field whereas others used prisms that fused magnifying lenses with prism lenses providing a seamless visual percept. Finally, the nature of brain damage itself may account for some patients showing larger prismatic after-effects than others. A recent fMRI study by Luaut et al. (2009) in healthy participants indicated increased activation of inferior parietal areas during the early stage of error detection and correction and temporal areas during the later stage of sensory realignment. Thus the combination of different prisms, adaptation protocols and lesion location/extent as well as lesion age might contribute in part to these conflicting findings. Results On page 7 it is stated that the mean accuracy was 85% which could be further specified by including the accuracy range across adaptation groups to provide information on whether the accuracy levels were comparable. Also one interesting finding is that the neutral group seems to show faster reaction times compared to both prism groups irrespective of target location in the visual field. It would be useful to evaluate whether the two prism groups (pooled) showed overall higher reaction times than the neutral group as suggested by Radek Ptak but also whether the increase in reaction times was paralleled by a change in accuracy. If this is the case, it would suggest a perturbing overall impact of prism adaptation in healthy participants in the Egly task. This would potentially strengthen the argument of nonbeneficial effects of prism adaptation in tasks that elicit unbiased performance in healthy participants.