 General comments The manuscript by Plundrich et al. describes that chemiluminiscence Western blotting with horseradish peroxidase modifies the signal when protein-bound polyphenols are investigated by this methodology. However the authors demonstrate that this signal is an artifact of the methodology , named "ghost band artifact". According to these results the authors confirm that the interpretation of the results must be investigated in detail. This is a relevant study because this methodology is commonly used, independently of the proteins and extracts investigated and it is useful for the understanding of the reaction and the interpretation of the results. The highlights of the article are clearly described in the manuscript. This reviewer considers that this findings are relevant when this methodology is going to be considered for the quantification of the proteins or when the objectives of these studies are to compare the concentration of different proteins in the same extract. In that case, the results obtained cannot be appropriate as a consequence of the different composition of the proteins (polyphenol aggregates particles). This topic should be discussed. Another point to take into account is the concentration of polyphenol aggregates in the proteins. According to the SDS-PAGE shown in the article (Figure 1A and 1B) and Western blot (Figure 1C), the highest concentrations are influencing significantly the image, however, the percentage of polyphenolic components that the authors are adding does not seem realistic in a common extract. This topic should be clarified and discussed. The authors should propose and include different alternatives with the objective to purify the natural extracts that contain these substances, by removing them, for example, using extensive dialysis or even treating the natural extracts . These studies could add value to the study. Minor comments The introduction section should be focused and introduce the application. A reference should be add in paragraph 2. Previous studies have shown ghost bands… Please add what are these previous studies. Are they included in reference 3? Figure 2. Please add KDa to indicate that 20, 30, 40 etc correspond to this unit Methology should be detailed The authors should discus their experience with other extracts. Are they comparable? Probably it would be better to move their experience with peanut to the discussion section. The authors should propose different alternatives or at least include this topic in the discussion section. 