With interest, I read the article Shaines and Arora. Overall, the article reads very well, and should deserve acceptance following some minor/major changes to improve its quality and scientific soundness. 1. Title: — You may want remove the phrase "case report". — Also, please change to "an adrenal metastasis". 2. Abstract. — Please expand the abstract. — You may want to include a couple of sentences about definition of soft tissue sarcomas (STSs), incidence, biological behavior (with respect to abdominal/pelvis and distant metastasis) and percentage of MPNSTs. — You may also want to precisely mention the names of guidelines and dates. — All these recommended sentences above will highlight the importance of your case report. — The abstract says the STS of thigh was resected although this is not mentioned in the "case report" section. — Lastly, check if journal mandates a STRUCTURED format for the abstract section. 3. Introduction: — It is recommended to add sentences that shed light on the most common sites of STSs and the percentage of MPNSTs among all STSs. — Mention the dates of guidelines. 4. Case Report: — Add details about physical examination. — Add details about initial laboratory findings. — Add CT scans of the thigh mass (to highlight its large size) and adrenal mass (to highlight the collision tumor). — You add the MRI picture of the adrenal mass, too (or the CT scan). — Please do mention of the patient received surgery for the STS of the thigh as it is not clearly mentioned in this section. 5. Discussion: — Since the two series presented in manuscript had contradictory conclusions, it is recommended (if available) to add additional data from one to two more series. — For reference (9), please add specific details about MPNSTs (if available). — Briefly mention how (why) MPNST are different from the myxoid liposarcoma, epithelial sarcoma, angiosarcoma etc in terms of the recommendation for CT A/P scanning. — please provide citations for the following sentence "Factors known to be associated with the development of metastases are tumor grade, tumor size, tumor depth, and certain histopathologies". 5. "Based on our case and the literature, we also would suggest adding screening CT A/P for large (5cm), deep tumors of any histology". How depth was assessed in your case report. 6. Conclusion: — Modify the conclusion so it will reflect the specific histopathological variant of MPNST (since it is not normally recommended by guidelines as opposed to the others). 7. References: — Good 8. English: — Minor English polishing. 