Chabbert et al. provide an interesting study of the effect of gene model annotation on isoform abundance estimation from RNA-Seq data. They take a gene with 5 annotated alternative transcripts and look at expression over several tissues. They explore how well a transcript-based estimation method (Salmon) and differential transcript usage method (DRIMSeq) does when considering additional evidence from visualisation of read coverage and experimental validation of alternative transcripts by qPCR. They demonstrate that the inferred transcript abundance using the standard model is inconsistent with read coverage (e.g. an inferred highly expressed transcript has very low read density or junction read evidence for its only unique exon) and they show that better results are obtained when the model is modified by hand in a number of ways. They also show that through using their handcrafted gene model, consistency is improved when the dataset is changed to single-ended and shorter reads, which I found to be an interesting experiment. They also look at concordance across different RNA-Seq datasets measuring the same tissues and find the modification of UTRs in the gene model to improve concordance. Overall I found this to be an interesting and useful contribution. Recent work (cited by the authors) has looked at metrics to identify discordance of the type observed here but nevertheless this careful study of one gene model is a useful contribution, especially give the experimental validation using qPCR. I think the data will be of great interest to methodology developers grappling with this problem although I guess long-read datasets may provide evidence for more genes in future studies than this kind of qPCR approach. Major comments: As far as I can understand, in the end two kinds of change were made to the annotated gene model at the same time. A transcript Khk.RI was removed (this was tried first) and then both the UTRs were modified to be the same for all isoforms (first 3’ and then 5’) which means that new isoforms are added to the gene model and some were removed. The removal of a transcript strongly affecting results is arguably more problematic for transcript quantification methods because we would often expect the set of isoforms to contain unexpressed isoforms in a specific dataset. The other issue (an incomplete gene model) is already known to be problematic 1 . However, I was not sure whether the UTR issue could potentially make the Khk.RI isoform issue worse. Therefore, I think it would be helpful to check whether Khk.RI inclusion remains problematic after making the UTR changes to the other isoforms. If adding an unexpressed isoform to the gene model can cause such an issue then this is a problem even when the gene model is correct. Also, there is a statement later on that “the removal of Khk.RI did further hinder reproducibility between both datasets” which seems to contradict the idea that removing this isoform is a good idea. I think this sentence is also a bit unclear and could do with some more explanation. The modifications to the gene model in the end involves creating a new set of isoforms by combining existing exons and UTRs in a new configuration. Algorithms exist to do this in a data-driven way, e.g. the FlipFlop algorithm is designed to learn a set of isoforms from data by searching over all exon combinations using sparse inference on a splicing graph. Another example is StringTie and there may be later ones I'm not aware of. I think it would be useful to attempt to apply an algorithm of this type to this dataset to see how it would perform as this may provide a computational way to do something similar to what has been done manually in this example. Alternatively, these methods may fail and that would also be of interest. Minor comments: Page 3 - “the recent development of alignment-free….has provided the possibility to quantify each individual transcript”. Methods that predate Salmon were already available for transcript quantification e.g. RSEM, eXpress, bitseq etc. I don't think we should confuse the speed-up introduced in Salmon and Kallisto with the transcript-level inference model introduced by RSEM and I think RSEM could have been used in this paper with similar conclusions. It would be good to know whether gene expression estimates based on the different gene models are performing differently, i.e. estimating gene expression by summing up isoform expression rather than counting. This has been discussed in the literature 2 and this issue could be explored in this dataset. Typos: Page 7 - “on estimate concordance” should be estimated. 