This manuscript looks at the potential economic impacts of invasive European green crabs on the shellfish industry in Puget Sound. They come up with a range of dollar values for potential economic impacts, based on both economic and ecological underlying uncertainties. The manuscript is mostly sound, although I have one concern relating to their treatment of “primary” and “secondary” values: • How are “Processing margin” and “Distribution margin”, which make up the secondary value in Table 2, calculated? I understand that you are just applying ratios from ref. 72, but I want to understand where these ratios come from (I looked at ref. 72 briefly, but it wasn’t easy to figure out). Does this secondary value represent the difference between the market value and harvested value of the fish? In any case, you must be careful to avoid double-counting when you sum the primary and secondary values. Suppose someone catches some fish and sells the unprocessed fish to me for $100 and then I employ someone to process the fish for $20, and then I sell the fish for $150. How much total value has been added to the economy here? The answer is less than $150, because the buyer of the finished product would otherwise have just spent his $150 elsewhere (although presumably he would not have derived as much utility from the alternative purchase—thus his decision to spend his money on my fish when the option arose). Equally, the person I hired for $20 would have been hired somewhere else had I not hired him (although presumably for less than $20, otherwise he would not have accepted my job offer). The upshot of this is that, in your paper, you should avoid adding the primary and secondary values together, or alternatively you should find a good reference to say that adding them is OK (contrary to what I have said above). It’s possible that I’ve misunderstood what you’ve done (e.g., maybe in what you describe as the “Processing Margin”, you or the references you cite are somehow accounting for the issues I outline above), in which case you just need to explain it a bit better. Other comments: • Figure 1 legend: “Figure and Maxtent potential distribution model”. Do you mean “MaxEnt”? • p6: “the following simple linear model” Prefer just “the following simple model”, because “linear model” will make most readers think of linear regression models, which is not what you are doing. • p9 and throughout: “kgs” - “kg”