To translate functional genomics data in ChIP-seq to music pieces is entertaining. Cittaro et al 's work showed that, the chromatin data which has wider dynamic range is suitable (in my opinion perhaps more suitable than DNA/protein sequences in spite of lacking supporting evidence) for making appealing music. I feel excited while reading the manuscript and listening to the music pieces made by the authors at the same time.This work definitely has the novelty and importance especially for education and popular science. I believe more students and general public will be attracted by the chromatin songs then start to learn the science behind them. Because I don't have the expertise of music theory, I won't comment on the quality of the chromatin music or the methods to tune the music. Since authors showed the music patterns may also reflect the biology on the chromatin and may be associated with gene expression. I will focus on these. Authors translated chromatin marks ChIP-Seq data from human K562 and NHEK cell lines at refSeq gene bodies from upstream 1k of TSS to 2kb downstream of TES, then tried to study if the music patterns can match the differential gene expression inferred from RNA-Seq. The prediction power was quite low, as pointed out by the authors, with an AUC of 0.52 ( just a little better than random) with the optimal combination of parameters got from a subset of genes. A natural question is that how well the prediction is by directly using chromatin signals, such as the tags pileup. By comparing with this, we will see whether the underlying biology has been kept or lost during the approach. Authors showed that the similarities, in terms of hierarchical clustering, of musical representation at gene bodies, from the K562 cell line, can be linked to gene functions and similar gene expression. However I found it's hard to see the consistency of the similarities of music with the similarities of gene function annotations. For example, the cluster 7 and 8 are the closet pair of clusters, although authors claimed that clusters 6,7,8 were linked to regulation of cell cycle, I can't see such words from the word clouds of the middle panel of figure 3. Instead, I can see that the cluster 1, 3, 5 and 7 all have the same term of biological function 'protein' although they are apart according to the hierarchical clustering. The gene expression analysis is also confusing while looking at the right panel of figure 3 and table 1. It seems that for all the clusters there are two major distributions of gene expression levels from the violin plots -- a big one at log(RPKM) less than 1 and a small one around log(RPKM) of 2. Does that mean the big population of each cluster are just random noises of weakly expressed genes (logRPKM1)? The numbers of genes in each cluster were also missing in the manuscript. I wonder perhaps the cluster 2 contains very few genes since although visually it seems the distribution of gene expression of cluster 2 is quite different with all the other clusters, the p-values of the row 2 of table 1 (cluster 2 against 3, 4, 5, 6,7 and 8) are all very small, indicating no significant difference. Additionally, I should bring my comment of point 1 here as well. How the clustering works while checking only the raw ChIP-Seq pileup? Comments on method section: For the equations of 'comparison of WAV track', the notations were not explained clearly. Description on how the RPKM was calculated is missing. The bases of logarithm functions are missing for the 'log(RPKM)' of gene expression level and the 'absolute logarithm fold change' used to define differential expressed genes. 