This is a well conducted proof of principle report that uses the approach of concatenated PCR of exons from genomic DNA to combine exons of two different, clinically relevant genes KRAS and EGFR, to address a clinically relevant question in a resource limiting setting. The assay design and data are provided in sufficient details that any researchers may be able to attempt to carry out similar analyses. There are some comments and suggestions to improve the quality of the manuscript or follow up analyses: Introduction , These studies have direct implications for carrying out routine KRAS molecular testing along with EGFR mutations for precluding a patient with NSCLC from therapy with EGFR inhibitors, as approved for colorectal cancer (Lievre et al., 2006). Can the authors cite any reference wherein NSCLC patients are precluded from EGFR inhibitor therapy if they harbor KRAS mutations. The reference cited here is specific to colorectal cancer. Introduction , Of these direct sequencing is the most commonly used method worldwide. Is this a personal opinion or there is a reference to support this. Should be cited. Introduction , concatenation or assembly of individually amplified exons from genomic DNA to generate a cDNA fragment has been described in earlier research. cDNA specifically refers to complementary DNA derived from RNA through reverse transcriptase. Genomic PCR cannot be said to be used to generate cDNA fragment. I suspect this erroneous phrasing is picked up from a previous reference, but its probably good to not perpetuate the error. Introduction , Here, we describe a novel methodology to co-amplify all four EGFR exons 1821 along with KRAS exon 2 in a single multiplex PCR. Its more like a novel application of a well described methodology supported by several previous references. The novelty, albeit rather incremental, is in combining exons from two different genes, using previously described approach. Should be stated as such. The big appeal of the study is that it affords use of a minimal amount of FFPE sample. Please specify the amount of FFPE material used and yield of DNA to convey an idea of how little/much sample is needed to carry out this analysis. The important consideration of sensitivity has not been addressed. This could be easily tested by assaying a serial dilution of known mutated cell line/FFPE DNA spiked in a wild-type background sample. This will add value to the study. Addition of KRAS codon 61 should be considered as well. Or the difficulty in scaling up should be discussed. How difficult is it to add additional exons. The concatenated PCR product may be amenable to Pyrosequencing to improve sensitivity of detection (particularly in case of low tumor content, low clonality of mutations as is expected in case of dynamically evolving tumors). This should be attempted/ discussed. A direct comparison with the standard technique(s) currently used to test these mutations- in terms of amount of starting material needed, sensitivity of detection, time, and cost will help the argument of the new approach as a superior option. 