Dr. Venning and colleagues perform a review on neonatal and congenital cases of Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) to examine predictors for progression to systemic disease. While this endeavour will help to risk-stratify patients, there are several issues that need to be addressed: ABSTRACT In the abstract, the text should make reference to congenital and neonatal onset LCH, as this is the focus of their research. The title should be more specific as to the purpose of the review (i.e. that this is to look for variables the predict systemic involvement). BACKGROUND In the background, the authors state that "Currently, consensus guidelines state that most cases of cutaneous LCH spontaneously regress but some cases do progress to multisystem disease". However, the reference states that “progression to MS-LCH is common." Throughout the manuscript, the discussion intermingles description of cutaneous LCH, skin-limited LCH and neonatal/congenital LCH. Since the focus appears to be on the progression of neonatal/congenital cutaneous LCH, the discussion and data collection should be focused on this. As well, it would have been helpful to have more background information as to the previously documented frequency of skin-limited LCH, as the paper doesn't clearly provide this (i.e. How common is skin-limited LCH that doesn't progress (or regresses)). The authors mention the lung may be a high-risk organ. However, pulmonary involvement is no longer considered a risk organ, as Ronceray et al. 1 found it to have no significant impact on survival in a multivariate analysis. The authors mention that "Overall, given the reports (albeit uncommon) of progression of cutaneous LCH to multisystem disease...". However, the study from Lau et al. 2 in 2006 demonstrated that 4/12 (33%) of patients with isolated skin LCH progressed to multi-system LCH. METHODS It is unclear if the the study eligibility criteria requires all 3 criteria to qualify. Please elaborate. As well, please document reasons for exclusion. I note that the study by Lau et al. 2 has data on patients but was not included. It is unclear what the statement "no attempt to quantify the number of cases of systemic LCH with a “missed” diagnosis of self-resolving cutaneous congenital LCH was undertaken" means. Does this mean these cases were included or excluded? RESULTS Please define "multiple". Is this more than 1 lesion or 10 and why was this number chosen? As before, the distinction between skin limited LCH and cutaneous LCH should be clear. Among the paper's objectives is: "to identify risk factors which may contribute to mortality risk and risk of progression to systemic disease.", however, when I finished reading the paper, I still did not have a clear idea of what risk factors contribute to the mortality and progression risk in the congenital/neonatal subset of LCH. In the conclusion they state that the presentation of congenital/neonatal LCH more often involves multiple sites compared to paediatric LCH, and that systemic involvement significantly impacts mortality. To me, the latter point holds in both paediatric and congenital/neontal LCH and isn't new information, nor helpful in distinguishing the two. LIMITATION The statement "Morren states that LCH presents prior to 3 months of age but does not occur congenitally" is odd, as Morren's report lists 2 congenial cases 3 . Overall, this is an interesting undertaking. However, methodologically, there a number of issue that should be examined. 