Puyo et al. presented the clinical course of a severe COVID-19 patient treated by hydroxychloroquine, N-acetylcysteine and supportive care. The insufficient details and case report nature of the study hamper a reliable causal inference for the efficacy and safety of hydroxychloroquine and N-acetylcysteine. Given the information provided in the manuscript, the influence of other factors (natural disease progression, effects of other treatments, etc.) cannot be excluded. Although we are in urgent need of treatment for COVID-19 in such a pandemic, inappropriate interpretation of the result may be misleading and cause unnecessary resources wasting at this time point. It should be very cautious to try to associate the recovery of the patient with these two drugs. Specific comments are listed below: 1. According to the background and discussion part, the authors’ inference for the potential efficacy of the two drugs are mainly established on evidence from pre-clinical experiments. However, clinical evidences from COVID-19 or other respiratory infectious diseases should also be mentioned and discussed in the manuscript. For hydroxychloroquine, the results of several studies have been released. The RECOVERY trial was reported to find no clinical benefit from use of hydroxychloroquine in hospitalized COVID-19 patients (28-day mortality, length of hospitalization, etc.) 1 . A published RCT in BMJ from Tang et al found that the use of hydroxychloroquine did not increase the proportion of virus negative conversion 2 . Also, the interim analysis of WHO solidarity trial showed little or no reduction in the mortality of hospitalized COVID-19 patients in the hydroxychloroquine arm and WHO thus discontinued the hydroxychloroquine arm for hospitalized patients 3 . Although the dosage of hydroxychloroquine varies in different trials and might be higher than the dosage used in this case report (400mg/600mg per day), it is hard to attribute the efficacy to hydroxychloroquine given the accumulating clinical evidences. The authors should provide clinical evidences in the manuscript in discussion to defend their hypothesis. For N-acetylcysteine, the authors also mainly provide evidence from pre-clinical experiments. If there is no direct evidence from COVID-19, the authors should carefully review the literature and present possible indirect clinical evidence from severe pneumonia or viral pneumonia (if there is any). 2. Details of the case: The authors only described in detail about hydroxychloroquine and N-acetylcysteine and details of other treatments were not provided. The authors should provide the details of all the important treatments to give readers a whole picture of the patient’s disease course. For example: COVID-19 patients are often presented with normal or decreased white blood cell (WBC) counts and lymphocyte counts 4 , 5 . This patient had elevated WBC count, elevated neutrophil count and normal lymphocyte count (according to the provided normal range). Though the procalcitonin was lower than 0.5 ng/mL, the possibility of co-bacterial infection could not be excluded. The authors should provide results of lower respiratory tract etiological testing (sputum bacteriology, etc.) and blood culture. Besides, whether the patient received antibiotics and (if so), the details of antibiotics should also be described. According to the clinical information provided in the manuscript, the patient’s qSOFA score at admission was 2 (Blood Pressure 92/62mmHg; Respiratory Rate 48 times per mintue). The patients showed signs of sepsis or even septic shock. However, the provided information was not enough, and I am wondering whether the diagnosis of sepsis was made across the disease course and whether guideline-based treatment was given. More details should be described. Besides, if sepsis-related treatment is given, the role of hydroxychloroquine and N-acetylcysteine should be further questioned. “Prophylactic anticoagulation was started with subcutaneous heparin”. The dosage of heparin should be specified. 3. Please distinguish between the disease name “COVID-19” and the virus name “SARS-CoV-2”, and use the right word in the manuscript. For example, “COVID-19 positive patient” should be revised to “COVID-19 patient”; “COVID-19 enters the human airway in a process reminiscent of other viruses” should be revised to “SARS-CoV-2 enters…”; “COVID-19 infection” should be revised to “SARS-CoV-2 infection”; “COVID-19 RT-PCR” should be revised to “SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR”. The objective of the case report is to present hypothesis for the potential efficacy of hydroxychloroquine and N-acetylcysteine. However, given the rationale mentioned above, at this stage, the information provided in the manuscript did not support such hypothesis. 