In this article, Dr. Markan expresses her opinion on the ongoing controversy surrounding FGF21 resistance in obesity. This issue has not been explicitly addressed in the past publications so the commentary piece should be a refreshing read for the researchers in FGF signaling field in particular and obesity in general. Having said so, I recommend revising the text along the points below: 1) In the Abstract, I suggest changing the verb “used” to “introduced”. 2) First paragraph: I am wondering if the word “paradoxical” is the appropriate term to use here. Surely one could argue that the observed increases in FGF21 serum level in obese mice/human subjects represent a natural feedback mechanism in response to the progressive worsening of insulin resistance. Are there any published literature which correlate the severity of obesity with serum levels of FGF21? If there are, they should be discussed. 3) Clearly articulate/elaborate the difference between the two studies under scrutiny by putting particular emphasis on the different interpretations of dose response curves of FGF21 in these two studies. Also, please discuss how differences in experimental approach might possibly have influenced the disparate conclusions reached by the authors of these two studies. Explain whether only b-klotho co-receptor or both b-klotho and FGFR1c show reduced expression in obesity. Clearly identify tissues that lose expression of b-Klotho and/or FGFR1c and provide information on the extent of these expression losses if known. 4) For the sake of general readership, please introduce b-Klotho co-receptor and FGFR1c, the cognate receptor of FGF21, early on in the text perhaps even in the abstract. Please state that unlike classical paracrine FGFs, FGF21 operates through a dual receptor system. 5) The point brought up on the inactivating proteolytic cleavage of FGF21 is interesting and worthy of further discussion. Please identify whether the reported increases in FGF21 levels measure the levels of full length bioactive form. I.e. are the assays used capable to differentiating between full length “active” and cleaved “inactive” forms. 