Thank you for asking me to review this manuscript. Overall, I was pleased to read this manuscript which outlines the development of a unique tool called Nose to Tail Tool (NTT). It is innovative and in an area which has so much theoretical science (evidence implementation/implementing change) it was refreshing to read about process which resulted in the development of a practical tool that could be utilised by a range of health care stakeholders. I commend the authors for extensively reviewing the literature (although the methodology is a bit weak) and placing the NNT in comparison to other frameworks in this space. While there is a lot to like about this manuscript, there are some issues to consider too. They are: The methodology – while I understand that this is a scoping review and as such a formal critical appraisal was not undertaken, I was surprised to note that the searching was confined to PubMed only. Why was this the case? PubMed is quite rudimentary and given the amount of work that has been undertaken, this could have extended to other mainstream databases too (such as Cinahl, Embase, Medline etc). I also would have liked a bit more information about the developmental process. For example, the authors state that “Each of the three categorizations (stages, themes and contingency factors) went through three iterations.” What happened during those stages? How did the authors respond to the findings during those stages? The burden of complexity – While the NNT is quite detailed, I worry if it will also be its Achilles Heel. I suspect these tools are aimed at those at the coal face and given the complexity of the tool (I understand the reasons underpinning it), I worry many clinicians could be put off by it. A tool needs to have good clinical utility and I suspect while this may be useful for research and/or evaluation purposes, how readily and effectively clinicians use this remains to be seen. I will be interested to know about the pilot study findings. The manuscript itself – I must say the manuscript is very long and verbose! While I am aware that F1000Research may not have a word limit, it is the duty of the researchers to ensure what is presented is reader-friendly and engaging. Given that most manuscripts are 4000 words (approx.), I think this would be double that word count. As it stands, this manuscript could be trimmed down to make it more succinct and punchy. 