The opinion article by Wu Zhou provides an interesting hypothesis about the origin of systemic cancer. It starts by opposing the Primary Side Derived (PSD) hypothesis of systemic cancer with the Own Side Derived (OSD) hypothesis. In a nutshell, the OSD hypothesis suggests that there is no migration from one side to another but that tumors arise in different organs in parallel. The first diagnosed tumor is then called the "primary tumor" whereas the other growths are called alloustasis, which means that there is another tumor at another site. Thereby, the author provides a different concept of systemic cancer, in which the migration inherent to the standard metastasis model is replaced by growth promoting factors of the first, i.e. the leading lesion, which may support progression and diagnosis of the alloustasis. In a way, this is similar to the parallel progression model suggested some years ago (Klein NRC, 2009 1 ), in which early disseminated cancer that are genetically too immature to autonomously grow into a metastasis receive systemically acting, growth-promoting support from the primary tumor. Criticism: While the concept is interesting and thought provoking, I think the paper needs some more work before being listed in pubmed, since students and scientists in training need more information to fully judge its content. 1) Text and nomenclature: I strongly recommend that the author revise the text with help of a native speaker. The understanding of such an article fully depends on a precise language. For example the sentence "The transformed cells located into primary organ are distinct with those transformed cells located into secondary sites" is unclear, imprecise and grammatically incorrect. There are numerous sentences like this, which reduce the clarity and scientific vigor of the concept. I also strongly recommend that the author spend some more thinking on how to adapt his nomenclature. For example, the term "malignant" indicates in the standard model that a proliferating lesion seeds cells to other sites and generates systemic cancer. Dissemination is defining malignancy. What would be the meaning of malignant in the alloustasis model? Since invasion and dissemination do not exist, how would the author differentiate malignant vs. benign tumors? My school knowledge about ancient Greek has become minimal, however I wonder whether "alloustasis" should be replaced by allestasis. "Stasis" is feminin and "alle" would be the corresponding form of the adjective. 2) References / state of the art For several statements, the author should provide the references. For example, I would not agree that early detection and local therapy does NOT impact on outcome. As such the statement that "... the ever-increasing ability to detect secondary tumors at earlier stages should certainly lead to a major reduction in mortality. In fact, despite earlier diagnosis and improved treatment modalities and supportive care, age-adjusted mortality rates have not appeared to decrease" is at best misleading if not incorrect. References should be provided to justify this view. As mentioned above, the arguments in favor of a metastasis model should be summarized. This includes a careful analysis of CUP. Recent work on the epigenetic tracking of tumor origin (see the Lancet Oncology paper of the Esteller group 2 ) has generated some evidence in favor of a metastasis model. In fact, consideration of the genetic and epigenetic comparisons between primary tumours and what is currently judged as metastases, may be a useful starting point to define the need of an alloustasis concept. 3) Explanatory power of the concept Scientific theories and concepts aim to properly describe reality. Any change needs to be evaluated by its contribution to better explain observed phenomena. The author provides some arguments in this direction, however, this part needs to be substantially improved. For example, cancer of unknown primary is the major argument in favor of alloustasis so far. However, early dissemination and regression of the primary lesion explains CUP equally well. I would suggest that the author generates a table of all arguments in support of alloustasis. The article should also contain a list of arguments that support the "metastasis" concept. What is then needed is that the alloustasis model explains all/most metastasis-supporting phenomena equally well. Such an approach will reveal, for which cancer cases alloustasis may indeed provide a reasonable explanation and which cases would be better explained by a metastasis model. In line with this point, it would extremely helpful if the author provides a clear separation of the two models. For example, estrogen receptor expression in a breast cancer and in a metachronous brain lesion is currently taken as evidence for a brain metastasis from a hormone receptor positive breast cancer. How would the alloustasis model explain this? Or would the author agree that in this case metastasis has occurred? Similarly, epithelial growths in mesenchymal organs like lymph node or bone marrow: how are these explained in an alloustasis model given the fact that these organs do not contain epithelial cells that could give rise to an alloustatic epithelial cancer? When such confrontation of the two models has been elaborated, the author should check, which model is simpler, i.e. he should apply Ockham's razor. Finally, I would greatly appreciate, if the author could provide his thoughts about data that would falsify alloustasis. Would there be any experiment or finding that would lead to rejection of the concept? Falsification criteria are extremely helpful to generate new research, even if methods for such falsification are currently not available. 