This article provides a much needed point of departure for future research regarding scientists engagement in social media and public engagement. This article raises great questions that will need answering through future empirical evidence. Previous studies have often queried scientists engagement in social media and public outreach on a broad level. However, "scientists" is an extremely broad grouping. There has been some work looking at scientists engagement in social media and public outreach by discipline and demographic variables including age and gender, but we need to go further than this. Why do some scientists make the time to engage in outreach or social media, such as tweeting and blogging, while others do not? Logistical constraints are probably involved, but are likely not the major constraint, as many extremely busy scientists find time or make time to engage in outreach via social media. How does the culture at specific organizations/institutions affect this engagement, or scientists decisions of whether it is "worth it"? And how can social scientists uncover these nuances of behavior with regards to scientists use of social media for outreach? I think it would be valuable it the authors addressed these questions, and addressed how future research should focus on nuances vs. overly broad descriptions of scientists use of social media for outreach. In the section on how social media outreach will benefit scientists careers, the authors focus on tangible and professional benefits that are compatible with traditional measures of scientific/academic performance (such as citations and tenure). This leaves out more intangible benefits that scientists may experience from engaging in social media outreach, such as being able to see the practical applications of their research, or becoming more well-rounded in terms of their scientific expertise outside of their narrow fields of research. The authors should address how less traditional "benefits" of social media outreach can be measured and communicated to scientists in various fields. A look at the degree of collaboration that occurs for researchers who dont engage in social media vs. those who do would also be interesting. A few other notes: "the best predictor of outreach by scientists appears to be linked to their perceptions of outreach" - why isnt this explained in the context of the theory of planned behavior, or the value-belief-norm model for explaining scientists behavior toward social media engagement / outreach? "Moreover blogs written by scientists for scientists are becoming common and important places for the exchange of ideas" - I would caution against broad statements about the impacts of blogs, or what kind of blog genres are growing. In fact, there is some evidence, including from my own ongoing research (although more research is needed), that blogs geared toward outreach and explaining science to broader audience are outnumbering / growing past those blogs that are written by scientists for other scientists (these types of blogs are generally in the minority). Just as in everything else, we need more data about science blogging approaches and the impacts of those approaches. For example, which different social networks (blogs? Twitter? ResearchGate and similar science-focused social networks) are being used by researchers to talk to other researchers, and which are being used in a more outreach type of capability, and why? I think the authors could round-out their discussion of needed research in this and related areas through a modest revision of their original article. I also encourage the authors to discuss how theories of mass communication, psychology and behavior could fit into the areas of research they call for.