The manuscript contained important results from a research activity aimed to isolate potential probiotic bacteria which produce potent bacteriocin. Upon isolation of bacteriocins, they were tested for potential antibacterial activity against pathogenic bacteria, through the utilization of disc diffusion method/ assay. After which, the bacteria that perform the best in the disc diffusion method was chosen (one from the tiger shrimp (H) and another one from freshwater prawn (W)) was further purified and subjected to HPLC and FTIR analysis. The Introduction section clearly stated the importance of doing this research which is the utilization of bacteriocin to help in alleviating the problems of pathogens in aquaculture particularly the fish and shrimp culture. The authors also cited recent references to indicate the timeliness of this work. The methods presented are clear with enough details for easy replication in the future. However, few details were left out in the HPLC analysis which has to be added to the manuscript: (Please indicate in the HPLC method the information on how much (microliter) of the bacteriocin samples were injected, what is the solvent used, how many percents of solvent are added and etc. The statistical analysis is appropriate. Although it is suggested to add up which dataset were subjected to ANOVA and DMRT. There are few things to clear up in the results section. - Please check the results which the author considered "significantly different" throughout the results. Similar letters indicate no significance, therefore as an example, "ab", "bc", and "b" are not significantly different. - Table 1, H1 - under A. hydrophila, indicate the real value (there seemed to be a problem). - Table 3 was not cited in the text. - Why is Table 5 not in presented in the "Results" section, but is discussed in the "Discussion" section? If the data tabulated in Table 5 is from your own research, it is more appropriate to present in the results section, rather than only cite in the Discussion section. The results are considered only partially discussed in the Discussion section. Therefore it will be best to add more appropriate justifications. Following are suggested in the discussion section for improvement: - Tables and figures should only be cited minimally in the discussion section since they have already been presented in the results section. - Explain more the implication of increasing inhibitory activity against pathogens after precipitation in ammonium sulfate [(NH4) 2SO4]. Will it help in terms of increased efficiency of bacteriocin? How about in terms of the economics? - It will be best to expound on the result of the inhibitory activity of the bacteriocin comparing the current results to that of those previously been used. In the methodology, there was a mention of positive and negative control but the result was not used in the argument on how efficient the currently isolated and purified bacteriocin in this study. - There should also be a clear explanation of the reason why H4 and W2 were chosen among other isolates. In here the statistical results will become handy in explaining why. - Include more explanation on the FTIR results for the two chosen isolate which are potentially good source of potent bacteriocin. What were the implications of the FTIR results having the specific wave numbers as in the current results? Do they mean more potent? better than others? As for the conclusion section: It is not advisable to cite any reference in the conclusion section since conclusion should contain the authors' own interpretation of the results collected from the study. 