This is an interesting study designed to examine the biological activities of Candida albicans Hos2 enzyme, a putative histone deacetylase. The authors express a recombinant version of the protein, which has a His tag added to the N-terminus, and use this to explore potential substrates for the enzyme. There are a number of major issues with the data as presented, which need to be addressed: It is difficult to make any conclusions from the quantitative data presented in the figures as there are no error bars and the number of replicates is not stated. In addition, it is unclear what the data in Figures 1B and 5 has been expressed relative to (i.e. fold change relative to...?) Statistical analyses should also be carried out to determine whether any differences are statistically significant ones. The authors should also revisit the data presented in Figure 2 and Table 2. The data does not correlate, as the authors suggest that the IC 50 values are in micromolar amounts, yet the data in the figure would suggest millimolar levels - units should be checked. The title for Figure 4 should be modified, since this figure contains only data for beta-tubulin. In the main text the authors need to be much clearer regarding the rationale for looking at tubulin as a substrate. The authors may also wish to consider the possibility that the substrate specificity and/or activity may have been affected by the N-terminal tag and how this could be investigated. The discussion section should be revisited to remove the reiteration of the introduction and results. Instead, use this part of the paper to discuss the findings in relation to other published work. Minor points: Candida albicans is capable of causing superficial (oral and vaginal thrush) infections in immune normal hosts (abstract and introduction). Gene names, e.g. CDR1 and ERG11 , should be in italics. For the enzymatic assay it would be good to state the volume of the assay so that final concentrations can be worked out. Figure and table legends should include the number of replicates carried out to generate the data. 