 Title: Suggest inserting after anti-microbial peptide, and include since the search was made for plant proteins and validated on phytopathogens. Abstract: The contents starting from Substitute therapies .... end are hypothetical and need to be deleted or toned down. Introduction: Paragraph 3. Clarify which humanitarian reasons are associated with the listed plant pathogens. The central theme of the manuscript is a new search algorithm, SCALPEL and its validation. Therefore, there is a need for reasoning the development of a new algorithm in light of the existing software(s), if any. In other words, what is the necessity of a new algorithm? The introduction is not crisp and balanced. Materials and Methods: In silico: Is their a need to list all 2000 proteins in Dataset identified using search . Simply, it could be stated that as many plant proteins were analyzed. Need more details for SCALPEL vis--vis methodology. In vitro: Why was Kanamycin added to PD3? Results: Figure 1a: An explanation is required for omitting the first in Edmundson wheel. The main legend to Figure 1 Edmundson wheel for AHs in the known AMPs that were used as control is confusing. It does not look like the peptides corresponding to wheels c, d and e were the controls. PPC20, 3ALGA.4 and 3ALGA.5 (Fig. 1c, d, e) should be described when first mentioned in the text. Non-linear AH-AMPs consisting of two AHs: While the properties of the AHs in CHITI25 is reversed from that of CECB, the order in which these AHs occur is not important for functionality is an overstatement unless proved. Figure 4. The PBS used for peptide dilution does not appear as a control in the Figure. The control ISS15 does not show pathogen growth inhibition at the maximum concentration tested. Thus, to conclude its MIC is 300 microM is a speculation. Discussion: The discussion is entirely focused on the search software that is hardly mentioned in the Introduction, Methodology, and Results. There is more focus on the application of the current study instead of the study itself. The readership would benefit more if the discussion included scrutiny and reaffirmation of the results with relevant literature and interpretation.