This study explores the type of psychological treatment that young patients with mental health problems co-morbid to epilepsy receive in routine practice and whether this treatment is in accordance with NICE recommendations. Based on their results, the authors conclude that the treatment offered is inconsistent and inadequate, and that there is a clear need to optimise clinical practice in this area. The topic of the paper is interesting and the introduction well-written with clear aims. However, there are some critical points related to the description of used methods and subsequently the interpretation of the results which the authors need to address and clarify: The authors state that this study is part of a feasibility study prior to a planned larger randomised control trial for treatment of mental health difficulties in children and young people with epilepsy. However, no clear objectives or details of the design of this feasibility study are provided – the authors only state that they follow the STROBE cross sectional checklist when writing the report. Please provide more information. The participants are recruited from four specialised epilepsy clinics. A bit more clinical information would be helpful, e.g. are the participants all new referrals or is it a mixture of children who have been followed for a long time in the clinics and children who are seen for the first time? This could be interesting in order to understand where the "gap" in the health care system is when it comes to identifying and initiating treatment for mental health problems in this patient group. The main measure to identify mental disorders is the DAWBA. DAWBA is a broad diagnostic instrument that involves questionnaires, interviews and rating techniques, and it covers the most common child psychiatric disorders. Versions exist for various age groups (2-4 yrs, 5-17 yrs) and different informants (children from age 11 and parents) who independently of each other answer structured questions, which cover the operationalized diagnostic criteria for a broad spectrum of DSM and ICD diagnoses. Schoolteachers complete a shorter questionnaire. Open-ended questions record the respondent’s own description of problems which makes it possible to perform a supplementary clinical rating in order to increase the diagnostic validity. However, in the current study it is not clear whether age corresponding versions were used. Furthermore, it reads as if no clinical rating of the interviews was performed, which might be a considerable limitation also as only one informant (i.e. one parent) was used to obtain information. Also, it could have strengthened the diagnostic findings if these where supported by information from other sources, e.g. medical records. The authors state that 120 children reached caseness on the SDQ - but not out of how many? A flowchart would have been nice, also showing numbers for attrition in order to evaluate the generalisability of the study findings. Criteria for caseness are based on SDQ scores. Please provide a bit more information on whether these criteria in general are used as standards to define potential cases with significant mental health problems within clinical study samples. Please explain what is meant by the phrase: "threshold for impairing symptoms on the DAWBA". Do the authors here refer to whether or not there are positive computer generated diagnoses in the DAWBA interview? The rationale for the chosen sample size is not clear for the purpose of this study. The authors only states that it is based on guidance regarding feasibility studies. N=46 actually seems a bit small to estimate the size of the clinical problem this study wants to elucidate. Another main variable in the study, i.e. provided support for mental health problems, is assessed by a new measure which was not validated before its use. Furthermore, the rating is only performed by one person. This could introduce bias. The mentioned methodological issues mean that the results should be interpreted with caution. They do suggest that there is a problem. However, it may be difficult to estimate the size of the problem based on this study. In sum, the authors need to spend more time critically discussing their findings in relation to the weaknesses of their study design and used methods. 