This is a very useful guide to an important issue that is currently largely overlooked in the literature; producing high-quality presentations of brain imaging results that are informative, clear, and useful. The article is comprehensive and easy to follow, and the examples provided are appropriate, and produce very attractive images. This is an extremely useful paper that deserves wide readership in the field. While I agree with the author that visualisations are extremely useful for providing a comprehensive overview of patterns of brain activity in fMRI experiments, that doesnt mean that conventional 2D slice views are not also useful. In fact, 2D views of particular activation clusters are really the only way to get a good idea of the precise position of a cluster, in relation to the sulcal/gyral anatomy, which is often important. An optimal strategy for comprehensive visualisation and localisation might then be to combine 2D and 3D views of results in the same figure. The author has done this more-or-less in Figure 3 (which includes coronal slices), but I wonder if perhaps an additional example figure which combines 2D and 3D views might be helpful? Perhaps as an example of the kinds of figures that could be produced for publications and presentations. Minor points of grammar, etc.: Abstract: "they are useful in showing a more overall representation of the results" More overall? Somewhat clumsy; replace with "more general" or just "overall". Page 2 first paragraph: "Here I briefly detail a straight- forward approach for creating 3D visualizations of MRI data that work in these scenarios, as well as readily generalize to most other instances." Something wrong with the tenses here; would suggest: "Here I briefly detail a straight- forward approach for creating 3D visualizations of MRI data that works in these scenarios, and also readily generalizes to most other instances." Page 4. Section on obtaining and thresholding the images. Fine, but the procedure outlined here is pretty cumbersome, as the author admits! This procedure might be optimal for those who use SPM as their primary analysis tool, but the function included with FSL could achieve this in a single command-line entry. Maybe include a sentence saying something like "Other options for thresholding are available, such as the basic functions included with FSL." 