The article by Ehlers Ellrich qualitatively documents the first record of the Nucella lapillus purple morph on the east coast of Canada. The authors also relate the observations of this colour morph to temperature, suggesting that cooler temperatures may allow this colour morph to become more active outside of rock crevasses. I very much like this article. From my perspective, there are not enough outlets for basic biological observations such as this, which can serve as the basis for novel and important hypotheses. It is comforting to see F1000Research promoting observational records! I recommend that this observation be indexed once minor revisions are made to the article, which I highlight below: The authors state that temperatures on the date of observation (16 June 2016) were cool relative to 3 other sampling dates. However, temperature data is not presented for 16 June (but is presented for 12 June). I would suspect that the temperature data for 12 June is not an accurate representation of those on 16 June. This can be rectified by including HOBO logger data for 16 June (if the authors have it) or by utilizing historical sea surface temperatures from online databases (e.g. DFO, NOAA, GoSL, etc.). Aside from mentioning that some colour morphs are more sensitive to temperatures than others, the authors do not provide much in the way of context for why this species exhibits such tremendous variation in shell colour. What is the ecological and evolutionary benefit (or hindrance) of having such variation in shell colour? A brief mention of this in the introduction and/or discussion would be useful. Although temperature means and their errors are reported in the abstract, I’m not a fan of downloading 4 separate Excel files of temperature data. I would suggest including a single graph of 24 h temperature recordings (or a bar chart of temperature means +- SE) for each sampling date. This will help the reader visualize the differences in temperature between the date when purple morphs were observed and the dates they were not. I think the authors can add some more discussion points to the Results and Discussion section. Some specific suggestions are highlighted below: Some mention of the origin of purple morphs in eastern Canada would be nice. Do you think purple morphs have existed in eastern Canada for some time and were simply not observed until now? Or do you think this might be a consequence of ocean warming, with purple morphs moving to more northerly latitudes to avoid high temperatures? This is especially relevant given that the authors suggest that purple colour morphs do not fare well in higher temperatures. Some additional suggestions for future research are also warranted. For example, targeted sampling over a given time period in which temperatures vary might give a more quantitative understanding of N. lapillus colour morphs on the shores of Nova Scotia. Such a project would not only provide a quantitative description of N. lapillus colour morphs in eastern Canada (which is currently lacking), but could also inform on spatial and temporal overlaps in N. lapillus colour morphs and lend field evidence for behavioural responses to temperature (which would complement the authors’ suggestion of lab experiments well). Genetic testing could also provide evidence for the origin of these animals, advocating for or against a potential northward displacement in response to warming temperatures. 