Freeman et al. started an ambitious project by reporting meta-analyses on both the quality of life (QoL) and the cost of treatment of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) The overall conclusion confirms existing knowledge that progressing CKD is associated with a reduction in QoL and increasing costs. I have several concerns: To describe and analyse the QoL over all stages of kidney disease is a major undertaking. So is meta-analyzing the costs. The authors do not clearly describe why they decided to perform two meta-analyses and report it in one manuscript. In their manuscript, the authors in essence describe two meta-analyses. In clinical practice, and in governing healthcare, it is important to know the effects of a disease and its treatment on both QoL and costs. I miss a clear rationale for why both topics are presented combined in this manuscript. The manuscript reads like a manuscript on QoL and a second on costs. The authors do not make a clear connection between the two. I would invite the authors to better connect the two topics or consider writing two separate manuscripts, one focusing on QoL and one focusing on costs. The cut off date used for both analyses was May 2017. Both QoL of kidney patients and costs of kidney care are topics of major interest in recent years. Many studies have been published since. For a manuscript to be published in 2020, an update of the search is essential The literature was screened by a single independent reviewer. Reviewing by two reviewers is the accepted norm in meta-analyses. The authors do not provide a table stating the risks of bias in the studies analyzed (Prisma checklist item 12) In table 2 the authors provide an overview of the literature reported in both meta-analyses. In the first column the text is rotated 90 degrees, making this column illegible (on my laptop). In the current lay-out I can not read which studies are reviewed! It is difficult to summarize studies with different ways of staging CKD, using different measurement tools. The authors mainly describe the results of individual studies, both in the figures and in the text of the manuscript. Prisma guidelines suggest providing a summary and a synthesis of results (Prisma items 13,14). Not all studies selected use the standard KDIGO staging of CKD and not all use the same measures of QoL and costs. I would suggest a synthesis of results from those studies that do use the standard KDIGO classification of CKD and do use the same measures of QoL and costs. 