In this article, Vanderford, et al. examine the patterns of Individual Development Plans (IDP) usage and perceptions among biology and physics graduate students at U.S. universities. Given the increasing numbers of institutions that require IDPs for graduate students, the research questions posed in this article are timely and of potentially high impact. I recommend the following changes to the article: I strongly agree with the other reviewers that a key modification is to re-do the analysis, only considering those students who have experience completing an IDP, or to clarify if the study already followed this protocol. How do the demographic data (gender, race, ethnicity) compare with the eligible survey population? If the data differ from the eligible population, do you expect this to affect the results? It might be appropriate to add a brief section to the beginning of the results section describing the demographics of the data and a comment to the discussion about the caveats of an opt-in survey. (I believe this is what you are hinting at in the paragraph starting "We recognize that there are limitations..." but it could be stated more explicitly.) As the first reviewer, I did not always understand the denominators of the stated percentages. For example, do 37.4% of all respondents fill out an IDP with their advisor? Or 37.4% of those that are required to complete an IDP do so with their advisor? Please review the results section to clarify this and similar statements. Also, what fraction of students required to complete an IDP actually do it? And what fraction of students not required to complete an IDP do it? (Minor) The word "only" is used many times throughout the results section, which colors the interpretation of the results. I'd suggest keeping the results section more neutral, while saving the "only" statements for the discussion. (Minor) It might be worth noting that there is a two year gap in the 2014 postdoctoral study and the current study, so some of the increase in IDP usage may be due to an increase in usage over time. (Minor) What are the p-values of the reported differences in IDP effectiveness between males/females, physics/biology students? I found these in the Supplement, but they are worth mentioning in the main text or depicting on the figures/figure legends. (Minor) I appreciate the paragraph in the discussion about the changes to IDP structure. It may be worth commenting on the differences of IDP structure between institutions or individuals. My own experience with IDPs (Vincent, et al. 2015 Molecular Cell) didn't use the myIDP platform and may have influenced my perception of IDPs. I suspect I'm not alone. 