The manuscript aims at assessing the effect of infections by Trypanosoma vivax on the hematological parameters of N’dama and WASH (West African Short-horn) cattle, raised in two natural environments in Ghana. The purpose is to highlight the trypanotolerant character of these breeds. Major comments: The article suffers from several major problems and is not suited for indexing. The bibliography is quite incomplete: major papers written by Trail et al 1 - 2 and Mattioli et al 3 - 4 are not cited. These authors worked on N’Dama cattle raised in Congo and Gambia respectively and on the relationships between productivity, anemia and infections. Mattioli et al 1998 (Acta Tropica) showed that N’Dama cattle suffered from high tse-tse challenge. Trail et al 1994 showed that N’dama infected by trypanosomes had lower PCV values and lower weight gain than non-infected N’Dama. In addition, an experimental infection published by Berthier et al (2015) 5 , presented anemia evolution in 5 cattle breeds of West Africa under T. congolense infection and show of N’Dama and WASH were less anemiated than Zebu Fulani and Borgou. The experimental design presented in the article does not bring robust elements on anemia control during T. vivax infection and on the comparison between N’Dama and WASH. There is not any susceptible breed that could be compared to N’Dama and WASH. It is thus not possible to know if the T. vivax strains are highly pathogenic or not. Since N’Dama and WASH are not raised in the same area under the same agro-ecological context, it is not possible to compare these two breeds. Because only 4 and 7 animals were positive to T. vivax PCR, an Anova cannot be used. Only a non-parametric test can be used. Other comments: The article of Bouyer et al (2015) 6 must be cited in the introduction concerning control method. I do not agree with the sentence “past and current control methods are limited”: the use of trypanocide drugs may be useful and efficient when their usage is adapted to the context (environment and breeding system). In the table I and II and in the text, the terms “positive in T. vivax PCR” and “negative in T. vivax PCR” must be used instead of infected or uninfected. Indeed, PCR has a sensitivity around 75-80% and thus some animals considered as negative in PCR may be infected. In the discussion, the authors propose to incorporate routine diagnosis and treatment. But the problem is that there is not any routine diagnosis, since parasitological methods have a very low sensitivity, and PCR and serology require a well-equipped laboratory with well-trained technicians. Farmers need the support of farmer’s organization and from veterinary public service. The notion of “reservoirs” due to trypanotolerant cattle has never been clearly investigated. Finally, the raise of trypanotolerant breeds is important in some agro-ecological context, where tsetse challenge is high and in low input systems. In some areas, only trypanotolerant breed can survive. 