This observational study sought to determine the incidence and severity of hypopnea or apnea on the first night after surgery, in patients who did not have a diagnosis of OSA undergoing elective laparoscopic bariatric surgery. They monitored 45 patients with a portable polygraphy during the first postoperative night. They report that oxygen desaturation and short episodes of desaturation occurred in some patients, but there were few patients with an AHI or ODI greater than five. They conclude that respiratory monitoring for low risk patients on the general ward provides little additional information. Although this is an interesting study, this manuscript can be improved by providing more details in the Methods and Results. In the Introduction, the authors state that they wished to assess risk factors associated with hypopnea or apnea and desaturation. However, the presence of co-morbidities is not mentioned and there is no analysis of the risk factors that were associated with the patients that experienced desaturation/apnea/hypopnea. The questionnaire that was used to determine the risk of OSAS is indicated to be Epworth Sleepiness scale. The validation of this scale to screen for sleep apnea is relatively modest. It is not clear whether patients with obstructive sleep apnea are excluded from the study after use of questionnaire. Is sleep apnea one of the exclusion criteria of the study? The results of the questionnaire to determine risk of OSAS should be reported, it is unclear whether the patients who participated in the study were at low risk or may be at risk or have undiagnosed OSAS. The definition of apnea/hypopnea should be stated. The explanation for the sample size should be added. The number of patients receiving oxygen on the ward should be added, especially as it is mentioned in the methods section that patients received oxygen supplementation postoperatively. In Tables 1 and 2, the authors compare gastric bypass vs. sleeve gastrectomy, however, the authors have not stated whether they expected a difference between these 2 groups. There are some grammatical errors in the manuscript. 