First of all, please allow me to congratulate the authors for attempting to undertake this project which I found very interesting and of valuable additional knowledge. The manuscript itself is well-written and well-structured and I have to also commend the authors for this matter. However, I may require some clarifications on the following issues: Paper is well organized and easy to follow. Novelty is sufficient and high impact. To improve the readability, It is recommended that the text is checked by a native English speaking person as many of the sentences might be misunderstood. I suggest a revision of the grammar structures by an expert editor in revising manuscripts. Abstract: Please add the p value used for ANOVA and Tukey HSD (p0.05) add homogenity and normality test p-value used (p0.05) in the abstract section Please add the exact p value obtained after the statistic analysis. (p=.....). There is a minor mistake in keyword: orthodontic orthodontic tooth movement. It would be better to choose the keyword according the MeSH. Introduction : Please add your hypothesis Please add the statement or sentence about is there any similar studies have been done before or not? or your study is the first study who investigate this topic The Introduction section is OK. It would be better if you mentioned why you only examine the TGF-Beta only in this study? It would be better add the reason why you choose the genistein instead of others natural active compound? Material and Methods: It would better if you add the detail protocol or cite the protocol reference how to make or obtain the genistein It would better if you add the reason why you choose 50 gram force to deliver the orthodontics tooth movement? please state what kind of force 50gf (light force or heavy force). Please add the detail about the healthy condition of animal model, how to examine the condition of animal model? did you get a help from veterinarian? please state Please explain how to purify the isolated GCF from animal study? how to minimize the GCF contamination and the bias? The author mentioned "During GCF collection all animals were sedated" please add the detail protocol how you sedated the animal study. In this study, the author perfomed the ANOVA and Tukey HSD. It would be better if the author also describe the Levene's and Shapiro Wilk test. Results: It would be better to understand and attract the reader if you present the data in the diagrams. Please add the result of Levene's and Shapiro Wilk test. Please indicate whether the difference is significant or not in your graph/ diagrams as well, using some symbols (asteric). Discussion : Discussion of the results is quite comprehensive. In analyzing the results, the authors also show citations from the previous study to support the explanation of these results. The answer to the hypothesis of this study have been included at the beginning of the discussion section. Please mention the limitation of this study in the discussion section. References : The supporting references are OK and adequate. 