 How to define “early detection of the risk factors” when conceptualizing the paper. The “proper practice guidelines” were listed as part of the objective, however, it hasn't been discussed and described thoroughly in the manuscript. The year of publication was limited to 2011-2018. There are couples of new studies 2019-2020, why such studies were not included? The literatures searching were performed through a combination of indexing databases and journal databases, with majority of the searching were done through journal databases. Why was such a searching done? It is advisable to the author to search through the indexing databases rather than the journal databases. By which, the results obtained through the searching on these limited numbers of journal databases is incomplete. The search term is quite diversified, ‘risk factor of stroke’, ‘post-stroke’, ‘recurrent stroke’, ‘stroke prevention’, ‘detection’, ‘digital sensor’, ‘non-invasive’, and ‘nursing’.” Not sure why nursing was used as part of the search term. Whilst the title involves quality of care, and such term was not included as part of the search term? The article would be much more comprehensive if the author can include the risk factors such as “hypertension”, “diabetes”, etc. as part of the search term. Figure 1 shows the process of screening. It is advisable that the author should include the items that have been excluded in Figure 1. It has no meaning to input the number as n=43, without telling the reader why it is excluded. I found these sentences very confusing “The search process resulted in 92 articles which matched the keywords. These articles were then filtered according to full text and publication year between 2011 – 2018 which resulted in 49 articles. These 49 articles were then reviewed based on titles matching the use of digital sensors (non-invasive) for early detection of risk factors for recurrent stroke and resulted in 16 articles. Finally, these 16 articles were filtered based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, (see below) and resulted in 10 articles. The search process on the databases is shown in Figure 1.” If there are 92 articles that matched the keywords, shouldn’t all the 92 articles being screen through the inclusion/exclusion criteria? Why the author needs to review the title that matched with digital sensors, then screen the title based in the inclusion/exclusion criteria? The inclusion criteria of study design: Randomized Controlled Trial, meta-analysis, cohort study, survey and case report. However, “experimental” has been used in Table 1. Thus, it is not sure whether experimental work is referring to survey/case report/ any other types of study design. To increase the transparency of the quality assessments, the information of Critical Appraisal Skills Program (CSAP) should be appended as supplementary files. Please elaborate more on “Ten articles were analyzed through data extraction.” The meta-analysis has been used as the inclusion criteria for the study. How many meta-analysis papers have been included in the analysis so far? Shouldn’t the meta-analysis paper being excluded from the analysis? Nursing intervention has been used as the exclusion criteria for the study, but the search term “nursing” has been used in the literature searching. It is contradicting. Are digital sensors the same as digital devices? Are they interchangeable? Any differences between them? As illustrated by the author, blood pressure measurement device has been used to monitor their hypertension status. Such deficiencies have led to the development of a blood pressure measurement device that utilizes automatic measurement features. …..It is easy to use, only requiring a finger tap and the sensor will automatically measure the blood pressure with a sensitivity matching the user’s condition. Measurement of blood pressure through such a digital sensor also offers advantage that it enables the patient to monitor his own blood pressure at any time18. The author is describing only the digital sensors/digital device for BP monitoring? Please elaborate more on “Therefore, a device to detect cholesterol levels through a digital sensor which is pain-free with rapid and accurate results is currently being developed15.” As for the biosensors, have they been verified clinically? Or they are still in the stages of clinical trials? It would be of great interest for the clinicians and researchers, if the author could include the biosensors which have been verified clinically. Otherwise, the findings of this systematic review need to be analyzed with caution. 