This paper shows the correlation between good quality of life and social capital and some factors like gender, income, and accessibility to health services. It is an analysis of the situation of Northeast of Thailand that can inform policy needs for the community. However, it is worth to point out the following: The “Introduction” is not comprehensive enough to understand the context, especially for readers outside Thailand. Census information on the population (the Northeast of Thailand, paragraph 2) should be more concise and specific for the denotation like “It is the poorest region in the country.” Also, it would be much more convincing if studies are provided to support statements like "many of Northeastern migrate to work in other regions and overseas. Many of them usually leave family members to include the elderly at home." For status like "there have been limited studies on SC among the Northeasterners and its association with QOL," it is expected that to quote a few (like one or two) of these studies and pointed out their relevance to the topic. The conclusion is sound, and the figures are clearly stated and shown. However, discussion into the context will be necessary — for example, demographic statistics (Table 1. Characteristics of participants in the Northeast of Thailand) shows that the percentage of employed participants that work as "Government servant" is very high, 13.85% out of the total population, it is more than one-quarter of the employed population. In Table 4 (Multivariate analysis for factors associated with good quality of life (QOL) using GLMMT), employment status was not shown as a factor associated with good quality of life. Since "Government servant" is the second largest industry among the survey population, just after agriculture, it would be worth to add some observation over the employment issues even the cross-sectional data analysis shows that employment stats is not significant. Demographic data shows that the studied area has a unique market structure, and the paper needs to elaborate if the result could be applied to the rest of Thailand or some other middle-income developing 's countries. 