The authors provide a molecular investigation of a familial hypomagnesaemia using whole exome sequencing in a consanguineous family from Oman. A novel missense mutation in the TRPM6 gene at homozygous state has been identified in the index patient. A bioinformatic analysis using a modelling approach was performed to explain the pathogenic effect of the novel mutation. General comments: The authors have to provide the OMIM numbers of the diseases reported in the manuscript. The version of the human genome used for read alignment and annotation also has to be mentioned. The status of the identified mutation “novel or new” is only provided in the abstract and the conclusion. Is this family the first one reported with the disease from Oman? The result section drastically lacks details. In addition, details on the methods and tools used during this study have to be provided. Please divide the “Methods” section into sub-sections: Example: Whole Exome Sequencing, WES data analysis, Homozygosity mapping, TRMP6 ortholog alignment, Structural modelling … Specific comments: Question: Are enough details provided of any physical examination and diagnostic tests, treatment given and outcomes? Reviwer’s comment: Clinical description of the parents are lacking as it is mandatory to explain why heterozygous siblings show a moderate phenotype and therefore, helps the interpretation of the genetic results. Are the parents also showing abnormal level of magnesium ? Question: Is sufficient discussion included of the importance of the findings and their relevance to future understanding of disease processes, diagnosis or treatment? Reviwer’s comment: Familial hypomagnesaemia (OMIM#602014) is a genetic autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the TRPM6 gene in homozygous or compound heterozygous state. The authors identified a novel missense mutation at homozygous state in the index patient. The parents and the sister and brother were heterozygous. In the absence of the precise clinical description of the parents, the finding of the expression of some clinical symptoms in the brother and sister harboring the mutation at the heterozygous state is not consistent with the autosomal recessive transmission mode of the disease. Therefore, are the parents completely healthy or are they showing some hypomagnesaemia? The authors state that no adults heterozygous for TRPM6 mutations have been reported showing abnormal serum magnesium levels. Is this statement supported by any biochemical dosages in the parents of the studied family? As heteroygous carriers with moderate expression of an autosomal recessive disease have been reported in a consanguineous population (Mokni et al 1 ) the authors have to provide further clinical details of the parents and reformulate their hypothesis. Moreover, as the authors performed a whole exome sequencing, they have access to the completed catalogue of coding variants of the patient. Is the patient harboring other variants of functional effects in the TRPM6 gene and/other candidate genes? in modifier genes? Are these variants present in the brother and sister that help explaining their phenotypes? Lainez et al 2 , reported a patient with a TRPM6 heterozygous mutation with familial hypomagnesaemia. They explained the phenotype by the presence of a variant, that when combined with the pathogenic mutation, drastically decreases the magnesium level. They supported they statement with functional assay. Therefore, the authors are invited to perform again the bioinformatic analysis of variant annotation and filtering. Consequently, both the result and discussion sections have to be revised. 