This article is a brief essay that qualitatively describes how adaptation to a particular orientation in visual cortex may lead to changes in the orientation preferences of the cell population (and therefore the orientation preference maps). The description is purely qualitative, with no model presented, so it is hard to assess what contribution this makes to the literature. I had to read the two full papers cited by the authors to make any sense of this essay (by the way, those papers were worth the read). It is no surprise that adaptation at a particular orientation influences different cortical cells in different ways. Crowder et al . established that around 25% of cortical neurons adapt strongly even to orthogonal orientations that do not induce spiking in the recorded cell's themselves. Therefore, it is very well established that the cortical population has a wide range of adaptive characteristics, which will all contribute. It is also very well established that cortical columns are interconnected, so adaptation in one area is likely to influence other areas. Hietanen et al . also showed that the way cells adapt depends on where they are located in the orientation preference map. What is new about this article? Some specific issues. The authors state "After adaptation protocol, neurons typically show two types of behavioural shift patterns: attraction and repulsion." This is a gross simplification. In fact there is a complex change in the response gain control mechanisms and very selective changes in the coding of most visual parameters. For example, contrast gain control changes the relationship between spike rate and stimulus contrast. Attractive and repulsive shifts in orientation tuning then lead on from these fundamental changes in the cell's responses based on the input from multiple cells in the population. No simple qualitative concept can capture this in a rigorous way without a mathematical model. The authors state: "Some neurons refract the adapter and do not change their selectivity". What does it mean to "refract" the adapter? The authors state "Many reports (Bachatene et al. , 2013; Jia et al. , 2010; Wertz et al. , 2015) have shown and suggested that neuronal dendrites contain synapses corresponding to all the orientations." Care is needed here. There may be differences between mouse (with no orientation columns in V1) and cat cortex (which has orientation columns), so its difficult to generalise. I believe that extreme caution required in this paragraph. On an editorial note, the essay needs a solid edit throughout, starting with the first sentence. In particular, the authors need to put articles where they are needed and remove them from where they are not. 