This paper reports a psychometric validation of a new measure to assess cultural needs of Māori with traumatic brain injury. It is an important piece of research that has embedded engagement with local Māori communities and their specific social and cultural context at the heart of designing the new measure. It draws on qualitative methods to generate items that are then rigorously tested using Rach analysis techniques, presenting a very thoughtful and through piece of research, which has clear practical application. This type of translational research could make a significant contribution to closing gaps in service provision and shaping new developments for clinical services that meet the needs of their service users including minority groups. There are a number of other specific strengths to this work including a very clear introduction of the Rasch analysis techniques that are described well for an audience less familiar with these approaches; and the inclusion of the raw data file as well as copies of the questionnaire items in an open access format for readers to view. Additionally, the comprehensive dataset without any missing data, which must have taken a considerable effort to collect. Below are a few aspects that could be addressed as means of improving the paper further: The characteristics of the sample could be expanded upon. More specifically, it is stated that participants self-reported whether or not they had experienced a traumatic brain injury (TBI). It is not clear about the severity of these injuries and, for some, the TBI was only ‘possible’. I think more clarity on how this was assessed would be useful and I wonder if ‘head injury’ might be more accurate than ‘TBI’, especially if there is no medical evidence to support a head injury leading to a TBI in all cases. If this further data could be gathered and TBI diagnoses established this would considerably enhance the validity of the results reported in this paper in relation to TBI. Variables such as time post injury may moderate responses to the measure and so would also be useful contextual information. The sample size would allow for a secondary analysis on only participants with a confirmed diagnosis of TBI. Alternatively, a clinical sample of people using TBI health services could be recruited to test the reliability of the results. Although the supplementary file provides some further details about the qualitative component of the initial development of the items, some more information would be useful within the paper itself. For example, the content of the initial interviews and the characteristics of the people including in the focus groups. Similarly, further details about the methods of recruiting participants to answer the questionnaire would help the reader to understand the context relating to the sample selected to validate the measure. Details about the four subscales are described in the results section but I would have liked to have read this information earlier in the methods section, when the questionnaire is introduced. I wonder if the reader may benefit from a glossary so that they can more easily understand words that they are unfamiliar with. For example, in Table 1. I could not find reference to a Rasch analysis of the questionnaire as a whole. It might be worth adding that the psychometric properties of the subscales were explored individual because responses to the questionnaire as a whole did not meet the requirements of the Rasch model. In the analysis of the ‘time’ subscale a relatively large subgroup were removed from the analysis. I would be interested in understanding more about the characteristics of this subgroup. The low internal consistency (PSI) for the ‘time’ subscale may indicate that it is measuring a number of underlying constructs. Did you perform a Rasch factor analysis to explore whether it is best divided into two dimensions? In figure 1 there seems to be two clusters of items. Only one of which is well targeted to the sample. As a general point, the questionnaire as it stands is very long and the exploration of psychometric properties of the items individually provides an opportunity to select the ‘best’ items to contribute to the measure of several underlying constructs. From looking at Figures 1 and 3, for example, there seems to be a number of items where they is a consensus of endorsement – are these items best removed because they do not contribute to separating out any of the abilities of the persons in the sample? In the discussion the clinical implications are rightly addressed. This measure could be very useful for establishing people’s cultural preferences and values. However, I question whether there is likely to be change on the constructs measured as values are more likely to be disposition and not so strongly related to state, unless moderated by factors such as outlook on life more generally. I believe this is, however, scope for future research. Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper, which describes a mixed methods approach that have enormous potential for creating valid, reliably and appropriate measure for using in rehabilitation after head injury/TBI. 