The interaction of different pathogens in an infected individual is a fascinating subject, but, in general, poorly understood. For the most part, it is thought that infection with one pathogen facilities the replication and pathogenesis of another. An example of this is the clear and long standing link between human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and development of severe disease related to MTB mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) infection. What is interesting of MTB infection are the concepts of predisposing or preexisting infection other than HIV linked to MTB (for example, the widespread respiratory pathogen influenza.) In this article, the authors outline intriguing lines of converging evidence detailing the possible association of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and MTB infection, suggesting that HCMV infection is a relevant factor in the incidence of MTB disease. The evidence presented rests largely on epidemiological findings involving age distribution and congruent risk factors. There is an interesting link between the incidence of MTB in early life and adolescence that mirrors acquisition of HCMV either during pregnancy/post partum or by sexual contact in adolescence. Several congruent risk factors are discussed. However, the authors concede that these factors could be applicable to many widespread opportunistic pathogens, including HCMV. Overall, the argument presented based on epidemiological evidence is compelling and the possible link between HCMV and MTB infection should be investigated further. Indeed, the authors should have done more to highlight very resent work from one of their laboratories on this topic. This study, mentioned in the opening paragraphs, shows a clear association of the presence of T cells recognizing HCMV and an increased risk of MTB disease early in life. What is especially interesting about this study is the possibility that development of MTB disease is related to the impairment of NK cell function. Much recent work in HCMV pathogenesis by Wilkinson and colleagues has highlighted the many and diverse mechanisms that HCMV employs to evade NK cells. It is interesting to consider that HCMV evasion of the immune response to infection is directly related to development of MTB disease. Other points surrounding mechanisms linking HCMV and MTB infection are also unclear. The authors mention that the lung may be a reservoir for HCMV. However, this is based on studies in mice using murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV). The pathology of MCMV does not accurately mirror that of HCMV. Thus, more compelling evidence relating the presence of HCMV in the lung with disease must be presented. Based on the data discussed above, co-incident infection of HCMV and MTB in lung tissue may not be required for disease, but, perhaps, modulation of the immune system. Finally, the authors consider therapeutic intervention. They highlight the sterling work of Picker and colleagues using rhesus cytomegalovirus (RhCMV) as a vaccine vector. These studies have shown that in non-human primates a RhCMV-MTB vaccine candidate can offer notable protection against challenge with MTB. It must be noted, however, that there is currently no widely available HCMV vaccine and it is unclear if vaccines based on HCMV in humans will offer similar protection to those based on RhCMV in non-human primates. It may be some time before viable HCMV based vaccines are available. In the short term it may be better to peruse the other suggestion the authors make, which is to trial the use of anti-HCMV drugs in patients with MTB. 