I think this paper excellent and is an important addition to the literature. I really like the conceptualization of a self-replicating cycle as it illustrates the concept that the “problem” starts with the neuron, i.e., due to one or more of a variety of insults, the neuron is negatively impacted and releases H1, which in turn activates microglia with over expression of cytokines that may, when limited, foster repair but when activated becomes chronic (as is demonstrated here with the potential of cyclic H1 release) and thus facilitates neurotoxicity. I hope the authors intend to measure cytokine expression soon, especially IL-1 and TNF in both astrocytes and microglia, and S100B in astrocytes. 02/08/2013 - additional comments In more detail, Gilthorpe and colleagues provide novel experimental data that demonstrate a new role for a specific histone protein—the linker histone, H1—in neurodegeneration. This study, which was originally designed to identify axonal chemorepellents, actually provided a previously unknown role for H1, as well as other novel and thought provoking results. Fortuitously, as sometimes happens, the authors had a pleasant surprise: their results set some old dogmas on their respective ears and opened up new avenues of approach for studying the role of histones in self-amplification of neurodegenerative cycles. In point, they show that H1 is not just a nice little partner of nuclear DNA as previously thought. H1 is released from ‘damaged’ (or leaky) neurons, kills adjacent healthy neurons, and promotes a proinflammatory profile in both microglia and astrocytes. Interestingly, the authors’ conceptualization of a damaged neuron → H1 release → healthy neuron killing cycle does not take into account the H1-mediated proinflammatory glial response. This facet of the study opens for these investigators a new avenue they may wish to follow: the role of H1 in stimulation of neuroinflammation with overexpression of cytokines. This is interesting, as neuronal injury has been shown to set in motion an acute phase response that activates glia, increases their expression of cytokines (interleukin-1 and S100B), which, in turn, induce neurons to produce excess Alzheimer-related proteins such as βAPP and ApoE (favoring formation of mature Aβ/ApoE plaques), activated MAPK-p38 and hyperphosphorylated tau (favoring formation of neurofibrillary tangles), and α synuclein (favoring formation of Lewy bodies). To date, the neuronal response shown responsible for stimulating glia is neuronal stress related release of sAPP, but these H1 results from Gilthorpe and colleagues may contribute to or exacerbate the role of sAPP.