In this paper Kindy M et al ., for Genervon have conducted a Phase 2A randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled pilot trial of GM604 in patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Genervon discovered an endogenous embryonic stage regulator of the human nervous system named Motoneuronotrophic Factor (MNTF). GM604 is a peptide with a sequence identical to one of the active sites of human motoneuronotrophic factor (MNTF)7. MNTF is an endogenous human embryonic stage neural regulatory and signaling peptide that controls the development, monitoring and correction of the human nervous system. Genervon has taken advantage of these functional attributes of MNTF peptide, termed GM604, in this paper as a potential therapy for ALS. GM6 has been modeled upon an insulin receptor tyrosine kinase binding motoneuronotrophic factor within the developing central nervous system. GM604 modulates many ALS-associated genes, promoting decreased expression of superoxide dismutase (SOD1), repression of genes associated with the intrinsic apoptosis pathway, and increased expression of genes associated with mitosis and cell division. This study relates to a 2-center phase 2A, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot trial with 12 definite ALS patients who were diagnosed within 2 years of disease onset. During the trial, patients received 6 doses of GM604 or placebo, administered as slow IV bolus injections (3x/week, 2 consecutive weeks). The main objectives of this Phase 2A trial were to assess the safety and efficacy of GM604 based on ALSFRS-R, FVC and selected biomarkers (TDP-43, Tau and SOD1, pNFH). In addition, this clinical trial was also extended to a compassionate inclusion and treatment protocol GALS-C for an advanced ALS patient. Thus, this protocol includes patients with early onset of ALS and 1 advanced ALS patient. In this study, definite ALS patients were randomized to one of two treatment groups (GM604, n = 8; placebo, n = 4). During the trial, 2 of 8 GM604-treated patients exhibited mild rash, but otherwise adverse event frequency was similar in treated and placebo groups. GM604 slowed functional decline (ALSFRS-R) when compared to a historical control (P = 0.005). At one study site, a statistically significant difference between treatment and control groups was found when comparing changes in respiratory function (FVC) between baseline and week 12 (P = 0.027). GM604 decreased plasma levels of key ALS biomarkers relative to the placebo group (TDP-43, P = 0.008; Tau, P = 0.037; SOD1, P = 0.009). SOD-1 showed considerable reduction in plasma, with increased levels in placebo arm. Percentage change in plasma total tau was significantly decreased, approximately -28% below baseline (p=0.0369 95% at week 6 (visit 7) after active GM604 treatment compared to placebo. Percentage change in slope by treatment interaction in plasma TDP-43 from baseline (visit 1) through to week 12 (visit 8) was -34% in the GM604 treated group and +6% in the placebo group (p=00078 95% CI). The p-value of 0.0078 indicates a significant difference in slopes between GM604 and placebo up to week 12. The advanced ALS patient in compassionate treatment demonstrated improved speech, oral fluid consumption, mouth suction with GM604 treatment and biomarker improvements. Comments : First, although the trial was small in nature with the inclusion of only 12 patients (8 in the treatment arm, and 4 in the placebo arm), it clearly demonstrates that the drug GM604 is completely safe to use, with only minor adverse events that could be clinically managed. The trial has been very well managed, scrutinized, clinically and experimentally planned/executed, along with thorough experimentation for the analysis of biomarkers. The statistical analysis within the realm of the study is to-the-point, and the statistical assessments of plasma and CSF-derived biomarker data between baseline and treatment time points is rigorous. Overall, there is also a considerable experimental rigor in the study, and provides an unbiased view point of safety, coupled with the modulation of gene expression in response to the drug. The procedures for measuring ALSFRS efficacy measurements that include FVC, TUG, HHD, etc. have been performed with clinical rigor. Second, the trial also clearly demonstrates that the genes involved in ALS, and the biomarkers of the disease (TDP-43, Tau, SOD-1) showed favourable expression shift upon treatment with GM604, suggesting the genes being its possible targets. This also shows the evidence that the GM604 was able to alter the expression of certain ALS genes and its biomarkers in the positive direction, an evidence not shown before with any drug in the market for ALS treatment. Although improved functional measurements during the Phase 2A study and in advanced ALS patient were observed, they failed to meet statistical significance. A larger trial is needed in the light of these findings. It is also understandable from the authors point of view that the clinical improvement measures in ALS are highly variable and difficult to achieve with a drug that is mechanistically different, acting on gene modulation. In addition, most drug trialled for ALS encounter the same problem, and the drug GM604 not only concurs with other drugs, but also is in line with the natural progression and history of the disease. One significant advantage GM604 offers is the multi-target effect, which none of the ALS drugs have achieved. Thus, it is likely that with repeated use of GM604, which modulates gene expression, patients will start showing improvement once the function of the impaired genes, involved in ALS, is restored to their normal function. In the CSF, there were suggestive trends with no statistically significant changes in CSF biomarker levels. SOD1 levels decreased at week 6 (visit 7) following treatment with GM604, but increased following placebo treatment. Total CSF tau was decreased after end of week 2 (visit 6, nal dose) of active treatment with GM604. Tau increased following placebo treatment. Cystatin C increased after end of week 2 (visit 6, nal dose) and week 12 (visit 8) following treatment with GM604, and was decreased following placebo treatment. These are positive and very interesting indications at the gene expression of these highly ALS-related biomarkers. What other genes authors encountered alongside these biomarkers? This is key in unravelling functionally-related genes. At the level of gene analysis, I believe authors have done an excellent job with the key ALS genes in plasma and CSF compartments but more functional analysis of genes is needed that can guide us towards the genes that are mechanistically related to the ones authors have analysed, and the genes that fit in the bigger schema of neurodegeneration. Overall comments : It is a tightly controlled study with logical set of clinical and experimental parameters. Interesting to note is the multi-target nature of GM604, which has not been shown by any other drug for ALS. Mechanistically, the drug is tentative but larger clinical trials can evaluate a more precise mechanism. The way it stands currently, it is clear that this neuromodulator acts on a large number of genes that are involved in neurodegeneration, therefore a clear definition of genes and pathways is needed to address its precise mechanism. It also appears likely its utility in other neurodegenerative diseases. The clinical improvement scores were minimal and transitory, but this is expected and is in line with clinical history of patients, duration of the study (12 weeks), and the nature of ALS disease as such. As the drug works on gene expression, more time is needed for improvement in clinical scores, along with repeated use. Overall, authors have provided an excellent discussion in relation to previously published studies and this study is unique and exhaustive in terms of assessments of various clinical and experimental parameters. All in all, a bigger study is warranted to conclude on statistical improvement in clinical parameters, in addition to involving more exhaustive panoply of genes that can critically demonstrate the relationship with biomarkers SOD-1, Tau, TDP-43 and Cystatin, etc. This is critical! 