Markus Knipp et al applied a repertoire of biophysical and computational techniques to provide insight into the unique structural features of NP7, a transporter nitrophorin. The study also highlighted the differences with other nitrophorins and unraveled a likely mechanism for NO migration and exit in NP7, which represents advancement in the understanding of nitrophorins. This is a nice, elaborate piece of work that triggers the mind in many ways. The article will read better and assume greater significance if the following issues can be addressed: The second sentence (line 3) in the Abstract should be modified as Besides its ability to bind to phospholipid membranes, the N-terminus of NP7, a member of the NO transporter nitrophorin family , contains otherwise the in that sentence does not make any sense. Moreover, placing NP7 in this sentence also introduces the target protein to the reader better, than mentioning it later. Without such an introduction of the subject of the study, the beginning of the abstract reads pretty abrupt and can be difficult for readers to grasp, unless they come back to it after reading the Introduction. How does one ensure that NO stays bound to heme iron in the crystal structures of NPs, given the photoreduction and the fact that Fe(II) might have altered affinity for NO than Fe(III)? The fact that the electron density could not be fit with a single configuration of NO indicates that NO is only partially bound, which means that the crystals contain a mixture of liganded and unliganded states? Does such mixed population influence conclusions about structural features? A sentence in this regard could be added in the relevant section in the manuscript to dispel doubts. Since the authors solved the crystal structures of NP7 at low (5.8) and high pH (7.8) and in NO-bound form, for MD simulations these structures could be used to model the molecular systems rather than using NP4 structures. Alternatively, the models obtained from NP4 could be compared with the crystal structures. Clarification would help readers. Since the liganded and unliganded structures are similar, is it safe to assume that the structure of NP7 is not adapted to regulate ligand binding, but rather acts as a reservoir for NO storage suitably endowed with tunnels and cavities for the NO release as and when required, with dependence on pH only? A line of discussion would help. Finally, as a future perspective, a crystal structure of the mutant of NP7 (with extra N-terminal residues deleted), both in unliganded and liganded forms, might help to validate the rational hypothesis laid down in the paper. I congratulate the authors on the wonderful manuscript. 