This work presents a study about the biocuration community and its literature-based curation practices. The work intends to identify pain points and commonalities in the curation workflow where ePMC infrastructure could work to assist this community. The study includes the detailed observation of 5 curation groups following their regular literature curation work and a survey targeted to the biocuration community to learn about the literature-based curation tasks. The approach is appropriate and well designed. However, it seems that the curation groups observed are biased toward protein/gene-centric curation, whereas there are other workflows, such as those for model organisms, chemicals, that may have a completely different approach to the literature curation. In fact, some model organism databases (like MGI) first do triage to select articles about the organism, then classify articles based on specific curation topics (phenotype, GO, etc). Then the conclusion from their workflow analysis could be different. Has anything come up from the survey indicating that other groups were represented in this work? For example, in the survey there is a question about database resource “Which data resource(s) do you curate?” But the result of this, which is important to learn about the databases represented, is not shown in the survey result document. I understand that the information in the survey result may be hidden to protect privacy of participants but showing the distribution of databases and/or type of databases represented (model organism vs. specific domain, like structure, PPI, etc) can shed light into bias or non-bias toward one type of curation. Another question is about the groups observed. In the introduction, a couple of groups are mentioned that have integrated text mining pipelines in their curation work. It would be important for the study to indicate if any of the curation groups that were observed or curators surveyed used text mining tools for their work, or to include some group in observation study that do use text mining to see in what capacity and if bottlenecks in literature curation are the same. The manuscript would be enriched by describing previous work done on this area (biocuration workflows and bottlenecks in literature curation) and compare the conclusions in this manuscript with others. There are a few papers from BioCreative that looked into this matter. 1 , 2 , 3 Finally, please consider using the term expert curation instead of manual curation. I think using the concept of manual curation in databases is not appropriate for modern times, as curators use tools to help them do all or part of their work, is not completely manual. Minor: Figures 2-5 should indicate number of participants who responded to the questions over total number of survey participants. The X-axis in Figures 3-4 need a label, same with Y-axis in Figure 5. 