This well-structured and nicely written paper demonstrates that the combinations of certain industrially relevant phenotypic properties of S. cerevisiae and S. kudriavzevii in strains of chimerical genomes comprised of different proportions of their gene pools (referred to as hybrids by the authors) cannot be simply attributed to differential expression of orthologous gene pairs assumed to be involved in the determination of those traits. The transcriptomic experiments were well designed and performed, and correctly interpreted. As genes involved in the general translational machinery were identified among those overexpressed in strains with higher fermentation efficiency at low temperature, the authors compared the sensitivity of the strains to paromomycin, an agent that inhibits translation by binding to rRNA. The S. kudriavzevii laboratory strain (the parents of the chimerical strains are unknown) and the chimerical strain more active at the lower temperature were more resistant to the inhibitor. This finding was interpreted as indicating that their cells had higher numbers of ribosomes (to be inhibited by the drug) because of more active translation. This explanation is quite reasonable, but it should be mentioned in the Discussion that the increased resistance might also be due to mutations that make the RNA molecules of S. kudriavzevii less sensitive to the drug or impair its uptake at lower temperatures. Numerous paromomycin-resistant Saccharomyces mutants have been described in the literature 1 - 4 . In Kluyveromyces lactis, a membrane transporter specific for paromomycin was found 5 . In Leishmania, the major mechanism of paromomycin resistance was found to be due to decreased drug uptake 6 , 7 . The possibility that cold-sensitive mutations can also be involved in the different responses to paromomycin should be taken into consideration (and then refuted if the authors have good counterarguments) because all strains show the same growth intensity outside the inhibition zones at 12 C in Fig. 1. 