The authors proposed and evaluated the influence of reduce sequencing effort (amount of sequences) for a whole metagenome shotgun analysis, using the Illumina platform, in the species composition and diversity index of the communities studied. Although the idea and hypothesis are good, some problems were found in the experimental design and data analysis. According to the questions proposed in the peer review form, it is not a new method, only the adaptation of a current methodology to optimize the cost and increase the potential numbers of samples analyzed per run of Illumina platform. Although the introduction is clearly explained, the reasons for use shotgun sequencing, mainly to analyze viruses data and functional data for all the organism, no emphasis on such points was done in the results and discussion. The samples used (vaccines, horse fecal samples and food samples) and the introduction remark the detection of pathogens as the main objective of the approach used, including viruses, which can not be screened by amplicons approaches, like metabarcoding sequencing. I suggest adapting the text and manuscript to focus on pathogens (mainly viruses) found along the sub-samples taken for each sample. At that point, some contaminated samples (or not contaminated samples mixed with known amounts DNA from pathogen viruses) have to be used to determine the lowest pathogen concentration that could be detected for each shotgun sequencing coverage proposed. Many problems were found with the methodology employed, mainly the parameters used in each step and/or software employed for data filtering and analysis, which are critical for the results, which can have strong variations depending of the parameters used. Hence, the methodology proposed does not allow any replication of the method used. Moreover, there are some mistakes for species designation in the study, with at least 2508 species found in vaccine samples indicating big problems along read filtering and data analysis, because this number of species is often found in more complex systems, such as soils samples from agricultural fields. Moreover, go to species classification using some taxonomical markers, such ITS or 16SrRNA, is risky with sequences lower than 400 bp, and sometimes with bigger sequences. In the current manuscript, the use of non taxonomical marker sequences and 150 bp lengths increase enormously the number of sequences not correctly assigned to species level, and in several cases also for higher taxonomical levels (genus, family...). Therefore, I suggest to clarify how the species assignment was done, because it looks like that each gene-species was considered as one species, and each gene found for a single species was counted as a new species. Alpha diversity indexes employed are not the best ones, in my opinion, to describe or compare the sub-samples proposed in this manuscript. The chao1 index, an estimator of richness, has a strong influence on the number of singletons obtained in the samples, which due to the complexity of the samples-data tends to be high. Shannon index is influenced by both richness (number of taxa) and evenness (equability, Pielou index), and the reduction of richness due to the loss of rare taxa has a strong influence on this index. I propose to use the number of observed taxa instead of estimated taxa, and any evenness index, like the Pielou index, instead of the Shannon index. Moreover, the use of a coverage index, such Good’s coverage index, could be useful to compare the loss of information associated to sampled size or coverage. In conclusion, although the raw data can contains some important information, the manuscript has to be improved with new “pathogen contaminated” samples, and be re-written to focus on the detection of pathogens in the samples, which due to the low abundance of the samples could not be detected depending of the shotgun coverage. 