Tucker and Pedro present results from proteomics studies of material precipitated from the plasma of breast cancer patients and healthy controls, and from the media of explant cultures and cell lines. They observe CRA-a (HBA2, alpha hemoglobin) as being present in precipitated material from the plasma of patients with early breast cancer and Histone H1.2 as being present in samples with lymph node involvement (plasma), and the media of explant cultures of bone metastases and metastatic cell lines. While the results are clearly presented, the interpretation that these are EV-based biomarkers is not supported. The EV isolation method used is insufficient to purify EVs from other contaminants. Furthermore, it is not intuitive that EVs would be likely to contain a histone (normally confined to the nucleus) or hemoglobin. The authors' discussion of this major concern is insufficient ("However, samples submitted for mass spectrometry analysis showed none of the recognised contaminants and it was therefore concluded that the main EV type present in these samples is the MV."). The EV literature is quite confusing due, in part, to the over-interpretation of observations from samples prepared using inadequate isolation methods. Therefore, in it's current version, I do not recommend indexing of this report. Ideally, the authors should repeat the work with approaches that better enrich for EVs over non-EV protein contaminants (e.g. density-gradient based ultracentrifugation or immuno-affinity purification) and protease protection assays in the presence/absence of detergent should be used evaluate if the proteins are indeed associated with EVs and if they are on the surface or interior of vesicles. If further experiments are not possible, I recommend revising the paper to remove the unsupported conclusion that the proteins identified are EV-associated. (For example the title could be: Blood-derived extracellular proteins as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of early ER+ breast cancer and detection of lymph node involvement). For reference, I direct the authors to an updated publication prepared by members of the EV community on the minimal information for studies of EVs in the Journal of Extracellular Vesicles 1 . 