The paper describes the identification of three LAB isolates from the alimentary tract of a tiger grouper. The identification was done using various phenotypic and genotypic methods. However, there are some remarks or suggestions that can be made: - First of all, the authors mention that LAB strains were previously isolated; why they included then in the Methods section and how they were isolated?; on the other hand, they do not mention from how many individuals they isolated these strains from? Were they isolated from one fish? Then, in fact, it is only one strain, since all three were identified in the end as Ent. hirae. - Introduction: "According to Pareda et al. ... 17l genera..." - that "l" doesn't belong there. I think the authors should use "microbiota" instead of "microflora". - Methods: - Collection of LAB isolates "The suspension was serial in PBS..." - I think "diluted" is missing. "Gram positive and negative catalase isolates..." should be "Gram positive and catalase negative isolates..." It is not clear how they kept the isolates, at -10 degrees, but on agar media? The subtitle "Bacterial isolates" should be "Identification of the bacterial isolates" since they are talking about identification. "Physiological tests were performed in 6.5% NaCl..." should be maybe "... in the presence of 6.5% NaCl..." "... production of enzymes such as ..." - Amplification of 16S rDNA "The genome of bacterial 16S rDNA..." should be " The 16S rDNA gene from the bacterial genome..." - Results: In Table 1 there is a discrepancy between the legend and the table. For instance, in the Table they have "n.a"., while in the legend is "n.d".; in the table they have both "d" and "D", and in the legend only "d". Moreover, there are many rows with data only for the Enterococcus species, but for the strains isolated by them, there are no data available. What is the point to show these things? Some information from the Methods is repeated in the Results, such as the primers used. The paragraph with the similarities among the sequences and 16S rDNA amplicons, with Fig. 1 and Table 2, is not very clear. Perhaps they should mention first that the amplicons obtained with the universal primers were very similar (and give their size and the reference to Fig. 1) and then they should mention about the high similarity among the sequences (99%) with the sequence of Ent. hirae (reference to Table 2). - Discussion: This section can be improved, maybe with information about the source of this strain in the alimentary tract, the importance for the host, why was the only strain found in their samples, etc. There is a paragraph that I would suggest to be changed in: " Strains... with the same or more than 97% homology of the 16S rRNA gene sequence may be considered to belong to the same species". "Ent. hirae was first isolated..." - I think the word "from" is missing. 