In this manuscript, Kwa et al aim to build on their prior work, demonstrating that pre-treatment of ARPE-19 cells with L-Sulforaphane (LSF) protects against hydrogen peroxide induced oxidative damage. In their current study, Kwa et al have employed GC and LC-MS to the analysis of fatty acids and lipids, in order to ascertain the lipid pathways that infer LSF protection in their in vitro model of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Kwa et al report that in response to LSF treatment several alterations occur to fatty acids oleic acid and eicosatrienoic acid, as well as several lipids classes (PC, PE, CE) perturbed under oxidative stress following pre-treatment with LSF. Although this manuscript demonstrates how altered lipid metabolism may be implicated in the mechanism of protection for LSF in AMD, there are inconsistencies and limitations in their LC-MS/MS method, processing of the lipidomic data, statistical analysis, and interpretation of the findings which need to be addressed and/or clarified before this manuscript is suitable for indexing. Major queries Processing of lipidomic data Kwa et al state that “The lipidomic data was generated using reverse phase peak area response of each lipid series rather than absolute concentrations. Did the authors employ internal standards prior to their lipid extraction? In complex samples, it is fairly common for variability to occur in the ionisation of lipid ions, even from repeat measures of the same sample. The use of an internal standard allows us to control for that variability, as well as any variations in the extraction (particularly when a 2-phase extraction like CHCL3/MeOH is employed) and HPLC injection. In addition, when employing reverse phase LC-MS, multiple internal standards per lipid class may be required, as lipids are often spread across a wide retention time. The class of lipid can also influence the ionisation efficiency, as it has been previously demonstrated that different lipid standards spiked into samples, at the same concentration, can have up to orders of magnitude differences in intensities (PMID: 11290839) 1 . This can lead to differing ion suppression effects over the course of the LC run, particularly if a gradient LC was employed (PMID: 31820027) 2 . In the underlying data there appears to be several internal standards listed (IS): LPC 19:0 IS, PI 38:4 IS, SM 30:1 IS, LPC 19:0 IS, Cer 17:0). Why have the authors only provided the peak areas in the underlying data and not the values normalised to these internal standards? If these internal standards were used, they should be included in the text and the underlying data adjusted. If not, then this may have severe implications of the data obtained and needs to be discussed as a limitation of this study. In the underlying data, there were also several incidences of lipid IDs with very low peak area response (e.g. CE 14:0, LPC 22:0). How was the limit of detection defined against the background noise acquired (i.e. signal to noise ratio). There may be incidences of false positive IDs for lipids at trace levels, which may influence the statistical significance of the results. Statistical analysis and presentation of underlying data Kwa et al report that significant changes in lipid levels of 20μM LSF treatment groups in the presence of oxidative stress, which were derived from paired t-test, along with one-way ANOVA with post-hoc Bonferroni analysis, using MetaboAnalyst. With a large number of lipid identities, there is an increasing risk of number of false-positive identities owing to multiple testing. The authors have corrected for this using the Bonferroni multiple testing correction technique in MetaboAnalyst. However the Benjamini–Hochberg correction or false discovery rate (FDR) is often recommended as it can control for the proportion of false positives amongst all significant results. As both FDR- and Bonferroni-corrected P-values are provided by MetaboAnalyst, could the authors please provide an explanation as to why FDR wasn’t used or update the results to show the impact of FDR on their significant lipid changes? I would also recommend reporting the p-values for all lipid comparisons in their underlying data and not just the raw values. Interpretation of lipidomic data Kwa et al propose that their cellular model implicates RPE cells, at risk of oxidative damage and apoptosis, can be pre-conditioned with LSF for the generation of a protective state against age-related AMD. However, their results state that LSF treatment only induced significant alterations to lipids (decreased PE and increases in CE, oPDA and PC lipids) when in the presence of oxidative stress. Could the lipidomic changes observed simply be as a consequence of hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress? The authors do make the acknowledgement that “ Since H2O2 is an oxidative stress stimulus, it is possible that the increased CE levels we observe in LSF-treated cells may be attributed, to some extent, to the exposure of cells to H2O2 ”. However I think this statement should also reflect plausible reasoning for the elevated levels of PC 33:3 and oPDA 34:3-PC 16:0, which upon review of the underlying data, also display elevated levels in the untreated and 5mM LSF groups, when exposed to hydrogen peroxide. This however may not be the case in the normalised data, but as this data was not included in the underlying data I cannot evaluate whether this is true. In the underlying data, the 20mM LSF +H2O2 group display the most significant elevated levels of CE, PC 33:3 and oPDA 34:3-PC 16:0, compared to the rest of the groups. However without normalised data (to appropriate internal standards) you cannot resolve whether this is simply due the variation in intensities of the peak area data presented. Could the authors also please clarify whether the untreated controls in Figure 5 are exposed to H2O2 or not? When reviewing the underlying data, there is considerable variability in the untreated (-H2O2) results for PE 34:0 (with peak areas in the underlying file ranging from 25,000 to 5000). I would also suggest that the authors either consider the limitation of their proposed model for LSF conditioning in their discussion or provide additional experiments/future work demonstrating LSF protection against apoptosis and lipidomic response (e.g. protection against TNFα-induced apoptosis; PMID: 29548329 3 ). Additional comments Kwa et al report that “Lipid analysis using LC-MS was carried out as published previously (Ref - 26)” . However the reference in question “Olmstead IL et al: A quantitative analysis of microalgal lipids for optimization of biodiesel and omega-3 production .” does not provide the necessary methodology with which to repeat the LC-MS analysis. I believe the authors may have simply cited the wrong reference. The prior reference in their manuscript (Botte CY et al.: “ Atypical lipid composition in the purified relict plastid (apicoplast) of malaria parasites ”) contains the relevant supporting information for LC-MS analysis, including reverse-phase chromatographic separation and MRM precursor-product ion pairs for mass spectrometry. Proper assignment of sphingolipids should be reported in their underlying data using the LipidMAPS ( http://www.lipidmaps.org ) nomenclature system. This will be based on the MRM transitions used. If the authors were screening for the 264 m/z product ion of sphingolipids, this insinuates that the sphingolipid identified contains a sphingosine backbone (d18:1). Hence ceramides should be written accordingly (e.g. Cer 24:0 should be written as Cer (d18:1/24:0). Your cell model compared the proliferative effects of treated and untreated cells in the presence and absence of H2O2 - separately. Were there any differences in the proliferation rate when untreated cells in the absence of H2O2 were compared to LSF treatment with H2O2? Does presence of LSF restore or maintain normal cell proliferation when cells are exposed to H2O2? In their discussion, Kwa et al state that “ Many studies have shown that an increased dietary intake of the selected omega-3 PUFAs lowers the risk of dementia, improves cognition and aids age-related degenerative disorders ”. There is conflicting evidence whether this is indeed true, which the authors should state in their discussion. In fact the study cited by the authors actually states that their “results do not provide evidence of a beneficial effect of fish-oil supplementation on cognitive function….”. 