Thank you for inviting me to review the article entitled "A thermodynamic description for physiological transmembrane transport". This article presents a unifying mathematical formulation for passive and active transport across plasma membranes. This is achieved by considering the energy required to achieve transport of the molecules. For active transport, in which molecules are transported against their concentration gradient, the required energy is positive. In contrast, passive movement down a concentration gradient does not require energy transfer. In previous modelling frameworks, active and passive transport have been described via distinct models for pumps and channels respectively. The major contribution of this paper is to combine these models into one formulation. After presenting the initial mathematical formulation, the article proceeds to make comparisons with existing literature and demonstrates that earlier mathematical models of channels are special cases of the more general framework. The article ends with an example in which the full model can explain a double activation event of Ca 2+ channels, which cannot be done so satisfactorily by existing models. In general, the article is well-written, with arguments made concisely and coherently. Aside from a few points which require further clarification, I believe that this article is sufficiently rigorous and of interest to the community to warrant publication. In particular, channel and pump models have long been used in the mathematical study of excitability in cell membranes. These models have been used to support and guide experimental studies as well as advancing the applied mathematics field in its own right. As such, improvements to these models should be welcomed by the field. I will now address specific issues with the article: In general, I believe that the figure captions could do with expanding to guide the reader's eyes to the features of the plot that they should be focusing on. p2, first paragraph: At present, the discussion of passive and active transport in the Introduction is a little confusing. In particular, there are transmembrane proteins that undergo conformational changes to transport molecules down their concentration gradient and channels that achieve this by effectively forming pores through the membrane (so that further conformational change is not needed to effect transport). Furthermore, the reference Blicher Heimberg, 2013 reports on spontaneous (protein-free) formation of channels in synthetic membranes. Whilst this is an interesting topic, it should be made clearer how this relates to physiological membranes. Finally, it might also be useful to the reader to give an example of how some of the different pump configurations work (e.g. uniporter, symporter) to facilitate understanding of where energy transfer is required. p2, 3rd paragraph: "Examples of fits to..." This is not a sentence. Please revise. p2, 3rd paragraph: The author should highlight what "noncentral issues" they are referring to. p2, 5th paragraph, minor: It would be useful to highlight that c s , d s \in {0,1}. p2, Eq. (1): v is not defined. p2, footnote, minor: Change "log" to "ln" here for consistency with Eq. (1) and (3). p3, 2nd paragraph: It would be good to clarify in this first sentence the distinction between \Delta G and \Delta G_s (or avoid using the former entirely). p3, 2nd paragraph: S = {Na,H} typo here. p3, Eq. (5): Similarly to point (7), it is not clear what \Delta G represents here. p3, Eq. (6): Terms in this equation need defining properly in several regards. Firstly, \Delta G ATP 0 should be defined. Secondly, it should be made clear that concentrations are intracellular (as opposed to in Eq. (1) (3), which correspond to both extra- and intracellular compartments). This is particularly confusing for P i in which the subscript could easily be misread as being an intracellular label. Finally, it is not clear how the equality \Delta GA TP = qv ATP holds. Perhaps, as in footnote (1), it could be made clear that this relies on the definition of the reversal potential for ATP. p3, Eq. (6): I would also here like to take the opportunity to raise a point about the general framework. The models here account for the energy required to move molecules with and against their concentration gradients. In cases of active transport, as indicated by Eq. (10), ATP is then hydrolysed to meet the energy deficit required to power the pump. This then means that the concentration of ATP, relative to ADP is then changing. Indeed, at maximal rates of exercise, the ATP concentration in skeletal muscle can fall by up to 20% of its initial value. Moreover, in certain cell types, local ratios between ATP and ADP affect the opening and closing of ion channels (e.g. K ATP ). Eq. (10) implies that ATP and ADP in the cell are constant, in spite of the necessity that it must change. One must, therefore, conclude that an assumption is being made that ATP changes are small relative to the total amount of ATP. This assumption should be stated, or a discussion around how changes to ATP concentrations effect Eq. (10) should be made. p3, final paragraph of first column: Wrong equation being referred to. p3, Eq. (9): A physical interpretation for parameters r and b should be given. Additionally, and referring back to my previous comment (1), the text here discusses the relative magnitudes of r for electrodiffusive and active transport. Thus, this point should make clear that ion channels should be faster than both facilitated diffusion through carrier proteins and active transport via pumps. p4, Eq. (11): For consistency with Eq. (5), 'Extra' in the subscripts should read 'Ext'. Also, it should be noted that v Extra should be the v ATP from Eq. (6). p4, "In particular, for electrodiffusive (passive) transport of ions of type l": It is not clear what the author is referring to here (or how it is different from what is written in Eq. (15)). p4, "The first, more complex form...": Does the author mean to reference Eq. (11) here? p4, After Eq. (16), minor: "Ampere" needs capitalising. p5, Table 1: Is v 0 here the same as in Eq. (15)? If so, the dependency on v Ext seems to have disappeared. p6, Fig. 2: What is plotted on the ordinate axis in this graph? It appears to have units of pA, but the text says that this is a plot of alpha/beta, which should be dimensionless. p8, "Electrodiffusive transport": I'm not really sure what the point of this section is since the results presented here have mostly been mentioned previously in this manuscript. p8, after Eq. (31): Is the N written here supposed to be N_l? Also, there is a typo after Eq. (31) (with - where). p9, Eq. (33): m is not defined. p9, Eq. (35-39): Change symbol for current to i x for consistency with previous equations. p9, after Eq. (39): Presumably, the author here means that the intracellular Ca2+ concentration changes (rather than the extracellular). This should be clarified. Also, the text below Eq. (40) appears to imply a distinction between free and bound Ca 2+ , but there is no buffering process described in the model, which may cause confusion. p9, Fig. 2: Please state what i m and i CaL13 are in these plots. p10, Table 2: The units of \bar{a} are inconsistent with the main text. p12, "Another possible use of the third order approximations is in the construction of network models.": Please could the author state what they mean here? p13, discussion on action potential shape: I was wondering if the author could here compare their argument surrounding the shape of the action potential near initiation with those put forward here (Brette, 2013 1 ), which puts forward a case for multi-compartment models to describe the sharpness of the spike. SI1, after (A3): There appears to be a reference missing here. SI2: Headers are required in these data files so that the values herein can be related to the physical quantities they represent. It would be useful for the author to upload any code used to generate the plots in the article. 