This article focuses on the need (most immediately seen in recent discussions of the challenges presented by "preprints") for distinguishing between the ways we represent the state of research outputs and the ways we represent the standing those outputs have in accordance with that state. The importance of this distinction, as the authors point out, is in recognizing that different communities of practice accord different value to outputs that are objectively in the same state. By “separating the description of process (and testing whether the stated process has been followed) from the views of any given community of objects that have been through that process” (5), we might be better able to speak across disciplinary boundaries about the value of the work we do. The distinction between state and standing is especially crucial for those who seek to change scholarly communication practices, for instance by allowing a greater range of outputs to “count” in hiring and assessment processes, in order to make clear that the transformation that matters lies in “the social machinery of state-standing links” (5). By encouraging the disambiguation of state and standing, the authors are able to advise publishers, platforms, and scholarly communities on ways they might contribute to better conversations about the value of particular research outputs. The article begins with a highly engaging opening illustration of the stakes of the non-universality not only of language but of practices in scholarly communication, and continues through careful and well-documented argumentation. The authors look carefully at distinctions not just in terminology but also in values across different fields. They are careful to note that they are not recommending a new vocabulary, nor a guiding framework for how scholarly communities should negotiate the current changes in their communication practices, but they do our fields a great service by exposing the reasons for much of our mutual incomprehension across fields. They also go a long way toward explaining why “we have to make preprints ‘count’” is a very heavy lift in some communities. I do hope that the authors will continue their research in this line. It would be great to have their input, for instance, into the construction of metadata that can help clarify changes in a research object’s state, enabling better judgment in communities about its standing. A few very small copyediting notes: The phrase “different to” is used a couple of times; I’m honestly not sure if this is a UK/US distinction, but I’d argue for “different from” instead. On page 3, column 2, line 1, “that make” should be “that makes”. On page 4, AOP is glossed as “advance online publication” in the caption for Figure 1, and “Advanced Online Publication” in the text. I am grateful for the opportunity to have reviewed this article, and I look forward to the discussions that it might inspire. 