Dear editors and authors, In their manuscript entitled "Investigation and molecular genetic diagnosis of familial hypomagnesemia: a case report” Jamie Willows and colleagues describe a patient with the typical clinical presentation of familial hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia (HSH). Molecular genetic studies identified a homozygous mutation in the TRPM6 gene as the underlying pathology. The TRPM6 gene encodes a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of ion channels that is involved in the formation of epithelial magnesium permeable ion channels in intestine and kidney. If it does so alone or in cooperation with TRPM7 has been a matter of debate. In addition to the initial studies and two larger follow-up reports, 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 mostly small case series or case reports have been published of patients with HSH and mutations in TRPM6 . HSH is thought to represent a classic autosomal-recessive disease with unaffected heterozygous parents and siblings. Most patients were found to carry non-sense mutations in TRPM6 including stop mutations, small deletions/insertions, leading to a shift in the reading frame and premature stops of translations, splice site mutations, and also deletions of larger parts of the gene. Only a small number of missense mutations have been reported of which a subset has been analyzed functionally. 4 , 5 , 6 These almost uniformly lead to a complete loss-of-function. Study design and results of this report are presented accurately and the appropriate literature is cited correctly. The methods used for molecular diagnosis and in-silico modeling of the identified mutant are provided. The initial presentations as well as diagnostic tests performed, treatments given and clinical outcomes of the index patient and siblings are described in sufficient detail. In the context of the published literature, this case report is unique for two reasons: to my knowledge, the discovered p.K1098E variant is the first missense mutation directly affecting the TRP domain of the TRPM6 ion channel subunit. The TRP domain is thought to play a crucial role in ion channel multimerization as well as in channel activation by PIP2 (phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bis-phosphate). Accordingly, the authors present comprehensive data analyzing the putative effects of the discovered mutant by comparing this naturally occurring mutant to engineered mutants at the identical position in TRPM6 and related TRPM channel subunits. Though the effects of engineered mutants on channel activity as well as PIP2 mediated channel activation are not consistent, the genetic data presented here together with the disease phenotype clearly argue for the pathogenetic role of the discovered mutant. It will be interesting to study this mutant functionally in an overexpression system (especially in combination with wildtype TRPM6 subunits and TRPM7, see below). The second intriguing finding presented here is that, in addition to the index patient, two siblings carrying the p.K1098E variant in heterozygous state presented in infancy with hypomagnesemia and a cerebral seizure in case of one sibling. Such a finding in heterozygous mutation carriers has not been reported before. The authors consider this finding a general feature of the disease and attribute it to a possible immaturity of the renal tubule in early life. Serum magnesium levels have not been systematically evaluated in clinically unaffected siblings so far. However, measurements of serum magnesium levels in the first weeks of life have been advocated in siblings to exclude disease before clinical presentation with cerebral seizures and before quick genetic testing became feasible. Newborns usually start with their mothers serum magnesium at birth and in case of defective TRPM6 show a continuous decline of serum levels over the following weeks. At least in single families, measurement of serum magnesium yielded normal levels and was able to exclude disease in younger siblings (unpublished data, personal observation). Therefore, the information on maternal serum magnesium is critical in this family to better classify the observed changes in the heterozygous siblings as following the mentioned approach, the measurement of serum magnesium levels would have suggested the diagnosis of HSH also in the heterozygous siblings of this family rather than excluding classic disease. Finally, it is also conceivable that the hypomagnesemia observed in the siblings of the family presented here represents a mutation specific phenomenon rather than a general finding in patients with heterozygous TRPM6 mutations which could also be discussed in the report. Are there indications of a functional effect of the p.K1098E mutant on heteromultimerization with wildtype TRPM6 or TRPM7 via TRP domain interactions? Were there additional variants in the TRPM6 gene identified by WES (especially on the unaffected alleles of siblings)? Do the two siblings share the identical unaffected allele of mother or father? Could an additional variant potentially explain the transient phenotype? Minor comments and suggestions: the dose of daily oral magnesium should please be provided in mmol/kg/day as it allows easier comparison with published doses (500mg Mg-sulphate should be 4.06mmoles) discussion line 7: “need” instead of “needs” (serum levels) could you please add a citation for the physiological summary in the first discussion section (maybe Dai Quamme, Phys Rev 2001? 7 ) page 6, second paragraph: FXYD2 instead of FYXD2, CNNM2 instead of CNMM2. page 6, second paragraph: I am not aware of inherited EGFR mutations?! page 6, second paragraph: ATP1A1 could be added. page 6, second paragraph: the possibility of de-novo mutational events (in addition to recessive and dominant) should be mentioned (especially for ATP1A1 and CNNM2). please provide OMIM number and nomenclature for HSH. page 6, third paragraph: patients typically present in the neonatal period and in infancy (ranging from a couple of days to ~8 months, rarely later) 