In their paper, “A Genome-Wide Association Study of spontaneous preterm birth in a European population”, the authors perform a GWAS on spontaneous preterm birth in a European population. The GWAS is based on 849 cases (preterm births) and 949 controls (term births), and use a dense genotyping panel that contains over 500,000 SNPs. The paper is nicely written and the analyses are well done. However, I have several issues that need to be taken care of. In its actual form, this paper lacks additional analyses. Below are my non-exhaustive comments: In this study, no SNP reaches the genome-wide significance threshold. However, as we can see in the Manhattan plot (Figure 2), there are several suggestive signals, especially on chromosome 12, 15, and 3. The authors should investigate these signals and try to find the nearby genes. They perform four models and show the corresponding Manhattan plots. First, they do not explain the reason why they perform these four models. Second, the allelic test should give similar results to the additive model test. The authors do not compare between these models, at least for the most significant signals. Otherwise, these analyses seem to be redundant. Providing the Manhattan plots is far from enough. We do not have the ability to see the most significant SNP names. In addition, they should mention if there was a performed GWAS for preterm birth, and if so, they should compare their results with what can be found in the literature. Moreover, they mention that there is an evidence of a candidate gene. They should say how this gene was discovered, and show their SNP results in this gene or its region. In addition, the might consider performing the haplotypic test in this gene or in the region of the most significant SNPs. They should present these results in informative tables. In the introduction, the authors say that there are genetic factors that contribute to SPTB. It is important to mention the heritability estimates or the familial recurrence risk estimate (if there is any) for SPTB. The authors talk about negative results in their GWAS. They should discuss why they did not discover any genome-wide significant SNP (lack of power?). They also need to discuss the weaknesses of this study, and what could be done in the future. 