This retrospective study is aimed “to investigate the diagnostic value of urea, creatinine and some blood parameters in patients with pneumonia that had been diagnosed with COPD for the first time”. I would like to make following comments: Introduction: Article starts with the sentence “Pneumonia has been known since late 1800s, and has been recognized as a major cause and death” with reference 1. I absolutely agree with the author that pneumonia remains a significant cause of mortality worldwide. But the original text (reference 1) was written as follows: “ Long recognized as a major cause of death, pneumonia has been studied intensively since the late 1800s “ Pneumonia was first described by Hippocrates (460-370 BC), pathological features were made 22 centuries later in 1819 by Laennec, while Rokitansky in 1842 was the first to differentiate lobar and bronchopneumonia (ref.: G. Mackenzie, Pneumonia (Nathan), 2016; 8:14 1 ). The author mentioned that annual incidence of CAP in the United States ranges from 5 to 11 per 1000 persons. It should be natural to include a reference here because the numbers can vary depending on the source. Could the data on patients with pneumonia taken from the Turkish Thoracic Society CAP database (TURCAP) be more interesting/relevant compared to the data from USA? The author wrote that “Obstructive bronchiolitis and emphysema may be represent comorbidities of COPD”. Maybe the author can formulate this sentence in a different way. The chronic airflow limitation that is characteristic of COPD is caused by a mixture of small airway disease (e.g. obstructive bronchiolitis) and parenchymal destruction (emphysema), the relative contribution of which vary from person to person (GOLD COPD, 2019) I would like the author to clarify the choice of urea, creatinine, white blood cells, neutrophills, eosinophils and haemoglobin as the parameters are of interest in his research. Methods: Patients in the study get diagnosis COPD for the first time. Spirometry is required to make the COPD diagnosis. Basic characteristic (FEV1, FEV1/FVC) in patients with COPD should be listed. It should be explained to readers what the criteria “ without a history of clinical intervention in patient epicrisis” means. It would be nice to know when blood samples in the study were taken (at admission? after admission? It is important to describe clinical status of patients with COPD patients. Did the patients have the COPD exacerbation or not; what symptoms did the patients have? Results, conclusion and discussion: I would like to propose that the Results, Conclusion and Discussion parts of this research should be rewritten with necessary details. This article has a great potential for improvement and needs major revision. 