As it has been pointed out already by the first reviewer, it is important to verify that the pipeline is updated according to the data migration to the GCD server. Apart from this, I find this manuscript very nice and the workflow an important contribution in the field, allowing to make accessible large datasets with genomics profiling of cancer patients to the community and even for not advanced R-users. I would like to compliment with the authors to make such a comprehensive workflow available. Some minor points before final publication is indexed: The main issue with this manuscript is that it will need an extensive revision by a native English speaker since some sentences are hard to read and very often they risk to convey the wrong message or to be misinterpreted. One example from the abstract, "we provide a series of biologically focused integrative downstream analyses of different molecular data" includes to many adjectives. Few lines below "we provide a workplan to identify candidate biologically relevant functional epigenomic elements associated with cancer", this sentence does not sound that right in English. Be also careful in the style use to call the software or Bioconductor packages in the text since sometimes they are italics and other times they are not. There is also a lot of redundancy on some of the statements in the introduction that if removed will improve the readability. For example the sentence at the end of the first paragraph of the introduction starting with " Here we describe a comprehensive workflow that integrates many bioconductor packages..." is probably not needed since the same concept is provided at the end of the introduction in the same page. In the Introduction when TCGA data are illustrated I would also mention metastatic samples (they are there, isn't it? or may be I don't recall correctly...) I suggest to change the title of the first section of the methods from 'Experimental data' to 'Access to the data' or something similar so that it will better reflect the content of the paragraph. I felt that sometimes the manuscript sounds more a user guide than an article, so I would suggest taking as an example the section on methylation to improve the discussion of the analyses outcome and aims in the other paragraphs. Also please be careful to make things accessible to any readers for example at page 4, the authors introduce the GISTIC data without explaining them in details. The sentence at page 4 "the data used in this workflow are published data and freely available" might be redundant so the authors could remove it. Page 4 summarizedExperiment object is missing the reference to the original paper about summarizedExperiment format. Page 5: in the text the authors illustrate assay, rowRanges and colData but in the example the order is different, i.e. assay, colData, rowRanges - I would suggest to keep consistency in the order between main text and examples (it also holds for other places in the paper). I am not sure I can understand the sentence at page 5, "the users should use all the follow up files in your analyses, not just the latest version". Page 6: the sentence beginning with "Finally, the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Research Network has reported integrated genome-wide studies of various diseases, in what is called 'Pan Cancer'..." I am not sure fits within the paragraph where the main focus is on subtypes. It sounds a bit confusing for the reader. Not sure that Listing 5 also fits there... why not mention it before together with the others summ.exp. accessors. In writing it is important that the authors really pay attention to convey the message that it is an integrative approach ... at the very first reading of the manuscript I felt that it was more a list of tools. and the integrative part of it was missing Page 18: a reference is missing for the AAIC method and an explanation to the reader about the choice of the 0.6 correlation cutoff. In the list at page 18 with the normalization, I believe that there are some repetitions (i.e. global scaling and full-quantile are appearing twice, also there are some typos). Page 19, I might have missed something but I cannot find in maintext any explanation of the DEA pipeline and more comments would be needed there for a new user to really appreciate it and its importance. Page 20 on the second line I believe a ). is missing. On PEA, I was wondering why for example the R package for Reactome was not integrated here and if the authors could comment on this. Page 23, why for protein-protein interactions only BioGrid is used and not for example a more comprehensive resource such as I2D (Interologous Interaction Database). 