There remains significant interest in the health impact of omega-3 fatty acids from oily fish and fish oil type supplements on human health. The physiologic and health benefits are usually ascribed to EPA and DHA. However a third fatty acid, DPA, is present and this has been relatively little researched. Some new work on DPA has been performed which has suggested that it has some unique functional properties. These are reviewed elsewhere, but new updates, views and insights are always to be welcomed. This article aims to provide a current review of DPA and, I think, to distinguish it from EPA and DHA. To be frank, I do not think it achieves the latter aim as well as it might (see comments below). Specific comments: Title. If the "biologic" is used then this should be countered by "pharmacologic". Title. Should clarify that this is about DPA n-3 not DPA n-6. Abstract. We are told in line 1 that fish oil contains a complex mixture of EPA, DPA and DHA. Therefore it cannot be correct to state on line 5 that ‘It is not correct to state that work with fish oil " was previously done on EPA and DHA ". Perhaps the author means that the work has focussed on EPA and DHA as the active components? The last sentence of the abstract makes the same error. We are told first (line 1) that fish oil contains EPA, DPA and DHA. Thus it cannot be correct to state that traditional supplementation is " with DHA and EPA " - it is with all three marine omega-3 fatty acids. Perhaps the author means that DPA has "separate and distinct properties compared with EPA and DHA"? Page 2, column 1, 5 and 2 lines from the bottom. ‘b’ in b-oxidation should be shown as the Greek symbol beta. Page 2, column 1, 3 lines from bottom. I think " DPA from EPA " should read "DPA from DHA" since the former is not "reverse" metabolism and would not involve beta-oxidation. Page 2, column 2, line 3. What is meant by " Clinical associations "? Does the author mean "Clinical effects"? The author is setting out to establish that DPA has independent functional features. However in many parts the evidence for this is based upon rehearsing the effects of fish oil supplements - these data cannot be used to say DPA has effects, since the effects may be due to any one of EPA, DPA and DHA or indeed to all three. Too often effects are due to "n-3 fatty acids" and it is then concluded that DPA is functional. I would much rather that the author is explicit in picking out and describing those studies where DPA is shown to have a function. A really poor example is in the first paragraph about cardiovascular disease where the effects seen in the GISSI trial are described. It is NOT acknowledged that these can have nothing to do with DPA since the preparation used in that study was a pharmaceutical preparation composed almost entirely of ethyl esters of EPA and DHA. To say otherwise is to mislead readers. Page 4, column 1, line 31. Should "en" read "ten"? Page 4, column 1, 4 lines from bottom. Please add "in hamsters" after "50%". 