Thank you very much for providing me with the opportunity to review this very interesting article. This is a very much needed analytical framework which allows researchers and policy-makers alike to structure their thinking around the downstream effects of school closures as widely debated non-pharmaceutical intervention. Please find below a couple of minor comments and thoughts: Introduction: Overall, I think the introduction would benefit from more literature, e.g. on the effect of school closures on the course of a pandemic and potential side effects thereof. A few detailed comments: 1st paragraph: previous evidence - please cite reviews on topic (e.g. Viner et al. 2020). 1 Reduction in rates of infection AND delay of epidemic/shift of course of epidemic. There is also a lot of literature on previous undesirable impacts of school closures, e.g. Cauchemez 2009 2 and Aledort 2007 3 which should be cited Methods: This seems like a very reasonable and pragmatic approach to creating a logic model. Two specific comments: I am only wondering what types of studies you focused on (and whether that was an inclusion/exclusion criterion). I am interested in how you derived from a factor, which was integrated into a (quantitative) study as a variable, at a code that would then lead to a category represented in the logic model? Would it have to be a statistically significant association in order to be represented in the model? What qualified as a moderator? How did you determine whether a factor was considered a moderator rather than, e.g., a precondition or something else? There is some literature out there on how to derive at frameworks (e.g. determinant frameworks) which you could use to back up your approach Results: Figure: Maybe consider creating a "smaller" graphical representation of the framework for easier access; I like the Miro Canvas, but the PPT figure is not readable; maybe reduce the level of granularity and only present the higher level domains. The intervention: what about hybrid models as implemented in some countries in order to reduce the number of students in a class? Impacts on teachers and other school staff: there is some literature on this topic now, e.g. in the French and Israeli context; I would maybe consider thinking about additional need of staff (e.g. more staff is needed for facilitating hybrid forms of teaching as implemented in Germany; some teachers will not be able to teach in person in hybrid models). Age of students: it might be worthwhile to point out the differing presentations of disease in different age groups already in the result section (as you do in the discussion section). Social/political factors as moderators: maybe this should be referred to as context since it not only refers to social/political aspects but also to geographic, socio-economic and other factors. I am also wondering if the infrastructure in schools (e.g. the setup of classrooms, the possibility for outdoor teaching; cafeterias; rooms for teachers; etc.) plays a role when deciding whether or not to close/reopen schools. Future development: It would be interesting to continue working on this model while evidence evolves (e.g. by integrating causality as it arises) which the authors point out in the discussion. It would moreover be interesting to also discuss the question (and maybe pointing towards the literature on it) around re-opening; I am aware that the authors touch base on this, but I think more thought about the utility of the framework for thinking about under what circumstances schools can be reopened; what criteria have to be considered when making the decision; which stakeholders should be integrated in making decisions around school closure/opening; what plans have to be in place in order to facilitate reopening? I know that there is a lot we do not know yet, but maybe some food for thought? 