In this study, Chevalier et al. had succeeded to record and analyse the late Na + current (I NaL ) in HEK293 cells stably transfected with wild-type human SCN5A, using automated patch-clamp technology. They were able to accurately assess the effects of pharmacological agents on I NaL . They showed that the cardiac I NaL can be inhibited by ranolazine and activated by veratridine. Using fluctuation analysis, they hypothesized that ranolazine would act as an open pore blocker, reducing the open probability without affecting the number of active channels, while veratridine would increase the number of active channels without influencing their open probability. In addition, they also provided additional functional data by performing a series of automated patch-clamp experiments showing that application of veratridine concentrations that increased I NaL but had no effects on HERG current prolonged the action potential duration of human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. This is an interesting and well-designed study that reports high quality data. Considering the role of late sodium current in the action potential duration, mainly under pathological conditions, and the difficulty to accurately record this small ionic current, the subject of this study is highly relevant. The demonstration of the suitability of the automated patch clamp technology to accurately measure the late sodium current and to assess the effects of pharmacological agents on this current is helpful. In addition, the use of the hiPSC derived cardiomyoyctes with this approach is also interesting. I do not have any major issues to address. However, the paper could be improved by attention to the following points. All experiments were performed at room temperature. Considering the limited amplitude of the late Na + current under basal conditions, it could have been useful to perform these experiments at a more physiological temperature to help increase the amplitude of the current. In Figure 1B, it would have been interesting to also present the recordings with ranolaxine alone. The action potential was elicited by the injection of 2 nA of current . This is a rather large current and is probably not just-suprathreshold depolarizing current . Do the hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes usually require such a high current injection to elicit action potential? For the HERG recordings, is there any specific reason why the external concentration of KCl was only 2.5 mM? Data reported in Table 1 could have been normalized to the cell capacitance to report the current density instead of the current amplitude. For some statistical analysis, an ANOVA would have been more appropriate that a Students t tests as several groups were examined (eg., Tables 1 and 2). There are few typographic errors in the Abstract: the units for the drugs ranolaxine, veratridine and TTX are all in millimolar concentrations but should be in the micromolar concentrations. Overall, the study is interesting and describes a methodological approach that could help study the late sodium current. The experiments were well designed and presented and the subject of this manuscript is of importance to the field.