Lau and colleagues describe an interesting effort of a group of biologists without formal bioinformatics training to use a programming-free web-based platform to generate a sizable number of comparison group pairs (CGPs) during a day-long group exercise, using gene expression data from humans and mouse models. The subsequent gene and gene set enrichment analyses – performed after quality control of the generated CGPs – yield reasonable results for a number of autoimmune diseases, resulting in plausible enrichments identified for genes and gene sets associated with inflammation and immune processes. The described effort is a potentially scalable method for analysis of very large data sets using the combined manpower of a large number of individuals. To produce pore quantifiable data of this process, it would however be interesting to compare the results of duplicates (do individual groups working in isolation on the same question come up with the same or different results. How does the result of such a 1 day Jamboree compare with the results of a single expert working for a month? If you would rerun the exercise, how different would you expect the results to be? It might also be interesting to systematically eliminate one dataset at a time to quantitate its influence on the final result. One major aspect of the study worth more detailed reporting is the way quality controls are carried out on the CGPs collected by the crowd. This aspect will become even more important when a large crowd is used, and more CGPs are collected, and constitutes one of the main pillars of all subsequent analyses. Therefore, I would suggest that the authors report in more detail their strategies and the conduction of the quality controls, along also with more details on potential caveats and pitfalls. Other comments: Methods Major comment: "we considered gene sets and pathways with an adjusted p-value of =0.05 to be significantly enriched" Here it is not clear if p-values were adjusted for multiple testing, e.g. using Benjamini-Hochberg correction. A more detailed description should be given for the ToppGene analysis Minor comment: Toppgene is actually spelled "ToppGene" 