Genetic algorithms offer a biologically motivated approach to nonlinear optimisation. In the so-called breeding stage of a genetic algorithm, the diversity of candidate solutions is increased by operations analogous to crossover between chromosomes, and point mutations. If parameterised appropriately, the mutation operator helps the genetic algorithm explore the fitness landscape, in particular by making it less likely to become trapped in a local optimum. Mutation operators are typically of fixed rate, although there is some prior art in the use of variable-rate operators. Here Kanwal, Ramesh and Huang, senior students at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria, Virginia, develop some theory on the form of adaptive-rate mutation operators, and investigate the performance of a new heuristic motivated by this theory. They report that this heuristic delivers much-improved accuracy in finding the global optimum, at no cost in speed, in two reasonably difficult optimisation scenarios, and describe bounds on the mutation function. The research is clearly of publishable quality. The content explained clearly and in sufficient detail to allow the work to be replicated, and the conclusions are balanced and justified on the basis of the results presented. The writing style is exemplary. However, the manuscript does not deliver against the “diagnosis and therapy” promised in the title and abstract: indeed, the authors rightly allude to much broader contexts. In the absence of a specific case study in the biological application domain, the title might focus solely on the algorithmic contribution. It would be interesting to compare the performance of genetic algorithms implementing their new mutation operator with, for example, simulated annealing or multi-chain MCMC, although this would presumably require a broader comparison framework than was within-scope for the work reported here. Figures 3 and 4 are very similar to those in Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rastrigin_function, accessed 13 July 2013); does this arise from use of a generic parameterisation? I would prefer “optima” rather than “optimums”. There is a misspelling in the legend of Figure 3.