I am not an electrophysiologist by training but am an expert in GABA(A) receptors. Summary: TIID mice have reduced neurosteroid tone but increased sensitivity to some neurosteroids. Ob/ob mice have mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia (reduced by neurosteroid application). Conclusions: Reduced neurosteroid tone may be linked to hypersensitivity. Neurosteroids may exert analgesic effects by restoring GABAergic inhibitory tone. Comments: I’m not clear on the comments relating to a developmental change in tone, yet the comment that this may be due to fluctuations in endogenous neurosteroid tone. I assume the authors do not mean to imply that development also fluctuates. Perhaps this needs rephrasing. Is anything known about the loss of neurosteroid tone? Is it due to altered neurosteroid production/degradation or receptor expression to non-responsive receptors? Presumably the use of the smaller cyclodextrins excludes the possibility of membrane cholesterol involvement. This should be stated. Has the time required for neurosteroid diffusion in a slice been confirmed using isolated neurons in culture (where no diffusion barrier exists)? This would help distinguish between neurosteroid-induced chronic changes in protein trafficking/gene expression and genuine diffusion if the changes can occur more quickly in culture. Does the lack of finasteride on WT and ob/ob mice indicate that there is no endogenous basal neurosteroid-induced tone? The half-life of neurosteroid should be stated so that it may be considered with regard to being relevant. It is interesting that galaxalone might be an allosteric modulator of GABA(A)Rs (as the other possibility of indomethacin as an antagonist has been excluded). The rotarod test seems unfair when comparing fat mice to WT, but is valid in determining the detrimental effects of high doses of neurosteroid. The effects of ganaxolone on vF is encouraging to indicate its potential relief from mechanical pain. The possibility of differential binding sites to neurosteroids that could be differentially expressed is worthy of mention. With the evidence presented here, I understand that the effects of Progesterone and DHP are greater in diabetic models, which would support an upregulation of the neurosteroid synthesis pathway as some compensatory mechanism. However, the evidence for the loss of neurosteroid tone remains elusive and probably upstream of the production of progesterone. This would presumably imply a deficit in mitochondrial cholesterol uptake, metabolism to pregnenolone, its efflux into the cytosol, or conversion to progesterone (from here on, the pathway to allopregnanolone is normal or enhanced). This needs to be spelled out more clearly. 