Ganapathi et al describe a case series of 16 patients who received a total of 19 courses of cidofovir for adenovirus infection. The authors provide virological data to demonstrate a response to cidofovir therapy, and provide additional data regarding renal function and co-administration of renal toxic medications. Ganapathi e t al . provides unique data regarding the peak creatinine level during therapy with cidofovir, though this value is difficult to interpret given the confounding factors of other nephrotoxic agents. This case series is an incremental addition to the number of published cases of pediatric patients infected by adenoviruses who were treated with cidofovir. The manuscript follows a similar format to the case series reported by Bhadri et al. (2009), with presentation of the effects on renal function, and a summarization of the literature. The authors should summarize outcomes from all other case series to provide updated overall mortality and nephrotoxicity of CDV-treated adenovirus infections in hematopoietic stem cell transplants, solid organ transplants, or other patients. Such analyses may enhance the timeliness and utility of this manuscript. In the discussion, the authors describe the potential benefit of cidofovir in solid organ transplant patients, in conjunction with reduced immunosuppression. However, without a comparative cohort of children who did not receive cidofovir or reduced immunosuppression, it would be difficult to draw this conclusion from the data presented. In addition, the authors do not discuss two interesting published papers. Humar et al. (2005) described a cohort of adult SOT patients with adenovirus viremia who did not receive cidofovir; all had spontaneous resolution of viremia with no deaths. In contrast, Seidemann et al. (2004) reported that 3 out of 5 pediatric SOT with adenoviremia (one also had a HSCT) died despite receiving cidofovir. The authors should absolutely cite these studies, especially Seidemann as it included pediatric SOT patients. In addition, the authors should highlight whether the positive outcomes in their SOT population are aligned with the adult study by Humar et al. (and the conclusion in that paper that treatment may not be necessary for adenoviremia in SOT patients); and contrast their results with those of Seidemann et al. Specific comments Methods: The authors should report their study site’s protocol for testing for adenoviruses, specifically, whether testing for adenoviruses was only performed on symptomatic patients, or if high-risk patients were routinely screened for adenovirus. Methods: Probenecid is often co-administered with cidofovir. The authors should report if this drug was used in any of the courses of cidofovir, and what dosages. If probenecid was not used in all courses, the authors should analyze their data to investigate the role of probenecid in reducing nephrotoxicity. Methods: It is not clear if adenovirus testing is completed on whole blood or serum. Later in the results, the authors state whole blood, but this should be explained in the methodology. Methods: The authors should define pre-treatment/peak/post-treatment creatinine levels in their methodology. In addition, what defines pre-treatment creatinine? Is that the creatinine on the day of initiation of cidofovir? One week prior? Baseline from months prior? Defining this value is essential to the author’s statistical analysis. Table 1: Patients should be ordered by diagnosis for better organization (as opposed to patient number); for example, the hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients should be grouped together, then the solid organ transplant patients should be grouped together. A column of outcomes should be added for greater clarity of which cases resulted in mortality, instead of the usage of an asterisk. Results: Much of the information stated in the paragraph starting “Of the 19 courses prescribed” is redundant with the data presented in table 1, including the number of courses involving viremia, pneumonia, and GI symptoms. This paragraph can be consolidated, and the case characteristics presented as already implemented in Table 1. Results: The authors should include a description of the patient’s response to cidofovir in Table 1. This would provide better organization and clarity in interpreting which characteristics were associated with response (or lack thereof) to therapy. It also would make the paragraph “We further examined the 16 blood-positive…” redundant, and this could be consolidated. Figure 1: This figure might be easier to interpret if it were separated, for example, into two graphs of HSCT and SOT/other patients. It is difficult to follow 16 distinct virological lines in the current graph. In addition, the color choices for patients 4, 9, and 13 are too similar. The statistical analysis of increased risk of renal dysfunction when receiving 1 vs 2 renal toxic medications should be omitted as currently presented. The authors do not describe whether the additional nephrotoxic agents were co-administered at the same time or for what duration. These are critical confounding variables that are necessary for interpretation of whether nephrotoxicity was associated with increased administration of additional nephrotoxic agents. Given that this review is retrospective, such information may or may not be available. Figure 2 is a somewhat awkward way to describe SCr before and after CDV therapy. In addition, it is unclear how, if only 64% of patients with elevated SCr returned to baseline, the mean SCr after CDV was equal to baseline (in the right bar of Figure 2). The table describes the SCr data adequately, and Figure 2 could therefore be omitted. The publication search criteria used to generate Table 3 should be explained in the methods. In their literature review, the authors should incorporate other pediatric adenovirus-cidofovir case reports and series that were not reviewed in this manuscript, including: Seidemann et al. (2004), Leruez-Ville et al. (2004), Nagafuji et al. (2004). At least brief mention of the advent of brincidofovir for treatment of these patients with much reduced nephrotoxicity would be warranted. References 1. Bhadri VA, Lee-Horn L, Shaw PJ: Safety and tolerability of cidofovir in high-risk pediatric patients. Transpl Infect Dis . 2009; 11 (4): 373-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Humar A, Kumar D, Mazzulli T, Razonable RR, et al.: A surveillance study of adenovirus infection in adult solid organ transplant recipients. Am J Transplant . 2005; 5 (10): 2555-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Seidemann K, Heim A, Pfister ED, Köditz H, et al.: Monitoring of adenovirus infection in pediatric transplant recipients by quantitative PCR: report of six cases and review of the literature. Am J Transplant . 2004; 4 (12): 2102-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Leruez-Ville M, Minard V, Lacaille F, Buzyn A, et al.: Real-time blood plasma polymerase chain reaction for management of disseminated adenovirus infection. Clin Infect Dis . 2004; 38 (1): 45-52 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Nagafuji K, Aoki K, Henzan H, Kato K, et al.: Cidofovir for treating adenoviral hemorrhagic cystitis in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Bone Marrow Transplant . 2004; 34 (10): 909-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Hunstad DA and Janowski A. Reviewer Report For: Use of cidofovir in pediatric patients with adenovirus infection [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :758 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9007.r13746 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-758/v1#referee-response-13746 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 16 Dec 2016 Lakshmi Ganapathi , Boston Children's Hospital, USA 16 Dec 2016 Author Response Addressing Dr Hunstad’s and Dr Janowski’s report, in the new version of the manuscript we have clarified the following in the methods section: 1) The protocol for testing for adenovirus ... Continue reading Addressing Dr Hunstad’s and Dr Janowski’s report, in the new version of the manuscript we have clarified the following in the methods section: 1) The protocol for testing for adenovirus infection, 2) Usage of probenecid and dose (it was used in all patients who received cidofovir), 3) how we defined pre-treatment creatinine and 4) the publication search criteria. While we mention the use of concomitant medications that are known to render nephrotoxicity, we agree that the analysis is confounded by several factors and hence have omitted the statistical analysis of increased risk of renal dysfunction when receiving 1 versus 1 nephrotoxic medications. In the discussion section, we have expanded our discussion on the potential benefit of cidofovir in solid organ transplant recipients, and compare the findings of Humar et al (a study in which patients were all adults) with the findings reported by Seidemann et al and Leruez-Ville et al. As such, we added the latter two studies to table 3 for an updated literature review. However, we did opt to leave out the study by Nagafuji et al as recommended by the reviewers. The study by Nagafuji et al focused primarily on adult HSCT recipients and included only one pediatric patient. We feel that given much larger pediatric specific case series of HSCT recipients with adenovirus infection, this one case reported adds little. On the other hand, we did include case reports in the solid-organ patient literature review given the paucity of data in this population. We have also made a brief mention regarding the advent of brincidofovir. We updated table 1 to include include a column of outcomes. While we recognize that other changes as recommended by the reviewers may contribute to better organization of text and data, we did not make too many other changes to table 1 or figure 1 given that these changes are stylistic and not necessarily content relevant. Addressing Dr Hunstad’s and Dr Janowski’s report, in the new version of the manuscript we have clarified the following in the methods section: 1) The protocol for testing for adenovirus infection, 2) Usage of probenecid and dose (it was used in all patients who received cidofovir), 3) how we defined pre-treatment creatinine and 4) the publication search criteria. While we mention the use of concomitant medications that are known to render nephrotoxicity, we agree that the analysis is confounded by several factors and hence have omitted the statistical analysis of increased risk of renal dysfunction when receiving 1 versus 1 nephrotoxic medications. In the discussion section, we have expanded our discussion on the potential benefit of cidofovir in solid organ transplant recipients, and compare the findings of Humar et al (a study in which patients were all adults) with the findings reported by Seidemann et al and Leruez-Ville et al. As such, we added the latter two studies to table 3 for an updated literature review. However, we did opt to leave out the study by Nagafuji et al as recommended by the reviewers. The study by Nagafuji et al focused primarily on adult HSCT recipients and included only one pediatric patient. We feel that given much larger pediatric specific case series of HSCT recipients with adenovirus infection, this one case reported adds little. On the other hand, we did include case reports in the solid-organ patient literature review given the paucity of data in this population. We have also made a brief mention regarding the advent of brincidofovir. We updated table 1 to include include a column of outcomes. While we recognize that other changes as recommended by the reviewers may contribute to better organization of text and data, we did not make too many other changes to table 1 or figure 1 given that these changes are stylistic and not necessarily content relevant. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 16 Dec 2016 Lakshmi Ganapathi , Boston Children's Hospital, USA 16 Dec 2016 Author Response Addressing Dr Hunstad’s and Dr Janowski’s report, in the new version of the manuscript we have clarified the following in the methods section: 1) The protocol for testing for adenovirus ... Continue reading Addressing Dr Hunstad’s and Dr Janowski’s report, in the new version of the manuscript we have clarified the following in the methods section: 1) The protocol for testing for adenovirus infection, 2) Usage of probenecid and dose (it was used in all patients who received cidofovir), 3) how we defined pre-treatment creatinine and 4) the publication search criteria. While we mention the use of concomitant medications that are known to render nephrotoxicity, we agree that the analysis is confounded by several factors and hence have omitted the statistical analysis of increased risk of renal dysfunction when receiving 1 versus 1 nephrotoxic medications. In the discussion section, we have expanded our discussion on the potential benefit of cidofovir in solid organ transplant recipients, and compare the findings of Humar et al (a study in which patients were all adults) with the findings reported by Seidemann et al and Leruez-Ville et al. As such, we added the latter two studies to table 3 for an updated literature review. However, we did opt to leave out the study by Nagafuji et al as recommended by the reviewers. The study by Nagafuji et al focused primarily on adult HSCT recipients and included only one pediatric patient. We feel that given much larger pediatric specific case series of HSCT recipients with adenovirus infection, this one case reported adds little. On the other hand, we did include case reports in the solid-organ patient literature review given the paucity of data in this population. We have also made a brief mention regarding the advent of brincidofovir. We updated table 1 to include include a column of outcomes. While we recognize that other changes as recommended by the reviewers may contribute to better organization of text and data, we did not make too many other changes to table 1 or figure 1 given that these changes are stylistic and not necessarily content relevant. Addressing Dr Hunstad’s and Dr Janowski’s report, in the new version of the manuscript we have clarified the following in the methods section: 1) The protocol for testing for adenovirus infection, 2) Usage of probenecid and dose (it was used in all patients who received cidofovir), 3) how we defined pre-treatment creatinine and 4) the publication search criteria. While we mention the use of concomitant medications that are known to render nephrotoxicity, we agree that the analysis is confounded by several factors and hence have omitted the statistical analysis of increased risk of renal dysfunction when receiving 1 versus 1 nephrotoxic medications. In the discussion section, we have expanded our discussion on the potential benefit of cidofovir in solid organ transplant recipients, and compare the findings of Humar et al (a study in which patients were all adults) with the findings reported by Seidemann et al and Leruez-Ville et al. As such, we added the latter two studies to table 3 for an updated literature review. However, we did opt to leave out the study by Nagafuji et al as recommended by the reviewers. The study by Nagafuji et al focused primarily on adult HSCT recipients and included only one pediatric patient. We feel that given much larger pediatric specific case series of HSCT recipients with adenovirus infection, this one case reported adds little. On the other hand, we did include case reports in the solid-organ patient literature review given the paucity of data in this population. We have also made a brief mention regarding the advent of brincidofovir. We updated table 1 to include include a column of outcomes. While we recognize that other changes as recommended by the reviewers may contribute to better organization of text and data, we did not make too many other changes to table 1 or figure 1 given that these changes are stylistic and not necessarily content relevant. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bergelson J. Reviewer Report For: Use of cidofovir in pediatric patients with adenovirus infection [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :758 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9007.r13587 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-758/v1#referee-response-13587 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 04 May 2016 Jeffrey Bergelson , Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9007.r13587 This paper reports the use of cidofovir for treatment of adenovirus infection in 16 pediatric patients, and provides detailed information about the patients’ clinical status, blood viral loads, and renal function throughout the treatment course. I have only one major point ... Continue reading READ ALL 