The review is relevant considering the current energy situation i.e. dwindling of fossil fuel resources and the impact of the same to climate change. Use of sustainable renewable resource which are considered to be carbon neutral is very important. However, the current generation of coffee husks (only meeting 0.7% of energy demand) does not provide comfort for sustainable energy supply. Although the paper discusses the intention of Uganda to increase acreage of coffee plantation, it does not discuss to what extent this will be done to meet even 20% of Uganda’s energy supply. Specific Comments Abstract Line 4, the Authors are stating that Uganda is producing 233 Metric Tonnes of coffee, which produce 46.6 Mega Tonnes. These numbers do not make sense. Unless 233 are in Mega Tonnes Line 5, insert “per year” between “husks” and “from” Line 13, 0.7% of total energy from coffee husks do not tally with the use of “sustainable energy” – probably instead the Authors should use contribute to energy mix Introduction Line 5, the Authors imply other pollutants contribute to greenhouse gases, they should be specific by mentioning which ones, otherwise they should change the statement Second paragraph, second line, last word “efficiencies” is misspelled The Energy Situation in Uganda Fossil Fuels Line 3, the Authors are making reference to use of Natural Gas. My understanding is that Uganda is not using NG, probably they wanted to mean “Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG)” Biomass Energy on page 4 Second paragraph, line 5, Authors should change “Should” to “could” Status of gasification in Uganda Line 21 “ replace the word “electrical” with “electricity” Gasification potential of coffee husks (page 5) Line 2 the Authors states that the coffee yield 22% of its weight as coffee husks. When you consider that Uganda produces 233 Mega Tonnes, then the coffee husks do not compute to 46.6 Mega Tonnes The statement ” The annual generation of coffee husks in Uganda is estimated to be 46.6 M tons per annum, rising from 172 M tons per annum reported in 2004” does not seem correct. 172 Mega Tonnes is larger than 46.6 Mega Tonnes Conclusion Line 8, use of statement “the heavy reliance of wood for fuel will be curbed” is a heavy statement without qualification particularly when you consider that the coffee husks contribute only 0.7% of energy in Uganda Line 12, insert the word “source” between “a” and “clean” 