The article is mostly well written and provides sufficient background about the importance of the Black Bengal goat as a rationale for generating the genomic data. There are, however, several places in the Methods section, which would require further information and/or clarification. I highlight the points below: “DNA was fragmented by acoustic disruption using Covaris S220 ultrasonicator and then underwent end repair, detailing...”: By “detailing”, do you mean dA-tailing? “The purified DNA was further selected for the right size before PCR amplification for library construction.” What was considered the “right size” and how were the fragments of desired size range selected? “The effective concentration of each sample in the library mixture…”. Since the sequencing was performed on a single BBG sample, the authors need to clarify that it was sequenced in a multiplex with other unrelated samples. “If the read had no more than 2 out of the 25 cycles with chastity values below 0.6...”. Do you mean 2 bases out of 25 cycles? “The raw data were filtered to remove adapter sequences, of 20... “ Does this Q score represent average value per read? “After primary cleaning of reads, mitochondrial genomes were removed.” Please clarify why and how the mitochondrial genome was removed? The study mentions using Bowtie2 for mapping sequence reads against reference genomes but does not provide any detail about parameters used for mapping. If the default setting was used, that needs to be mentioned. I am also wondering if any post-alignment processing (e.g. marking duplicate reads, indel realignment etc.) was applied. These processing steps are important as these will affect the variant calling and false discovery rate. The authors mention about variant calling with BCFtools but do not provide any details about parameters used for calling/filtering variants. The only filtration criteria mentioned is Q20 and the filtered set has been called “high quality”. I am not convinced if calling variants from a single individual with Q20 can be called “high quality” without performing further validation or without providing any information about false discovery rate. Besides I am wondering if the same criteria were used for calling/filtering both SNPs and indels? Please clarify this. I would also suggest the authors to remove the words “high quality” as in my opinion these are only a preliminary set of variables, which would require further filtration and validation before being used in further studies. 