The introduction is well written and provides a good overview of the situation facing the Roma population. There are a few more recent references that could be included, such as an evaluation of the Decade of Roma inclusion in Hungary but, in general, the authors have found most of the relevant information. The fundamental challenge facing anyone doing research among the Roma population in this region is how to develop a sampling frame. There are numerous methodological problems, in particular varying degrees of assimilation (see, for example, work by K Kosa). Previous studies, such as that by the UNDP or in Hungary, have used Roma communities, identifiable by their socio economic and physical characteristics, while recognising that this is imperfect. However, this paper would benefit from a more detailed description of the communities from which the samples were drawn, in particular, how they relate to Romania as a whole. Given that, in many parts of Romania, Roma live in distinct settlements, separate from the Romanian population, even within individual villages, could the authors comment on any implications that their sampling strategy had for generalisability? Given the high levels of distrust that many Roma, justifiably, have, some studies have sought to ensure involvement of Roma fieldworkers, or at least, involvement of community leaders. Can the authors comment on what measures they took in this regard? The greatest problem in this paper is the very small sample size. Overall, less than 100 Roma respondents were included and only 37 non-Roma. Given the numerous problems involved in sampling in a study such as this, this is really far too few from which to draw any meaningful conclusion. This is noted in the limitations but I’m not really convinced that a study of this size can be regarded as much more than a pilot. I would suggest that it is described in this way, with many more caveats than there are at present. Minor points: I’m not sure that it is appropriate to use the words of Soviet rule for the countries of south-eastern Europe. Arguably, Romania was one of the most independent of the Soviet bloc states. 