In this Opinion Article entitled Circulating nucleic acids: a new class of physiological mobile genetic elements , Indraneel Mittra investigated the topic of circulating nucleic acids as a new class of continuously arising DNA damaging agents. The author discusses a recent work (Mittra et al ., 2015) which describes how free nucleic acids not only can enter cell nuclei freely, but they integrate in the host genome and activate proteins of DDR and apoptotic pathways. In particular, in the Opinion Article, the author hypothesizes that cell free DNA continuously arising induced damage can be the cause of aging and age related diseases. The manuscript is certainly well written and attractive, and discusses a very novel yet important topic in the aging field. My only concern is that in two parts of the manuscript the author jumps to conclusions too quickly, and I would suggest rephrasing certain statements. More specifically: pg2, mid right; Whether genomic integration of CNAs occurs preferentially in a site-specific manner or is random is not known; but in either case, integration of CNAs would give rise to somatic mutations in the host genome. This has to be demonstrated yet. We dont really know if CNA integration is a direct cause of somatic mutations in the host genome. I would suggest making this statement milder (i.e. Whether genomic integration of CNAs occurs preferentially in a site-specific manner or is random is not known. It is reasonable to speculate that integration of CNAs may give rise to somatic mutations in the host genome. or a fascinating hypothesis yet to be tested is that that integration of CNAs may give rise to somatic mutations in the host genome.) Same for pg2 bottom part; CNAs, on the other hand, are ubiquitous, physiological and continuously arising, inflicting repeated damage and mutations to the somatic DNA. I would suggest here-as well- a milder statement (i.e., CNAs, on the other hand, are ubiquitous, physiological and continuously arising, inflicting repeated damage and potentially causing mutations to the somatic DNA). 