I am grateful for the detailed response of the authors and I feel that the manuscript have improved due to the amendments. However, there are some issues that still need addressing: The authors state in their reply that the following: “even if in the paper we mainly referred to 3P neuro- and psychophysiological correlates, even the 3PA “ She feels happy today ” cannot convey any reliable information about how the person really feels happy. This 3PA remains an independent source of information and cannot guarantee what really the person feel. It is like to state “ Peter felt a strong pain after hammering his thumb ”, but only Peter can describe the degree and qualities of his pain.” I don’t agree on the claim that “only Peter can describe the degree and qualities of his pain”. I would agree that only Peter can feel his pain in its whole entirety. Maybe it is also true that Peter will give the most accurate verbal report on the qualities of his pain. In most cases with healthy adult humans who have a good mastery of speech, who are in control of their communication faculties, and who are motivated to tell the truth this is probably true. But this is not true in all cases. - Consider for example a small child. I have a 1.5 years old son. He often cannot express his feelings, and I am often able to give a better verbal account of what he means about his personal experiences when he says something, than he himself. When I do this, I use information from his environment, about what happened to him or what did he do before the attempted communication about the feeling, about his behaviour, etc. - Another scenario: Let’s say Peter had a car accident during which he lost his ability to communicate. The arriving ambulance crew may manually probe around his body to find painful areas. For example a paramedic pressing on his leg might observe a reflexive wail and body movement. He would probably conclude that the patient experienced a sharp intense pain, indicating a fracture. - Furthermore, consider a physician dealing with acute injuries every day of his career for 30 years. This physician may be able to give a very accurate prediction about what a particular patient will self-report about his pain just by looking at the injuries. In many cases this is actually necessary, because the patient is not a native speaker, but can understand the language better, or because the patient does not know what qualities of the pain is relevant. So the physician will ask questions like “do you feel a sharp, stabbing pain whenever you move your wrist”? And the patient may find that this is a better description of his pain than he did, or could have reported. This is another example of when it is not only Peter who can describe the degree and qualities of his pain. - Also, consider the situation of a patient getting general anaesthesia including muscle relaxants. If that patient wakes up during surgery due to improper medication dose, he may be unable to communicate that he is now conscious and has pain, because the muscle relaxants block all types of movement. But the anaesthesiologist may be able to detect that he is conscious or that he is in pain using physiological and psychophysiological monitoring. There are methods for doing this even today. Although, admittedly, the level of detail these methods can provide are very crude: “the patient is approaching awareness according to the BIS reading” or “perspiration, heart rate, and blood pressure changes indicate that the patient might be in pain”. But this information is still more accurate in this particular situation than the information that we can get from a self-report. - And of course, people are not always motivated to tell the truth or tell the truth in the level of detail that we are interested in. It is very easy to imagine situations when a person is motivated to lie or withhold information about his or her personal experiences, for example, his memories of a crime. Clever interrogative techniques may be used in adjunct with psychophysiological and behavioural monitoring to detect discrepancies about actual memories and reports of memories. So there are several scenarios in which 3PAs, and even 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, can provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself has provided. Some of these applications are already in use now, and we are probably going see new technological advances that would enable us to get finer details more reliably. My point is that the claim that “at the current level of scientific advancement, there are many varieties of 1PAs whose contents and characteristics can be known and investigated only by these accounts and cannot be integrated with information gathered by 3PAs in particular those related to their neural or psychophysiological correlates” only holds true in ideal circumstances, when dealing with adult humans who have a good mastery of communication, who are in control of their communication faculties, and who are motivated to tell the truth, and if extracting self-report is practical. This is briefly hinted upon in the section “First-person accounts are not always reliable”, but the authors conclude at the end of that section that “3PAs cannot offer a better information than those obtained by the 1PAs”. I think that in all of the above mentioned examples, 3PAs provide better information on qualia than personal reports. The manuscript could benefit from revising this section and the claims that 3PAs cannot offer a better information than those obtained by the 1PAs or that they cannot be integrated to get a clearer picture with personal reports. I tend to agree that at our current level of technological advancement, psychophysiological monitoring and neuroimaging techniques are so crude when it comes to providing information on qualia content that it is practically extremely unreliable and thus in almost all cases, relying on 1PAs and other non-physiological 3PA techniques are overwhelmingly more useful. But the current language of the manuscript generalizes this to every situation and not just psychophysiological monitoring/neuroimaging, but all types of 3PAs. The best way to make the claims more defendable may be to restrict them to the domain of brain and psychophysiological correlates everywhere in the manuscript. It may also help if there was more emphasis on the “exceptions”, when we are not dealing with ideal healthy humans and where personal reports are untrustworthy or not practical to extract. In the following I will detail some specific weaknesses of the arguments in the manuscript due to them being overly generalized. - In medicine we are routinely using observer rating scales (3PAs) to judge subjective pain experiences of children and people living with mental disabilities preventing them from communication. Similarly, as mentioned above, physiological indices are also used routinely in surgery to judge awareness level and pain in anaesthesia. Furthermore, we are already capable of giving a quite accurate pain intensity prediction just by using fMRI data. See for example: Marquand, A., Howard, M., Brammer, M., Chu, C., Coen, S., Mouro-Miranda, J. (2010). Quantitative prediction of subjective pain intensity from whole-brain fMRI data using Gaussian processes. Neuroimage , 49 (3), 2178-2189 1 So 3PAs and even fMRI data can provide useful information on qualia content, and yet, the authors claim that “information about pain intensity and its qualities can be obtained only by 1PAs”. This claim is too general in its current form. - Similar claims are made about emotions: “Emotions identification and their valence and arousal can be measured only taking in account 1PAs.“ However, automatic emotion classifying algorithms show a pretty good match with subjective reports of emotional states. Zhou, F., Qu, X., Helander, M. G., Jiao, J. R. (2011). Affect prediction from physiological measures via visual stimuli. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies , 69 (12), 801-819 2 . Chang, C. Y., Zheng, J. Y., Wang, C. J. (2010, July). Based on support vector regression for emotion recognition using physiological signals. In Neural Networks (IJCNN), The 2010 International Joint Conference on (pp. 1-7). IEEE 3 . Bailenson, J. N., Pontikakis, E. D., Mauss, I. B., Gross, J. J., Jabon, M. E., Hutcherson, C. A., ... John, O. (2008). Real-time classification of evoked emotions using facial feature tracking and physiological responses. International journal of human-computer studies , 66 (5), 303-317 4 . Knowledge gained about emotional states from these physiological monitoring techniques can be integrated with personal reports in research as well. Getting personal reports is often not practical or possible. For example if a researcher wants to monitor affective changes during hypnosis or under the effects of psychoactive drugs, personal reports might be unreliable or asking for self-monitoring such as this might even change the whole experience of the participant. - We are at a point where we can even make above chance predictions of what type of item a person is imagining using just fMRI data. See for example: Reddy, L., Tsuchiya, N., Serre, T. (2010). Reading the mind's eye: decoding category information during mental imagery. NeuroImage , 50 (2), 818-825 5 . So it is possible to extract information about the contents and the subjective experience of a person during a visualization task, and it is easy to see how this might generalize to memory tasks. Presently, using this technique is hardly practical, but it shows that a “mind reading” of sorts is possible, and it might even become practical or even cost effective to do in some situations as technology advances. For example, this type of technology might be used to enable communication for those incapable of movement, or to probe the needs of people with mental or communication disabilities. - Neural mechanisms correlated with visual illusions are also well explored. See for example: Pan, Y., Wang, L., Wang, Z., Xu, C., Yu, W., Spillmann, L., ... Wang, W. (2016). Representation of illusory and physical rotations in human MST: A cortical site for the pinna illusion. Human brain mapping 6 . In fact, we can already predict whether a person is experiencing an illusion or not using neuroimaging techniques: Schwarzkopf, D. S., Song, C., Rees, G. (2011). The surface area of human V1 predicts the subjective experience of object size. Nature neuroscience, 14(1), 28-30 7 . Andrews, T. J., Schluppeck, D., Homfray, D., Matthews, P., Blakemore, C. (2002). Activity in the fusiform gyrus predicts conscious perception of Rubin's vase–face illusion. Neuroimage, 17(2), 890-901 8 . Chen, L. M., Friedman, R. M., Roe, A. W. (2003). Optical imaging of a tactile illusion in area 3b of the primary somatosensory cortex. Science, 302(5646), 881-885 9 . We are also able to describe which image is a person or an animal is currently experiencing in a binocular rivalry task just from fMRI data: Haynes, J. D., Rees, G. (2005). Predicting the stream of consciousness from activity in human visual cortex. Current Biology , 15 (14), 1301-1307 10 . Furthermore, we can directly induce or diminish illusions by stimulating the correct neural structures. See for example: Antal, A., Varga, E. T., Nitsche, M. A., Chadaide, Z., Paulus, W., Kovcs, G., Vidnynszky, Z. (2004). Direct current stimulation over MT+/V5 modulates motion aftereffect in humans. Neuroreport, 15(16), 2491-2494 11 . Kammers, M. P., Verhagen, L., Dijkerman, H. C., Hogendoorn, H., De Vignemont, F., Schutter, D. J. (2009). Is this hand for real? Attenuation of the rubber hand illusion by transcranial magnetic stimulation over the inferior parietal lobule. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 21(7), 1311-1320 12 So we are getting better and better in getting information on a person’s experience content, and even inducing experiences by exploiting our knowledge of the neural correlates of subjective experiences. This type of knowledge can actually “help to increase what authors already know” about the hallucinations of their participants. For example if one would like to investigate whether hypnosis can induce a certain visual illusion, this technique may be used to add another layer of evidence to the claim of the subject that the visual illusion was indeed experienced, which may dispel criticism that the subject only reported the presence of the illusion to please the hypnotherapist. Also it might not be practical to constantly probe the experience of the participant in a binocular rivalry task, in which case the brain imaging information might serve as a good enough alternative to monitor changes in visual experiences. The bottom line is that in my opinion, several of the claims of the authors remain vulnerable to criticism in this version 2 of the manuscript, because the claims are still too general. The claims could be revised to imply that self-reports of 1PAs are superior to 3PAs in circumstances where self-reports on 1PAs are readily available and reliable. In cases where self-reports on 1PAs cannot be fully relied upon or are not available, 3PAs might prove a good enough surrogate. I advise a revision of the manuscript to make this point clear, or to refute this line of criticism. (This actually affects most of the claims made by the authors because most of them imply that 3PAs are always inferior to self-reports or that self-reports are the only way to study particular 1PAs.) The authors modified the definition of 1PAs in this revised version of the manuscript to “phenomenological subjective mental content the person is aware of and that can be communicate to others, if requested or desired, by written, verbal or intentional (conscious) behaviour”. Due to this change some of the previous claims make more sense. But other claims now are less clear, and need to be re-written with the new definition of 1PAs in mind. For example, claim a)”some 1PAs cannot be reduced to third-person neural and psychophysiological correlates accounts (3PAs)” make more sense now, because it says that some qualia are irreducible to neural events. However, claim b) “their contents are the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents, that is, emotions, beliefs, reality interpretations, quality of life and health and their effects on behaviour and the brain activity” became less informative now. Now it basically means that we only need information about the content of (communicable) qualia, if we want to know the contents of qualia. This is self-evident. I guess the authors meant that contents of self-reports of qualia are the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents. I suggest that the authors make sure that they clearly differentiate whenever they use the word 1PA or 1PAs, whether they actually mean qualia, or self-report of qualia. I still feel that the statement “the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to the knowledge of these phenomena” is too general. I suggest revising it to be more specific, for example: “the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to our knowledge of the content of personal experiences, when there are reliable self-reports available.” See above arguments and my version 1 comment on this as well for reasoning. The authors have amended the section talking about the effects of the interventions on their biological correlates of qualia. Now they say: “Saitoh et al. (2007) were successful in reducing pain due to spinal cord or peripheral lesions by applying high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on the primary motor cortex. However, the modification of primary cortex activity didn’t give any useful information about the participants’ change in pain perception. In fact, this information was obtained by asking the participants to rate their pain with a visual analogue scale similar to that presented in Figure 2 and the Short-Form of the McGill Pain Questionnaire.” I feel that this line of argument could be strengthened. Saitoh et al. predicted the reduction in pain intensity in their subjects. That is why they did the stimulation in the first place. A targeted modification to the neural correlate of the 1PA managed to change the 1PA. To me this still seems to refute the claim that 1PAs are irreducible to neural correlates. I wonder whether it would be worthwhile to supplement this argument with the suggestion that the transcranial magnetic stimulation did not directly change the qualia itself (1PA), rather, it affected some neural precursor that eventually led to the qualia. Similarly as local anaesthesia can hardly be claimed to change the structures evoking qualia directly, likewise it is not certain, that transcranial magnetic stimulation directly affected the experience of pain, it is possible that its effect was more indirect. References 1. Marquand A, Howard M, Brammer M, Chu C, et al.: Quantitative prediction of subjective pain intensity from whole-brain fMRI data using Gaussian processes. Neuroimage . 2010; 49 (3): 2178-89 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Zhou F, Qu X, Helander M, Jiao J: Affect prediction from physiological measures via visual stimuli. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies . 2011; 69 (12): 801-819 Publisher Full Text 3. Chang CY, Zheng JY, Wang CJ: Based on support vector regression for emotion recognition using physiological signals. In Neural Networks (IJCNN), The 2010 International Joint Conference IEEE . 2010. 1-7 4. Bailenson J, Pontikakis E, Mauss I, Gross J, et al.: Real-time classification of evoked emotions using facial feature tracking and physiological responses. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies . 2008; 66 (5): 303-317 Publisher Full Text 5. Reddy L, Tsuchiya N, Serre T: Reading the mind's eye: decoding category information during mental imagery. Neuroimage . 2010; 50 (2): 818-25 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Pan Y, Wang L, Wang Z, Xu C, et al.: Representation of illusory and physical rotations in human MST: A cortical site for the pinna illusion. Hum Brain Mapp . 2016; 37 (6): 2097-113 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Schwarzkopf DS, Song C, Rees G: The surface area of human V1 predicts the subjective experience of object size. Nat Neurosci . 2011; 14 (1): 28-30 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Andrews T, Schluppeck D, Homfray D, Matthews P, et al.: Activity in the Fusiform Gyrus Predicts Conscious Perception of Rubin's Vase–Face Illusion. NeuroImage . 2002; 17 (2): 890-901 Publisher Full Text 9. Chen LM, Friedman RM, Roe AW: Optical imaging of a tactile illusion in area 3b of the primary somatosensory cortex. Science . 2003; 302 (5646): 881-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Haynes JD, Rees G: Predicting the stream of consciousness from activity in human visual cortex. Curr Biol . 2005; 15 (14): 1301-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Antal A, Varga E, Nitsche M, Chadaide Z, et al.: Direct current stimulation over MT+/V5 modulates motion aftereffect in humans. NeuroReport . 2004; 15 (16): 2491-2494 Publisher Full Text 12. Kammers MP, Verhagen L, Dijkerman HC, Hogendoorn H, et al.: Is this hand for real? Attenuation of the rubber hand illusion by transcranial magnetic stimulation over the inferior parietal lobule. J Cogn Neurosci . 2009; 21 (7): 1311-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Hypnosis, Psychophysiological mechanisms involved in mind-body interventions I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Kekecs Z. Reviewer Report For: On the primacy and irreducible nature of first-person versus third-person information [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :99 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12464.r22513 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-99/v2#referee-response-22513 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 25 May 2017 Patrizio Tressoldi , Università di Padova, Padova, Italy 25 May 2017 Author Response We appreciate the efforts to rebut our strong and basic claim that 1PAs, that is to say qualia and subjective phenomenological mental and emotional experiences, cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, ... Continue reading We appreciate the efforts to rebut our strong and basic claim that 1PAs, that is to say qualia and subjective phenomenological mental and emotional experiences, cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, all examples given to falsify this basic claim, are based on a misunderstanding related to the difference between 1PAs contents and 1PAs interpretation, classification, etc., by using both observational and physiological 3PAs. The examples like “ He (the 1.5 years old son) often cannot express his feelings, and I am often able to give a better verbal account of what he means about his personal experiences when he says something, than he himself. When I do this, I use information from his environment, about what happened to him or what did he do before the attempted communication about the feeling, about his behaviour, etc .” or “ For example a paramedic pressing on his leg might observe a reflexive wail and body movement. He would probably conclude that the patient experienced a sharp intense pain, indicating a fracture .” and “ consider the situation of a patient getting general anaesthesia including muscle relaxants. If that patient wakes up during surgery due to improper medication dose, he may be unable to communicate that he is now conscious and has pain, because the muscle relaxants block all types of movement. But the anaesthesiologist may be able to detect that he is conscious or that he is in pain using physiological and psychophysiological monitoring .” And the references related on how in medicine it is possible “ to judge subjective pain experiences of children and people living with mental disabilities preventing them from communication” and “ to judge awareness level and pain in anaesthesia ” etc., are all examples where a third person tries to understand, classify, judge, etc. the mental, emotional, behavioural, perceptual subjective experience of another person. Does the information obtained by 3PAs convey precisely what the kid, the patient, etc. is experiencing or did he experience? In theory, this could be obtained by some people with high levels of empathy, but for sure not from “ 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, [that can, added ] provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself has provided”. This reviewer’s opinion is exactly the opposite of that one we are proposing in the paper, namely that 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, cannot in any way provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself experienced. The statement “ For example if one would like to investigate whether hypnosis can induce a certain visual illusion, this technique may be used to add another layer of evidence to the claim of the subject that the visual illusion was indeed experienced, which may dispel criticism that the subject only reported the presence of the illusion to please the hypnotherapist.” is absolutely correct and this research approach is also defined neurophenomenological because it entails both 1PAs and 3PAs. Nowhere in the paper we claimed that 1PAs cannot be observed, interpreted, classified, etc. by using 3PAs. Our basic claim is that whichever information 3PAs can obtain related to 1PAs, this information is qualitatively different from that one experienced subjectively. In the new version of the paper we added Table 1 in the Discussion to help to understand better the different nature and hence the irreducibility of 1PAs with respect to 3PAs. Furthermore, in the discussion we revised the statement “the 1PAs are the only reliable source of information available and that the knowledge of their neural and psychophysical correlates does not offer any additional information about their contents, but only complementary information. At this point of the (stimulating) debate we think that it is difficult for us to get a shared opinion, but we could agree the materials (paper plus our debate) at disposal of the readers (in the discussion we added “We recommend to read the debate with the reviewers for a more comprehensive evaluation of this statement”) are sufficient to let them examine the strengths and weaknesses of our statements so as to form an independent opinion. We appreciate the efforts to rebut our strong and basic claim that 1PAs, that is to say qualia and subjective phenomenological mental and emotional experiences, cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, all examples given to falsify this basic claim, are based on a misunderstanding related to the difference between 1PAs contents and 1PAs interpretation, classification, etc., by using both observational and physiological 3PAs. The examples like “ He (the 1.5 years old son) often cannot express his feelings, and I am often able to give a better verbal account of what he means about his personal experiences when he says something, than he himself. When I do this, I use information from his environment, about what happened to him or what did he do before the attempted communication about the feeling, about his behaviour, etc .” or “ For example a paramedic pressing on his leg might observe a reflexive wail and body movement. He would probably conclude that the patient experienced a sharp intense pain, indicating a fracture .” and “ consider the situation of a patient getting general anaesthesia including muscle relaxants. If that patient wakes up during surgery due to improper medication dose, he may be unable to communicate that he is now conscious and has pain, because the muscle relaxants block all types of movement. But the anaesthesiologist may be able to detect that he is conscious or that he is in pain using physiological and psychophysiological monitoring .” And the references related on how in medicine it is possible “ to judge subjective pain experiences of children and people living with mental disabilities preventing them from communication” and “ to judge awareness level and pain in anaesthesia ” etc., are all examples where a third person tries to understand, classify, judge, etc. the mental, emotional, behavioural, perceptual subjective experience of another person. Does the information obtained by 3PAs convey precisely what the kid, the patient, etc. is experiencing or did he experience? In theory, this could be obtained by some people with high levels of empathy, but for sure not from “ 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, [that can, added ] provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself has provided”. This reviewer’s opinion is exactly the opposite of that one we are proposing in the paper, namely that 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, cannot in any way provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself experienced. The statement “ For example if one would like to investigate whether hypnosis can induce a certain visual illusion, this technique may be used to add another layer of evidence to the claim of the subject that the visual illusion was indeed experienced, which may dispel criticism that the subject only reported the presence of the illusion to please the hypnotherapist.” is absolutely correct and this research approach is also defined neurophenomenological because it entails both 1PAs and 3PAs. Nowhere in the paper we claimed that 1PAs cannot be observed, interpreted, classified, etc. by using 3PAs. Our basic claim is that whichever information 3PAs can obtain related to 1PAs, this information is qualitatively different from that one experienced subjectively. In the new version of the paper we added Table 1 in the Discussion to help to understand better the different nature and hence the irreducibility of 1PAs with respect to 3PAs. Furthermore, in the discussion we revised the statement “the 1PAs are the only reliable source of information available and that the knowledge of their neural and psychophysical correlates does not offer any additional information about their contents, but only complementary information. At this point of the (stimulating) debate we think that it is difficult for us to get a shared opinion, but we could agree the materials (paper plus our debate) at disposal of the readers (in the discussion we added “We recommend to read the debate with the reviewers for a more comprehensive evaluation of this statement”) are sufficient to let them examine the strengths and weaknesses of our statements so as to form an independent opinion. Competing Interests: I'm the corresponding author Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 25 May 2017 Patrizio Tressoldi , Università di Padova, Padova, Italy 25 May 2017 Author Response We appreciate the efforts to rebut our strong and basic claim that 1PAs, that is to say qualia and subjective phenomenological mental and emotional experiences, cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, ... Continue reading We appreciate the efforts to rebut our strong and basic claim that 1PAs, that is to say qualia and subjective phenomenological mental and emotional experiences, cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, all examples given to falsify this basic claim, are based on a misunderstanding related to the difference between 1PAs contents and 1PAs interpretation, classification, etc., by using both observational and physiological 3PAs. The examples like “ He (the 1.5 years old son) often cannot express his feelings, and I am often able to give a better verbal account of what he means about his personal experiences when he says something, than he himself. When I do this, I use information from his environment, about what happened to him or what did he do before the attempted communication about the feeling, about his behaviour, etc .” or “ For example a paramedic pressing on his leg might observe a reflexive wail and body movement. He would probably conclude that the patient experienced a sharp intense pain, indicating a fracture .” and “ consider the situation of a patient getting general anaesthesia including muscle relaxants. If that patient wakes up during surgery due to improper medication dose, he may be unable to communicate that he is now conscious and has pain, because the muscle relaxants block all types of movement. But the anaesthesiologist may be able to detect that he is conscious or that he is in pain using physiological and psychophysiological monitoring .” And the references related on how in medicine it is possible “ to judge subjective pain experiences of children and people living with mental disabilities preventing them from communication” and “ to judge awareness level and pain in anaesthesia ” etc., are all examples where a third person tries to understand, classify, judge, etc. the mental, emotional, behavioural, perceptual subjective experience of another person. Does the information obtained by 3PAs convey precisely what the kid, the patient, etc. is experiencing or did he experience? In theory, this could be obtained by some people with high levels of empathy, but for sure not from “ 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, [that can, added ] provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself has provided”. This reviewer’s opinion is exactly the opposite of that one we are proposing in the paper, namely that 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, cannot in any way provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself experienced. The statement “ For example if one would like to investigate whether hypnosis can induce a certain visual illusion, this technique may be used to add another layer of evidence to the claim of the subject that the visual illusion was indeed experienced, which may dispel criticism that the subject only reported the presence of the illusion to please the hypnotherapist.” is absolutely correct and this research approach is also defined neurophenomenological because it entails both 1PAs and 3PAs. Nowhere in the paper we claimed that 1PAs cannot be observed, interpreted, classified, etc. by using 3PAs. Our basic claim is that whichever information 3PAs can obtain related to 1PAs, this information is qualitatively different from that one experienced subjectively. In the new version of the paper we added Table 1 in the Discussion to help to understand better the different nature and hence the irreducibility of 1PAs with respect to 3PAs. Furthermore, in the discussion we revised the statement “the 1PAs are the only reliable source of information available and that the knowledge of their neural and psychophysical correlates does not offer any additional information about their contents, but only complementary information. At this point of the (stimulating) debate we think that it is difficult for us to get a shared opinion, but we could agree the materials (paper plus our debate) at disposal of the readers (in the discussion we added “We recommend to read the debate with the reviewers for a more comprehensive evaluation of this statement”) are sufficient to let them examine the strengths and weaknesses of our statements so as to form an independent opinion. We appreciate the efforts to rebut our strong and basic claim that 1PAs, that is to say qualia and subjective phenomenological mental and emotional experiences, cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, all examples given to falsify this basic claim, are based on a misunderstanding related to the difference between 1PAs contents and 1PAs interpretation, classification, etc., by using both observational and physiological 3PAs. The examples like “ He (the 1.5 years old son) often cannot express his feelings, and I am often able to give a better verbal account of what he means about his personal experiences when he says something, than he himself. When I do this, I use information from his environment, about what happened to him or what did he do before the attempted communication about the feeling, about his behaviour, etc .” or “ For example a paramedic pressing on his leg might observe a reflexive wail and body movement. He would probably conclude that the patient experienced a sharp intense pain, indicating a fracture .” and “ consider the situation of a patient getting general anaesthesia including muscle relaxants. If that patient wakes up during surgery due to improper medication dose, he may be unable to communicate that he is now conscious and has pain, because the muscle relaxants block all types of movement. But the anaesthesiologist may be able to detect that he is conscious or that he is in pain using physiological and psychophysiological monitoring .” And the references related on how in medicine it is possible “ to judge subjective pain experiences of children and people living with mental disabilities preventing them from communication” and “ to judge awareness level and pain in anaesthesia ” etc., are all examples where a third person tries to understand, classify, judge, etc. the mental, emotional, behavioural, perceptual subjective experience of another person. Does the information obtained by 3PAs convey precisely what the kid, the patient, etc. is experiencing or did he experience? In theory, this could be obtained by some people with high levels of empathy, but for sure not from “ 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, [that can, added ] provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself has provided”. This reviewer’s opinion is exactly the opposite of that one we are proposing in the paper, namely that 3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, cannot in any way provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself experienced. The statement “ For example if one would like to investigate whether hypnosis can induce a certain visual illusion, this technique may be used to add another layer of evidence to the claim of the subject that the visual illusion was indeed experienced, which may dispel criticism that the subject only reported the presence of the illusion to please the hypnotherapist.” is absolutely correct and this research approach is also defined neurophenomenological because it entails both 1PAs and 3PAs. Nowhere in the paper we claimed that 1PAs cannot be observed, interpreted, classified, etc. by using 3PAs. Our basic claim is that whichever information 3PAs can obtain related to 1PAs, this information is qualitatively different from that one experienced subjectively. In the new version of the paper we added Table 1 in the Discussion to help to understand better the different nature and hence the irreducibility of 1PAs with respect to 3PAs. Furthermore, in the discussion we revised the statement “the 1PAs are the only reliable source of information available and that the knowledge of their neural and psychophysical correlates does not offer any additional information about their contents, but only complementary information. At this point of the (stimulating) debate we think that it is difficult for us to get a shared opinion, but we could agree the materials (paper plus our debate) at disposal of the readers (in the discussion we added “We recommend to read the debate with the reviewers for a more comprehensive evaluation of this statement”) are sufficient to let them examine the strengths and weaknesses of our statements so as to form an independent opinion. Competing Interests: I'm the corresponding author Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: van den Noort M and Bosch P. Reviewer Report For: On the primacy and irreducible nature of first-person versus third-person information [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :99 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12464.r22512 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-99/v2#referee-response-22512 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 11 May 2017 Maurits van den Noort , Research Group of Pain and Neuroscience, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea; Brussels Institute for Applied Linguistics, Free University of Brussels, Brussels, Belgium Peggy Bosch , Donders Centre for Cognition, Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12464.r22512 The authors did a good job ... Continue reading READ ALL 