General comments: This is revised manuscript following my first appraisal of the work. In my view, the reviewers have responded very well to most of my previous concerns. However, some minor concerns are still present. Specific comments: Introduction (page 3) First paragraph, “…migration and homing of cells in the BM and tumors, but also in ischemic tissues, such in case of myocardial ischemia…” Revise to read, “…migration and homing of cells in the BM and tumors, but also in ischemic tissues, as in the case with myocardial ischemia…” Third paragraph, “In contrast, matrix…(MMP)-2 cytokine is known to be the inhibitor of…” Revise to read, “In contrast, matrix…(MMP-2) cytokine is known to be an inhibitor of…” Fourth paragraph, “…in the early phase appearing within the first 3 hours following myocardian insult….” Replace “myocardian” with “myocardial”. Methods: Page 5 (Isolation of human adult cardiac myocytes) “Mechanical dissociation of the tissue and separation of the cardiomyocytes from fibroblasts detached to…” Replace “detach to” with detach “from”. Results: Page 7 (IP induces CD34+ cell mobilization via CXCR4/SDF-1 alpha axis) Third paragraph, “IP significantly dowregulated the secretion of…” Revise to read, “IP significantly reduced the secretion of…” Discussion: Page 9 (Effect of AMI and IP on…release) First paragraph, “In the first 3 days post-AMI.” What else? Last three sentences of this paragraph are unclear. The sentence “Results of plasma cytokine levels…in an extended time window” should be revised. “The area under the curve (AUC)…” It is unclear what the authors are referring to here. "However, from a simple blood sampling…., which procedure signifies an additional stress…with recent AMI with predicted higher mortality”. The meaning of this sentence is unclear, especially the phrase “which procedure signifies…” Lastly, in my previous comment in 3C, (Cell migration), the authors provided a description of why the 90 min hypoxia was conducted in the in vitro model, but this information is missing in the body text of the manuscript. Why is this the case?