The article "A reanalysis of mouse ENCODE comparative gene expression data" by Gilad and Mizrahi-Man examines a claim, recently published in the pair of papers Yue F, Cheng Y, Breschi A, et al .: A comparative encyclopedia of DNA elements in the mouse genome. Nature. 2014; 515(7527): 355364. Lin S, Lin Y, Nery JR, et al .: Comparison of the transcriptional landscapes between human and mouse tissues . Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014; 111(48): 1722417229. that expression data from human and mouse cluster more by species than by tissue. The Gilad--Mizrahi-Man paper consists of three "results": A report of the experimental design in Lin et al . An attempt to reproduce the results of Yue et al. and Lin et al . that pertain to the claim about species vs. tissue clustering of expression data. A re-analysis of the Lin et al. data in a manner that addresses shortcomings in the original experimental design. The first is the observation that Lin et al . improperly designed their experiment by confounding species with batches sequenced, thereby leading to a possible "batch effect" affecting their results. This observation was already published as a preprint by the first author on the pre-print server Twitter (see https://twitter.com/Y_Gilad/status/593088451462963202 ). Having noted "a flaw in their [Lin et al .] study design" Gilad--Mizrahi-Man turn to the question of whether the flaw affected the conclusions in Yue et al . and Lin et al . about expression differences as pertaining to tissues vs. species. To this end, the authors attempted to reproduce the analysis of Lin et al . It is evident that while the Lin et al . results may, in some technical sense, be "reproducible" they were certainly not "usable" as published. Gilad--Mizrahi-Man carefully expose a vast number of choices in software and processing options poorly described in Lin et al ., and whose effect on the final result(s) is unclear. To quote just one example, they write that "An exception was the mouse pancreas sample, for which the mapping process stalled consistently at the same stage", a problem that led them to use TopHat v1.4.1 instead of TopHat v2.0.11. One may wonder whether software choices and other decisions in analysis affect final results, and Gilad--Mizrahi-Man address this question (although only partly). For example, one fundamental analysis choice is whether to quantify abundances of genes by summing raw "fragment counts" from alignments to gene regions, or via the summing of abundances as quantified by probabilistic assignment of ambiguously mapped reads. Gilad--Mizrahi-Man cite a paper by Dillies et al . (and the French StatOmique Consortium) suggesting that "FPKM values were not optimal for clustering analysis" to argue for using "fragment counts". I strongly disagree with this choice because transcript abundances are necessary to accurately estimate gene-level abundances, a point that Dillies et al. fail to realize. As pointed out in my own paper on Cufflinks 2 ( Trapnell et al. 2012 ) wrong does not cancel wrong for differential analysis, nor does it for the purpose of clustering. In any case, Gilad--Mizrahi-Man do examine whether quantification by EM affects results and in a later statement they state that "using per-gene raw fragment counts instead of FPKM values does not seem to impact the degree to which the uncorrected data support clustering by species", a result summarized in their Figure S6. While I applaud them for checking the dependence of results on this choice, without further analysis the question remains of whether other analysis choices affect results (although to be fair to the authors, the number of tests that would have to be conducted is enormous and quite possibly practically intractable). Nevertheless, it would be interesting if, for the purpose of future transcriptomics analyses, Gilad--Mizrahi-Man were to investigate some key steps as to their effect (e.g. annotation, an issue discussed recently by Ongen and Dermitzakis, or mapper choice). The final result of Gilad--Mizrahi-Man is a re-analysis of the Lin et al . data from which they observe that a basic correction for batch effect removes the strong clustering of expression profiles by species touted in Yue et al . and Lin et al. The question of the relative species/tissue contribution to expression profile is of course fundamental and interesting, and obviously further data, carefully curated and analyzed, will answer the question definitively. As far as the Lin et al. paper goes, the Gilad--Mizrahi-Man paper certainly casts doubt on the suitability of the data for answering the question. For one thing, the term "batch effect" is unfortunately rather generic and in this specific case that has become a problem. After initial posting of the preprint by Gilad on Twitter, the authors of Lin et al . resequenced their libraries in a different configuration, but further investigation of the experimental design by Gilad et al . (subsequent to initial posting of a preprint of the article Im reviewing) appears to have revealed additional problems. For example, tissues in human and mouse were selected from males vs. females respectively (except in ovaries and testis) resulting in another potential bias that would skew expression profiles to cluster by species rather than tissue. In other words, with their paper and subsequent analysis Gilad and Mizrahi-Man have convinced me to be skeptical of the data and conclusions of Lin et al . (and insofar as it pertains to the results in Lin et al ., the paper by Yue et al .). But that is not really the point. What matters now are the carefully documented serious shortcomings in the computational and experimental methodology of Lin et al . and for this reason I have approved the Gilad--Mizrahi-Man manuscript. Hopefully the issues raised will be properly addressed by Lin et al . (in a manner equally rigorous to that of Gilad--Mizrahi-Man).