The Bankston McDowell article is highly informative on two counts. First, it highlights the extreme difficulty encountered in collecting information regarding postdocs. The Boston data are but one case in point. Second, it contributes information concerning the percent of postdocs which, at the time Bankston McDowell collected their data, were likely to be affected by the FLSA ruling. This constitutes a significant contribution to our understanding of how the law may affect actual salaries. For my taste, however, the article could go a bit further. First, the authors present no information regarding who will pay for the increase on campuses that intend to raise salaries sufficiently so that postdocs will be exempt. The authors speculate that the funds will come out of grants. And in the long run, they are probably right. But, in the short run the evidence is that universities and departments will pick up some of the increases. (See Council on Governmental Relations 2016 Survey). Second, they do not speculate on how the increase will likely affect the number of postdocs employed. To the extent the demand for postdocs is sensitive to salary, one would predict that in the long run the regulation will lead to a decrease in the number of postdocs working at universities. The authors also imply that it is not clear as to whether the regulation applies to postdocs on fellowships. It is my understanding that a decision by the Department of Labor means that those on fellowships are to be treated the same as are postdocs supported in other ways. The authors also make no effort to explain why their results seem so at odds with the results found by the Council on Governmental Relations Survey, which suggests that something like 75% of campuses surveyed were choosing to raise salaries so that postdocs would be exempt from overtime pay. Finally, there is the issue that the authors could not have foreseen that a Federal Judge would issue an injunction November 22, 2015 which preserves the status quo. While the injunction is temporary, many believe that the judge’s language “indicated he was likely to strike down the regulation.” http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/business/obama-rule-to-expand-overtime-eligibility-is-suspended-by-judge.html . To the extent the implications of the regulation for postdoc pay were difficult to understand before this ruling, they are even more so today. Assuming the rule is found to be invalid, campuses will find themselves in the awkward position of having to decide if they will take back a promised increase. Or, take back an increase that has already taken effect.