In "Effect of anesthesia level on murine cardiac function F Picard et al. anesthetized 12 mice three times at different concentrations of the volatile anesthetic isoflurane to test the hypothesis that isoflurane has a dose-dependent negative inotrope and chronotrope effect on myocardial function. Overall, this is an interesting and useful study to help guide basic science investigators when conducting echocardiography in cardiovascular studies in mice. Several questions/concerns, however, would need to be addressed to improve the validity of the data and the value for F1000Researchs readers: Please integrate more details on the (revised) statistical analysis into the abstracts as well. Introduction, 2 nd paragraph: most importantly, echocardiograpy is non-invasive. Introduction, 2 nd paragraph: I do not agree with the statement that physiological mechanisms in mice are closely related to those in humans. With a heart rate in the 500s and a correspondingly lower stroke volume this is hardly the case. In addition, the body mass to surface ratio and therefore metabolism are different. Please revise accordingly. Introduction, 3 rd paragraph: In fact, heart rate can be used as a proxy for depth of anesthesia. While this may be true for the murine model at hand, depth of anesthesia in general cannot be assessed by heart rate only and strongly depends on the anesthetic used (volatile vs intravenous, cardiovascular side effects vary greatly among drugs, hemodynamic status, acutely and chronically administered concurrent medications, etc). Please revise. Material and Methods, 1 st paragraph: please use the current version of the Guide. Material and Methods, 2 nd paragraph (Experimental Protocols), and study design in general: the authors seem to exchange dependent and independent variables in their experiments. Either isoflurane is given at a predetermined end tidal concentration as an independent variable with a negligible standard deviation in its concentration in each group, then heart rate is a truly dependent variable. If, however, isoflurane is titrated to achieve a certain heart rate, the latter turns into an independent variable while isoflurane becomes the dependent variable. Either way, isoflurane concentrations and heart rates in each group need to be shown as mean plus/minus standard deviation in case of normal distribution or median and quartiles if not normally distributed. Please revise, including table 1. Material and Methods, 4 th paragraph: what were the animals temperatures? Deviations in temperature may have a significant effect on heart rate independent of the isoflurane concentration. Material and Methods, 4 th paragraph: was an end tidal isoflurane concentration measured or are the concentrations provided from the vaporizer setting? If so, what fresh gas flow was used? Statistical analysis: more than one comparison requires an ANOVA with post-hoc comparisons, not repeated t-tests to avoid a type I error. For non-parametric testing see below. Table 1: The statistical symbols are largely redundant, e.g. if deep is different to light, light does not have to be shown again to be different to deep etc. Please simplify. Figure 1: The nature of the box plots suggests that most of the data are not normally distributed. Therefore, non-parametric tests and data presentation are necessary. Please revise. As laid out before, due to a switch between strictly independent and dependent variables there appears to be a greater than necessary heterogeneity in the isoflurane concentrations in any of the three groups. Therefore, please plot the outcome data presented in panels A through D of figure 1 as scatter plots with the isoflurane concentrations on the x-axis and the chosen outcome on the y-axis and conduct regression and correlation analyses to emphasize the take home points of this study. 