This method article by Hamilton et al. describes in extensive detail the procedures involved in transplantation of human CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) directly into the circulation of 2 day-old zebrafish embryos. Although there have been studies that transplanted mouse 1 and human 2 HSPCs into zebrafish embryos as a model for homing and lodgement, as the authors discuss, this article provides the technical details necessary to successfully reproduce these experiments. The authors explain clearly how this approach can reduce the number of animal models needed in research (i.e., the 3Rs). Zebrafish embryos as transplant recipients can be collected in the hundreds each week, without the need to sacrifice adult animals. The efficiency of the approach is shown by the small number of CD34+ HSPCs that are needed per recipient, about 50 per embryo, compared to about 10,000 per recipient mouse. The authors perform time-lapse live imaging that reveals transplanted human HSPCs are “cuddled” by zebrafish endothelial cells in the niche, a dynamic cellular behavior that is observed during endogenous HSPC lodgement 3 . Overall, the data presented in this method article is of high quality, is sufficient to reproduce the technique, and provides a strong rationale for the 3Rs. However, as other similar studies have been performed 2 , it would be helpful if the authors could further extend their results to highlight improvements to the method. Some suggestions for revisions are listed below: What are the different options for dyes that could be used to label donor cells? Has toxicity been assessed in dosage curves? Have alternatives been explored? How does PKH26 2 compare to fluorescein (this study)? How long do the donor cells survive in the transplant recipient? Staal et al. track the cells until 6 dpf, so 4 days after transplant at 2 dpf. How long were recipients followed in these experiments? How does temperature affect survival of donor cells, given the different optimal temperatures between human and zebrafish (i.e., 37C vs 28C). From the existing data collected for the study, what percentage of lodged HSPCs are found in pockets? Have other injection methods been tried? RO injection in embryos is also possible, and may prove easier and more efficient than injection into the Duct of Cuvier. How were transplants controlled? Is there a way to distinguish between lodged viable cells vs stuck debris? If sorted adult zebrafish HSPCs were transplanted in similar numbers (e.g., kidney cd41:gfp low cells), would the lodged number of cells be comparable to human CD34+ cells? Staal et al. tested chemokine responses ex vivo —could the authors inject human cytokines into zebrafish recipient embryos to test their effects in vivo ? For example, would the transplant results change in the presence of human G-CSF? Possible additional “Discussion” points: How could the method be scaled up for higher throughput studies (e.g., automated injection)? What are the limitations of the system compared with mice? How could the non-isogenic background of zebrafish impact a study, compared to using isogenic mouse recipients? Is ‘engraftment’ appropriate terminology, given that the cells can only be tracked short-term? Would ‘lodgement’ be a better description of the processed that is modeled? Replacing the adult mouse with the zebrafish embryo as a transplant recipient for human HSPCs switches the system from an adult bone marrow niche to a developmental “fetal-like” niche (i.e., CHT). How should this be considered when interpreting the results? Minor points related to the manuscript: Could the authors provide higher resolution images in figure 4A-B? The absolute numbers should also be shown in Figure 4C. What is the number inside and outside of the CHT at 1 hpt? Does 100% mean there are no circulating cells in the embryo at 1 hpt? If there are 50% fewer cells in the CHT 12 hours later, where are the cells going? Are they migrating to a different tissue or dying? How long is the image in Figure 4A taken after injection? Text says 100% after injection are in the caudal vein, but the image shows cells around the embryo. Are the images in Figure 5 maximum projections or single slices? Single Z planes more clearly show the endothelial projections. In Figure 5B, it should be clear that the second frame is only endothelial cells. Single channels could be shown together with the merge. This text on page 3 is not clear: “These immunodepleted mice must be grown to adulthood in order to assess engraftment success, usually performed shortly after birth.” Does this refer to a neonatal transplant? How were the numbers collected for this statement on page 3: “In 2015, 25 publications used immunocompromised mice for HSC transplant studies, representing around 1000 mice each year worldwide – all undergoing severe procedures over a long period of time.” Is there a reference that could be cited? Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 