This article introduces a new dual fluorescence assay for quantitatively measuring the efficiency of siRNA-mediated mRNA knockdown in cultured cells. The authors used two fluorescent reporters to independently represent the levels of target gene expression and shRNA expression and then applied computational analysis to calculate the ratiometric fluorescence value between the two reporters as an index of siRNA efficiency. This new approach presents a precise measurement of siRNA knockdown efficiency by comparing the target gene expression level to shRNA expression level directly in single cells, and serves as a reliable method to test different shRNA sequences for siRNA knockdown. Overall it clearly provides at least three major advantages over the traditional methods (western blot, etc.) for siRNA knockdown evaluation: It measures the siRNA knockdown efficiency in individual cells so that it can bypass the potential problem of obtaining ambitious results from transfected cells that express the siRNA at various levels. Furthermore, they used automated image acquisition and analysis, which makes the approach feasible for high-throughput screening. It significantly shortens the procedure of estimating siRNA efficiency. This method targets an exogenous reporter gene from a transfected vector, minimizing the concern of pre-synthesized endogenous proteins. Because of this, it takes less time to see siRNA effect after transfection (~24 hours) compared to the traditional methods (48 hours). The authors also introduced a negative bacteria selective marker, the ccdB gene, at the site of plasmid insertion, which may eliminate the colony selection step and significantly simplify the cloning procedure. Here are some points that I hope the authors could address: How can this method estimate the siRNA efficiency if the target sequences are embedded in a complicated secondary structure? The authors used 19-bp target sequence at the 3UTR of a red fluorescent protein, and used the red fluorescent signal as a measurement of siRNA knockdown. In most cases this technique is sufficient, as the authors documented in this article. But there are some exceptions as the authors pointed out, for example, the Lmna-T6 target sequence (Figure 3C and 3D). I wonder whether the authors can incorporate more 5 and 3 target sequences into the pREFLECT vector to better test the efficiency at different local mRNA secondary structures. The advantage of a three plasmid system is not quite convincing. I think the true advantage of the two plasmid system is that the molar ratio of GFP and shRNA in each individual cell is fixed, and thus the GFP signal truly indicates how much shRNA is expressed in the same cell. By adopting the three plasmid system, this advantage is lost. The authors claimed that the three plasmid system can expedite the workflow because the GFP and mCherry vectors are essentially identical for all experiments, and the previously constructed shRNA vectors can be used without modification. Obviously, it could save some cloning time in constructing shRNA vector, but it creates issues in estimating shRNA expression level at the same time. For this reason, I do not see any significant advantage for testing siRNA targeting sequences using the three plasmid system over the two plasmid system. 