With well over 20,000 patients receiving DMSO based autologous transplants annually in Europe alone, this is a timely review of the toxic effects of this valuable agent. It has been performed in an appropriate and scholarly manner and brings added value by including the Russian literature not easily accessible to the average English-speaking reader. However there are ways in which the review might be improved and give added value to the reader. It is not easy to ascertain the number of patients receiving DMSO intravenously and those receiving it by other routes. A small table could clarify this. The side effect tables either as numbers of patients or numbers of treatments. If they cannot be presented as one combined set of data then some explanation of the two separate tables would be beneficial. There seems to have been no attempt to quantify the dose of DMSO which patients have received or to characterize the severity of the reactions and relate these. Furthermore DMSO is usually a vehicle to facilitate giving the patient some other treatment e.g. a stem cell transplant or drug so the reasons for the use of DMSO are not clear. This also means there are side effects from the drug or treatment facilitated by the DMSO; is it possible to separate these effects in any way? Do the authors of the many papers selected for analysis recommend an upper limit to the amount of DMSO given or have a strategy for minimising the dose? In their final paragraph the authors suggest that "reactions due to DMSO are often mild and transient". In their previous paragraph they admit that the case reports the less common and more severe side effects which did not meet the eligibility criteria of this review. However as long ago as 2005 it was possible to identify severe side effects in an appreciable number of cases (Windrum et al. , 2005 1 ). Furthermore although they do not separate the factors responsible the authors of reference 7 record a SAE (Grades 3, 4 and 5) profile in excess of 3%. The authors should possibly be a little more circumspect in this paragraph particularly as they recommend the use of DMSO in (unspecified) small doses. 