 Summary: APOE is highly expressed by neural stem cells (NSCs) in the hippocampus of adult mice, particularly in the quiescent state, and has been associated with stem cell maintenance. However, no data is available on the expression pattern of APOE in human neural stem cells. The authors monitor APOE expression by QPCR and immunocytochemistry during the neuronal differentiation of iPSCs using three different types of neural induction media. They report a dramatic reduction in APOE mRNA levels during differentiation, as well as a change in the cellular distribution of APOE protein. Comments: Although preliminary, the changes in APOE expression are an interesting and important observation. However, while the QPCR data is convincing and very robust, the immunocytochemistry studies should be further analysed/improved in order to draw any strong conclusions. The images presented are not of very good quality, and if judging by them, APOE expression rather seems to increase globally during differentiation, with few cells expressing high levels at D12 and most cells expressing moderate levels at D18/19. My main specific recommendations are: If possible, provide higher magnification/higher quality images of APOE stainings, including also the other time points during differentiation. Day 7 would be particularly important to include, since it displays the highest levels of expression by QPCR. APOE stainings should be quantified to support the conclusions that its expression decreases during differentiation and there is a change in the protein localization. If this is not possible, the conclusions should be toned down and further experiments suggested in the discussion (for example, protein quantification by WB and cellular fractionation and quantification of protein in the media to assess intracellular protein localization and secretion, respectively). In the discussion, it should be noted that iPSC-derived NSCs might not fully resemble adult NSCs. A brief discussion of what is known about the expression of APOE in NSCs during development would be very useful. Other comments/suggestions: Sox2 (neural stem and progenitor marker) and Tbr2 (neuronal progenitor marker) stainings are presented only at one stage each. It would be very informative to see if/how these two markers change over the course of the differentiation protocol. If not possible by immuno, a QPCR for these genes would also be enough to show the trends of expression during differentiation. Please specify in the methods how long the cells are fixed in PFA. Either in the introduction or the discussion, it could be noted that astrocytes express very high levels of APOE in the brain. This is important because it links APOE expression to the astroglial nature of adult NSCs. 