 Comment #1: The authors correctly note that fulminant pneumonia due to M. abscessus to date has been limited to a very few clinical circumstances such as lipoid pneumonia and cystic fibrosis. To attribute fulminant pneumonia to M. abscessus in an entirely new setting requires rather rigorous "proof". For several reasons, I am not sure that "proof" exists for this case. a) The patients course was consistent with bacterial pneumonia followed by adult respiratory distress syndrome. b) The patient had pseudomonas isolated from respiratory secretions and had multiple previous pneumonias presumably due to pseudomonas. c) Although tigecycline has less activity against pseudomonas than some other gram negative rods, it still has some activity and certainly amikacin has significant anti-pseudomonal activity. d) The radiographic findings were non-specific (as noted by the authors). e) The source of the M. abscessus in respiratory specimens could have been the tracheostomy site. f) The patient had rapid radiographic and microbiologic response, both unusual for M. abscessus lung disease with any antibiotic combination. g) The total length of treatment was very short for M. abscessus lung disease, and mostly with one agent. h) A biopsy would have been helpful for establishing the diagnosis. i) Is it possible the patient had ongoing aspiration (a factor that might account for some of the radiographic findings but might also support the mycobacterial diagnosis)? Comment #2 : I think the discussion is too ambitious. In my opinion the focus of the discussion should be persuading the reader about the veracity of the claim that M. abscessus caused this fulminate clinical course. a) The discussion about separating M. chelonae from M. abscessus in the lab is important, but can be summarized by the urgent need for widespread adoption of molecular methods not currently available in most mycobacteriology labs. There is no excuse M. abscessus to be reported as part of a complex. To make things even more interesting, there appear to be 3 subspecies of M. abscessus (abscessus, massiliense and boletti). This problem is clearly peripheral to the thrust of the paper. b) The authors do not mention the major functional (and clinical) difference between M. chelonae and M. abscessus which is that M. abscessus has a functioning inducible macrolide resistance gene (erm gene) whereas M. chelonae does not. This means that M. chelonae isolates are usually macrolide susceptible while M. abscessus organisms are not. Again, this observation is somewhat peripheral to the main point of the manuscript. c) Overall, I think the discussion could be shortened with more focus on the main thrust of the manuscript Comment #3 : Some minor comments: a) The authors discuss treatment duration for M. abscessus infections as though the organism dictates the duration of therapy, rather duration of therapy is strongly dictated by the site of the infection. Duration of therapy differs between skin and soft tissue infection, lung disease, bone and joint disease, etc. b) In the case report, I would like to see the pCO2 and HCO3 levels and the anion gap. 