This paper analyzes visual target recognition in bees and focuses on previously reported asymmetries between the dorsal and the ventral visual fields in terms of color/pattern recognition and discrimination. The authors studied whether a pattern detection/discrimination task varies when patterns are displayed either in the ventral or in the dorsal visual fields and discuss different possible mechanisms accounting for this variation. Specifically, bees were trained to choose a rewarded orange target which was presented among blue distracters either in the ventral visual field ( group of bees), the dorsal field ( group) or in both fields (mixed group), and choice errors, decision time, and flight pathways upon entering into the experimental arena were recorded. The authors show in a convincing way that bees presented with targets in the ventral visual field were most efficient in detecting the rewarded target as they made rapid decisions with high accuracy and direct flight paths. In contrast, bees perceiving the patterns in the dorsal visual field made more errors and took more time to detect the pattern. Yet these dorsal bees improved significantly their performance after a few learning trials as they decreased both the number of errors and decision time and flew in a straight line towards the target. Bees of the mixed group needed considerably more time to improve the search of the target whose position changed randomly between the ventral and the dorsal visual field. The conclusions drawn by the authors focus on the notion of expectation as it is said that "bees form expectations of the location of the targets appearance and adapt their search strategy accordingly". Furthermore, the authors insist on the notion of attention (more specifically, spatial attention), which is certainly attractive in the light of the results obtained, but as the authors themselves acknowledge, is probably not the unique explanation for their data . As a consequence, a more suitable title for the paper, given the results presented, would be something like: " Honey bees exhibit flexible (plastic) visual search strategies for targets presented vertically at various heights ". It seems to me that the main finding of the paper is precisely the flexibility and adaptability of the bees visual search strategies to the various experimental situations rather than the proof of attentional processes guiding these strategies. A main concern raised by this paper relates to the criteria (unclear to me) used to define the position of the so-called "decision line" in the setup. Clearly such a line was very close (5 cm) to the targets so that decision counting may have under/over estimated real decisions performed (and perhaps) modified at further distances from the targets. It would be therefore interesting to contrast the decisions counted and established following the authors method with a different one, which, for instance, may be based on quantifying angular deviations of trajectories along the flight path; one can establish a criterion for a decision based on an angular deviation from the entrance vector and quantify decision which may occur before reaching the decision line defined by the authors. A minor concern relates to incomplete citations in the paper. In particular, given that the focus is on ventral/dorsal asymmetry of visual performances on bees, it would be worth considering and mentioning the work on ventral vs. dorsal target detection in bees ( Giurfa et al ., 1999 ) . Additionally, the statement on the relative recency of studies on attention in insects is questionable. Although it is not explicitly said - probably because of constraints imposed by reviewers - the work by van Swinderen and Greenspan (2003) constitutes a study on visual attention. Also, if one focuses on bees, the use of this concept of attention dates to 2004 ( Giurfa, 2004 ) when it was argued that discrimination between perceptually closer stimuli was possible after differential conditioning but not after absolute conditioning due to differences in attention inculcated by these two training procedures. The idea was further developed in later papers, so that referring the use of this concept in insects to 2011 seems a bit unfair to prior contributions which also focused on the same idea. All in all, the manuscript is sound and well-written. The results are quite convincing (but see remark on the appropriateness of the decision line criterion) and constitute an important contribution to field of insect vision.