I have greatly enjoyed reading this engaging and inspiring review article. The authors of the article provide a concise and highly focused review of the recent literature on visual perceptual learning, and notably of the so-called task-irrelevant perceptual learning (TIPL). The main thrust of the article is to draw a distinction between an automatic form of TIPL, whereby the repeated occurrence of reward in close temporal contiguity with a visual stimulus (feature) determines perceptual learning of that stimulus (feature), and a more complex and cognitively demanding form of perceptual learning, whereby perceptual learning occurs as a result of the task-dependent contingency between a given stimulus (feature) and reward. I find this dichotomous view of perceptual learning, and of its modulation by reward, especially captivating and important, especially because we have recently elaborated a similar distinction between types of reward-dependent learning in the attentional domain that conform to classical conditioning and types that conform to operant conditioning ( Chelazzi et al ., 2013 ). Similar to what elaborated here, in prior studies ( Della Libera et al. , 2011 ) we could detect an impact of reward on attentional learning that conformed to classical conditioning using task variants in which participants were led to believe that rewards were received independently of their performance, in a lottery-like fashion. Conversely, in other work ( Della Libera Chelazzi, 2009 ) we could detect an impact of reward on attentional learning that conformed to operant conditioning using task variants in which participants were led to believe that rewards received in relation to specific stimuli depended on their attentional performance towards the same stimuli. I actually encourage the authors to note such remarkable consistency between notions that are being developed within the domain of perceptual learning and similar notions that are being developed within the domain of attentional learning. In this regard, it is important to eliminate any potential confusion. Perceptual learning refers to improvements in perceptual performance (increased sensitivity) in relation to specific stimuli (features) as a result of prolonged practice with/exposure to the stimuli (features). In contrast, attentional learning refers to an increase in the efficiency with which participants are able to select, or sometimes ignore, specific stimuli within multi-elements displays. It might well be the case that the two learning phenomena are intimately related, but such a possibility has never been formally tested, at least to the best of my knowledge. One aspect that the authors of the present article might want to elaborate on further is the way in which they conceive the task goal-dependency of the perceptual learning effects necessitating top-down control. In operant conditioning, the key link between a given stimulus and reward is the behavioral response directed towards the stimulus. Reward can only be obtained to the extent that an instrumental response is produced towards the stimulus. Any contingency between the stimulus and reward is not sufficient to elicit operant conditioning. In keeping with this notion, in our own work (Chelazzi et al ., 2013) we have proposed that in the operant conditioning-like context, the cognitive system is shaped by reward in such a way that particular attentional operations (either selection or suppression, which, in different terms, can be named prioritization or deprioritization) are reinforced in relation to specific stimuli. In this perspective, what is being learned is a specific cognitive act in relation to a given stimulus and the learning is guided by the reward contingency. As a further development of the distinction put forward by the authors, I suggest that most likely the two forms of perceptual learning ought to differ in other important ways, including the resistance to extinction, the level of generalization across stimuli and tasks, and so forth. One other aspect that the authors might want to consider is the extent to which the task-dependency of what they describe as the second and more complex form of perceptual learning actually requires that top-down control is exerted in relation to the stimulus for which learning is measured or whether for this type of learning to occur it is sufficient that top-down control is exerted in relation to any stimulus, not necessarily the one for which learning is measured. In the latter scenario, top-down control is engaged, though it is not directed towards the stimulus for which learning is measured, performance monitoring processes are at work, and any resulting reward is linked to ongoing performance. I suppose that this level of top-down control may be sufficient for the second type of perceptual learning to materialize. Finally, Title and abstract are perfectly adequate.