From our point of view, digital DDH (dDDH) calculated by GGDC tool correlates better with empirical DDH than the various implementations of ANI (Meier-Kolthoff 2014 1 , Meier-Kolthoff et al., 2013 2 ) and thus dDDH can safely be preferred over ANI. GGDC estimates at 70% dDDH are widely accepted, have repeatedly proven to be accurate, and is recommended for the discrimination of the species by bacterial taxonomical experts (and not the preliminary ANI derived from GGDC algorithm) (Chun et al., 2018 3 ). In bacterial taxonomy, only type strains are valid, while strains belong to phylogenomically diverse clades are less important during defining a species. As there are limitations in the use of the GGDC tool to compare a large number of strains, it would have been more logical to estimate GGDC-dDDH values (only) for the type strains for which the ANI cutoff is ambiguous. The GGDC tool shows E. xiangfangensi s and E. hormaechei are in fact two different species (DDH estimate (GLM-based): 59.80% [56.9 - 62.5%]). Indeed, there is only a 12% probability that these two type strain can be classified as subspecies of a either species. Extension of this estimate to clade level indicates clade A-D and E are two different species and represents E. xiangfangensi s and E. hormaechei, respectively. Just because several strains of clade A-D were historically identified as E. hormaechei subspecies, there is no reason to ignore the recently validated E. xiangfangensis species. Currently, phenotypic identification remains the gold standard for identification of microorganisms in standard diagnostic laboratories and provides the bulk of the data for taxonomic classification. WGS is presently largely done in research laboratories or as pilot endeavors in specialized diagnostic laboratories. As genotype-phenotype correlations are at present incomplete, current classification schemes would give phenotypic data priority. References 1. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Klenk HP, Göker M: Taxonomic use of DNA G+C content and DNA-DNA hybridization in the genomic age. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2014; 64 (Pt 2): 352-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Auch AF, Klenk HP, Göker M: Genome sequence-based species delimitation with confidence intervals and improved distance functions. BMC Bioinformatics . 2013; 14 : 60 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Chun J, Oren A, Ventosa A, Christensen H, et al.: Proposed minimal standards for the use of genome data for the taxonomy of prokaryotes. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2018; 68 (1): 461-466 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Chakraborty T and Doijad S. Reviewer Report For: Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. hoffmannii subsp. nov., Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. xiangfangensis comb. nov., Enterobacter roggenkampii sp. nov., and Enterobacter muelleri is a later heterotypic synonym of Enterobacter asburiae based on computational analysis of sequenced Enterobacter genomes. [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2018, 7 :521 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.16861.r35633 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-521/v2#referee-response-35633 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 18 Jul 2018 Granger Sutton , J Craig Venter Institute, Rockville, USA 18 Jul 2018 Author Response We agree that dDDH (Refs 1,2) has been shown to correlate slightly better with laboratory DDH than ANI does. We do not agree that this should provide the basis for ... Continue reading We agree that dDDH (Refs 1,2) has been shown to correlate slightly better with laboratory DDH than ANI does. We do not agree that this should provide the basis for preferring dDDH over ANI as the basis for determining species or subspecies level relatedness. The proposed criteria from Chun et al (Ref 3) also do not give a preference for dDDH over ANI as an OGRI. The question we need to ask is what defines a species? Genome relatedness is certainly a primary component of that and because laboratory DDH was the first method for calculating genome relatedness it became the gold standard but with current genome sequencing there is no reason for it to remain the gold standard. dDDH combines shared genomic content with the ANI of the shared genomic content. PanOCT computes multiple pairwise relatedness measures: two of which are the ANI of orthologous genes and the Jaccard similarity of the gene content. We have shown (Ref 4) that the gene content similarity measure can be significantly affected by horizontally transferred genes such as plasmids which raises the question of whether that should be part of a species relatedness measure. Chun et al (Ref 3) argue that at levels above species and certainly above genera that OGRI measures are not useful and rather that a set of core genes with low horizontal transfer potential be used for phylogenetic tree construction. This is much more consistent with ANI which tends to measure the core gene similarity rather than dDDH which includes variable gene content. We believe that evolutionary relatedness including species definitions is best measured with ANI while gene content provides a somewhat orthogonal measurement to capture horizontal transfer events. We recognize that horizontal transfers are also evolutionary events and strongly correlated with ANI hence the "somewhat orthogonal". We welcome the discussion of what should define a species and understand that the views of Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad are as valid as our own. Using DDH Hoffman et al (Ref 5) showed that Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae , E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei , and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii are the same species: "The close DNA-DNA relatedness within clusters VI and VII was reflected by ΔTm values below 0.5. The relatively higher heterogeneity of cluster VIII was indicated by higher within-group ΔTm values of up to 2.7. By evaluating the DNA relatedness among the clusters, we found that clusters VI and VIII are closely related (mean ΔTm value = 2.2), while a relatively longer distance for E. hormaechei cluster VII from the members of clusters VI and VIII was indicated by the mean ΔTm value of 4.0. However, all three genetic clusters could still be assigned to the same species (14). They could be genetically distinguished from the other species of the E. cloacae complex, which had ΔTm values of 5.6 to 10.3 (Table 2).". Unfortunately they did not report DNA-DNA relatedness values but only ΔTm values. They did cite previous work which gave DNA-DNA relatedness: "Davin-Regli et al. ( 4 ) reported an outbreak with an “ E. cloacae strain with the E. hormaechei genotype” but an aberrant biotype. The strain exhibited all of the characteristics of E. hormaechei and was 80% related to the type strain in DNA-DNA reassociation experiments but was positive for growth on D-sorbitol and α-D-melibiose. Obviously, this outbreak was caused by a strain of genetic cluster VI. Hence, these studies are in agreement with our observation that genetic clusters VI and VIII belong to the species E. hormaechei ( 4 , 6 ).". We agree that by ANI and dDDH that E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei is borderline at best to be grouped as the same species as the other E. hormaechei subspecies but Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad cannot have it both ways. Hoffman et al showed phenotypic data supporting there grouping of the subspecies and delineation from other subspecies as well as genotypic support using marker genes which has since been used in clinical papers to differentiate the subspecies from each other and other species. Certainly one could propose making these separate species but the bar for undoing historical precedent is much higher than arguing that the ANI or dDDH values are borderline. Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad state: "Currently, phenotypic identification remains the gold standard for identification of microorganisms in standard diagnostic laboratories and provides the bulk of the data for taxonomic classification. WGS is presently largely done in research laboratories or as pilot endeavors in specialized diagnostic laboratories. As genotype-phenotype correlations are at present incomplete, current classification schemes would give phenotypic data priority.". Not being clinicians we are not sure if this is true but based on our reading of the literature if it is true it is likely to not be true in the near future. We are not against phenotypic characterization if it is economical and reliable. We look forward to a robust discussion of the pros and cons of phenotyic versus genotypic diagnostic methods. Regardless, assignment of species and species delineation has long been genotype based since DDH is a genotypic measure as well as marker genes and OGRI. We are not against phenotypic characterization of type strains although one could argue that this only really makes sense if a clade of strains of the same species is characterized to evaluate variability. We reached out to DSMZ to inquire about phenotypic characterization services which they are willing to provide at some level on a case by case basis but they could not tell us what minimal characterization is necessary for a type strain. Perhaps Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad could intervene on our behalf with DSMZ and have the appropriate characterization performed and placed in the DSMZ supported “The Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase” (BacDive). This could be the first step towards some form of phenotypic characterization standard for type strains. 1. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Klenk HP, Gker M: Taxonomic use of DNA G+C content and DNA-DNA hybridization in the genomic age. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2014; 64 (Pt 2): 352-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Auch AF, Klenk HP, Gker M: Genome sequence-based species delimitation with confidence intervals and improved distance functions. BMC Bioinformatics . 2013; 14 : 60 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Chun J, Oren A, Ventosa A, Christensen H, Arahal DR, da Costa MS, Rooney AP, Yi H, Xu XW, De Meyer S, Trujillo ME: Proposed minimal standards for the use of genome data for the taxonomy of prokaryotes. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2018; 68 (1): 461-466 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Chavda KD, Chen L, Fouts DE, et al. : Comprehensive Genome Analysis of Carbapenemase-Producing Enterobacter spp.: New Insights into Phylogeny, Population Structure, and Resistance Mechanisms. mBio. 2016; 7 (6): pii: e02093-16. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text 5. Hoffmann H, Stindl S, Ludwig W, et al. : Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae subsp. nov., E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei comb. nov., and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii subsp. nov., three new subspecies of clinical importance. J Clin Microbiol. 2005; 43 (7): 3297–303. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text We agree that dDDH (Refs 1,2) has been shown to correlate slightly better with laboratory DDH than ANI does. We do not agree that this should provide the basis for preferring dDDH over ANI as the basis for determining species or subspecies level relatedness. The proposed criteria from Chun et al (Ref 3) also do not give a preference for dDDH over ANI as an OGRI. The question we need to ask is what defines a species? Genome relatedness is certainly a primary component of that and because laboratory DDH was the first method for calculating genome relatedness it became the gold standard but with current genome sequencing there is no reason for it to remain the gold standard. dDDH combines shared genomic content with the ANI of the shared genomic content. PanOCT computes multiple pairwise relatedness measures: two of which are the ANI of orthologous genes and the Jaccard similarity of the gene content. We have shown (Ref 4) that the gene content similarity measure can be significantly affected by horizontally transferred genes such as plasmids which raises the question of whether that should be part of a species relatedness measure. Chun et al (Ref 3) argue that at levels above species and certainly above genera that OGRI measures are not useful and rather that a set of core genes with low horizontal transfer potential be used for phylogenetic tree construction. This is much more consistent with ANI which tends to measure the core gene similarity rather than dDDH which includes variable gene content. We believe that evolutionary relatedness including species definitions is best measured with ANI while gene content provides a somewhat orthogonal measurement to capture horizontal transfer events. We recognize that horizontal transfers are also evolutionary events and strongly correlated with ANI hence the "somewhat orthogonal". We welcome the discussion of what should define a species and understand that the views of Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad are as valid as our own. Using DDH Hoffman et al (Ref 5) showed that Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae , E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei , and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii are the same species: "The close DNA-DNA relatedness within clusters VI and VII was reflected by ΔTm values below 0.5. The relatively higher heterogeneity of cluster VIII was indicated by higher within-group ΔTm values of up to 2.7. By evaluating the DNA relatedness among the clusters, we found that clusters VI and VIII are closely related (mean ΔTm value = 2.2), while a relatively longer distance for E. hormaechei cluster VII from the members of clusters VI and VIII was indicated by the mean ΔTm value of 4.0. However, all three genetic clusters could still be assigned to the same species (14). They could be genetically distinguished from the other species of the E. cloacae complex, which had ΔTm values of 5.6 to 10.3 (Table 2).". Unfortunately they did not report DNA-DNA relatedness values but only ΔTm values. They did cite previous work which gave DNA-DNA relatedness: "Davin-Regli et al. ( 4 ) reported an outbreak with an “ E. cloacae strain with the E. hormaechei genotype” but an aberrant biotype. The strain exhibited all of the characteristics of E. hormaechei and was 80% related to the type strain in DNA-DNA reassociation experiments but was positive for growth on D-sorbitol and α-D-melibiose. Obviously, this outbreak was caused by a strain of genetic cluster VI. Hence, these studies are in agreement with our observation that genetic clusters VI and VIII belong to the species E. hormaechei ( 4 , 6 ).". We agree that by ANI and dDDH that E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei is borderline at best to be grouped as the same species as the other E. hormaechei subspecies but Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad cannot have it both ways. Hoffman et al showed phenotypic data supporting there grouping of the subspecies and delineation from other subspecies as well as genotypic support using marker genes which has since been used in clinical papers to differentiate the subspecies from each other and other species. Certainly one could propose making these separate species but the bar for undoing historical precedent is much higher than arguing that the ANI or dDDH values are borderline. Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad state: "Currently, phenotypic identification remains the gold standard for identification of microorganisms in standard diagnostic laboratories and provides the bulk of the data for taxonomic classification. WGS is presently largely done in research laboratories or as pilot endeavors in specialized diagnostic laboratories. As genotype-phenotype correlations are at present incomplete, current classification schemes would give phenotypic data priority.". Not being clinicians we are not sure if this is true but based on our reading of the literature if it is true it is likely to not be true in the near future. We are not against phenotypic characterization if it is economical and reliable. We look forward to a robust discussion of the pros and cons of phenotyic versus genotypic diagnostic methods. Regardless, assignment of species and species delineation has long been genotype based since DDH is a genotypic measure as well as marker genes and OGRI. We are not against phenotypic characterization of type strains although one could argue that this only really makes sense if a clade of strains of the same species is characterized to evaluate variability. We reached out to DSMZ to inquire about phenotypic characterization services which they are willing to provide at some level on a case by case basis but they could not tell us what minimal characterization is necessary for a type strain. Perhaps Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad could intervene on our behalf with DSMZ and have the appropriate characterization performed and placed in the DSMZ supported “The Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase” (BacDive). This could be the first step towards some form of phenotypic characterization standard for type strains. 1. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Klenk HP, Gker M: Taxonomic use of DNA G+C content and DNA-DNA hybridization in the genomic age. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2014; 64 (Pt 2): 352-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Auch AF, Klenk HP, Gker M: Genome sequence-based species delimitation with confidence intervals and improved distance functions. BMC Bioinformatics . 2013; 14 : 60 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Chun J, Oren A, Ventosa A, Christensen H, Arahal DR, da Costa MS, Rooney AP, Yi H, Xu XW, De Meyer S, Trujillo ME: Proposed minimal standards for the use of genome data for the taxonomy of prokaryotes. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2018; 68 (1): 461-466 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Chavda KD, Chen L, Fouts DE, et al. : Comprehensive Genome Analysis of Carbapenemase-Producing Enterobacter spp.: New Insights into Phylogeny, Population Structure, and Resistance Mechanisms. mBio. 2016; 7 (6): pii: e02093-16. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text 5. Hoffmann H, Stindl S, Ludwig W, et al. : Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae subsp. nov., E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei comb. nov., and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii subsp. nov., three new subspecies of clinical importance. J Clin Microbiol. 2005; 43 (7): 3297–303. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 18 Jul 2018 Granger Sutton , J Craig Venter Institute, Rockville, USA 18 Jul 2018 Author Response We agree that dDDH (Refs 1,2) has been shown to correlate slightly better with laboratory DDH than ANI does. We do not agree that this should provide the basis for ... Continue reading We agree that dDDH (Refs 1,2) has been shown to correlate slightly better with laboratory DDH than ANI does. We do not agree that this should provide the basis for preferring dDDH over ANI as the basis for determining species or subspecies level relatedness. The proposed criteria from Chun et al (Ref 3) also do not give a preference for dDDH over ANI as an OGRI. The question we need to ask is what defines a species? Genome relatedness is certainly a primary component of that and because laboratory DDH was the first method for calculating genome relatedness it became the gold standard but with current genome sequencing there is no reason for it to remain the gold standard. dDDH combines shared genomic content with the ANI of the shared genomic content. PanOCT computes multiple pairwise relatedness measures: two of which are the ANI of orthologous genes and the Jaccard similarity of the gene content. We have shown (Ref 4) that the gene content similarity measure can be significantly affected by horizontally transferred genes such as plasmids which raises the question of whether that should be part of a species relatedness measure. Chun et al (Ref 3) argue that at levels above species and certainly above genera that OGRI measures are not useful and rather that a set of core genes with low horizontal transfer potential be used for phylogenetic tree construction. This is much more consistent with ANI which tends to measure the core gene similarity rather than dDDH which includes variable gene content. We believe that evolutionary relatedness including species definitions is best measured with ANI while gene content provides a somewhat orthogonal measurement to capture horizontal transfer events. We recognize that horizontal transfers are also evolutionary events and strongly correlated with ANI hence the "somewhat orthogonal". We welcome the discussion of what should define a species and understand that the views of Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad are as valid as our own. Using DDH Hoffman et al (Ref 5) showed that Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae , E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei , and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii are the same species: "The close DNA-DNA relatedness within clusters VI and VII was reflected by ΔTm values below 0.5. The relatively higher heterogeneity of cluster VIII was indicated by higher within-group ΔTm values of up to 2.7. By evaluating the DNA relatedness among the clusters, we found that clusters VI and VIII are closely related (mean ΔTm value = 2.2), while a relatively longer distance for E. hormaechei cluster VII from the members of clusters VI and VIII was indicated by the mean ΔTm value of 4.0. However, all three genetic clusters could still be assigned to the same species (14). They could be genetically distinguished from the other species of the E. cloacae complex, which had ΔTm values of 5.6 to 10.3 (Table 2).". Unfortunately they did not report DNA-DNA relatedness values but only ΔTm values. They did cite previous work which gave DNA-DNA relatedness: "Davin-Regli et al. ( 4 ) reported an outbreak with an “ E. cloacae strain with the E. hormaechei genotype” but an aberrant biotype. The strain exhibited all of the characteristics of E. hormaechei and was 80% related to the type strain in DNA-DNA reassociation experiments but was positive for growth on D-sorbitol and α-D-melibiose. Obviously, this outbreak was caused by a strain of genetic cluster VI. Hence, these studies are in agreement with our observation that genetic clusters VI and VIII belong to the species E. hormaechei ( 4 , 6 ).". We agree that by ANI and dDDH that E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei is borderline at best to be grouped as the same species as the other E. hormaechei subspecies but Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad cannot have it both ways. Hoffman et al showed phenotypic data supporting there grouping of the subspecies and delineation from other subspecies as well as genotypic support using marker genes which has since been used in clinical papers to differentiate the subspecies from each other and other species. Certainly one could propose making these separate species but the bar for undoing historical precedent is much higher than arguing that the ANI or dDDH values are borderline. Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad state: "Currently, phenotypic identification remains the gold standard for identification of microorganisms in standard diagnostic laboratories and provides the bulk of the data for taxonomic classification. WGS is presently largely done in research laboratories or as pilot endeavors in specialized diagnostic laboratories. As genotype-phenotype correlations are at present incomplete, current classification schemes would give phenotypic data priority.". Not being clinicians we are not sure if this is true but based on our reading of the literature if it is true it is likely to not be true in the near future. We are not against phenotypic characterization if it is economical and reliable. We look forward to a robust discussion of the pros and cons of phenotyic versus genotypic diagnostic methods. Regardless, assignment of species and species delineation has long been genotype based since DDH is a genotypic measure as well as marker genes and OGRI. We are not against phenotypic characterization of type strains although one could argue that this only really makes sense if a clade of strains of the same species is characterized to evaluate variability. We reached out to DSMZ to inquire about phenotypic characterization services which they are willing to provide at some level on a case by case basis but they could not tell us what minimal characterization is necessary for a type strain. Perhaps Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad could intervene on our behalf with DSMZ and have the appropriate characterization performed and placed in the DSMZ supported “The Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase” (BacDive). This could be the first step towards some form of phenotypic characterization standard for type strains. 1. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Klenk HP, Gker M: Taxonomic use of DNA G+C content and DNA-DNA hybridization in the genomic age. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2014; 64 (Pt 2): 352-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Auch AF, Klenk HP, Gker M: Genome sequence-based species delimitation with confidence intervals and improved distance functions. BMC Bioinformatics . 2013; 14 : 60 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Chun J, Oren A, Ventosa A, Christensen H, Arahal DR, da Costa MS, Rooney AP, Yi H, Xu XW, De Meyer S, Trujillo ME: Proposed minimal standards for the use of genome data for the taxonomy of prokaryotes. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2018; 68 (1): 461-466 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Chavda KD, Chen L, Fouts DE, et al. : Comprehensive Genome Analysis of Carbapenemase-Producing Enterobacter spp.: New Insights into Phylogeny, Population Structure, and Resistance Mechanisms. mBio. 2016; 7 (6): pii: e02093-16. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text 5. Hoffmann H, Stindl S, Ludwig W, et al. : Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae subsp. nov., E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei comb. nov., and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii subsp. nov., three new subspecies of clinical importance. J Clin Microbiol. 2005; 43 (7): 3297–303. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text We agree that dDDH (Refs 1,2) has been shown to correlate slightly better with laboratory DDH than ANI does. We do not agree that this should provide the basis for preferring dDDH over ANI as the basis for determining species or subspecies level relatedness. The proposed criteria from Chun et al (Ref 3) also do not give a preference for dDDH over ANI as an OGRI. The question we need to ask is what defines a species? Genome relatedness is certainly a primary component of that and because laboratory DDH was the first method for calculating genome relatedness it became the gold standard but with current genome sequencing there is no reason for it to remain the gold standard. dDDH combines shared genomic content with the ANI of the shared genomic content. PanOCT computes multiple pairwise relatedness measures: two of which are the ANI of orthologous genes and the Jaccard similarity of the gene content. We have shown (Ref 4) that the gene content similarity measure can be significantly affected by horizontally transferred genes such as plasmids which raises the question of whether that should be part of a species relatedness measure. Chun et al (Ref 3) argue that at levels above species and certainly above genera that OGRI measures are not useful and rather that a set of core genes with low horizontal transfer potential be used for phylogenetic tree construction. This is much more consistent with ANI which tends to measure the core gene similarity rather than dDDH which includes variable gene content. We believe that evolutionary relatedness including species definitions is best measured with ANI while gene content provides a somewhat orthogonal measurement to capture horizontal transfer events. We recognize that horizontal transfers are also evolutionary events and strongly correlated with ANI hence the "somewhat orthogonal". We welcome the discussion of what should define a species and understand that the views of Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad are as valid as our own. Using DDH Hoffman et al (Ref 5) showed that Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae , E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei , and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii are the same species: "The close DNA-DNA relatedness within clusters VI and VII was reflected by ΔTm values below 0.5. The relatively higher heterogeneity of cluster VIII was indicated by higher within-group ΔTm values of up to 2.7. By evaluating the DNA relatedness among the clusters, we found that clusters VI and VIII are closely related (mean ΔTm value = 2.2), while a relatively longer distance for E. hormaechei cluster VII from the members of clusters VI and VIII was indicated by the mean ΔTm value of 4.0. However, all three genetic clusters could still be assigned to the same species (14). They could be genetically distinguished from the other species of the E. cloacae complex, which had ΔTm values of 5.6 to 10.3 (Table 2).". Unfortunately they did not report DNA-DNA relatedness values but only ΔTm values. They did cite previous work which gave DNA-DNA relatedness: "Davin-Regli et al. ( 4 ) reported an outbreak with an “ E. cloacae strain with the E. hormaechei genotype” but an aberrant biotype. The strain exhibited all of the characteristics of E. hormaechei and was 80% related to the type strain in DNA-DNA reassociation experiments but was positive for growth on D-sorbitol and α-D-melibiose. Obviously, this outbreak was caused by a strain of genetic cluster VI. Hence, these studies are in agreement with our observation that genetic clusters VI and VIII belong to the species E. hormaechei ( 4 , 6 ).". We agree that by ANI and dDDH that E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei is borderline at best to be grouped as the same species as the other E. hormaechei subspecies but Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad cannot have it both ways. Hoffman et al showed phenotypic data supporting there grouping of the subspecies and delineation from other subspecies as well as genotypic support using marker genes which has since been used in clinical papers to differentiate the subspecies from each other and other species. Certainly one could propose making these separate species but the bar for undoing historical precedent is much higher than arguing that the ANI or dDDH values are borderline. Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad state: "Currently, phenotypic identification remains the gold standard for identification of microorganisms in standard diagnostic laboratories and provides the bulk of the data for taxonomic classification. WGS is presently largely done in research laboratories or as pilot endeavors in specialized diagnostic laboratories. As genotype-phenotype correlations are at present incomplete, current classification schemes would give phenotypic data priority.". Not being clinicians we are not sure if this is true but based on our reading of the literature if it is true it is likely to not be true in the near future. We are not against phenotypic characterization if it is economical and reliable. We look forward to a robust discussion of the pros and cons of phenotyic versus genotypic diagnostic methods. Regardless, assignment of species and species delineation has long been genotype based since DDH is a genotypic measure as well as marker genes and OGRI. We are not against phenotypic characterization of type strains although one could argue that this only really makes sense if a clade of strains of the same species is characterized to evaluate variability. We reached out to DSMZ to inquire about phenotypic characterization services which they are willing to provide at some level on a case by case basis but they could not tell us what minimal characterization is necessary for a type strain. Perhaps Drs. Chakraborty and Doijad could intervene on our behalf with DSMZ and have the appropriate characterization performed and placed in the DSMZ supported “The Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase” (BacDive). This could be the first step towards some form of phenotypic characterization standard for type strains. 1. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Klenk HP, Gker M: Taxonomic use of DNA G+C content and DNA-DNA hybridization in the genomic age. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2014; 64 (Pt 2): 352-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Meier-Kolthoff JP, Auch AF, Klenk HP, Gker M: Genome sequence-based species delimitation with confidence intervals and improved distance functions. BMC Bioinformatics . 2013; 14 : 60 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Chun J, Oren A, Ventosa A, Christensen H, Arahal DR, da Costa MS, Rooney AP, Yi H, Xu XW, De Meyer S, Trujillo ME: Proposed minimal standards for the use of genome data for the taxonomy of prokaryotes. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2018; 68 (1): 461-466 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Chavda KD, Chen L, Fouts DE, et al. : Comprehensive Genome Analysis of Carbapenemase-Producing Enterobacter spp.: New Insights into Phylogeny, Population Structure, and Resistance Mechanisms. mBio. 2016; 7 (6): pii: e02093-16. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text 5. Hoffmann H, Stindl S, Ludwig W, et al. : Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. oharae subsp. nov., E. hormaechei subsp. hormaechei comb. nov., and E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii subsp. nov., three new subspecies of clinical importance. J Clin Microbiol. 2005; 43 (7): 3297–303. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Free Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Pallen MJ. Reviewer Report For: Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. hoffmannii subsp. nov., Enterobacter hormaechei subsp. xiangfangensis comb. nov., Enterobacter roggenkampii sp. nov., and Enterobacter muelleri is a later heterotypic synonym of Enterobacter asburiae based on computational analysis of sequenced Enterobacter genomes. [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2018, 7 :521 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.16861.r35632 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-521/v2#referee-response-35632 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Jul 2018 Mark J. Pallen , Quadram Institute, Norwich, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.16861.r35632 I am happy ... Continue reading READ ALL 