This manuscript summarizes the data from a large cohort of patients with pleural and peritoneal mesothelioma from the National Mesothelioma Virtual Tissue Bank (NMVB). The cases are from New York and Pennsylvania. The study confirms findings from prior analysis of the SEER database, which did not include patients from these states. Patient survival is dependent on age, gender, disease stage, disease site (pleural versus peritoneal), histological subtype and presence of multi-modality therapy. However there are several limitations. As with most large mesothelioma databases surgically treated patients are over represented. In fact only 10-15% of patients with mesothelioma are candidates for surgery and most patients are treated with systemic chemotherapy. Consequently despite being a large cohort the study population is not representative of the majority of mesothelioma patients. Future studies should include a representative proportion of non-surgical patients. The conclusions about differences in therapy are difficult to interpret since not detailed treatment data (curative versus palliative), R1 versus R1 resection, type of surgery and type of radiation therapy are not collected. It is also not clear of the patients in fact completed all therapies listed. In addition treatment data was only available in a subset of patients. In regards to the younger age patients BAP1 mutation status would be very helpful to explore. Some of this data should be available since the NMVB data set has been used for multiple correlative studies. It would be interesting to know if molecular analysis or immune staining are available for a subset of patients. The observation of a trend towards improved survival for non-Caucasian Americans is also very interesting and deserves further exploration. Minor comments: The text on page 5 regarding the differences between the therapeutic groups should list the mean survival for the groups and not only the CI. (Also, could a single line of surgery been palliative pleurodesis?) Page 6 the n for the primary data set should be changed from 88 to 888. 