In the present small but nice study the authors compared two modern anaesthesia machines (Aisys, GE, Madison, WI, USA, and FLOW-i, Maquet, Solna, Sweden) concerning the time periods of wash-in and wash-out of sevoflurane with different fresh gas flows and constant vaporizer settings in a test lung model. Jakobsson et al. can demonstrate that the time to reach 1 MAC (and later on to 1,5 MAC) in the circle systems depends mainly on fresh gas flow. In addition, the authors found no major but slight differences between both anaesthetic work-stations. The fact that the Aisys seems to be a little faster than the Flow-i is surprising and cannot be related to the construction type of the respective machine. In our opinion, the present experimental study is of importance since optimal flow rates need to be determined and confirmed for both machines. We have some comments and questions to the authors: The authors should consider to measure gas concentrations and ventilation mechanics with external, calibrated, standardized devices. The different integrated equipment may be responsible for a major part of the differences. We presume that in both workstations internal test routines to determine leakage had been performed in advance and passed. However, the tolerated leakage of each system should be reported. It should be for the AISYS less than 150ml/min; however, a number for the Flow-i is not defined in its manual. Thus, leakage has to considered different in both machines. In our opinion, the behavior of the gas flow through the gas analyzer may impact the significance of the results. Both machines use about 200ml/min but in the Flow-i the sample gas is returned to the circle system, whereas the AISYS leads the sample obviously to the waste gas. In addition, there are different precision ranges for the vaporizers that are used in both workstations. The precision for the Flow-i ranges from +/- 0,15 ABS% to 0,4 ABS%; The Aladin vaporizer in the AISYS has a precision of +/- 10% between 18-25 C. At fresh gas flows exceeding 5 L/min and concentrations 5 vol% the manual states that the delivered concentrations fall after a few minutes. The Flow-i is reported to have +/-15% but a temperature range is not given. The question is, were the experiments conducted in these temperature ranges? Here might be a possible explanation for the variability. The manuscript would benefit from a comprehensive revision of typing errors (e.g. “competing interests” paragraph on p. 2.: has received, Pfizer; “Revised” box: “vaporization”; Introduction: “A rapid change in inspired anaesthetic agent...” – “fraction” or “concentration” is missed.) We would like to ask the authors to improve the figures: Please name the X axis for better understanding, please include scatter measurements (SD, SEM). 