I have attached my suggested revised text here and here , I think that would be a lot easier for both the journal and the authors. After reading the revised version, I still had the same concerns raised by Dr Sidransky about the clarity of the writing and the grammar. Rather than go through each sentence, I decided to re-write the manuscript in what I hope is better English style and grammar. I also addressed Dr Sidransky's other large concern that the material did not contain anything new, After thought, I saw an opportunity to add some material specifically related to Ecuador so I added that into my revision. Obviously, the authors are free to revise anything I did to to reject it if they so choose. I do think that the format that you use where reviewer comments are available for the reading audience promotes the idea that manuscripts can be evolving rather than static. On that note, I will attach here my suggested revised manuscript. There are also a few comments that I would like to see addressed by the authors if they can. I include those separately here: More information here would be valuable: Details of the mixed ethnicity. Mestizo, Native American, any Afro? This is particularly important in light of the N409S/N409S genotype. History of pregnancy and outcomes. More details about family history including parents, grandparents, siblings. Any history of Parkinsonism or cancer in the family? How long is the family living in Loja. Where did they come from? As Dr Sidransky had previously asked and suggested, what diagnoses were considered at this point that prompted the performance of the bone marrow biopsy? ITP? How did you explain the elevated total and indirect bilirubin? For example, was hereditary spherocytosis considered? Gilbert’s? Were there any gall stones on either the US or CT scans? The decrease in megakaryocytes is somewhat unusual for GD. Now that the diagnosis of GD1 is confirmed, was any other testing done, especially of the bones (x-rays, MRI, DEXA?) Were any biomarker measurements made such as plasma chitotriosidase? As this is primarily an educational report, it is important to indicate whether recommended pre-treatment assessments were conducted within the capacity of the healthcare available. The case patient's hemoglobin was at the lower limit of normal. Because Loja is at an altitude of about 2500 meters where the oxygen tension is lower than at sea level, the residents probably have normal hemoglobin levels that are higher than in people who don't live in the mountains. Thus, the case patient may actually be mildly anemic in addition to having low platelets and white blood cells. 