The authors performed a systematic review using multiple databases for modifiable factors associated with weight regain following all bariatric surgery procedures. The time frame of the search, search terms and selection process for the studies appears appropriate. Twenty-two studies were included in the analysis. All articles were from 2007 to 2016 except for one (a 1994 report with VBG – a procedure that is no longer performed). The authors categorized the articles into 4 general themes. The limitations cited are appropriate. Table 1 displays all studies with key information included (year, type of surgery and modifiable behaviour, study design and population, intervention and group comparisons, and results). Figure 1 is a PRISMA flowchart, figure 2 is a conceptual framework. All appropriate for a review article. Comments: The topic reviewed is important and useful for clinicians and clinical researchers. It also provides the most up-to-date studies. However, there is a noticeable dearth of studies that focus on prospective interventions. Past reviews have included modifiable factors and interventions. 1 , 2 , 3 This is an important point since few, if any, interventions have been found to be effective in preventing or treating weight regain. So, simply laying out modifiable factors without including clinical research that has attempted to intervene is unsatisfying. This becomes somewhat problematic for the authors. There are several instances where they include interventions, such as citing the Hines et al (ref 17) or McGrice et al (ref 18), but few if any other interventions. It is also problematic when recommendations are given, e.g, “Regular, routine and long-term follow-up with the bariatric team is essential to the long-term weight regain prevention.” Although this is sound advice, there is a large body of literature that has attempted to understand which interventions should be provided, when to intervene, for how long and by whom. As noted earlier, interventions have been largely disappointing. In the introduction, severe obesity is defined as a BMI ≥40 kg/m2, not ≥35 as stated. It is more clinically useful to express the impact of weight regain as ‘percent of weight regained from nadir’ versus ‘an average of x% of their total body weight…’ The statement that 85% of patients experience weight regain at 5 years post-surgery sounds dramatic, but has little meaning if it is not defined by more criteria. Essentially all people experience some weight regain regardless of the treatment modality. It is also noteworthy that the 4 behavioural modifiable domains identified by the authors are the same that are associated with any intervention for obesity. These are not unique to the bariatric surgery patient. This may be mentioned in the paper. 