The CyTargetLinker Cytoscape app presented here provides a useful mechanism for extending existing biological networks. The rationale for this functionality is well explained by the authors and the general utility is demonstrated by the citation of several previous studies using the tool and the variety of use cases presented. The API interface, which is the focus of this update, is a very useful addition which allows the scripting and hence reproducibility of this kind of analysis. The API is simple, but covers the fundamental use case of the app. I can only find partial documentation of the API method parameters however. They are named in Table 1, but I could not find more extensive documentation on the app website ( https://projects.bigcat.unimaas.nl/cytargetlinker /) which mostly refers to an earlier version of the app from what I can tell. The API methods should be documented somewhere more completely. This is why I have answered 'Partly' to 'Are sufficient details of the code, methods and analysis (if applicable) provided to allow replication of the software development and its use by others?'. The interpretation of the results and conclusions about the tool are straight forward. I have not tested the performance of the app outside the use cases the authors provide, but in those contexts performance is perfectly adequate. Perhaps the authors could comment on whether the app has performance limits on the size of network that can be annotated in this way and how that compares to Cytoscape's underlying limits. I tested the first use case script with Cytoscape 3.6.1, stringApp 1.1.1 and CyTargetLinker 4.0.1 (the latest versions at time of writing). This revealed a small API incompatibility. The script attempts to link on idAttribute 'display name', but no such attribute comes from this version of stringApp. Changing the idAttribute to 'name' allows the script to work. I can't find which version of stringApp the authors are using, but maybe it needs to be specified or the script updated. This is why I have marked 'Partly' to the question 'Are sufficient details of the code, methods and analysis (if applicable) provided to allow replication of the software development and its use by others?' Otherwise the use case reproduced fine. I have not tested the CyTargetLinker Java program, but it seems reasonably well documented and straight forward to run. 