The manuscript describes the association of a convincingly diagnosed case of acute hepatitis E due to HEV genotype 3 infection with the development of severe amyotrophic neuralgia and major dysphagia in the patient. Reports of neurological complications among otherwise healthy patients after acute HEV-3 infection are scarce (I found just six cases from three reports since 2009, five of them reported in 2011), and the manuscript adds significant knowledge to the background. Pathogenic mechanisms underlying neurological complications of hepatitis E are still unclear. Such diseases after viral infection may involve the invasion of the nervous system or may be of a pure, post-infectious, immune-mediated nature. Reports involving immunocompromised patients ( Kamar et al. , 2011 ; four patients) found HEV genome in CSF from all of them and detected anti-HEV IgM in one, which confirmed CNS invasion at the time of the onset of the neurological symptoms. Among the six healthy patients mentioned above ( Loly et al., 2009 ; Kamar et al., 2011 ; Despierres et al., 2011 ), CSF testing for HEV markers was performed in three cases. One tested positive for both HEV RNA and anti-HEV IgM, and one tested negative for both markers ( Despierres et al., 2011 ). CSF from the remaining patient was tested for viral RNA only and was found negative. It seems likely therefore, that both mechanisms may be involved, in absence of immune impairment. The patient mentioned in the present report tested negative for HEV RNA in CSF, but I understand from the text that anti-HEV testing of CSF was not performed (if the sentence “ there was no intrathecal antibody synthesis ” refers to immunoglobulins and not to HEV-specific antibody, which should be stated more clearly). It would have provided useful information if the patient’s CSF had been tested for anti-HEV IgG and IgM. The lack of a viral genome at the time of sampling does not exclude CNS invasion, and demonstration of intrathecal synthesis of a specific antibody provides the diagnosis once viral particles are no longer present. As far as I know, nobody has yet communicated results from the evaluation of the intrathecal synthesis of a specific antibody to HEV in these cases (only the presence of anti-HEV IgM has been documented), so I would suggest performing such an evaluation if anti-HEV was detected. From my former experience with the diagnosis of neurological infections caused by varicella-zoster virus, testing for specific IgG antibody optimizes the yield, and the most useful criteria of evaluation is the antibody to albumin index, though several others can be used (see Echevarra et al. 1997 ).