 Main Considerations The aim of the intended RCT is to investigate the efficacy of p.o. doxycycline and i.v. lidocaine in reducing endothelial degradation (measured as plasma syndecan-1) in heart surgery with CPB. The focus of the RCT is important. The study is already recruiting patients. I am deeply worried of the statistical power of the RCT. I am afraid that it will be underpowered. 1) I suggest revised power calculation after recruitment of 30 patients. 2) To reduce variability, I suggest to exclude certain types of cardiac surgery. Furthermore, I suggest to exclude patients with such medications which may directly influence on the CPB-induced inflammatory reaction, and patients with bleeding diathesis. While these measures reduce variability, they may increase potential intervention effect and thus study power. Above-mentioned measures can be applied although the patient recruitment has already started. I do not understand why the authors do not conduct the RCT as double-blind. It would be easy to do and would substantially improve the quality of the study. While the patient recruitment has already started, this modification probably should not be done anymore. Otherwise, I believe that the modifications suggested below can be applied although the patient recruitment has already started. However, an approval of the ethics committee may be required. Australian New Zealand clinical trials registry There are numerous and significant discrepancies between the present manuscript and the registry. These should be corrected either in the registry or the manuscript to correspond the actual conduct of the RCT. Inclusion and exclusion criteria In terms of surgery with CPB, only transplantations will be excluded. Consequently, patients undergoing surgery of the aortic arch (requiring deep hypothermia with/without circulatory arrest or selective cerebral perfusion), descending aorta (spinal cord ischemia) and redo congenital defects (often complex and unpredictable surgery) will be recruited. This will result significant variability of the surgical insult. I suggest to exclude these types of surgery. Most probably, the number of these patients would be low anyway. Furthermore, I suggest to exclude patients with preoperative or perioperative corticosteroids or immunomodulatory drugs or any other drugs with significant anti-inflammatory action. Perioperative corticosteroids should not be allowed. Patients with bleeding diathesis should be excluded. Primary Outcome According to the registry, syndecan-1 concentration will be expressed as a fold-increase of baseline (pre-induction) level. This should be indicated also in the manuscript. I support the use of fold-increase to manage the vast inter-individual variation of absolute syndecan-1 plasma concentrations. However, even fold-increase is not without problems. If the preoperative level is small, it will yield high fold-increase even for small absolute increase and vice versa. Also fold-increase can result in large variation. I suggest to calculate the primary outcome both as fold-increase and as absolute concentrations. If so, this should be indicated in the manuscript. This is justified because of vast inter-individual variation of absolute syndecan-1 plasma concentrations. Secondary Outcomes The secondary outcomes (how and when they are measured and calculated?) should be defined unequivocally. Vasopressor/inotropic requirements: Will some vasopressor and inotropic score be calculated? There are formulas to calculate equivalent doses? (Later in the description of patient care: How realistic it is that only noradrenaline and dobutamine will be used?) Markers of organ function: Delta-creatinine, during how many postoperative days? P/F-ratio, at what time points or when? Bleeding: Blood products usage, the length of the postoperative observation period? Prolonged coagulopathy, definition? ROTEM, which parameters will be used? Pain severity, how do you measure? Postoperative delirium, definition? Sample size I assume that the sample size was based on unpaired t-test? The test applied for the sample size calculation should be indicated. To be precise, the power calculation should be based on repeated measures ANOVA. Because there is paucity of applicable literature, in my opinion, unpaired t-test is justified. After all, power calculation is always only estimation. It should be clearly indicated, that the power calculation applies only between the control group and one of the intervention groups (doxycycline or lidocaine). The assumed effect does not apply for comparison between the intervention groups. The estimated reduction of 50% is high and possibly unrealistic. Furthermore, the assumed SD is significantly lower than in the syndecan-1 results of the reference #2. I am afraid that the power calculation is too optimistic. On the other hand, the sample size is now calculated for actual syndecan-1 plasma concentrations. To reduce the effect of large inter-individual variation in plasma syndecan-1 concentrations, the authors will calculate fold-increase (i.e. multiples of the respective baseline values), which I fully support. It might be better to conduct the power calculation also for fold-increase values. The authors should screen the literature if they could fine applicable data. In my opinion, it would be justified to choose the power calculation (absolute concentrations or fold-increases), which yields lower patient number. Finally, I suggest a revised power calculation as an interim analysis (see below). Blinding I do not understand why the authors do not conduct the study as double-blind? It would have been easy to do with placebo tablets and saline syringes with non-transparent foil. In all groups, the patient would receive a tablet (either doxycycline or placebo) and infusion (either lidocaine or saline). While doxycycline and lidocaine are well-known drugs, there should be no ethical concerns, either. Double-blind design would improve the study substantially. Protamine Dose Does the study site not have a more or less established protocol for protamine dosing (initial and potential additional doses) in relation to heparin dosing? If there is, it should be defined in the manuscript. Blood Samples I assume that the systemic blood samples as a function of time will be drawn from the arterial cannula? This should be clearly indicated. This is especially important, if the authors will calculate trans-coronary concentration differences between the sinus coronarius and concomitant arterial samples. If the systemic samples will be taken from the central venous line (I assume not), such trans-coronary differences cannot be calculated. The placement of the sinus coronarius catheter should be described in detail. Especially, verification of the correct placement is important. I refer to a previous publication where sinus coronaries catheter placement is verified rigorously 1 . Table 1 The place of the systemic samples (presumably arterial) should be indicated. The expression “3 min post cross clamp” can be understood as 3 minutes after the placement of the arterial clamp. I suggest to replace it with the expression “3 min post de-clamp”. Interim Analysis Usually, an interim analysis is conducted for two reasons: 1) to detect that the study hypothesis is already evident and there is no reason to continue patient recruitment; 2) to detect that the study effect is so small that it is evident that even after full recruitment there would not be statistically significant difference between the study groups. Again, there would not be any reason to continue patient recruitment. These goals are not realistic with small patient numbers of 12 (the first interim analysis) and 30 (the second interim analysis). I suggest that the primary goal of an interim analysis would not be estimation if patient recruitment should or should not be continued. Instead, I suggest to conduct an interim analysis after 30 patients to evaluate statistical power of the study by using the study effect (i.e. the mean difference between the intervention and control groups) and SDs at the time of analysis. If power calculation necessitates extra patients, the authors should decide a priori , how many extra patients it would be realistic to recruit. If the result of the power calculation exceeds this patient number, the RCT should be terminated and published as a negative study result. Otherwise, the patient number should be enlarged according the revised power calculation. Both interventions (doxycycline and lidocaine) should be calculated separately. It might occur, that one intervention would be terminated but the other would be continued with a large patient number. In the end, the authors would have an RCT with adequate power. In theory, it is possible that there will be statistically significant difference (p0.05) between the study groups after 30 patients. I find it highly unlikely but it is theoretically possible. In such a case, the patient recruitment should be terminated and the RCT published with a positive result. I admit, that also my suggestion carries a risk a premature stopping of the study. This is, however, lower than in “conventional” interim analysis, because the study power should not be weight against the intended patient number (n=20/group) but against the enlarged patient number. In any case, the authors should have serious re-consideration of the present power of the study. Withdrawals As the authors point out, there probably will not be many (or even a single) withdrawals or dropouts in the study. Still, the authors should be prepared to replace such patients, especially when the power calculation even with full recruitment is questionable. I suggest the following statement: “Patients whose primary outcome cannot be assessed will be replaced retaining the original allocation to the study groups.” Per Protocol I do not believe that per protocol analysis will be needed. Still, it can be included in the study protocol. 