The authors present a straightforward study of DNA methylation and RNA expression of the lncRNA MORT in 16 TCGA cancer types not previously reported. Most of the paper is clearly presented and the conclusions are reasonable. Suggestions for improvement are presented below. 1) Statements are made regarding MORT being “one of the most common” epigenetic aberrations seen in human cancer. No support for this statement is presented. 2) The classification of some tumor types as showing “strong” MORT silencing by DNA methylation, and other tumor types as not showing this, is arbitrary. A quantitative definition is needed. 3) Fig 1 might be clearer if presented in two panels, subdivided by whether the quantitative definition of “strong silencing” is met. The same is true for Table 2, which could be subdivided into two parts. 4) Since normal samples were not available for many of the tumors profiled, a more accurate statement might be “DNA methylation regulation” rather than “DNA methylation silencing,” as reduced expression in tumors as compared to normal tissues was not shown. 5) A diagram showing the MORT gene and the position of the methylation sites examined by the TCGA would be helpful. 6) Can the authors reference any data, e.g. from other publications, showing that DNA methylation actively suppresses MORT expression, by for example turning on MORT expression using treatment with a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor? 7) In the introduction, the statement “prior to or at the stage of pre-malignancy and not thereafter” is confusing, and gives the impression that MORT becomes hypomethylated, or its expression is elevated, in tumors as compared to pre-malignant lesions. A better way to phrase this would be to say e.g. that “MORT is repressed in pre-malignant lesions and remains repressed in tumors.” 8) The final sentence in the discussion uses the wording “strongly supports” when “suggests” would be more accurate, given the absence of functional data showing tumor suppression by MORT. 