Despite heightened global efforts to control and possibly eliminated malaria in the foreseeable future, the disease remain a public health problem in many parts of the tropical countries. Since malaria in pregnancy predisposes both mother and infant to adverse outcomes, the research on the pathogenesis of these outcomes is of importance as it can lead us to new interventions. The merit of the paper is that it has explored both leptin and IGF-I (in the same setting) and their effect on placental malaria (PM) related low birth weight (LBW). This article reports the following main findings. Primigarvidity and young age increases the risk that pregnant women will be infected with malaria Placental malaria and pre-term delivery are associated with low birth-weight (LBW) There is no significant difference in the cord blood levels of leptin or IGF-1 in offspring of infected and non--infected mothers There is no significant difference in the maternal levels of leptin or IGF-1 in offspring of infected and non--infected mothers Cord blood levels of leptin or IGF-1 are not associated with birth weight Maternal blood levels of leptin or IGF-1 are not associated with birth weight Results 1 and 2 above are largely confirming previous literature from areas where malaria transmission is endemic. The study is based on a substantial proportion of women (90% of the sample) with past malaria infection (by histology). The results differ from many other studies which were based on substantial proportion of women with active placental malaria infection and this has clearly been mentioned by the authors. Comments on specific parts of the article: Introduction The Introduction contains numerous sentences which I think need slight re-wording to make them convey the intended message. Examples are: 'there are approximately 125 million pregnant women living in malaria endemic regions' revise to 'approximately 125 million women in malaria endemic regions become pregnant each year' 'the pathogenesis of placental malaria and LBW is not fully understood' revise to 'the pathogenesis of placental malaria related LBW is not fully understood' Methods This section is brief. Some parts of important information are needed to allow readers relate the findings and the methodology. Specifically it will be important to reveal the following: What was the intensity of malaria during the study period? Was it low or high transmission season. If low season this may explain the very low prevalence of active infections reported in the study. What was the basis of 23% of women expected to have placental malaria in the study population? It will be good for authors to expand on how the blood samples from mother and the newborn were collected. Samples were collected in 2014. Were the laboratory analysis of these samples run in 2014 or 2017. Please clarify this since the storage temperature is -20C and not for example -70C. How exactly was the gestational age determined? Statistical analysis The authors used different statistical approaches to tests for associations between different variables in this study. This is a very commendable approach. However I have a few observations to make: It is not clear how the independent variables for the risk of PM were identified. Specifically, why mother's weight, mother's hemoglobin, use of folic acid supplements, mothers serum leptin and IGF -I were included as independent variables for placental malaria. It will be useful for readers to know how these variables increase/decrease risk of PM. Any literature relating these to risk of PM is needed. If not available then the analysis may need to be revisited. Actually if they have data they may consider Iron supplementation as an independent variable in their analysis (studies relating Fe supplementation and risk of PM are available) Were these mothers of SP IPTp? Probably this justifies the inclusion of folic acid supplementation as an independent variable. Similarly is not clear how the independent variables for maternal hemoglobin levels were identified. Why mother's leptin and IGF-I levels were included as independent variables for maternal hemoglobin levels. It will be useful for readers to know how these variables increase/decrease the risk of anemia. Any literature relating these to risk of anemia needed. If not available then the analysis may need to be revisited. Results Readers may want to know what were the results of malaria microscopy studies. There are discrepancies in the numbers in the text and tables. Maternal age: Uninfected: Table (27.9) Text (28); Infected: Table (25.7) Text (26) Maternal Hemoglobin (ALL women): Table (10.3) text (10.2) Consistency will be welcome. Some of the reported results are not shown. It is stated that "Moreover, babies born to women with PM tended to be in the LBW (2500 g) category more often than those born to non-infected women, but the p-value failed to reach significance level (p = 0.054)". What was the proportion of LBW infants in PM+ versus proportion of LBW infants in the PM- mothers? It is stated that PM was associated with LBW: "LBW ( 2500 g) was significantly associated with placental malaria (N= 172, p =0.009)" What is this N = 172 ? In table 2 univariate and multivariate analyses are shown. In the univariate analysis none of the variables investigated was associated with placental malaria. In the multivariate analysis Maternal age and parity are associated with PM. Can the authors explain this paradox? Table 3 shows that neither leptin nor IGF-I levels differ between LBW babies of PM + and PM - mothers. The sample size is now 166 instead of 175. Can the authors indicate why 9 subjects are missing ? It is known that cord blood leptin levels correlate with fetal size. It was previously shown that cord leptin levels are lower in LBW babies born to PM- but not in offspring of PM+ mothers probably indicating that PM disrupts the normal relationship between leptin and fetal growth. The analysis in Table 3 would benefit from separating LBW infants into PM+ and PM- groups and see what will be the relationship with levels of leptin but also IGF-I. Discussion A detailed discussion on why many findings in this area (PM) from Sudan differ from findings elsewhere would be most welcome. In conclusion: This study explores an important area of public health in Africa. The study is largely based on past malaria infections in pregnant women. The main results are largely confirming previous findings. The study may be missing important aspects which can become clear if the statistical analysis is revisited. 