The manuscript entitled, “Regenerative collagen biomembrane: Interim results of Phase I veterinary clinical trial for skin repair” by Kaasi et al explores the application of acellular collagen membranes for veterinary wound healing purposes in dogs and cats. The study provides the preliminary results to what may be considered a phase I clinical study on animal subjects that had been victims of injuries with the immediate need of care. The manuscript is well written with a good structure and the data presented is interesting and worth publishing. There are, however, some minor clarifications and modifications that are suggested to improve the manuscript before publication. 1: The study presents an interesting idea of letting veterinary clinical trials pave the way for human use and equivalent therapy. Currently, there is a lack of global consensus concerning the rules and regulations governing veterinary clinical trials. The establishment of such rules and regulations could possibly make the translational process from veterinary subjects to man more flexible for some medical devices by providing substantial data and thereby allow a faster route to regulatory approval. It is suggested that the authors add a couple of sentences in the discussion section on the potential prospect of the proposed wound healing product for human applications and the long-term objectives or plans of the authors for the clinical translation of the product. 2. There is not sufficient information on the characteristics of the collagen biomembrane to fully differentiate and appreciate the current approach. Please provide more information concerning the main attributes of the collagen biomembrane and a comparison with similar marketed products or products in development. How does the presented collagen membrane differ from other biomembranes including cell-incorporating and synthetic alternatives? 3. It is somewhat unclear with the current status of the animal studies. Please provide additional information regarding the current status with the number of completed animal subjects and information and timeline for the remaining studies and subjects 4. If there were any adverse effects noticed such as infection and necrosis after application of the biomembrane, what measures are there to investigate this further? Did this occur in this current study? If yes, please provide some insight as to why you think this was the case. 5. Regarding photographing the patients, how do the authors explain the method of ‘Semi-quantitative assessment’? More detail is required about this method. Going forward, the method of photographing animals should be standardised in order to lessen the chance of errors in the study. 6. There are no clear controls for each model presented. We appreciate that this is a very challenging task to achieve at this stage, however going forward a ‘quasi-experimental control group’ will not suffice. We would advise the researcher to have solid controls in place when recruiting subjects for the next studies. 7. The histological evidence provided here is very limited. This needs to be improved upon significantly. The histological data presented in this paper is only for one patient and only in a pre-surgical stage ( A and C). The researchers need to elaborate on the reasons why they were unable to provide small histological samples from patients after treatment. The local elevations present on the biomembrane and pores are highlighted in Figure 7, however, the biological significance of each characteristic is missing. It would also be great if the researchers made the scales more visible on the HE images. 8- The authors refer to an apparent fur growth on one of the patients, however, this is not backed by supporting evidence as the numbers are very low. Please refrain from using terms such as ‘benefit’ and ‘stimulation’ in these instances and just state what has been observed and report fully when enough evidence is available. 9. Please provide an indication of the time generally required to get a veterinary medical device on the market. 