The paper by Grazioli and colleagues provides a comprehensive review on the current knowledge and the clinical implications of echocardiography when applied to the evaluation of athletes heart in the context of pre-participation screening. The paper is currently focused on right and left ventricles, is well written, and analyses not only standard echocardiography, but also the novel echocardiographic techniques applied to athletes heart, with a specific focus on the differential diagnosis between exercise-induced physiological remodelling and the diseases most commonly cause of sudden cardiac death. Major revisions Although the clinical implications of biatrial analysis has to be understood, in my opinion a brief paragraph on the analysis of biatrial morphology and function could be potentially of interest, also considering the some authors have demonstrated its utility in the differential diagnosis between athletes heart and cardiomyopathies. An interesting point of using echocardiography in the context of a screening has not been analysed. Although some authors debate about the utility and the costs of echocardiography, in my opinion the fundamental question of the application of echocardiography to the pre-participation screening in athletes is WHEN performing this exam. Considering that a frequent echocardiographic evaluation is not feasible in low-risk populations and dramatically increases the cost in absence of real clinical advantages, one has to suppose that one or two exams can be performed during the career of a non-professional athlete. Although some congenital defects can be detected in the early phase of the life of an individual, some of the most common cause of sudden cardiac death are the genetic myocardial diseases, such as HCM, DCM, and ARVC, all known to have a delayed phenotype expression. Thus, performing an echocardiogram at the beginning of the athletic career of a child could detect congenital defects, but could be misleading in excluding the cardiomyopathies most commonly associated with sudden cardiac death, with a typical expression in the II-III (or even IV) decades of life of a young athlete. I think that the authors should analyse this clinical question and should provide a personal opinion based on the current available evidences and on the experience of their Center. Minor revisions In table 1 I think that aortic coartation should be included in the section suprasternal view. Table 2: exercise has not proven to be a determinant of a physiological dilation of the aorta; conversely, it has been demonstrated that aortic dimensions are comparable with those of the general population. Accordingly, I suggest removing mild aortic dilation from table 2, section s heart. Atherosclerotic coronary artery disease cannot be detected by echocardiography, although indirect signs such as left ventricular wall motion abnormalities can suggest its presence. However, considering the signs are uncommonly observed in athletes, I suggest to remove Atherosclerotic coronary artery disease from table 2, section sudden cardiac death. Left ventricular non compaction: it might be another expression of cardiac adaptation to increased preload and afterload influenced by genetic and ethnical factor: ref. #51 is not correct because does refer to an hypothesis rather than an explanation of the phenomenon. I suggest to cite the article by Gati S. et al (Circulation 2014) and the work by DAscenzi F. et al (Int J Cardiol 2015) both explaining the physiological determinants of benign hypertrabeculation in the athletes. Table 3: the definition competitive athletes, high static and dynamic component endurance training, 10 hours/week is not clear: which is the opinion of the authors? Although it is clear that echocardiography is not recommended in subjects engaged in recreational sports, which are the athletes to be evaluated by echocardiography? All the competitive athletes? Athletes with abnormal findings at resting ECG or at history/physical examination? Athletes engaged in high-volume training programs?...Please specify. Table 4 At the present time, LV circumferential and radial strains cannot be definitively suggested to distinguish between cardiomyopathies and athletes heart. LV longitudinal strain is highly sensitive for myocardial disorders and more reproducible than circumferential and radial strains ((Feigenbaum H, Circ J 2012). Because of the LV shortens from base to apex in systole, the fixed short-axis tracking that is required for circumferential and radial strain is more difficult than longitudinal tracking. Particularly, radial strain is intrinsically more vulnerable to measurement variability because strain assessed in these orientations represents an aggregate measure of endocardial, mesocardial and epicardial tissue motion, encompassing both myocardial fiber shortening and global LV torsion in systole. The best inter- and intra-observed reproducibility is observed for LV longitudinal strain and particularly data based on measurements of LV radial strain should be interpreted with caution (Cheng S, J Am Soc Echocardiogr 2013). A limited reliability has been observed also for LV circumferential strain measurements. A possible explanation is that circumferential deformation twist can hardly be assessed in the same view, because the base descends to the apex. This movement makes the correct measurement in the short axis view impossible in two different time-points or even in two different days. Finally, LV longitudinal strain measurements are known to be more robust than radial ones (Mor-Avi, Eur J Echocardiogr 2011). According to these considerations and to the fact that LV longitudinal strain is the only form of strain that is used routinely (Feigenbaum H, Circ J 2012), I suggest to remove both radial and circumferential strains from table 4 and to stress in the text that future studies are needed to evaluate whether these deformation parameters could be used in the clinical practice. motion abnormalities - please correct with wall motion abnormalities Table 4: according to the current available data on deformation analysis applied to the athletes heart, I suggest to describe LV GLS at rest as and not normal or slightly reduced.