This paper presents evidence that the average person can predict random events better than chance in the context of the experimental setup described by the authors. This is a remarkable result if true. Sociologist Marcello Truzzi coined the aphorism extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof, from which standpoint a review of any such data must be based. It appears that the sample sizes, study design and statistical methods used are generally appropriate throughout. However I can think of a number of potential artifacts of data collection and processing in this experiment not addressed in this paper that may produce positive results inappropriately. These potential artifacts could be tested statistically within the existing dataset (i.e. without further experimentation), and the paper would be strengthened if each of these potential sources for false positive results could be eliminated. This paper is supported by a nice dataset and it would be good to see the paper refined through exposure in F1000 to accommodate data excluding other sources of bias as others read and comment on the paper to the authors. Ultimately it would be great to see a well-powered dataset (such as this one), pointing to an uncomfortable conclusion, that has addressed all the criticisms of the community and becomes an outstanding challenge for refutation. Expectation bias control: The authors report that 98% of random sequences have identical sequential elements of 5 or less, and show a constant hits percentage over lag to support this argument in Figure S1. This constant rate is an important assumption in the paper because assuming a linear trend removes the requirement to correct for gamblers fallacy, as pointed out by the authors. We would expect wider confidence intervals around larger lag values shown in S1 because these events are less frequent. It would be useful if the authors could include confidence intervals around these points else it could be argued that the trend is merely point values within ever widening confidence intervals that could equally support a non-constant hits percentage. An example of the consequence of a non-constant hits percentage is that because of the smaller numbers of such events at higher lags, chance, especially if combined with a participants inner bias to select more often a gun or smile, may have a small effect on the overall hits accuracy. Admittedly, this would at most be only a few percentage points, but for a result a few percent above chance, this could be important. As a caveat, it would also be nice to see second order data, say looking at participants likelihood of selecting the same class 2 or 3 steps later. This is analogous to the gamblers fallacy in its potential effect but is not discussed by the authors and no data is shown. Removed artifacts: The authors report 4% of trials removed due to artifacts. It would be helpful if the authors would report the number of artifacts removed for each corresponding random event. A significant imbalance would immediately be indicative of bias. False conclusions may be reached under these conditions. For example, if the smile produced a PD which was more likely to be removed as an artifact leaving an excess of guns for analysis, and the participants in general had a bias towards expecting a gun over a smile, as is supported by evidence for prospect theory (Khaneman), then the result would be a higher than hits percentage merely because participants are naturally biasing towards selection of a more prevalent class. Again, this is unlikely to be more than a few percent but may still be important in this context. One way to easily show this bias as non-existent in this data would be to remove the artifacts, and randomly remove trials so that the number of guns and smiles is the same for analysis, then re-run the numbers. Minor comments (typos): In this way a mean was always above zero and the second one below zero unless of an identical mean between the two stimuli. Unless? Perhaps should be except in the case of an identical mean This finding will be commented on further after the results of the exact replication 