In this interesting opinion article, Napoletani et al. attempt to apply the quasispecies theory to the evolution of anueploidy in cancer. This article proposes some interesting points that attempt to address the origin of genetic heterogeneity in tumors. An important claim made therein is that aneuploidy is likely to be the major source of genetic heterogeneity in later stages of tumor development particularly when compared to the rate of individual DNA mutations. Further, the authors also posit that cancer cells must maintain a given rate of chromosome missegregation beyond which a meltdown occurs. I think this article is acceptable, but feel the authors should address the following points: Please change the "aneuploidy rate" into "chromosome mis-segregation rate" or something of that nature. Aneuploidy by definition is a state and not a rate. What the authors imply is "the rate of change in aneuploid karyotypes which is synonymous to chromosome mis-segregation (which includes whole chromosome missegregation as well as partial i.e. translocation etc...) It is important throughout the article to make the distinction between tolerance for aneuploidy in normal vs. cancer tissues. While evidence suggests that aneuploidy may lead to cellular stress in normal tissues, it is unclear whether this is the case in cancer cells. Either cancer cells preferentially maintain aneuploidy at the expense of increased cellular stress and slower proliferation rate or they might instead have also evolved to overcome cellular stress in response to aneuploidy. Furthermore, constitutional aneuploidy (for instance in individuals with trisomy) may have gone through a stem-cell adaptation phase that is different when compared to cancer cells who acquire aneuploidy de novo. The concept of error catastrophe is very interesting and rather important in the field of aneuploidy and chromosome segregation. I would encourage the authors to further elaborate on the optimal T(Em) value being near 10 -2 . Can the authors use the quasispecies model to make predictions for the fitness of the tumor cell populations if the T(Em) values were much higher? This would be extremely valuable. In addition to chromosome segregation errors (which include whole and partial chromosome copy number changes) it would be useful to incorporate the newly uncovered massive rearrangements known as chromothripsis and chromoplexy. In some cases, these massive rearrangements can lead to double minute chromosomes carrying oncogenes that are present in hundreds of copies (a lot higher than the maximum rate of 20 copies for any given gene that the authors presume). The authors do not account for these possibilities in their model. A concept that the authors bring up is the presence of a feedback loop from the environment that can "fine tune" chromosome segregation. While there is no data to necessarily refute this assumption, this reviewer believes that it is not currently supported by experimental data. What is much more likely is that mis-segregation rates occur somewhat independently and aneuploid cells are under constant selection in vivo which may ultimately favor cells that have a given missegregation rate to become more viable under certain conditions. 