General comments: This study used data from Cambodia Demographic and Health Surveys to identify risk factors associated with diarrhea in children aged 12 to 35 months. Overall, the study findings are interesting and may contribute to the literature in this area given the scarcity of data in low- and middle-income countries. The analyses appeared appropriate. The quality of the writing is acceptable, although more careful proofreading is required before the paper can be published. Here are my specific comments: Title: The term 'influence' may not be appropriate for this study as it can only tell the associations of variables, not causal relationships. Abstract: Methods: The first sentence "A cross-sectional study was conducted using the combination of two datasets from the Cambodia Demographic and Health Survey 2014" is hard to understand. The authors may want to make it clear that this study used secondary data from CDHS. What are the two data sets? What was the time frame for the prevalence of diarrhea - past month or lifetime? Introduction: Please provide a reference for the statement in the second sentence, paragraph 1. Avoid starting sentences with numbers. It would be helpful for readers if authors could define some terminology; e.g., neonatal deaths, post-neonatal deaths, under-five deaths, etc. Paragraph 2: - "...and 692 deaths of children under five due to diarrhea (6%)." What is the denominator of the 6%? In the following sentence, the authors stated that 'diarrhea alone account for one fifth of the deaths of children under the age of five in Cambodia." Please clarify these. - "High rates of diarrhea alone account for...' Diarrhea alone? - It is confusing that this study used data from CDHS 2014, but also cited the prevalence of diarrhea in the same population and from the same data, while claiming that no national studies on childhood diarrhea in Cambodia have yet been published. - The rationale of the study needs improvement. Methods: What 'province domains' mean? What does this mean: '...,which comprised the 2008 Cambodian General Population Census (GPC)?' 'The sample considered any domain...' is not understandable. Although the CDHS 2014 was referred to, some variables require a clear definition; e.g., improved/unimproved water sources, toilet facilities, adequate/inadequate hygiene, sanitary/unsanitary disposal of children's stools, etc. Data analyses: - It is not accurate to state this "Continuous data were treated as means, standard deviations, and ranges for analysis." Perhaps something like 'For continuous variables, mean and standard deviations were calculated..." - I am not sure what authors wanted to tell by this "A weighting variable was used in the form of the woman’s individual sample weighting." - Any independent variables significant at p0.25 in bivariate analyses were entered into the initial model. -Multicolinearity assessment was performed... Results: ...and one third (33.32%) in Tonle Sap region? It should be mean (SD xx). "More than half the mothers (51.08%) attended primary school." Did this include mothers who had no education? Any details to define the breastfeeding - duration, exclusivity...? Please check this data: "...and 77.97% of them had never been vaccinated." This could be very wrong as the immunization coverage in Cambodia has been globally recognized as very high. Discussion: This section can be improved by extending more in-depth literature in this area and link to the policy implication of the findings. Further limitations of the study should also be included (e.g., self-reporting measures, recall bias...). Conclusions and recommendations can be combined. Recommendations can be summarized. 