 Summary of the article Boykin et al present a pilot study aiming the application of real-time DNA sequencing for the detection of ACMV and EACMV in cassava plants in multiple crops of African East countries. This study represents the successful approaching of the most valuable feature of the MinION nanopore sequencing platform, its portability. At the same time, the authors made the maximum use of the singularities of the system by the translational application of their results, thus preventing the spread of plant viruses and to improve the crop efficiency by timely advising of farmers. This last exercise really highlights the value of such technology, particularly in the epidemiological surveillance and control of pathogens. Notwithstanding, I have some minor concerns that if addressed they would constitute an added value to the approach described. 1) I strongly recommend that authors store and make publicly available the genetic information retrieved from different sequencing runs to a specialized repository such as ENA or GenBank. 2) It would be very informative for future studies in this field that Table 1 contains additional information the average or median values of the sequence identity derived from the comparison between nanopore reads and reference sequences. In a similar way, they should declare the level of relationship between ACMV and EACMV, in terms of genome-wide nucleotide identity, in order to disclose any potential misidentification given the high error rate of nanopore-derived DNA reads. 3) The authors must be aware that there is a strong effect derived from sequencing kits used, different from Uganda/Tanzania and Kenya. They should make some correlations between the CMD severity scoring and DNA reads retrieved independently accordingly to the kits used. 4) In the same line of thoughts than above, it would be very elegant that authors will estimate the maximum time for expecting a viral DNA read just for setting a threshold and optimize the sequencing time. I have noticed that for CMD severity = 1, it took maximum 4h to retrieve viral DNA reads, using the sequencing kit SQK-RBK001. Another different history was the utilization of SQK-RBK004 in Kenya, where apparently there is not a correlation between CMD severity and viral DNA reads retrieved. In the last cases, the apparently not symptomatic plants were detected as positive in less than one hour. The setting of a time threshold for a proper detection (getting enough number of reads to estimate reliable identification) would be useful to speed up the farmers' advising and consequently the reduction of risks for the spread. 