This topic is both timely and relevant, since most of children death takes place in the developing world, and there is tremendous need to educate parents about balanced nutrition in children and when to seek medical help to prevent serious sequelae. Moreover, more information about Kiribati is also welcome in the recent literature, since this society is sorely underrepresented. The followings are suggestions for manuscript revision: Title The study topic is more related with ‘ Nutritional knowledge, attitude and dietary practices of mothers of malnourished children in Kiribati’, so the authors should consider revising the study title. Abstract The abstract needs editing and reconstruction, in particular with relation to the study aim listed under background. The authors stated exploring factors contributing to malnourishment in children aged below 5 years old, yet the study did not explore demographic or socio-economic factors in mothers that may contribute to malnourishment in children. I would suggest revising the aim into exploring nutritional knowledge, attitude and dietary practices of mothers with malnourished children under 5 years old . The study aim should be listed in a constant way in abstract, methods and discussion. As with regard to the results, I would suggest revising and editing the themes accordingly to the major theme of nutritional knowledge, attitude and dietary practices and then to include related subthemes (e.g., breastfeeding practices, complementary feeding’ …etc) under the major themes listed in the study. Methods It is unusual to use a semi-structured questionnaire for a qualitative design, so I wonder if the author intended to describe the interview guide used for promoting the FG discussion around dietary practices. If so, this section needs to be revised accordingly. Further information about who facilitate the FG discussion, in what language need to be added. In page 4, ‘isolated room’ should be changed into ‘private room’. The section related with semi-structured questionnaire needs to be deleted and an example of the questions used in the interview guide can be included within the text. Questions related with immunization is not directly related with the study aim, yet it can be added as a theme emerged or noticed among mothers of malnourished children. Results I found the presenting themes confused and confusing. There is a need first to elaborate on the thematic analysis process used in transcribing the FGS and who and how those themes were generated. This should be added as a heading named ‘Analysis of data’ in the methods section. Another section should be added under results and this should include the socio-demographic characteristic of the sample. Second, it is important to refine the major key themes emerged in the data analysis along with the subthemes and selected quotations this can be also presented under a table. Significantly, the authors listed attitudes and practices related with immunisation, yet they did not link it directly with mothers’ knowledge or perception of malnourishment in child. Failing to highlight this relation will risk the overall quality of study. Third, findings related with perceived barriers to action can be listed nicely as a subtheme for the major theme of ‘dietary practices’. The authors can refine their findings presentation to list beliefs related with breastmilk insufficiency as a contributing factors that negatively impact child’s health and wellbeing in Kiribati. The authors needs to rewrite and present this section before it can be ready for final publication. Discussion The first sentence in the discussion needs editing and I would encourage authors to change “were ignorant” with “they lacked needed knowledge on”. In addition, elaborating finding related with Kiribati culture, in term of respect to the elders and feeding the food leftover for children may help in understanding some of the factors contributing to malnourishment in children, in particular if the food leftover were low quality in terms of nutritional values (e.g., no protein or iron source as red meat or chicken). 