 In Introduction, add few more points regarding the importance of Genetic identification, and demerits of conventional identification strategies (Only one point had been given in introduction for name sake, add few more) In addition, author will add the possible outcome after identification of eels, in what way this work serves to the research community? Prior to molecular identification, the author done the sample identification by morphometric characters? Though it’s a old procedure, it is of much importance and the results of morphometric analysis acts as an base step for identification. Data on Taxonomic characters will serve as a guide for identification of the same, whereas having sequences on hands will not be useful for further reference. Authors stated that only two species of eels have been recorded in Aceh waters and in results they recorded 3 species with molecular results? Thus the morphometric identification of eels should be included so that what are the distinct features of 3 eels can be clarified to the readers. Generally for DNA barcoding analysis lateral tissue from the left side of fish will be taken in to consideration, but the authors had chosen caudal fin tissue, is there any justification for taking the caudal fin tissue, if so justify that and add proper reference for that methodology. Totally 13 glass eel and 31 adult eels were, so totally out of the 44 samples, the results inferred belongs to only 3 species, so care should be taken prior to analyzing the samples for molecular identification as it is cost effective process and wastage of chemicals. How did author arrived the genetic divergence? Materials needs clear cut procedures and reference alone doesn’t enough: - Genomic DNA was isolated using Aqua Genomic DNA solution following the manufacturer’s protocol 7-8 - Mitochondrial Cytochrome Oxidase Subunit I ( cox1 ) gene following the protocol from Ward et al. 9 Discussion part need to be written with the comparative studies made by author authors regarding the availability of eel in study area, identification problems, and results of the present study with respect to molecular identification and highlights the importance of the obtained results. Conclusion seems to be the result and what is the inference made from the study should be written precisely and accurately. 