This systematic review includes non-randomised studies of strategies to improve participant recruitment to randomised controlled trials. The justification for inclusion of non-randomised studies is that the previous Cochrane systematic review of RCTs found very little high-certainty evidence to guide trialists. This is a well presented, large scale, robust systematic review of a topic of great importance to trialists seeking strategies to improve their trial’s recruitment. The inclusion of non-randomised studies resulted in a diverse number of evaluations and the narrative synthesis is as a result quite broad and high-level. The recommendations for use of TIDIER in intervention reporting and SWATS are practical and feasible. There are a number of clarifications that I feel would improve the manuscript overall. These are as follows: In the introduction could you please give some detail as to what strategies were identified as effective from the Cochrane review. In the discussion can you compare and contrast the findings of this current review to those of the Cochrane review. It would be helpful to get an understanding of what the addition of these non-randomised studies adds overall to the evidence base, given the substantial amount of work in this review. Included studies were of insufficient quality to allow for the pooling of data, however, the authors could present narratively a summary of strategies that demonstrated success, to guide trialists, and those designing SWATS as to what strategies may be worth exploring further. The literature search was carried out in 2015. The authors have justified this by including details of how a search in 2018 identified an additional 10 studies only, the addition of which would not strengthen or disprove the conclusions. However, this search is 5 years out of date and I think the authors should contextualise their conclusions in light of this limitation. The addition of more ‘yield studies’ would be unlikely to change the conclusions (as these would be likely high risk of bias and not included in the analysis), however, the addition of a few more cohorts studies could have a bigger impact. Were all non-yield studies pre-planned studies? The review identified 92 studies, but only 20 were considered low risk of bias and included in the narrative review. Could the authors comment on 20 included studies in more detail in the manuscript? For example, from my reading for the table, this includes 13 yield studies and 7 cohorts, etc. type studies. Could the authors comment on the definition of non-randomised study – I wonder if a more detailed definition was applied would this have reduced the number of yield studies that were identified? In the introduction, the authors comment that aggregating data from non-randomised studies using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach, may raise confidence in the overall body of evidence, and supplement the evidence-base from randomised studies. The authors have not used GRADE in this manuscript or commented on why they have not. There is good recent guidance on the use of GRADE with ROBINS-I available, see Schnemann HJ, Cuello C, Akl EA, et al. GRADE guidelines: 18. How ROBINS-I and other tools to assess risk of bias in nonrandomized studies should be used to rate the certainty of a body of evidence. J Clin Epidemiol. 2019;111:105-114. 1 