This reports describe the expression of two mutant actins, associated with cardiac myopathy, in the body wall muscle of the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans . Expression of these mutants as N-terminally tagged GFP-variants at low to moderate expression levels (relative to the endogenous actin) disturbs the fine structure of body wall muscle and dot-like patterns of GFP-mutant protein are evident in contrast to the experiments with GFP-WT-ACT-4 (see also below). On the whole the experiments are well conducted and properly documented. I have some suggestions regarding interpretation of the results which the authors should look into but this does not require further experimentation (i.e. only textual revision). Expression of WT GFP-ACT4 results in a negative effect on worm motility. This is mentioned by the authors in the results (Subcellular localization of GFP-ACT-4 variants and motility of worms). Such an observation is not unprecedented in mammalian cells and is basically due to the GFP—moiety possibly interfering with cellular functions. This was further investigated in Agbulut et al. (2007 1 ) and it was shown that GFP on its own interferes with myosin-based contractility which is potentially also the case here. In this respect should the authors not interpret the worm motility relative to the GFP-ACT-4 control rather than relative to WT worms? I realise it is more difficult to reconcile disturbed muscle structure (D-F) and the expected dominant-negative phenotype with increased worm motility (G) but the authors indicate the motility of the worms is significantly different between mutant and WT-GFP actin variants and this should be commented on in the results or the discussion section. In the discussion the authors interpret their results solely in terms of cardiomyopathy based on the origin of the mutations. However the experimental system used is body wall muscle and interestingly the cellular phenotype is more reminiscent of nemaline myopathy (dotted patterns and irregular fibers). Functional differences between alpha-cardiac actin and alpha-skeletal muscle actin in human are unclear because the proteins are highly similar (only 4 amino acids different and these changes are even conservative) and differential phenotypes of disease mutants likely result from differential expression in the respective tissues (in agreement with the authors’ statement: “Thus, effects of these actin mutations appear to be dependent on cellular contexts”). These ACTC1 mutants do not cause aggregates in COS cells (Vang et al. , 2005, mentioned in the discussion), therefore I suggest to also make the parallel with nemaline myopathy where dot-like patterns in cellular context of (fused) myoblasts are frequently documented. The dots appear to be phalloidin-negative as judged by visual inspection (Figure 1D and 1E); perhaps this should be mentioned in the main text. Other minor points: Introduction: In the two sentences: “Many of these cytoskeletal abnormalities can be reproduced by expression of mutant actins in cultured non-muscle or muscle cells (Bathe et al ., 2007; Costa et al ., 2004; Domazetovska et al ., 2007; Vandamme et al ., 2009a; Vandamme et al ., 2009b) or in transgenic mice (Lindqvist et al ., 2013; Ravenscroft et al ., 2011). By contrast, mutations in cardiac α-actin ( ACTC1 ) cause hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathies (Mogensen et al ., 1999; Olson et al ., 1998).” a contrast is mentioned although the two items do not contrast each other. Methods: Correct: Agilent. Figure 1A: upon printing (and in the 100% view option of PDF) these figures are difficult to interpret. I suggest to make them larger by rearranging this figure (quite some white space left and right). 