I found this an interesting and an unusual article, and although I feel I might have predicted the key finding from my own perspective as a representative of the scientific community it is a worthwhile research project to find the evidence to back up my own conjectures. I was surprised to find that this article did not contain an abstract that was delivered in poetry as oppose to prose or at least had two versions of the abstract. Within the introduction, I enjoyed reading about the power and placement of a research article and what it represents to the reader. As the author suggests the abstract is often the decision-making part of the article: do you read further or purchase the article or do you pass it by, and, I know in myself that I have often been guilty of regarding the abstract as the last step prior to submission. To me, the power of this article has been to remind me to spend more time on this aspect of writing a research paper. Within the discussion and the conclusions, the concept, that poetry may serve as a useful abstract I still have some outstanding questions that I would like to have addressed. First of all, did the author consider producing two or three versions of the poem? The poem did seem to be less factually intense than the original abstract and I wonder if the authors feel that this may be reflected in the views of the scientists. I am also aware that the beauty of a poem often lies in the critical analysis that underpins the choice of word and form used by the author. This is a skill that can be developed often throughout a school of HE education and I am not sure that many scientists will have received that training. However again this is my conjecture and not necessarily based on fact. The suggestion is that scientists are happier to read a prose abstract. I also wonder if this also reflects many scientists concern with an issue of whether they might have to learn to write an abstract as a poem. I agree with the author that the abstract chosen was well written and accessible. I think that this is the key. Prose or poetry is not the issue but accessibility is and writing that can be clearly understood has to be key to this. The author suggests that they would like to repeat the study of a more 'general' audience. I can see the value of this approach and the importance of this study as it is important to explore how science can be made more accessible to a more general public. I wonder whether the author would consider using three versions of an abstract in future studies. The first an abstract written for a scientific community but not necessarily a more general audience, the second an abstract that is written in a clear accessible language and the last a poem. I also think that a lot more value would be placed in having a variety of abstracts presented in this way to get a more robust data set. I was also looking for a more thorough explanation for why the author only chose to present one poetry and prose abstract within this study. For my own use, how I would use this article in the future is to consider bringing this into my own teaching practice. I think that a student that can read and summarise an article effectively in a poem may be demonstrating some key academic skills that include reading and digesting an academic piece of writing, being able to summarise effectively, being able to use effective writing to write for a less scientifically literate audience.