This report is interesting and may have clinical relevant in routine practice. However, the authors should address to the following points: A figure showing the diagram of the circuit assembly including the test lung should be included. It’s quite confusing about the number of ‘Y-piece’. Normally, the test lung should be attached to the humidifier-filtered connected to a Y-piece. Why using 2 reservoir bags when normally only 1 is used in routine practice? Where is the location of the main stream sensor? Please quote a reference for ‘1 MAC adjusted of a 40 year-old (2% for sevoflurane and 6% for desflurane). It’s quite different from “Nickalls RWD. BJA 2003; 91: 170-4”. We have both anesthetic machines. The flowmeters on both Flow-i and AISYS are digitally controlled. They can be adjusted with accuracy of only 1 decimal place of litre, i.e., 0.1 L/min. Although the display on AISYS shows 2 decimal placed, i.e., 2.00 L/min, we can adjust flow of 0.1 L/min at a time only. How can the authors set FGF at 4.75 L/min? The caption of Figures 3 and 4 does not match the figure, e.g., (a) in figure but (A) in caption. The wash-in time derived from a test lung may not be inferred to human lung. The major confounding factor of wash-in time is anesthetic agent uptake from lung into human body ‘three compartments’ which affected by blood gas partition coefficient, cardiac output, organ tissue flow, organ tissue volume, and blood-tissue partition coefficient. That makes sevoflurane having longer wash-in time at same MAC and FGF. The test lung model did not take into account these factors. The authors should address to this point. The wash-out time has the same problem. The test lung did not consider amount of anesthetic agent uptake into the body which has to be eliminated out of the body into account. Normally, at the same MAC, sevoflurane has longer wash-out time compared with desflurane because of higher blood-gas, blood-tissue and blood-fat solubility. The authors should address to this point. 