This paper advances our understanding of how data are used and referenced. It is well-written, well-referenced, and the methods are appropriate. The data are explained and seem to be available and usable. The conclusions are reasoned and sound. The paper should be approved, and I suggest some minor improvements that would help clarify the methods and make the document more relevant and useful to a broader audience. The paper analyzes the data citation landscape in the life sciences, specifically around key databases (ENA, PDB) and the open access journals in EPMC and the corpus of patent documents in SureChEMBL. The study findings, however, have implications well beyond life sciences. As such, the paper would benefit from more explanatory context. Some of this explanation was in the discussion section, but it would be helpful to the general reader if more of this was included in the introduction. Also I consider myself expert in issues of data citation, but my work has largely been in the geosciences, which has a different data and literature publishing workflow. I was a little confused by the distinction between deposition citations and reuse citations. I think I had it figured out by the end of the paper, but it would have helped to have a clear explanation, early in the article, of the typical biomedical data and article publication process and how that defines a distinction between deposition citations and reuse citations. I was also not fully clear on how deposition and secondary citations were distinguished in the methodology. Similarly, a bit more detail on the methodology would be useful. For example, the references explain the text-mining techniques, but another paragraph or two in this article that summarized the approach would help the reader understand the approach. Finally, while I found the discussion and conclusion sections strong, I was thrown by the last sentence in the first paragraph of the discussion. Is this to imply that data citation decreases as a database becomes more established? (I do not have access to the cited article). If that is what is meant, there should be more discussion on the implications for further citation analysis work of this type. All in all, a useful and important paper. I would be very intrigued to see the methodology applied to other disciplines.