The study by Vanderford and Marcinkowski attempts to identify challenges to the commercialization of innovations discovered at their institute of higher learning, the University of Kentucky. The goal of this work is to improve the sluggish local climate for translation of discoveries by communicating the findings resulting from this effort back to administrative leadership with the hope that the identification of these impediments leads to real change. By deploying a survey and subsequent interviews the authors plan to generate learnings sufficient to form the basis of their recommendations. Movement of research discoveries from academic institutes to the marketplace is important not only for these discoveries to have their societal impact but also to drive economic growth of a region. The juxtaposition of most new jobs created over the last two decades coming from startup companies and much innovation from academia serving as the impetus for these new entities hints at the regional criticality of a university being able to successfully translate its discoveries into products reaching the market. While the Vanderford and Marcinkowski article has a solid thesis and very good intent, it is however limited (in this reviewers mind) by a handful of items. First, the conclusions the authors generate are based on the survey and interview of a single academic entrepreneur. The data achieved from this individual is certainly very valuable but it might not be reflective of the other individuals on campus that have had experiences with commercialization of university-based research. The challenges described by this individual on campus ring true of the commercialization issues found throughout other academic organizations; however due to the small sample size it is hard to draw solid conclusions for the University of Kentucky as a whole. As one of the aims of the study is to report findings back to the administration with the goal of impacting change, I would suggest that the senior leadership, while sympathetic to the challenges expressed by the authors, will not institute changes based on such a small set of data that may not accurately reflect the general experiences of its academic entrepreneurs in totality. I would recommend that the authors attempt to increase the number of study subjects to enhance the power of their research. In addition to surveys/interviews with academics that have successfully commercialized their innovations on campus, I would strongly urge the authors to include a set of individuals that have had unsuccessful experiences as well. Learnings from this cohort might provide an additional set of data to further drive the goals of enhancing translation at their institute. The second item I would suggest the authors to contemplate in their assessments is expanding their perspectives on reasons for an innovation not being commercialized. It seems as if the main focus of the surveys/interviews is on structural elements involved in the workflow for moving a university idea to commercialization. It is often that the main reason for the lack of translation has nothing to do with the internal processes for moving the opportunity forward but rather that the innovation never really addressed a true market need despite the solid academic research. As such, regardless of the view of commercialization risk, the number of investors, the supportiveness of university policies or facilities/staff to advance the process, the idea itself is not commercialized because it does not contain a value proposition for any outside entity to take hold of. It is imperative to identify a product-market fit for an innovation as not all concepts should become companies and not all ideas impact the market. A strong technology translation capability cannot make up for an opportunity without a direct connection to an existing customer pain-point, which is only identified through a process of customer discovery outside of the universitys walls. Lastly, from a practical perspective, I would recommend that as part of the engagement with a larger set of academic entrepreneurs on campus (both successful and unsuccessful), the survey/interview deployed by the authors engage these individuals in soliciting programs, opportunities, efforts, and ideas to improve the existing stagnant innovation culture on campus. I believe by engaging these on campus in dialogue focused on solving the challenge, administrative support will be more easily achieved. In conclusion, I believe the authors are on the right track and that their efforts have significant merit. I would urge them to continue their work, expand the sample size, examine a bit broader set of reasons why the problems exist and work with their respondents to improve the situation.