This is an excellent review of cost-effectiveness studies comparing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and optimal medical (OMT) therapy for stable coronary artery disease (CAD). It is well-written, easy to follow, and the interpretations are sound. My only query about the design of the study is I'm not entirely sure why studies comparing only PCI vs OMT were excluded, given the authors go on to rightly raise concerns about a lack of high-quality data. We must remember that the majority of of patients with stable CAD are not candidates under current guidelines for CABG (e.g. if they lack 3 vessel or proximal LAD disease) and so to argue a cost-effectiveness study should use data where all three are compared because CABG could be a superior options to PCI seems strange to me. Even if CABG was deemed more effective than PCI in a study, the finding would not be applicable to most of our patients, as only a small subset of our patients would be eligible for randomisation in whatever study that data was based on. I also wonder whether the authors think this data will change in the next few years? The two most high profile studies of stable CAD in the last few years are probably FAME-2 and ORBITA. The former has shown improvements when measured as a reduction in a composite of death, myocardial infarction and urgent revascularisation (although this latter largely powers this and there have been significant concerns about this endpoint in unblinded settings). ORBITA initially showed no benefits in improvements in exercise time from PCI versus optimal medical therapy, but the recent secondary analysis in Circulation showed a significant reduction in the number of patients reporting angina following PCI versus placebo (when all patients were on OMT). I appreciate that the authors are reviewing cost-effectiveness studies, and it may be several years before these new data are included in such studies, but it appears that under this current design (including only cost-effectiveness studies involve CABG) would mean the only blinded trial of PCI versus OMT that I am aware of would be ineligible for analysis? Some minor points are there isn’t discussion about the role of direct versus indirect cost measurements in the different studies. This is crucial when considering the applicability of results to different healthcare settings, where sometimes indirect costs are borne by providers but sometimes not. Also, the authors do query about the applicability of data to Australia. Whilst this may be an issue, it seems likely that evidence from Europe and USA are of relatively-good applicability to Australia as similarly developed nations with, in some cases, similar healthcare systems. Finally, a tiny point is I think it would be useful to order tables 4 and 5 the same way; I foolishly initially assumed that the top study in both (the most recent study using meta-analysis in table 4 and the high quality study in table 5) were the same study, when actually the most recent study was deemed of 'low' usefulness). Indeed, table 5 may be better as a traffic light system with colour coding to make things more clear, but I will leave that up to the authors and editorial team. 