This short research article by Jiang et al. is timely, adds to our understanding on the magnitude of natural chimerism, and meets research standards with methodological details that made available to allow others to replicate this study. I recommend indexation pending responding on the below minor editorial/clarification points: Abstract (line 2)- An unclear sentence. Suggest revising from: Here, we observed for the first time the embryos to Here, we document for the first time that embryos. See also below the note appended to the citation of Mizrahi et al., 2014 and define your statement, for the first time. Conjoined larvae (as from Abstract line 4 and along the manuscript). This term and the following terms and are mutually used, irrespective to the somehow different biological statuses they present (for example, is a very sterile term indicating being, coming, or brought together so as to meet, touch, overlap, or unit). I would suggest to use the term Conjoined larvae in the Results section when first describing the process of larval joining and then use the terms and in all other parts of the manuscript to state the biological outcome. Related to the aforementioned- it will be most valuable to show evidence for the outcomes, such as histological sections, or that no disjointing between the conjoined larvae occurred following the employment of physical force. Introduction and Discussion- There are four papers that I would suggest the authors to add and to cite. The first and the most important is the study by Mizrahi et al. (2014). In this paper the authors showed that Tubastraea coccinea offspring can metamorphose and aggregate/fuse in groups of up to eight polyps in the water column, before settlement. This may also change the way Jiang et al. refer to their finding (statements such as the first time should be revised). The second paper is the study on sponge chimeras by Gauthier and Degnan (2008) . This paper reveals the potential intermixing of cells between fused partners. The third paper is the old report by Duerden, the first observation documenting aggregated colonies ( Duerden,1902 ). It will also be valuable to cite Rinkevich (2011). Introduction 2 nd paragraph, 1 st sentence: Modular marine invertebrates . tend to aggregate after release is redundant to the former introduction text. Delete or rephrase. M M: then mixed and gently agitated Specify if the mixed eggs/sperm were from the same genotype or from all/several genotypes. M M: to count the proportion of each type of fusion. Which of fusion the authors imply to? Detail/explain. Discussion, below Fig 1: P. daedalea larvae still retained a degree of individuality. What is the meaning of here? What is the meaning of a degree? Morphologically? Physiologically? Define and rephrase. Discussion, the sentence: It should be pointed out that though embryos here were produced sexually from 4 parent colonies, it did not denote they were genetically distinct. Something is wrong with the sentence. If larvae are sexually produced they should be genetically distinct from each other. Rewrite. 