The paper by Nascimento et al. analyzed whether “relative prolixity” of published papers in the field of pharmaceutical science is related to quality of Journals (assessed by CiteScore values). Although, efforts on improving science of writing are acknowledged, in my opinion, the presented paper is subjected to some criticisms as below. Major issues: The index that the authors used to assess prolixity of the published papers seems not to be valid to lead to a legitimate conclusion. The authors did not provide a good background for the index. I could not find any information about “relative prolixity index” in the references that the authors refer to (Hirst et al., 2015; Annesley, 2010; Katz, 2009). There are other scores that authors can use; e.g. “Fog index” (Gunning, 1969[ref-1) which was developed by Robert Gunning to test readability of a paragraph or passage. The conclusion of the study is mostly based on the results of a correlation between CiteScore and relative prolixity; the number of journals with high cite score (~10) seems to be low (~10) that affect the correlation coefficient. In addition, correlation per se cannot provide a basis for conclusion. In fact, in this study the authors conclude that the more the references in the introduction, the less the relative prolixity. This is not straightforward as other factors such as topic presented, number of hypotheses being tested, etc. can affect the number of references in the introduction section of a paper. I suggest to consider relevancy of the citations in papers studied. Some reasoning provided by the authors for the observed association between the index and Journals’ CiteScore values needs revision; the authors stated that “people with less cognitive ability use more words” in their writing. There are more important factors like being a non-native English speaker that influence quality of writing. Minor issues: Correlation coefficient and “n” need to be reported in Figure 2. Multiple comparisons need to be mentioned for ANOVA. Guides for authors may also affect the results. 