This short note considers the recent paper by Balaresque et al . 1 on the distribution of Y-chromosome haplotypes in Central Asia. Through simulation they show that the haplotype frequency distribution is not very surprising and suggest that the results of 1 are most likely due to chance. But there is more to the analysis of 1 than just the haplotype frequency. Their analysis groups haplotypes into `descent clusters', estimates the time to the most recent common ancestor (TMRCA) and looks into the spatial distribution of the haplotypes. None of this was simulated. There is no formal test applied in 1 , but visually the results look to this reviewer very surprising under a scenario where to quote Guillot and Cox the results are chance proliferation of random male lines... from culturally undistinguished but biologically lucky...men In autosomal analysis of admixture events 2 , overwhelming genetic evidence was found for the Mongol expansion across Eurasia. This by no means shows that the Y-chromosome signal was, at least partially, driven by high status Mongols, but to this reviewer this still seems more likely than not. References 1. Balaresque P, Poulet N, Cussat-Blanc S, Gerard P, et al.: Y-chromosome descent clusters and male differential reproductive success: young lineage expansions dominate Asian pastoral nomadic populations. Eur J Hum Genet . 2015; 23 (10): 1413-22 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Hellenthal G, Busby GB, Band G, Wilson JF, et al.: A genetic atlas of human admixture history. Science . 2014; 343 (6172): 747-51 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Patterson N. Reviewer Report For: High Frequency Haplotypes are Expected Events, not Historical Figures [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :666 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7561.r11952 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-666/v1#referee-response-11952 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Reader Comment 09 Feb 2016 Murray Cox 09 Feb 2016 Reader Comment We thank Nick Patterson for his careful review and address his comments below. We did not focus on population structure for two reasons. First, our primary aim was simply to raise ... Continue reading We thank Nick Patterson for his careful review and address his comments below. We did not focus on population structure for two reasons. First, our primary aim was simply to raise awareness that the original paper did not perform any statistical testing to show that its high frequency lineages were actually ‘unusually frequent.’ Under a simple neutral model, we show that they are not. Second, and perhaps more importantly, the population structure of the study system was not described in sufficient detail for us to implement a formal structured demographic model. Such testing is an obvious next step and we would be very interested to see the results, but we also suggest that these tests should really be run by the original authors. However, the reviewer notes two particular features of population structure that require more detailed discussion: the spatial clustering of the high frequency haplotypes, and their young ages. Imagine that we can perfectly track the history of a neutral, but high frequency, haplotype through time. Initially, the haplotype arises by mutation within a single population. Over time, the haplotype increases in frequency, and via migration, spreads to neighboring demes (whether defined geographically or culturally). Even in a neutral setting, high frequency haplotypes will therefore appear to be clustered. Assuming a high frequency haplotype is not lost (or fixed) through drift, it will also experience mutation over time, which will change instances of the high frequency haplotype into new derived forms. Eventually, the original haplotype will be lost entirely in this way, replaced by derived descendants. Consequently, when high frequency haplotypes are observed in a neutral setting, they are likely to be disproportionately young. High frequency neutral lineages can only persist for a short time before their frequency is reduced again through mutation or drift (unless, of course, they become fixed). The high frequency haplotypes identified by Balaresque and colleagues are spatially structured and young, but neither pattern is diagnostic of cultural transmission of reproductive success. As shown by the thought experiment above, these two features can equally be expected under a purely neutral scenario. We agree completely with the reviewer that the Mongol expansion heavily impacted the genetic profile of Central Asia, and like him, accept that many of high frequency Y chromosome lineages may trace back to members of the Mongol army. Our main point, though, is that no statistical evidence has yet been presented to show that these lineages reached high frequency due to cultural transmission of reproductive success. Nor is there any evidence that they trace back to historically important men like Genghis Khan, rather than any other random men in his vast Mongol army. We thank Nick Patterson for his careful review and address his comments below. We did not focus on population structure for two reasons. First, our primary aim was simply to raise awareness that the original paper did not perform any statistical testing to show that its high frequency lineages were actually ‘unusually frequent.’ Under a simple neutral model, we show that they are not. Second, and perhaps more importantly, the population structure of the study system was not described in sufficient detail for us to implement a formal structured demographic model. Such testing is an obvious next step and we would be very interested to see the results, but we also suggest that these tests should really be run by the original authors. However, the reviewer notes two particular features of population structure that require more detailed discussion: the spatial clustering of the high frequency haplotypes, and their young ages. Imagine that we can perfectly track the history of a neutral, but high frequency, haplotype through time. Initially, the haplotype arises by mutation within a single population. Over time, the haplotype increases in frequency, and via migration, spreads to neighboring demes (whether defined geographically or culturally). Even in a neutral setting, high frequency haplotypes will therefore appear to be clustered. Assuming a high frequency haplotype is not lost (or fixed) through drift, it will also experience mutation over time, which will change instances of the high frequency haplotype into new derived forms. Eventually, the original haplotype will be lost entirely in this way, replaced by derived descendants. Consequently, when high frequency haplotypes are observed in a neutral setting, they are likely to be disproportionately young. High frequency neutral lineages can only persist for a short time before their frequency is reduced again through mutation or drift (unless, of course, they become fixed). The high frequency haplotypes identified by Balaresque and colleagues are spatially structured and young, but neither pattern is diagnostic of cultural transmission of reproductive success. As shown by the thought experiment above, these two features can equally be expected under a purely neutral scenario. We agree completely with the reviewer that the Mongol expansion heavily impacted the genetic profile of Central Asia, and like him, accept that many of high frequency Y chromosome lineages may trace back to members of the Mongol army. Our main point, though, is that no statistical evidence has yet been presented to show that these lineages reached high frequency due to cultural transmission of reproductive success. Nor is there any evidence that they trace back to historically important men like Genghis Khan, rather than any other random men in his vast Mongol army. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Reader Comment 09 Feb 2016 Murray Cox 09 Feb 2016 Reader Comment We thank Nick Patterson for his careful review and address his comments below. We did not focus on population structure for two reasons. First, our primary aim was simply to raise ... Continue reading We thank Nick Patterson for his careful review and address his comments below. We did not focus on population structure for two reasons. First, our primary aim was simply to raise awareness that the original paper did not perform any statistical testing to show that its high frequency lineages were actually ‘unusually frequent.’ Under a simple neutral model, we show that they are not. Second, and perhaps more importantly, the population structure of the study system was not described in sufficient detail for us to implement a formal structured demographic model. Such testing is an obvious next step and we would be very interested to see the results, but we also suggest that these tests should really be run by the original authors. However, the reviewer notes two particular features of population structure that require more detailed discussion: the spatial clustering of the high frequency haplotypes, and their young ages. Imagine that we can perfectly track the history of a neutral, but high frequency, haplotype through time. Initially, the haplotype arises by mutation within a single population. Over time, the haplotype increases in frequency, and via migration, spreads to neighboring demes (whether defined geographically or culturally). Even in a neutral setting, high frequency haplotypes will therefore appear to be clustered. Assuming a high frequency haplotype is not lost (or fixed) through drift, it will also experience mutation over time, which will change instances of the high frequency haplotype into new derived forms. Eventually, the original haplotype will be lost entirely in this way, replaced by derived descendants. Consequently, when high frequency haplotypes are observed in a neutral setting, they are likely to be disproportionately young. High frequency neutral lineages can only persist for a short time before their frequency is reduced again through mutation or drift (unless, of course, they become fixed). The high frequency haplotypes identified by Balaresque and colleagues are spatially structured and young, but neither pattern is diagnostic of cultural transmission of reproductive success. As shown by the thought experiment above, these two features can equally be expected under a purely neutral scenario. We agree completely with the reviewer that the Mongol expansion heavily impacted the genetic profile of Central Asia, and like him, accept that many of high frequency Y chromosome lineages may trace back to members of the Mongol army. Our main point, though, is that no statistical evidence has yet been presented to show that these lineages reached high frequency due to cultural transmission of reproductive success. Nor is there any evidence that they trace back to historically important men like Genghis Khan, rather than any other random men in his vast Mongol army. We thank Nick Patterson for his careful review and address his comments below. We did not focus on population structure for two reasons. First, our primary aim was simply to raise awareness that the original paper did not perform any statistical testing to show that its high frequency lineages were actually ‘unusually frequent.’ Under a simple neutral model, we show that they are not. Second, and perhaps more importantly, the population structure of the study system was not described in sufficient detail for us to implement a formal structured demographic model. Such testing is an obvious next step and we would be very interested to see the results, but we also suggest that these tests should really be run by the original authors. However, the reviewer notes two particular features of population structure that require more detailed discussion: the spatial clustering of the high frequency haplotypes, and their young ages. Imagine that we can perfectly track the history of a neutral, but high frequency, haplotype through time. Initially, the haplotype arises by mutation within a single population. Over time, the haplotype increases in frequency, and via migration, spreads to neighboring demes (whether defined geographically or culturally). Even in a neutral setting, high frequency haplotypes will therefore appear to be clustered. Assuming a high frequency haplotype is not lost (or fixed) through drift, it will also experience mutation over time, which will change instances of the high frequency haplotype into new derived forms. Eventually, the original haplotype will be lost entirely in this way, replaced by derived descendants. Consequently, when high frequency haplotypes are observed in a neutral setting, they are likely to be disproportionately young. High frequency neutral lineages can only persist for a short time before their frequency is reduced again through mutation or drift (unless, of course, they become fixed). The high frequency haplotypes identified by Balaresque and colleagues are spatially structured and young, but neither pattern is diagnostic of cultural transmission of reproductive success. As shown by the thought experiment above, these two features can equally be expected under a purely neutral scenario. We agree completely with the reviewer that the Mongol expansion heavily impacted the genetic profile of Central Asia, and like him, accept that many of high frequency Y chromosome lineages may trace back to members of the Mongol army. Our main point, though, is that no statistical evidence has yet been presented to show that these lineages reached high frequency due to cultural transmission of reproductive success. Nor is there any evidence that they trace back to historically important men like Genghis Khan, rather than any other random men in his vast Mongol army. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Norton H. Reviewer Report For: High Frequency Haplotypes are Expected Events, not Historical Figures [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :666 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7561.r11823 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-666/v1#referee-response-11823 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 15 Jan 2016 Heather Norton , Department of Anthropology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7561.r11823 Summary In this manuscript Guillot and Cox test the claim made by Balaresque et al . (2015) that a subset of Y-chromosome haplotypes from Central Asian men occur at “unusually” high frequency, possibly indicating social selection for men carrying these lineages. Using ... Continue reading READ ALL 