 Abstract: “In 2004, when the protein estimate from the finished human genome was only 24,000, the surprise was compounded as reviewed estimates fell to 19,000 by 2014. “ This makes no sense; it seems to be missing a large chunk. “miss-annotation“ Introduction: “This has its origins in the Swiss-Prot approach to protein annotation whereby protein sequence differences arising from the same genomic locus either by alternative splicing or alternative initiations (or permutations of both) and/or genetic variants, are all cross referenced to a single, maximal length, protein entry 8 .“ This is not strictly true, SwissProt does NOT divide up all proteins from the same gene in different entries (TMPO for example). Here you have to be clear that SwissProt does this most of the time. “Importantly, while this was originally introduced as the curatorial strategy of choosing the longest mRNA for an entry, it actually turns out to have post- genomic data support, not only in the form that coding-loci express a single main protein (i.e. that most predicted alternative transcripts may not be translated), but also that in most cases this is the max-exon form (i.e. the curatorial choice actually seems to be the biological “default”) 9 .” Strictly speaking this is true, the longest SwissProt form is the biological default in most cases. But it is purely technical and is not the best way of selecting the biological default. The way this paragraph is written makes it sound like it is. Better to say: “not only in the form that coding-loci express a single main protein [ref to Ezkurdia et al, JPR] (i.e. that most predicted alternative transcripts may not be translated), but also that in most cases this max-exon form (i.e. the curatorial choice) actually coincides with the biological “default”) 9 .” Ref: Ezkurdia I, Rodriguez JM, Carrillo-de Santa Pau E, Vzquez J, Valencia A, Tress ML. Most highly expressed protein-coding genes have a single dominant isoform. J Proteome Res. 2015 Apr 3;14(4):1880-7. doi: 10.1021/pr501286b. 1 Historical Growth: “One of these is the inclusion of “alternative sequence”, referring to genomic sections that differ from the primary contiguous assembly. The current release of Ensembl (87.38) species 2,541 proteins in this category, but it is not clear which of these are just variants of those derived from the primary assembly.” Alternative sequence genes are not included in the Ensembl reference counts. principle = principal GENCODE not GENECODE! And GENCODE, VEGA and Ensembl ARE merged and have been for a number of years. VEGA is annotated by the HAVANA group (part of the GENCODE Consortium), not Havanna. It’s also worth pointing out that Ensembl (since it is now merged with GENCODE) is essentially a manually curated annotation too with manual curations coming from the HAVANA team. “Consensus Coding Sequence (CCDS) project. These correspond to a core set of proteins annotated as having full length transcripts that exactly match reference genome coordinates.” In fact CCDS transcript models need to exactly match between RefSeq and Ensembl/GENCODE, which explains why CCDS is the smallest set. This is actually an important caveat for the next paragraph, as might be imagined. Cross-reference counting: It is also worth mentioning that these are the only four independent sets, in that Vega and GENCODE merge into Ensembl, NextProt is UniProt and GeneCards and CCDS are essentially intersections and unions of different subsets. Ensembl, not Ensemble. “The explanation is that Ensemble and NCBI Gene have consolidated mapping reciprocity for proteins in Swiss-Prot (but, as mentioned above, many proteins from these two sources are still nominally “outside” Swiss-Prot).” I think what it really says is that genes annotated in both Ensembl and SwissProt are automatically included in HGNC. “GENCODE and Vega do not currently have cross-references inside Swiss-Prot” Because GENCODE/VEGA == Ensembl “forth” - fourth Existence evidence: “However, on its own, active transcription is insuficient to prove translation, even with a predicted CDS” Maybe given the proliferation of such papers it might be worth pointing out that neither is ribosome profiling evidence … “in regarded to” in regard to “As was done for Figure 3, “ I think this whole paragraph could be written more carefully. I can follow it, but I suspect most people wouldn't. The data sets being compared need to be introduced specifically (again) and the numbers cross-checked. The examples are interesting, but: “A second example exposes a different problem. The putative uncharacterized protein C7orf76 (Q6ZVN7) is mapped from UniProt to a different protein in HPA as ENSG00000127922- SHFM1 (i.e. P60896). The miss-mapping appears to be extrinsic to HPA and in this case could be a UniProt Ensembl problem (which is why this is not in the 4-way set).” Actually the problem stems from the fact that Ensembl annotates a single gene (now called SEM1) for these coordinates, while RefSeq has two (those listed in the paper). I have looked at this case before and wrote “RefSeq has two genes for SHFM1; RefSeq is right”. I am not 100% sure that it is, but if it is one gene, it looks to be a gene that has two ORFs and hence it makes sense that UniProt has two entries. Small proteins “APLEA” = APELA Also worth pointing out the conservation all the way back to Danio for APELA. In fact cross-species conservation studies currently being undertaken by Ensembl may unearth some “missing” smORFs. “not withstanding miss-matches” “miss-mapping” “However, inter-source clustering of explicit protein sequences could make identifying difference more effectively than cross- references alone (e.g. a possible resurrection of the Human Protein Index initiative 31 ).” Nooooo, do not resurrect the IPI, it died for good reasons. I don’t believe that we need any more competing (and only superficially communicating) bodies in the field. “It could be argued that additional (collective) manual curation would be needed to accomplish this” This is nice in principal, but manual curation is VERY subjective. For many genes whether it is annotated as coding or not is based on the balance of probabilities and each annotator has his/her own balance of probabilities. What is needed is more and better information for the corner cases. General Comment: There are a lot of distinct sets being compared in the figures. I would name and define the sets clearly in the text when possible, otherwise readers will struggle to see what is being compared. 