This manuscript purports to report on an N-of-1 trial to select therapy for a patient with seasonal affective disorder, sleep apnea and polypharmacy. The outcome of the activities was improved sleep quality. The condition, the treatments to be considered and the outcomes all appear to be excellent concepts to submit to N-of-1 trials. The interventional approaches are described in detail. The medication trial is the closest this process comes to a true N-of-1 trial. This said, the entire manuscript appears to be an early draft that requires extensive rework. This appears to be a complex case study with some quasi-experimental components of the various intervention approaches. The current version of the manuscript mixes the background with the methods section, the methods section with the results section and the discussion covers interventions outside of the medication trials or the manuscript in general. Again, the medication trial is the only part of the process that approaches an N-of-1 trial and should be the focus of the manuscript. The current manuscript is very long and difficult to follow. The current draft is just under 10,000 words for the primary paper, excluding the abstract, supplemental material and references. This manuscript would be much easier to follow and comprehend if cut to approximately 3500-4000 words, which is already long for a medical article. This will require extensive editing and decisions about what to include and what to exclude. This reviewer cannot provide full editing guidance but the authors need to consult with others that can help craft future versions. Areas that need to be addressed: The extensive description of the patient can be markedly reduced. Further this component of the manuscript should be in the Methods section as it is essentially a description of the study population. The description should focus on the state of affairs just prior to initiating the medication trial. The remaining background is essentially irrelevant to this case study. The closest part of the therapeutic process that approaches an N-of-1 trial is the medication component. This reviewer recommends focusing on this component of the work if the paper is to be retained as an N-of-1 trail. With this change all the interventions that are discussed prior to or outside of this set of interventions can be dropped and included as the state of the study participant at the start of the trial. The extensive discussion of measurement activities needs to significantly cut and measurement approaches referenced from other literature. The discussion of the measurement approaches is also included in the results section as well as the methods section. Some of the methods section related to the sleep apnea treatment intervention appear to be results in the current draft. This can be solved by dropping the extensive discussion of the sleep apnea diagnosis and intervention entirely as it was not an N-of-1 trial in any sense. The methods should discuss the N-of-1 approach that was used. The decision to not blind medications should be justified. The cross over pattern selection should discussed. It appears the number of crossovers for each treatment option is limited. This is the primary reason this manuscript appears to be more a case study than a true experimental approach. The number of crossovers should be justified, especially for those medications options that were only studied one time. It appears that the medications were studied primarily in a series of reductions in dosages until the final dosages where there was repeat testing in a back and forth pattern. N-of-1 crossover patterns should be randomized, thus the testing pattern needs to be justified. Given the high variability in sleep quality from night to night the decision to use a limited number of cross-overs seems even more troublesome. The reason for not considering a washout period between treatments needs to be justified. The discussion of serum markers for major depression disorder is not related to the study methods or results and should be removed. Limitations related to the limited number of crossovers is not discussed. The interference of the mouth guard intervention with the medication trial further complicates the low number of drug crossovers. This manuscript requires major editing and rewriting prior to being reconsidered.