The authors summarize papers, which they felt were notable or might inspire further research. Strengths of the manuscript: the paper provides a well-written, informative and succinct summary of progress in a wide range of research areas concerning TS. Weaknesses: the paper reports on research highlights 2014 and it should therefore be clearly stated in every section why this particular work is important for the field, this is not always the case (see comments below). I feel that not all sections are entirely clear without having read the original article; I therefore have a few minor suggestions (see below). General comment: some papers that were published prior to 2014 are cited (e.g. the histidine findings), others are not (e.g. enhanced cognitive control). Specific comments: A genetic clue: It would be interesting to include a) how precise the prediction of the diagnosis was, b) which SNP survived correction for multiple tests and c) possibly the authors main thoughts on the role of the nearby genes in TS. Pathophysiology: How large is the family (N)? Were dopamine receptor binding and prepulse inhibition altered in the same direction in humans and mice? What are the implications of the results for TS in general or possibly for a sub-group, i.e. why are they so important for the field? Other animal models: What are the implications of the McCairn paper, especially regarding vocal tics? Neuroimaging studies : Cortical structure BOLD signal clearly preceded signal in subcortical structures - It may be interesting to point out that the temporal pattern of activation differs from animal models ( Bronfeld et al ., 2013 ). The paragraph about interhemispheric balance and role of SMA is very interesting and it would be nice to give a few more details regarding the model. The reference regarding induced echophenomena is missing. GABA in SMA study : the findings are very complex and not easy to follow. It is unclear what sort of task the fMRI BOLD response refers to. It may also be useful to point out that fractional anisotropy in the corpus callosum was measured in fibers connected to the SMA and to point out why altered FA in CC might be related to increased motor tic severity and at the same time increased GABA in the SMA. References for enhanced volitional control are missing. CBIT study Please include the behavioral findings. The urge made me do it The section has a very informative introductory sentence. However, the negative reinforcement model is explained in the third paragraph, after research on the model has already been presented. It might be useful to explain it in the introductory sentence. PUTS The presented results do not explain how the paper arrived at the conclusion that the PUTS has acceptable reliability and validity. Results concerning MOVES associations with PUTS in the third study seem to contradict results found in the first study. Is there an explanation as to why that might be the case? Are there noteworthy results found in the second study or do the results in the last paragraph refer to the second AND third study? I have two more suggestions for Box 1: Muller-Vahl, K. R., Riemann, L., Bokemeyer, S. (2014). Tourette patients misbelief of a tic rebound is due to overall difficulties in reliable tic rating . J Psychosom Res, 76, 472-476. Gharatya, A., Stern, J., Man, C., Williams, D., Simmons, H., Robertson, M. (2014). Suicidality in patients with tourettes syndrome. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry, 85, e3.