This paper describes an approach to quickly scan large collection of proteins to identify fragments similar to a request. Not considering indels, this approach is, as stated by the authors, in the context of fragment grafting, loop modeling, protein design or crystallographic phasing. The metrics used to quantify the similarity is that of the RMSd. The rationale here is to to use the triangular inequality of RMSd to setup a two step procedure: - decompose the complete set of fragments present in the collection of proteins by as a limited subset of representative fragments - quickly identify the representative fragments similar to the query in a way to perform effective pruning of the complete collection of fragments, ensuring not discarding the matching fragments, and then perform a systematic search for the fragments of the classes associated with the matching representative fragments. This kind of approach has been used in several contexts and is interesting. The manuscript however could easily be improved. Here are some specific comments: - The introduction could benefit from a better description of the rationale underlying Fragger, including its use in different contexts. For instance, such a strategy has also been used for the fast similarity search of small compounds. - The introduction could benefit from a larger overview of the approaches that have been setup to address questions similar to that of Fragger. There are also a series of web servers focusing on this goal that are not cited. - The way the algorithm is described makes it rather uneasy to understand. There could first be some awkwardness in the notations. For instance, in the algorithm description, blanks between d and b and between r and f could be discarded. Secondly, it could be difficult for a reader to understand the role of the representative fragments, the way they are identified and used from the present description of the algorithm. Probably an additional flowchart or figure to explain it would be welcome. - The critical parameters of the procedure are not really identified. What are the effective cutoff values, how do they impact on the search ? - It seems Fragger offers possibilities to constrain amino acidd sequences. Is it a prior or a posterior filtering ? 