 Consistency of title and abstract and potential interest of the subject for readers The paper deals with a particularly relevant and controversial topic: journal ratings as predictors of articles quality in no-bibliometrics areas (architecture, arts and humanities, history and philosophy, law and sociology and political science). The aim of this paper is to understand whether the probability of receiving positive peer reviews is influenced by having published in an independently assessed, high-ranking journal. The title is appropriate for the content of the article and the abstract represent a suitable summary of the work. The paper is interesting and provides a useful exposure to the objectives proposed. It is well structured and clear in every step, although the article is brief and therefore omits some very important details. Article content: Have the design, methods and analysis of the results from the study been explained and are they appropriate for the topic being studied? The paper analyses a large dataset composed of over 11,500 research articles published in Italy in the period 2004-2010 in the areas of architecture, arts and humanities, history and philosophy, law, sociology and political sciences (non-bibliometric areas). The authors used an ordered profit model to understand whether the probability of receiving positive peer reviews is influenced by having published in an independently assessed, high-ranking journal. The results show that independent classifications of journals may be considered as good predictors of the score assigned to individual articles. In the manuscript, the authors use a big dataset that represents a very important first evaluation of the Italian university research. The paper is remarkable and underlines how a journal of high quality can ensure an excellent rating for a researcher. The method is suitable to achieve the goals. However, it should be highlighted that: 1) in the same non-bibliometric area, but in different scientific fields, monographs or articles of books rather than articles of the journal could be important, then, also kind of publication could be affect the evaluation. 2) the method adopted is appropriated, but it could be relevant applied clustering techniques to detect the profiles of micro-sectors (scientific fields), and find clusters of scientific fields, which although belonging to different areas have similar; 3) the paper deserves a greater depth to allow you to specify in detail the analysis. In fact, the authors present the results at macro level, and not enter into the details of different scientific fields. It would be interesting to have a longer version of the paper. Conclusions: Are the conclusions sensible, balanced and justified on the basis of the results of the study? Using a very large dataset of journal articles published in HSS, the paper proves that journal ranking may be considered as a good predictors of scores assigned to individual articles. The probability of receiving an excellent score almost doubles when the paper is published in a top journal. The results indicate that journal classifications may be a useful supporting tool in large evaluation excercise since it may provide reviewers with valuable information apt to support expert evaluation. It is very important to emphasize, in agreement with The Leiden Manifesto for research metrics that the best decisions are taken by combining robust statistics with sensitivity to the aim and nature of the research that is evaluated. Both quantitative and qualitative evidence are needed; each is objective in its own way. Decision-making about science must be based on high-quality processes that are informed by the highest quality data ( Hicks, et al ., 2015 ). 