This paper reports observations of guarding in Arabian babblers in considerable detail and does an excellent job of relating various aspects of guarding to variables such as a birds dominance rank and its manner of replacing an individual who is already guarding. The results are new and important and the paper convincingly shows what looks like an element of competition in terms of who guards. This is a fascinating and valuable result which suggests that individuals that guard receive some increase in fitness from their guarding behavior. The paper argues that this fitness increment is via an increase in an individuals prestige because time spent guarding is a handicap that takes away from time that could be spent feeding and because guarding may increase the guarding individuals risk of predation. All of this train of logic holds together although I am not sure there is much actual evidence for the existence of prestige and its assumed effect on fitness. A problem as I see it is that there may be alternate explanations for the reason that dominant individuals seem to go out of their way to guard and even displace individuals that are already guarding. First, the alpha male may guard the most because he has the most to gain from guarding as he has fathered the offspring produced in the territory. Second, the assumption seems to be that guarding is done to reduce predation. But what if it is also done to repel conspecific intruders, especially males that might try and mate with the breeding female? The individual that would gain the most from repelling conspecific intruders is the alpha male and this could explain why alpha males do most of the guarding and even displace subordinate males from guarding as the latter would have less to gain from taking action against conspecific intruders. Guarding against intruding rival males explains why alpha males greatly increase guarding during the courtship because that is when extra-pair copulations would be most costly to their fitness. I did not see any clear explanation for this change in alpha males guarding under the prestige explanation. Guarding against intruding rival males could also explain why so many alpha male guarding sessions start with a direct displacement of another guarding bird as intruders are not as much of a threat (or any threat) to the fitness of other group members. Alpha males may sometimes allofeed birds already guarding because that may ease the transition and allofeeding may occur when an alpha males has found abundant food and is already satiated. Group members other than the alpha male may engage in guarding because they may eventually become the dominant male or female, i.e. they may benefit from maintaining the integrity of the group territory. If demonstrating to other group members a males ability to engage in seemingly altruistic acts is an important aspect of guarding, then alpha males should be more likely to initiate a guarding session when another group member is already guarding than when no one is guarding. The authors seem to have the data to test that prediction. The issue is admittedly complicated because there might be a greater need to guard against predators when no one else is guarding than when someone else is already guarding. But the relevant analysis might still be worth doing because it does have the potential to support the authors line of reasoning. There is no doubt that the babbler system is a very complicated one and that the Zahavis long term observations have made this into a classic system that has been very valuable to research on avian breeding and behavioral ecology in general. This paper adds to the novelty of the babbler system and it is only the final bit of the authors logic stream, that individuals incur a handicap so as to demonstrate their prowess and accrue prestige that remains unconvincing to me. More attention to alternative hypotheses and to testing these against the favored hypothesis might in the end provide more convincing support for the latter. 