 General comments The manuscript “Inhibition of CD34+ cell migration by matrix metalloproteinase-2 during acute myocardial ischemia, counteracted by ischemic preconditioning” describes a phenomenon, preconditioning, that has been demonstrated to be cardioprotective against ischemic insult. The authors elegantly showed that the preconditioning that leads to protection involves the activation of CD34+ cell migration to the injured site for tissue remodeling, and that inhibition of MMP-2 is a potential target of the preconditioning protection. The details of the experimental protocols and procedures are adequate and the number of animals per treatment are statistically appropriate. The manuscript and the study design have some concerns that warrant the attention of the authors. Specific Comments Introduction The Introduction lacks a compelling rationale for why the in vivo studies were conducted in female pigs. The Introduction section does not make a distinction between early and delayed or second window cytoprotection conferred by preconditioning, and which of the two is being targeted in the current study. The concept of second window protection was discussed later in the manuscript; however, the reader should be provided this information earlier to orient and set the stage for an overview of the work. The last sentence in the Introduction “In addition, the current study explored a possible counteracting effect of IP on cytokines, CD34+ cell release and MMP-2 expression.” What does the “counteracting effect” mean in this case? Doesn’t this imply that IP diminishes the release of CD34+ cells, which are the necessary responses to protect against AMI during IP? Clarify or rephrase this sentence. Materials Design of the porcine closed-chest reperfused acute myocardial infarction (AMI) The in vivo model lacks a sham group. This group should provide the proper basal level of the variables being monitored for the entire duration of the experimental protocol. The results shown in Figure 3 (3D) clearly attests and supports the inclusion of a sham group in this study. Isolation of human adult cardiomyocytes Were the cells obtained from male or female human subjects? If they are from male subjects, would the rationale for focusing on female pigs hold in this case? Or, does it not matter in this case? The purpose of using human cord blood CD34+ cells is not clear. Cell migration assay Figure 2, hypoxia treatment should have been present in all the various concentrations of SDF-1a and in its absence? This information would strengthen the connection between SDF-1a and the migratory response to CD34+ cells during hypoxia. How would one conduct an IP experiment in this case to demonstrate the restitution of the CD34+ migratory response during hypoxia in the in vitro model? The legend for Figure 2 (minor) “Lower and upper case chamber were then combined…” This should read, “Lower and upper case chambers were then combined…” Results AMI-induced cytokine release and CD34+ mobilization “The circulating levels of the cytokines (FGF-2, VEGF, IL-8 and TNFa) were not changed at 3 days…” Where is the Figure/result that refer to this information? If there is none, please note in parenthesis (data not shown or displayed). What was the condition/treatment in this case? Based on the initial discussion of the results, the appearance of Figure 3B and Figure 3A should be switched. Cell migration Why was 90 min hypoxia used? Discussion There seems to be a contradiction in the findings regarding the secretion of VEGF. As noted above in Results, there was no change in the levels of the cytokines (FGF-2, VEGF, IL-8 and TNFa) at day 3. In the Discussion, item 4, it notes “IP induced VEGF secretion in in the second window of cardioprotection.” Please clarify the discrepancy. Effect of AMI and IP PGF-2, VEGF, IL-8 and TNFa release The comparison being made in this section does not seem to account for the fact that the data were obtained from two experimental models and that the IL-8 was from pigs and not human cardiomyocytes. The conclusion could be bolstered by some of the control studies suggested.