The manuscript of Prof. Allen and colleagues highlights the potential use of leaves of spinach, sweet potato and drumstick tree as an alternative to other calcium dietary sources such as milk and dairy products. In addition they measure the bioaccessibility, as a prior step of bioavailability, to check if these leaves can be a potential source of available calcium in the geographic areas in which they are grown or cultivated easily and are a cost-effective approach for people in these zones. Research in this field is very important in food science and nutrition since results of this kind provide a scientific rationale, as mentioned by the authors, to improve nutrition, boost food security, foster rural development and support sustainable land care. However, I suggest some modifications to improve the study. 1. Bioaccessibility (defined as a fraction of a compound that is released from its food matrix within the gastrointestinal tract and that becomes available for absorption) is a term which comprises both solubility and dialyzability ( Ferna et al. Nutr. Res. 2009, 29, 751-760). The results, as demonstrated in many other publications, should be expressed as % bioaccessibility (understood as % dialysis or % solubility). See examples ( Perales et al. J. Agric. Food Chem . 2005, 53, 3721-3726 or Galn et al. J. Agric. Food Sci . 2014, 94, 515-521 ). This should be applied to the entire text. Abstract: 2. Second Paragraph - revealing that bioaccessible calcium in sweet potato leaves was a non-significant 1.4 times higher ... what is this in comparison to? Introduction: 3. Polyphenols can also bind calcium and other divalent minerals and thus reduce their bioavailability. This should be included in the introduction. 4. You need to specify that there is fewer data on calcium bioavailability and bioaccessibility. Materials and methods: 5. Evaluation of calcium bioaccessibility: the authors should indicate in the last sentence that this "...corresponded to the bioaccessible (dialyzable) calcium." Results: 6. As reported by the previous reviewer (Dr. Failla) please do not duplicate table results in the text. 7. In table 2 the nomenclature in the 2nd column needs to be changed to Ca bioaccessibility (% of total Ca). 8. How are the authors sure that the complexes formed are with oxalate and not with phytate and/or polyphenols? Discussion: 9. I do not understand why authors compare bioaccessibility of calcium with that of proteins from the study of Teixeira et al. 10. The authors introduce the study of Kamchan et al. but do not include anything about this studys findings or compare them with their own results. 11. Sometimes the terms bioavailability and bioaccessibility are used indistinctly, but they are not the same. The authors are comparing bioaccessibility with bioaccessibility (solubility) and not bioavailability in the work of Benway and Weaver. This must be modified.