In this work, the authors examined the therapeutic potential of secretory proteomes of apoptotic mononuclear cells (MNC apo sec ) in treating focal ischemic stroke, modeled on rats with permanent MCAO. They found that intraperitoneal administration of MNC apo sec prepared from either rat splenocytes or human circulating blood could significantly reduce MCAO-induce brain infarct. The authors also attempted to identify protein factors in the MNC apo sec that may play a role in the observed neuroprotection, and suggested BDNF. Further, in an in vitro setting, the authors analyzed changes in levels of a number of proteins known to mediate anti-apoptotic responses or neuronal regeneration in three different types of cell cultures, namely astrocytes, Schwann cells and neurons, upon treating the cultures with MNC apo sec . An increase in some of selected proteins led to the suggestion of activation of several cytoprotective singnaling cascades. The topic of the work is of significance in developing feasible therapeutics for stroke. The same group has previously published on the use of MNC apo sec in treating myocardial infarction. Thus the current findings are supportive of the potential of MNC apo sec . Concerns exist, however, on several issues: Lack of description of irradiation-treated MNC, especially in the splenocyte-derived cultures. Though referred to as apoptotic MNC, no experimental data were shown to demonstrate the induction and the extent of irradiation-induced apoptosis, for the period during which the conditioned media were collected. Do the two cell cultures (rat splenocytes-derived and human PBMC-derived) respond to irradiation with comparable characteristics? Are their secretomes comparable? Please provide evidence on whether proteins in the intraperitoneally administered MNC apo sec may have reached the brain region of MCAO territory. This information would be instrumental in helping to understand the mechanisms that underlie the action of MNC apo sec . Post-MCAO neurological examinations were conducted at 6, 24 and 48 hours. The covered period was short in regard to the development of infarction and neurological impairments. For the MNC apo sec , please provide protein quantities administered. Different cell cultures or the same culture under different conditions, even with identical cell numbers, may differ in secretion rates. The rationale for using three different cultures in vitro to investigate the cellular response upon MNC apo sec application is somewhat unconvincing. Astrocytes, Schwann cells and neurons may react to MNC apo sec administration differently in brain in vivo . Why not perform immunohistochemical analyses of proteins of interests on brain sections? The determination of plasma BDNF levels included only 3 animals per data point. Was there a power determination to justify this small sample size? Wording: in the title, the abstract and manuscript text, there appeared a somewhat interchangeable use of ameliorate neurological damage, regenerative potential and promote neuronal cell survival. Please revise to be more accurate and concise. 