In this article, the authors provide a between-subjects comparison of 3-back performances after active and anodal tDCS to the left DLPFC. The first question of interest was to identify the time course of potential tDCS performance modulations and the second, to determine whether extracephalic (contralateral cheek) influenced performance. A significant benefit of active tDCS was identified immediately after the first session, but was not seen not during the first or second sessions. The experiment appears to be very well done and the writing clearly explains their process. My primary concern is that the authors conducted this experiment using a very small sample size (which they acknowledge, and provide power estimates that are quite reasonable). However, tDCS effects in healthy young university students tend to be quite modest. Ideally, the authors would replicate the experiment with a larger sample and/or with a secondary WM task (apart from the baseline covariate) to identify any heterogeneities in the population that could be obscuring equal and opposite effects. More importantly, to provide greater generalizability in their data, it would be good for them to compare the cheek site with the commonly used orbital site. This would allow greater comparison between the current study and the existing research, and strengthen their point that different paradigms may elicit different effects. My second point is that the authors do not really return to the issue of the second electrode site as a potential explanation for their modest effects. One possible explanation would be that the previous work stimulating the contralateral supraorbital region provided stimulation elsewhere in the PFC which contributed to the WM benefit reported by others. Here, current modelling would be particularly helpful to compare the flow of current between the L. DLPFC-R. cheek vs. L-DLPFC-R.supraorbital montages. However, it is clear that the full parameter-space of tDCS effects requires increased clarity and a forum to avoid the 'file-drawer problem' associated with neurostimulation and small effect sizes. Overall therefore, these data will be of interest to the tDCS research community.