The paper entitled 'I. Embryonal vasculature formation recapitulated in transgenic mammary tumour spheroids implanted pseudo-orthotopicly into mouse dorsal skin fold: the organoblasts concept' by Witkiewicz, Oh and Schnitzer presents a novel and interesting view of vasculature development in solid tumours. The notion that tumour cells become organized into a pseudo organ, complete with its' own division of labour is compelling. The methods and results reported herein show a significant meticulous scholarship in this group. The work is of a high quality and the paper is generally well written. The reporting of methods is refreshingly complete, but a few things should be clarified. In a recent announcement of Nature's policies on methods reporting (see http://www.nature.com/authors/policies/checklist.pdf ) several items are pointed out as critical, which the authors address; they provide stock numbers for animals, catalogue numbers for significant reagents, the order of procedures and most of the other characteristics specified as significant. The parts of the methods that must be clarified are: The n's could be made explicit throughout the paper; and the reasons that incubation in addition to graft tissue differed between figures 1-8 vs 9+ should be clarified by the authors before final approval. As the first reviewer correctly points out, the interpretation of ultra-structural data can be an art, and it is my opinion that the only way to get a good sense of these figures is to bring the community in, allowing them to see the full size images and manipulate them. There are projects that collect images that are full size and allow the community to view and manipulate the data sets, comparing images from different data sets and deploying automated tools to align them (the cell: an image library cellimagelibrary.org or the Cell Centered DataBase ccdb.ucsd.edu ). While this step is not required, it may be a good way to increase the visibility of the data and allow multiple parties to weigh in on interpretation. The conclusions presented in the study are coherent with the data, but at odds with a prevailing theory. The authors bring up the point that "the views on tumour neo-angiogenesis have remained polarized and we have yet to stop tumour growth" in no uncertain terms bringing ire from the community. The statement may not be completely fair, but given the lack of ability of independent researchers to reproduce most significant cancer studies ( Nature 483, 531–533 ) it may not be unfounded and again it may generate controversy, spurring others to repeat the work presented here. If the work stands the test of time and the ire of the community, the implications will be profound. A set of minor points are found below. RT is not defined as acronym, seems to be room temperature, but should be stated Perhaps a table of acronyms found in the paper would help in readability? Please rewrite this sentence to clarify your point; 'The presence of a composite dense body, characteristic of platelets 56 , in an extra-cellular matrix (ECM) producer indicated that the ECM building cell was related to megakaryocyte (Figure 1[E F]).'