 Disclaimer: I lack the protein chemistry expertise to comment on the assumptions and protein chemistry used in the computational method described in this article. The title and abstract are appropriate.The overall experimental design is simple but strong and well suited for this project. The methods were generally well described. The conclusions are not overstated and any implications are justified based on the presented data. The article is very well written. This is a very interesting study that uses a previously defined computational method, CataLytic Active Site Prediction (CLASP), that compares structural and charge similarities of catalytic sites to identify functionally similar proteins. This methodology was used to assess the potential for adverse events based on off target effects of the inhibitors of DPP-IV. Using CLASP, the authors had previously indentified a Bacillus cerus phosphoinositide specific phospholipase-C (PI-PLC) as similar in active catalytic site to the enzyme, DPP-IV. They used laboratory techniques to verify this finding. In the present study, the authors demonstrated the ability of two separate DPP-IV inhibitors to significantly reduce the activity of this PI-PLC in the lab. Subsequent to this experimentation, the authors returned CLASP to identify catalytic sites in other proteins that might also be inhibited by DPP-IV inhibitors thereby yielding unforeseen inhibition and biological effects. As applied to the case of DPP-IV inhibitors, which are not extremely specific, the authors identify a number of other proteins that could be promiscuously impacted by DPP-IV inhibitors thereby providing mechanisms for unexpected adverse events. Although the significance of DPP-IV inhibitor related adverse events has yet to be determined, the fact that changes have been reported non-clinically and clinically are undeniable. Eventually, the benefit of these molecules may far outweigh their associated risks, but the authors provide a potential path forward for investigation of unexpected events with this class of drug. If contradictory reports persist, this path may require further illumination. The approach is theoretically similar to using structural similarities to identify off target receptor binding and consequent biological effects, an expanding approach in safety assessment and in identification of mechanisms for adverse events in the pharmaceutical lifecycle. Similarly, this method could be predictive for off target effects and suggest what those effects might be. However, whether this is a method that can be generally applicable to other molecules is beyond my ability to comment and the scope of this work. Comments/Suggestions: 1) Were the inhibition experiments done in duplicate, triplicate, etc? Some slight expansion of the protocols would help with attempts to replicate.