The paper presents an innovative method for detecting and monitoring triggers for adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) in a systematic and comprehensive way. With some corrections and additions (Minor revision) the paper might be approved for indexing. General comments: The title of the manuscript reflects its content, and the clarity of the text of the paper, in general, is satisfactory for such a complex and broad issue related to the quality of health care and diverse triggers for possible AEs and life-threatening SAEs, with a few remarks and suggestions listed below. Specific comments: Abstract: The third sentence from the Abstract-Background (or Introduction and aim) to be moved to the Abstract-Methods. The Abstract-Methods, last sentence, the word “medicine” needs to be specified if it means “Internal medicine ward” or broader, including other hospital nonsurgical wards. The same applies in the text of the paper, in Methods-Sample selection. The first sentence of the Abstract-Results to start with “In each of 975…”, as well as at the end of the second sentence, after the words “…have at least one AE” to be added “in each patient”. Text of the paper: Section Methods-Sample selection, the fifth sentence, after the first words “In each ward”, to continue with “10 inpatient CRs were randomly selected…”: Section Results, third sentence, after the words “In 5,574 (37,9%) CRs at least one trigger” to be added “in each patient was found”. Table 2, the title, after the words “Distribution of” to be added “general care…”. There are too many abbreviations in the tables and in the text and it might be appropriate to prepare a list with explanation at the end of the text or below each table. Figure 1, the title, the acronym EAs to be replaced with AEs. Table 4, the title, after the word “isolated” to be added word “care”. Limitations section, to explain that CRs from limited number of hospital wards were included in the study. Conclusion section, the first sentence, after the words “effective method to identify”, to be added “the risk for AEs…”, and the last sentence to start with the words “Without increasing awareness and prevention by implementing clinical protocols, standards of care and Check lists recommended by the World Health Organization…”. It’s not necessary to connect references to the text of the Conclusion section. References list consist of 21 references connected to the text properly in order of the first appearance. The list might be supplemented with additional references, especially from the most recent years. 