This is an interesting and important article describing development of an improved experimental model of thromboembolism with clear potential to both replace and refine existing models. Whilst the manuscript is generally well written and presented, I do think that it could be significantly improved by revising structure and increasing 3Rs emphasis. Specific comments below. The title of the article does not accurately reflect its content. It is too general and should be specifically focussed on thromboembolism with regard to development of an improved experimental model. The stated scientific benefits in the research highlights box could also be made more specifically and understandable on a stand-alone basis. The article would benefit from inclusion of one of two figures to complement the text and make the article more engaging. For example, a summary of current experimental models used in platelet research with approximation of numbers of animals used would be helpful and it would also seem appropriate to include a schematic representation of the new model highlighting potential benefits. Need for animals models: the flow of this section could be improved. I do not think that the final paragraph really fits as currently written. More specific detail should also be provided in relation to the provided NC3Rs link e.g. research group etc. With specific regard to thromboembolism models, some discussion in relation to where these procedures are currently performed (e.g. are they permitted in the UK?) and comparison of scientific end-points between the new and existing models would be informative in order to highlight relevance and applicability. Dissemination and uptake: this section is quite weak at present and could be improved by including discussion of e.g. current barriers to uptake and potential approaches to encourage wider implementation. At present, discussion is largely limited to the authors own collaborators and in line with NC3Rs policy more needs to be done (which I am sure that it is) to promote wide uptake of new experimental models across the field. Abstract – specify light transmission aggregometry techniques. Does the review provide an accurate account of the 3Rs landscape in that field / across fields? Yes 