Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNA) can regulate gene expression by targeting specific DNA sequences via Hoogsteen base paring, forming RNA-DNA triple helical structures. Computational analyses have revealed that a large population of triplex-forming motifs is present across the genome, the majority of annotated human genes containing at least one unique and high-affinity triplex target site, preferentially in regulatory gene regions (Goni et al. 2004, Buske et al. 2012). Moreover, several studies have provided in vitro and in vivo evidence for the existence and biological relevance of RNA-DNA triplexes, including pRNA (Schmitz et al. 2010), Fendrr (Grote et al. 2013), Khps1 (Postepska-Igielska et al. 2015), PARTICLE (O’Leary et al. 2015), and MEG3 (Mondal et al. 2015). MEG3 has been shown to associate with AG-rich DNA motifs and facilitate recruitment of PRC2 to target sites. Considering the large number of purine-rich sequences in the genome, triplex-mediated targeting of lncRNAs and associated proteins to distinct genomic loci is very likely a commonly used mechanism of gene regulation. Given the importance and emerging acceptance of the concept of triplex-dependent gene regulation, it is more than surprising, if not irritating, that the authors challenge this concept feeding the ‘Triplexator’ only with a few RNAs and a subset of MEG3-interacting regions rather than providing any experimental data and/or more global bioinformatic analysis. Just some specific comments: In the abstract they claim ‘ these triplex interactions might contribute to establishing long-distance chromosomal contact’ without providing any information or bioinformatic analyses. They use the term ‘hybridization’ for the interaction between RNA and dsDNA. This is wrong as hybridization refers to Watson-Crick base-pairing between RNA and ssDNA and not to Hoogsteen bonding. They took MEG3-interacting DNA peaks shorter than 1000 bp, then selected 3000 bp bins centering these regions and used these bins for analysis. There is no rationale for this selection which of course determines the final outcome of the analysis. Accordingly, the majority of these bin regions did not coincide with regions determined by ChOP-seq. Probably, a shorter binning would be more reliable to analyze the available data. They focused on bins that overlap genes. Even if partial overlapping was accepted, they might have missed some promoters. Intergenic regions containing regulatory sequences (e.g. enhancers) were excluded. Why were only peaks overlapping with annotated genes considered to be significant (or ”real“)? Genomic regions that do not harbor annotated genes, such as enhancers, are important regulatory elements that are targeted by lncRNAs and as such are functional RNA-binding sites, highly relevant for this study. In addition, since it is known that the base composition of genic and intergenic regions is different, exclusion of intergenic regions introduces a considerable bias to the analysis. Selection of just three additional RNAs is certainly not adequate for the far-reaching conclusion: ‘ TTSs are able to hybridize with various different RNAs almost irrespectively of their sequence’ . It would be more convincing to show the results from scanning more RNAs, irrespective of their length and GC-content. Also, there is no attention given to the expression profiles of selected MEG3-mimicking RNAs. This is important because transcription of MEG3 is highly tissue-specific. The sum scores from the Triplexator analysis are shown which does not mean that the same regions are involved in triplex formation. It would be much more convincing to show similarities (or differences) of triplex-forming RNAs for a given TTS in a given bin. The terms ‘universal TTS’ and ‘universal bins’ are not synonymous and interchangeable!! One bin (3000 bp) can contain many putative TTSs. If there are only 18 ‘universal bins’ out of 3620 bins among seven RNA analyses, this small number is not sufficient for claiming that there is no specificity in RNA targeting. They hypothesize that ‘the universal TTS can be viewed as the anchor point which can be bound by various nuclear RNAs to provide long-distance chromosomal contacts’ . Even if this might be true, without any supportive data this is pure speculation. Altogether, the authors claim that triplex formation occurs almost sequence-independent is not justified but is based solely on in silico analyses. At least another available bioinformatics tool should have been used and standard in vitro assays (e.g. EMSA experiments) should have been performed to validate that the candidate RNAs are indeed capable to form triplexes. The authors do not even mention that the in vivo situation might be completely different than algorithm-based predictions and that there might be additional factors/constraints involved in triplex formation and stability. 