The article "ELIXIR-UK role in bioinformatics training at the national level and across ELIXIR" reflects the developing training opportunities that ELIXIR-UK, as part of its training mandate, is performing throughout the UK and ELIXIR-Europe. My inside knowledge as Technical Coordinator for ELIXIR-UK from 2014-1016 may have influenced my review of this paper. My main comments: I concur with another reviewer comments that the paper lacks a coherent structure. I do not see a clearly stated ELIXIR-UK’s training strategy and how it is being coherently being fleshed out throughout the article. Instead, the reader is presented with a chronological description of activities according to the different grants that support the training work of the node. Different sections would benefit from more cohesion between them with some kind of 'story' thread that joins them. Thus I am not sure if this is a summary technical report or a review of the training activities for the node. ELIXIR-UK has more activities than training and it would add clarity to the narrative if the other activities in the node are enumerated in addition to how ELIXIR-UK’s training leadership has helped in developing them. A few explicit remarks now follow: You say “ELIXIR-UK is at the forefront of bioinformatics training provision, across the UK and in the wider ELIXIR training programme” (Page 3, 1st paragraph) but you do not qualify it. Is there any explicit independent confirmation of this? What is the ELIXIR-UK training strategy? Explicitly, what does it consist of? What is the plan, achievements, goals and milestones? How do you know you are being successful? How is the ELIXIR-UK Training operations building the community of bioinformatics in the UK? You mention this as one of its key priorities but miss the detail on how this is happening. This is related to my previous comment on the strategy development and is alluded to briefly in the community engagement paragraph of future work (page 9, bullet point 8) but I fail to clearly grasp current efforts. You mention the Training programs in Cambridge, Birmingham and Edinburgh. They seem disconnected. What are your plans to synchronise these resources at a national level other than just being named services? Even though the complete skill surveys are referenced, it would add credibility to the summary statistics of the survey if its design and people involved both in developing and responding it are also included. You say that you support the interoperability platform of ELIXIR, which is an external activity to training. What is the take of ELIXIR-UK training strategy to abide by FAIR-ness of data and materials involved in these courses/workshops? In what way are training courses/committed committed to FAIR values? Since FAIR is a cross-cutting initiative throughout ELIXIR and has so many ramifications in the spread of best practices, I feel this crucial aspect is missing in the paper (see above). Can you substantiate/measure in what way the excellent feedback from SWC/DC workshops has been collected and summarised? Page 7 paragraph 2: “co-wrote many ELIXIR documents, including annual reports, the industry strategy, the Training Platform Road map and the ELIXIR website” - I would appreciate references for this. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to review this paper. The amount of activity presented here is indicative of the many efforts carried out by all ELIXIR-UK partners. By giving this paper more shape and a story thread, I am convinced it will provide an authoritative account of your contributions to training in the UK, Europe and beyond. 