I congratulate and thank the authors for their important work on newborn health in South Sudan. Having worked on various HBB projects, and having worked for a couple of years in South Sudan, I really enjoyed reading your article. The paper is great. However, I would like to humbly provide a strong recommendation that the current abstract please be updated by the authors. The abstract's Results and Conclusion sections currently seem to suggest that the Control group faired better than the Intervention group and had better retention than the Intervention group. (E.g., "Conclusions: Health workers in the control hospital had improvement in retention of their knowledge, skill and competency. Newborn mortality decreased in both hospitals.") Respectfully, I think this could be inadvertently misleading to many readers. While the Control group's scores did increase slightly (and statistically significantly, for the possible reasons discussed in the paper), the Control group's scores were always much lower than the Intervention group's scores (since the Controls didn't receive the training yet). So I would argue that the Control group never showed any significant knowledge or skills in HBB and, therefore, never "retained" this knowledge and skills. Because they hadn't yet been formally taught the knowledge and skills (again, because they were Controls), they never had the knowledge and skills to lose and never had the ability to "retain" the HBB skills. Meanwhile, the Intervention group did acquire substantial knowledge and skills following the successful training and lost some knowledge and skills over time, which we've seen in other HBB studies -- unless active measures are taken to retain knowledge and skills via on-the-job training, daily practice, refresher training, supervisory visits, etc. In short, I think the small improvement in the Control group's comparatively low scores should not be the primary focus of the abstract's Results and Conclusion sections, and I think it may be inadvertently misleading to readers to simply conclude that "Health workers in the control hospital had improvement in RETENTION of their knowledge, skill and competency" (my emphasis added). This could give the mis-perception that the Controls did better than the Intervention group. I hope you don't mind the suggestion, and hopefully this might be some helpful feedback to further strengthen your paper. And again, I congratulate and thank the authors for their important work. 