In the current version, the authors have made improvements to the manuscript from the previous version; the idea entails the use of blockchain in the consent processing in a clinical trial. However, I still have some pending concerns which, if authors agree to work on, can further the manuscript’s message to readers. In the first report, I pointed to identity verification, where the consent can be verified but the patient him/herself cannot be verified. Although the authors have explained how the keys can be stored in the browser itself for verification. This approach has a lot caveats in implementation. I would encourage the authors to address this as a limitation, rather than delving further into the incomplete annotations. Secondly, authors address that even if malicious investigator consented in behalf of the subject, this very subject will have to show up for the participation. This indeed is true, but doesn’t address the falsification of the data. With last few months of 2017, price of bitcoin token has skyrocketed. Given that authors have used bitcoin blockchain, how do authors envision the cost of transactions when consenting, with changing value of bitcoin token? Would a private blockchain be better suited for actual implementation in a clinical trial? Furthermore, if a private blockchain is used, is sybil attack more probable? I had previously raised the importance of explaining the meaning of ‘public’ in a blockchain and what data will be available ‘publicly’. Although authors have explained this in the response letter, they can still add a few lines about chainscript and its role in transparency. Further, authors state that “implementing a ‘privacy by design’ technology, and archiving securely and transparently any dataset that needs to be stored, is a game changer toward improving enrolment phase methodology”. First, authors overstate the implication of how archiving securely is a game changer. Secondly, a secure and transparent archiving can be achieved without blockchain as well. The manuscript will improve further if authors circumspect such statements. Additionally, statements like “we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate in clinical trials by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase” seems overselling the underlying message. The patient empowerment is still not clear enough in the manuscript. In the current logistics of a clinical trial where consent is taken on the paper, the patients are empowered to control their participation in the enrolment phase, and see who has the access to their data (which includes consent). It would further improve the manuscript if authors highlight what additional benefit blockchain brings in empowering the patients. Otherwise, I would encourage authors to refrain from making such assertions. The reference for Namecoin just directs to the Wikipedia homepage (https:// en.wikipedia.org/wiki). The authors should careful when citing the references. 