The reasons of my decision to assign not approved status are as follows: I found it extremely difficult for an illiterate female affected with breast cancer to give an ethical consent for BRCA1/2 genetic testing in the chemotherapy room, combined by the limited time of interaction between researchers and patients, as stated by authors. The author’s statements are somewhat troubling. I also reject the author response statement “The patients’ care-givers and relatives were not found within the short-stay rooms that were designated only for patients’ admissions in order to be prepared and to receive their chemical infusions”. Because it suggests that the authors were not willing to move outside chemotherapy rooms/area and get some help from patients’ care-givers and relatives to obtain ethical consent from any illiterate patient. Also I reject the all idea about the literacy level, which is in Sudanese women in range of 40%. So by simple math at least 18 out of the 45 patients could have written consent. Such practices as stated by the authors should not occur and the available local regulations preclude it. Still the manuscript has different numbers to indicate the same change, which I do not approve. The rule of thumb is that any change is always exist in the same chromosomal position and when indicated using coding DNA reference sequences as c.1067AG or c.5207TA it should be consistent across the manuscript and all other forms of numbering should be omitted e.g. n.5439TA, n.1299AG, 1186 (A/G).....etc. Inclusion of protein nomenclature e.g. p.Val1736Asp or p.Gln356Arg is fine The authors fail to proper document the exact number of patients who produced the BRCA1 data with their characteristics. I found this study is based on the data on Table 3 (15 patients) but in sampling and PCR there is 45 patients. 15 patients were OK giving the research funding constrains in Sudan. 30 cases were excluded from sequencing and did not have BRCA1 status results. This should be clearly stated e.g. 80 year women was not screened …etc The p.Gln356Arg has to be classified as polymorphism and I have some concerns regarding the pathogenetic implication of the p.Val1736Asp, because it is a missense mutation detected with high frequency (33.3%; 3/9). The probability of BRCA1 pathogenetic mutation is about 1/1000 and pathogenic variant can be either a nonsense variant, a small insertion or deletion variant that creates a frameshift, a larger gene rearrangement, a variant that creates a severe splicing aberration, or a known pathogenic missense substitution. However, more than 5% of patients are found to carry an unclassified variant (UV)—usually either a missense substitution or a variant that falls in the splice junction consensus regions but outside of the canonical GT–AG dinucleotides. Because of ongoing efforts to classify UVs, most former-UVs with frequencies of above 0.1% have now been classified; consequently, the remaining UVs are individually rare (Vallee HUMAN MUTATION, Vol. 33, No. 1, 22–28, 2012). I reject the author statement that BC is a worldwide issue as a reason to not include the data from Khartoum Cancer Registry and published hospital records from Sudan. The title of the manuscript includes the phrase “in Sudanese patients with breast cancer”. However I am really concerned about the author response statement because they already cited the Khartoum Cancer Registry paper (reference number 12). I asked incidence rate from the reference 12 to replace data from the United States. I do not agree that previous local research finding could justify the adoption of specific molecular screening strategies. In the absence of founder effect the recommended strategy is to screen the entire BRCA1/2 coding sequences, including intron-exon boundaries (complete coverage). When adopting such comprehensive strategy, a note that there are still many mutations will be missed like genomic rearrangements. Instead cost alone could be cited as reason for not performing complete BRCA1/2 screening alongside a note of the above. Still the paper has the PCR figure with a smear. If no good image is available, this figure could be removed as DNA sequence chromatogram were provided. I also agree with Dr. Balbaa that PCR figure with a smear should not be allowed here. All the three primers were selected for their quality performance. Saying the selection was base of primer quality performance seems misleading, given 46.7% exclusion rate due sequencing errors. In the discussion the authors stated that “Two patients within the present study were screened previously in a local study targeting pathological SNPs within BRCA2 gene selected regions, which identified a stop codon (L1053X). One of these patients was the youngest patient identified with Q356R, and the other presented with the bilateral disease and identified with V1736D. This co-occurrence should assist in the classification of BRCA mutations. Because co-occurrence in trans with a known BRCA1/2 deleterious mutation is widely considered one of the criteria to designate unclassified variant as neutral. in trans mean on different copy of the gene which imply both copies were inactive and the well studied examples are embryonic lethality in BRCA1 and Fanconi anemia in BRCA2. To aid classification Easton et al. 1 assumed that, for BRCA1, compound heterozygotes for two deleterious mutations are vanishingly rare (occur in the testing population with a frequency of 1 in 10,000), given both biological and genetic evidence that homozygotes or compound heterozygotes for deleterious BRCA1 mutations are embryonically lethal, whereas, for BRCA2, Easton et al. assumed that the probability is 1 in 1,000, the increased frequency reflecting the fact that viable compound heterozygoteshave been reported as Fanconi anemia, type D1. The frequency of two deleterious mutations (with one in BRCA1 and one in BRCA2) is also rare. Since Ramus et al. 2 first report a patient with two deleterious mutations (with one in BRCA1 and one in BRCA2), subsequent case reports mostly have been in Ashkenazi populations (Friedman et al. 3 ; Liede et al. 4 ; Frank et al. 5 ). Frank et al. 5 found 10 patients with both mutation in BRCA1 and BRCA2 of 10,000 patients, which was significantly lower than expected 30 patients from an equilibrium population of 2,539 Ashkenazi women. Friedman et al. 3 also found only three patients of approximately 1,500 breast or ovarian cancer patients, and they postulated that there may be some selection against mutations in each BRCA1 and BRCA2. However it is the responsibility of the authors to update/recheck the above-mentioned and try finding some working ways to articulate their finding of two patients having two mutations (one in BRCA1 and one in BRCA2) out of 15 patients (13.3%). If both were assumed deleterious then the authors have to comment and/or settle this versus the extremely infrequent such phenotype i.e. 0.1% (10/10,000) and 0.2% (3/1,500) in Ashkenazi populations. Otherwise owing the above-mentioned rare probabilities of double mutant and assuming BRCA2 L1053X alone as deleterious mutation both Q356R and V1736D will be classified as neutral based on the reported co-occurrence with the nonsense BRCA2 L1053X. If BRCA2 L1053X was not assumed as deleterious why included or even bother to mention? References 1. Easton DF, Deffenbaugh AM, Pruss D, Frye C, et al.: A systematic genetic assessment of 1,433 sequence variants of unknown clinical significance in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 breast cancer-predisposition genes. Am J Hum Genet . 2007; 81 (5): 873-83 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Ramus S, Friedman L, Gayther S, Ponder B, et al.: A breast/ovarian cancer patient with germline mutations in both BRCA1 and BRCA2. Nature Genetics . 1997; 15 (1): 14-15 Publisher Full Text 3. Friedman E, Bar-Sade Bruchim R, Kruglikova A, Risel S, et al.: Double heterozygotes for the Ashkenazi founder mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Am J Hum Genet . 1998; 63 (4): 1224-7 PubMed Abstract 4. Liede A, Rehal P, Vesprini D, Jack E, et al.: A breast cancer patient of Scottish descent with germ-line mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2. Am J Hum Genet . 1998; 62 (6): 1543-4 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Frank TS, Deffenbaugh AM, Reid JE, Hulick M, et al.: Clinical characteristics of individuals with germline mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2: analysis of 10,000 individuals. J Clin Oncol . 2002; 20 (6): 1480-90 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Awadelkarim KD. Reviewer Report For: BRCA1 novel variation V1736D and in silico analysis of SNP Q356R in Sudanese patients with breast cancer [version 4; peer review: 1 approved, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :1461 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14995.r30182 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1461/v4#referee-response-30182 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 29 Jan 2018 Alsmawal Elimam , Postgraduate College, Al-Neelain University, Khartoum, Sudan 29 Jan 2018 Author Response Dear Dr Khalid, you very quickly responded with your decision. We were there at the time of sampling the first and the second authors; we were more concerned ... Continue reading Dear Dr Khalid, you very quickly responded with your decision. We were there at the time of sampling the first and the second authors; we were more concerned about the status of the patients than to obtain the written consent, as the way you described it “I found it extremely difficult for an illiterate female affected with breast cancer to give an ethical consent for BRCA1/2 genetic testing in the chemotherapy room” while the nurses were preparing the patients we had arrived earlier at the early morning to have them at our side, they helped us a lot to establish our work, then we asked those patients affected with BC individually with a note book to record every important data said by the patients, we asked them to participate in our study, in the light of their agreement, blood samples have been drawn through their butterflies that had been fixed on their veins prior infusion. They were happy to participate, we were sad; we have been completely filled with sorrows during this part of the work. We were there in Alamal tower-the Fifth floor by our existence and acting the reality of those events and we made it possible through the light of this work. The ways that described the two findings were supported by HGVS and the whole aspect has been governed. The all parts of the present study were filled with motives, encouraged spirits, and humanitarian interactions which led all of that to participate within the Article (texts, tables and figures) in which the sampling and the PCR both represented the true and real practices and left true humanitarian and scientific impact to this Article. Science and humanity are always tightly bound together. We made together these predictions terminology, because we believed in our work with greater respect to the literature (was controversial) and that the work was describing more the finding suggestively rather than confirmatively. The novelty had a frequency based on a very little sample size (more size was requested). This aspect has been governed too in our previous response Notes (4, 5 and 7). The US was highlighted very recent statistics regarding BC (2014 and 2016) while we lacked the recent statistics and when considering that such different ethnicities within US, as there always African-American numbers existed with other found such relocating ethnicities the way you might describe a little world/glob ethnicities within these statistics which acted to represent the world and African women with breast cancer and as a very necessary recent substitution. Please also refer to Note (8). Elnour, et al.2012 [10] possessed our adoptive justification; the study has highlighted and made it easily to follow the most regions frequently subjected to receive variations within Elnour’s study and advising to put these regions with great care in the future which offered a great chance which means a great beginning success to establish a respectful work scientifically. Based on local literature we originated this Article and we are so proud of that. Please refer to note (3) in addition; this aspect has been governed in our previous response Note (11). This has been governed through our previous note (18) in respect to your notice. In addition, they were represented our three regions basis of selections, so they were selected from literature on behalf of the Local findings, the cost and oligoanalyzer guidance. More deepening, deficit – BRCA1 disturbs chromosomal integrity and genomic stability by which increases the mutation rate of other/all genes [25]. Please also refer to Note (21). Elimam Dear Dr Khalid, you very quickly responded with your decision. We were there at the time of sampling the first and the second authors; we were more concerned about the status of the patients than to obtain the written consent, as the way you described it “I found it extremely difficult for an illiterate female affected with breast cancer to give an ethical consent for BRCA1/2 genetic testing in the chemotherapy room” while the nurses were preparing the patients we had arrived earlier at the early morning to have them at our side, they helped us a lot to establish our work, then we asked those patients affected with BC individually with a note book to record every important data said by the patients, we asked them to participate in our study, in the light of their agreement, blood samples have been drawn through their butterflies that had been fixed on their veins prior infusion. They were happy to participate, we were sad; we have been completely filled with sorrows during this part of the work. We were there in Alamal tower-the Fifth floor by our existence and acting the reality of those events and we made it possible through the light of this work. The ways that described the two findings were supported by HGVS and the whole aspect has been governed. The all parts of the present study were filled with motives, encouraged spirits, and humanitarian interactions which led all of that to participate within the Article (texts, tables and figures) in which the sampling and the PCR both represented the true and real practices and left true humanitarian and scientific impact to this Article. Science and humanity are always tightly bound together. We made together these predictions terminology, because we believed in our work with greater respect to the literature (was controversial) and that the work was describing more the finding suggestively rather than confirmatively. The novelty had a frequency based on a very little sample size (more size was requested). This aspect has been governed too in our previous response Notes (4, 5 and 7). The US was highlighted very recent statistics regarding BC (2014 and 2016) while we lacked the recent statistics and when considering that such different ethnicities within US, as there always African-American numbers existed with other found such relocating ethnicities the way you might describe a little world/glob ethnicities within these statistics which acted to represent the world and African women with breast cancer and as a very necessary recent substitution. Please also refer to Note (8). Elnour, et al.2012 [10] possessed our adoptive justification; the study has highlighted and made it easily to follow the most regions frequently subjected to receive variations within Elnour’s study and advising to put these regions with great care in the future which offered a great chance which means a great beginning success to establish a respectful work scientifically. Based on local literature we originated this Article and we are so proud of that. Please refer to note (3) in addition; this aspect has been governed in our previous response Note (11). This has been governed through our previous note (18) in respect to your notice. In addition, they were represented our three regions basis of selections, so they were selected from literature on behalf of the Local findings, the cost and oligoanalyzer guidance. More deepening, deficit – BRCA1 disturbs chromosomal integrity and genomic stability by which increases the mutation rate of other/all genes [25]. Please also refer to Note (21). Elimam Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 29 Jan 2018 Alsmawal Elimam , Postgraduate College, Al-Neelain University, Khartoum, Sudan 29 Jan 2018 Author Response Dear Dr Khalid, you very quickly responded with your decision. We were there at the time of sampling the first and the second authors; we were more concerned ... Continue reading Dear Dr Khalid, you very quickly responded with your decision. We were there at the time of sampling the first and the second authors; we were more concerned about the status of the patients than to obtain the written consent, as the way you described it “I found it extremely difficult for an illiterate female affected with breast cancer to give an ethical consent for BRCA1/2 genetic testing in the chemotherapy room” while the nurses were preparing the patients we had arrived earlier at the early morning to have them at our side, they helped us a lot to establish our work, then we asked those patients affected with BC individually with a note book to record every important data said by the patients, we asked them to participate in our study, in the light of their agreement, blood samples have been drawn through their butterflies that had been fixed on their veins prior infusion. They were happy to participate, we were sad; we have been completely filled with sorrows during this part of the work. We were there in Alamal tower-the Fifth floor by our existence and acting the reality of those events and we made it possible through the light of this work. The ways that described the two findings were supported by HGVS and the whole aspect has been governed. The all parts of the present study were filled with motives, encouraged spirits, and humanitarian interactions which led all of that to participate within the Article (texts, tables and figures) in which the sampling and the PCR both represented the true and real practices and left true humanitarian and scientific impact to this Article. Science and humanity are always tightly bound together. We made together these predictions terminology, because we believed in our work with greater respect to the literature (was controversial) and that the work was describing more the finding suggestively rather than confirmatively. The novelty had a frequency based on a very little sample size (more size was requested). This aspect has been governed too in our previous response Notes (4, 5 and 7). The US was highlighted very recent statistics regarding BC (2014 and 2016) while we lacked the recent statistics and when considering that such different ethnicities within US, as there always African-American numbers existed with other found such relocating ethnicities the way you might describe a little world/glob ethnicities within these statistics which acted to represent the world and African women with breast cancer and as a very necessary recent substitution. Please also refer to Note (8). Elnour, et al.2012 [10] possessed our adoptive justification; the study has highlighted and made it easily to follow the most regions frequently subjected to receive variations within Elnour’s study and advising to put these regions with great care in the future which offered a great chance which means a great beginning success to establish a respectful work scientifically. Based on local literature we originated this Article and we are so proud of that. Please refer to note (3) in addition; this aspect has been governed in our previous response Note (11). This has been governed through our previous note (18) in respect to your notice. In addition, they were represented our three regions basis of selections, so they were selected from literature on behalf of the Local findings, the cost and oligoanalyzer guidance. More deepening, deficit – BRCA1 disturbs chromosomal integrity and genomic stability by which increases the mutation rate of other/all genes [25]. Please also refer to Note (21). Elimam Dear Dr Khalid, you very quickly responded with your decision. We were there at the time of sampling the first and the second authors; we were more concerned about the status of the patients than to obtain the written consent, as the way you described it “I found it extremely difficult for an illiterate female affected with breast cancer to give an ethical consent for BRCA1/2 genetic testing in the chemotherapy room” while the nurses were preparing the patients we had arrived earlier at the early morning to have them at our side, they helped us a lot to establish our work, then we asked those patients affected with BC individually with a note book to record every important data said by the patients, we asked them to participate in our study, in the light of their agreement, blood samples have been drawn through their butterflies that had been fixed on their veins prior infusion. They were happy to participate, we were sad; we have been completely filled with sorrows during this part of the work. We were there in Alamal tower-the Fifth floor by our existence and acting the reality of those events and we made it possible through the light of this work. The ways that described the two findings were supported by HGVS and the whole aspect has been governed. The all parts of the present study were filled with motives, encouraged spirits, and humanitarian interactions which led all of that to participate within the Article (texts, tables and figures) in which the sampling and the PCR both represented the true and real practices and left true humanitarian and scientific impact to this Article. Science and humanity are always tightly bound together. We made together these predictions terminology, because we believed in our work with greater respect to the literature (was controversial) and that the work was describing more the finding suggestively rather than confirmatively. The novelty had a frequency based on a very little sample size (more size was requested). This aspect has been governed too in our previous response Notes (4, 5 and 7). The US was highlighted very recent statistics regarding BC (2014 and 2016) while we lacked the recent statistics and when considering that such different ethnicities within US, as there always African-American numbers existed with other found such relocating ethnicities the way you might describe a little world/glob ethnicities within these statistics which acted to represent the world and African women with breast cancer and as a very necessary recent substitution. Please also refer to Note (8). Elnour, et al.2012 [10] possessed our adoptive justification; the study has highlighted and made it easily to follow the most regions frequently subjected to receive variations within Elnour’s study and advising to put these regions with great care in the future which offered a great chance which means a great beginning success to establish a respectful work scientifically. Based on local literature we originated this Article and we are so proud of that. Please refer to note (3) in addition; this aspect has been governed in our previous response Note (11). This has been governed through our previous note (18) in respect to your notice. In addition, they were represented our three regions basis of selections, so they were selected from literature on behalf of the Local findings, the cost and oligoanalyzer guidance. More deepening, deficit – BRCA1 disturbs chromosomal integrity and genomic stability by which increases the mutation rate of other/all genes [25]. Please also refer to Note (21). Elimam Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 3 VERSION 3 PUBLISHED 06 Nov 2017 Revised Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Awadelkarim KD. Reviewer Report For: BRCA1 novel variation V1736D and in silico analysis of SNP Q356R in Sudanese patients with breast cancer [version 4; peer review: 1 approved, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :1461 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14182.r27621 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1461/v3#referee-response-27621 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 18 Dec 2017 Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim , Department of Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute (NCI‐UG), University of Gezira, Wad Madani, Sudan Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14182.r27621 Dear authors, This manuscript will benefit from more additional revision and amendments as follows: - The usage of HGVS nomenclature was not done in a correct way. Please refer to the following links: ... Continue reading READ ALL 