Thank you for the opportunity to review this article. We want to compliment the authors on tackling such an important subject. Overall we approve this article, but we have some comments that the authors could address. General comments The article could be improved by broadening the context for the reader and potentially adding to the survey questions. To broaden the readers understanding of context, we would have liked to see a more comprehensive literature review. We would also suggest that the researchers could interview or send another questionnaire to hospital managers to explore the issues from both sides. Training is important, but perhaps more important is a culture of regular practice. This will ensure that, for example, materials are in the right place, staff know where they are and how to use them. Linked to this we would be interested in whether staff have assigned roles in any emergency. Both these related points could have been explored in the survey with simple questions about response planning, practice and roles assigned to respondents? Specific points to address Grammatical issues: “Infectious epidemics”: “epidemics” is sufficient, as by definition an epidemic is caused by an infectious agent “choosing natural disasters as the most likely expected culprit…” This doesn’t read well. In Materials Methods, “Monkey survey” should be “survey monkey”. Study context: A brief description of hospital size would be valuable. Is it a general hospital? What population/area does it serve? Specificity of language: In Results the authors’ say, “572 individuals participated”. We are not clear if that means 572 responded to the survey? This should be clear because sometimes to hide a low response rate people will mention the number that were invited to respond as “participants”. We suspect 572 were responses, but it would be helpful if that was made clear. The authors mention the types of doctors and nurses that responded but not where they work. The speciality/department could be very relevant. “Over 83%...”: ”over” and a percentage is OK for a summary but in full text the authors should provide the exact figure. What does “over” mean? It could be anything between 83 and 100%. “Greater than 90% respondents…” Authors should provide the exact percentage.