Thank you for the opportunity to review this work. Vlisides and coworkers present the protocol for a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) investigating the effect of a multicomponent decision support system, which sends automated alerts and recommendations to patient-care programs and family members for high-risk patients, on the incidence of postoperative delirium. High-risk, non-cardiac surgery patients (≥70 years old) are allocated to 4 groups: (1) usual care group (n=15), (2) Hospital Elder Life Program (HELP)-based paging system (n=15), (3) family-based paging system (n=15), and (4) combined HELP- and family-based system (n=15). Primary outcome measure is the incidence of postoperative delirium assessed by Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) screening. Secondary outcome measures are diverse performance metrics for postoperative neurocognitive disorders and clinical recovery. The study protocol is methodologically sound and closely follows the CONSORT and SPIRIT guidelines. Even though patients are randomly allocated to treatment groups, there is a risk of apprehension bias and the Hawthorne effect. Study participants, especially those in groups 2–4, may respond differently due to being observed, or individuals may modify an aspect of their behavior in response to their awareness of being observed. There is also a considerable risk of compliance bias. Preventive interventions for postoperative neurocognitive disorders tend to be rather complex and time-consuming for all persons involved. Participants compliant with the intervention may differ in some way from those not compliant, which can systematically affect the outcome of interest. In this context, one could argue that higher-functioning patients are more compliant with the intervention; hence, they may present less postoperative delirium. Figure 1 (CONSORT flow chart): There seems to be a two-step group allocation rather than the 1:1:1:1 group allocation mentioned in the text. What is the difference between “usual HELP care” and “enhanced HELP system”? One eligibility criterion for recruitment is a high risk for postoperative delirium. However, the inclusion criteria only partially reflect a high-risk surgical population. In other words, being 70 years of age and older and undergoing major non-cardiac, non-intracranial, and non-major vascular surgery might not be sufficient to reach a high-risk level for postoperative delirium. I would suggest to extend the inclusion criteria to participants with an even higher risk of postoperative neurocognitive disorders, such as patients with pre-existing cognitive impairment. Given the above, the overall incidence of postoperative delirium (or other postoperative neurocognitive disorders) could potentially be quite low in the studied population, or at least not attain the 20% in the control group assumed by the authors. This would subsequently lead to statistically weak results (underpowered study). In summary, this research is hypothesis-driven and the study is well-designed. I comment the authors for making the effort to include most (if not all) state-of-the-art nonpharmacological interventions to prevent postoperative neurocognitive disorders in a single RCT. I wish the investigators best of luck with the ongoing trial. 