1. Summary This protocol aims to research the therapeutic effect of tDCS, adverse effects and tolerability of bilateral tDCS over auditory cortex on tinnitus symptoms, applied on a very specific group of patients with intractable chronic tinnitus. It is proposed an interesting a double blinded experiment with three patient groups that consider the electrodes allocation: cathodal, anodal, or placebo. The three groups will be matched for age, gender, ethnicity, and audiometric main characteristics. It is a novel treatment of daily 20-min sessions for five consecutive days per week and for 2 consecutive weeks. It is very well described the inclusion-exclusion criteria, the selection of patients’ groups and the analysis of electrophysiological and subjective findings, which are done by statistical methods. Authors consider baseline evaluations, hearing assessment, primary and secondary outcomes. In difference to other studies, authors gave one-month follow-up period, in order to study the AEs of and tolerability of the patients 2. General comments Protocol design: the inclusion and exclusion criteria are well structured. Pre-treatment complete audiometric and neurologic examinations by experienced specialists was a good establishment. The balanced random allocation performed by cards using computer-generated random numbers, is a good idea, because it considers the age, gender, ethnicity, and audiometric main characteristics. As a part of a larger experiment, final results will be deterministic in intractable tinnitus treatment. The sample size may be greater than n=90, to improve the statistical significance 3. Constructive criticism It should be very interesting if authors show their data in corresponding plots to clearly visualize the patients’ distribution, electrophysiological and subjective readings and findings, pre- and post-treatment This study purposes the application of tDCS electric parameters. Authors use a specific device (by Mind Alive Inc.), it will be desirable if they show the precise electrical plot parameters (voltage, current, power and frequency) against time, performed with this device used. 