In this paper, the authors introduce a Cytoscape plug-in that can be used to perform local alignments of protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks using GASOLINE. The local network algorithm algorithm called GASOLINE was developed by the same team and it was presented in a separate journal paper. As the authors claim, a Cytoscape app for the alignment and visualization of PPI networks may serve as a useful tool for researchers working with multiple PPI networks. However, there are also several issues that need to be properly addressed to make the paper more accessible and informative for potential readers. Abstract: Readers may not be familiar with GASOLINE. Please provide a more detailed description of the algorithm. Introduction: "In the last few years there has been a rapid growth of biological network data, including protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, metabolic networks and regulatory networks." Please add references for available PPI databases and resources. "Comparing PPI networks of evolutionary distant species can help to understand some mechanisms underlying a specific function or process, which the sequence comparison alone cannot explain." Please provide an example or cite a reference that shows when a simple sequence comparison does not suffice. "Local network alignment aims to compare networks of different species, in order to find conserved protein complexes or pathways." Define network alignment and briefly describe and compare different types of network alignments (e.g. local vs. global). "In literature, several network alignment algorithms have been described together with their implementations" At least a brief description of the popular existing methods would be helpful. "Here, we describe a Cytoscape app implementing the GASOLINE algorithm for multiple local alignment of PPI networks." Please provide at least a short introduction to GASOLINE. A brief overview of the algorithm and its pros/cons would be useful. Please explain what type of local alignment is obtained by GASOLINE. (e.g., one-to-one vs. many-to-many). Implementation Define acronyms before use (e.g, COG, KOG, NOG, ISC) "The COG groups format can be more convenient when aligning many networks since the all the possible pairwise bit scores are many." Meaning unclear. Please revise. "GO categories can be optionally uploaded from panel." What are the added benefits of uploading GO information? Are they used in any way during the alignment? Does it provide additional information regarding the predicted local alignments? If it does, what kind of extra info can be obtained by uploading GO files? Please describe the capabilities and limitations of the developed Cytoscape app on a typical personal computer. How many networks can be handled by the GASOLINE Cytoscape plug-in? How about the maximum size of the networks? (e.g., number of nodes, number of interactions). How does it scale with the number (size) of networks? Please describe the main difference between the original GASOLINE and the GASOLINE Cytoscape app discussed in this paper. Are there any technical differences? Are there any differences in terms of their capabilities/limitations? Any recommendation on when one should use the desktop version instead of the online version? Conclusions Please discuss potential applications of the Cytoscape app. 