Thank you very much for the opportunity to review this manuscript. The authors conducted a scoping review of the literature from 1990 to 2017 identify the modifiable factors associated with weight regain following bariatric surgery. I commend the authors on exploring this important topic as the issue of weight regain after bariatric surgery is gaining increased importance with over 215,000 primary bariatric procedures performed per year in USA 1 . To help situate this manuscript in the current literature, I would suggest for the authors to define two distinct patient populations following bariatric surgery: (1) individuals who were initially successful in losing weight and have regained some or all of weight previously lost, and (2) individuals who have failed to lose the appropriate percentage of weight post-op. These two patient populations are different and respond differently to additional weight loss interventions. Defining these would help the readers understand which patients this review is focused on (i.e. # 1). I would encourage the authors to better define weight regain in this manuscript. At present, it is unclear what cut-off is being used to define weight regain (i.e. gaining 5% of maximum weight lost vs regaining all of the weight previously lost). A recent study in JAMA suggested reporting weight regain as percentage of maximum weight lost as this parameter appeared to perform better for association with most clinical outcomes than the alternatives examined [2]. In addition, I would encourage the authors to write a paragraph in the introduction section of the manuscript discussing obesity as a chronic disease, which, as other chronic diseases, will require multiple interventions over the person's lifetime to treat. The Obesity Medicine Association defined obesity as "a chronic, relapsing, multifactorial, neurobehavioral disease, wherein an increase in body fat promotes adipose tissue dysfunction and abnormal fat mass physical forces, resulting in adverse metabolic, biomechanical, and psychosocial health consequences." Framing your discussion around this contemporary definition of obesity would help the readers understand why lifestyle, pharmacotherapy and surgery are all important treatments for patients with obesity. Lastly, I would like to make a couple of suggestions for minor revisions to the manuscript: Introduction: The authors note that "Bariatric surgery has been established as a promising treatment option for severe obesity "; however, I would argue that bariatric surgery is a proven treatment for severe obesity with over 20 years of outcomes data. I suggest revising the wording. Introduction: The authors report that "Studies have estimated an average of 56% of patients regain weight within two years of their surgery, and about one in four fail to achieve the average expected weight loss and begin to regain weight from their lowest post-operative weight, following the first post-operative year." This statement needs to be clarified in the context of my prior comments about the definition of weight regain. In the current form, it makes it seem that most of the patients regain weight after surgery, suggesting that surgery is not effective. This is false and can contribute to the biases among the health care providers that surgery is not effective. In a recent study from Kothari and colleagues, reported on 10 year follow-up post bariatric surgery on 70% of patients 3 . They reported a 56% EWL at 10 years post gastric bypass - confirming durability of the results after this operation. In the discussion section, please consider discussing why patients should be educated about abstinence from alcohol after malabsorptive bariatric operations (in addition to possible weight regain) and changes in alcohol metabolism post gastric bypass. Discussion: Given the finding of frequency of follow-up being associated with weight loss outcomes, please consider discussing how the health care system and health care providers can address the need for ongoing follow-up of bariatric surgery patients in a resource constrained environment of a publicly funded Canadian health care system? Why should be following these patients? How long and how often? 