 The article is very well articulated and the findings are supporting the discussion and conclusion very strongly. Additionally, it gives deep insight and shares positive experience of a community based referral intervention in the area of maternal health to a pro-poor, marginalized and isolated community. However, minor language editing will make the article more scientific, lucid, authentic and reader friendly. For example, the author could use the word ‘explore’ instead of ‘evaluate’ in the last line of the introduction part in the abstract. Methodology in abstract part needs reorganizing and rephrasing where qualitative method is described. The introduction of the methodology section could commence like this- o “This case study is designed as a mixed-methods retrospective assessment to explore the………” The body of the method section in the abstract can be described in this way, o “In-depth interviews and retrospective document were carried out to …… Thematic analysis was performed to analyze the qualitative data.” The Bangla phrase, “ Bagan Mayer Jonno ” should be mentioned in English “garden for mothers”) for the non-Bengali speakers e.g. Method section in the main article needs to be elaborated and re-organized to make it reader friendly and self- explanatory. This section needs revision to maintain cohesion and coherence. Other than midwife is there any provision of additional service providers in the center inside the tea garden? Do midwives conduct home delivery? How do they maintain referral record? How is it documented? What does mean by the term ‘professional midwife’? Data processing procedure is described under ‘data collection’ sub-heading. It should be renamed as ‘data analysis’ or ‘data processing’. This section needs to be revised to address the cohesion and coherence also. Using the term, ‘case study’ instead of ‘case story’ will shape it more scientific. Need elaboration in the data analysis of qualitative methods. Need to mention, especially what types of qualitative method are used here. Sometimes, ‘case story’ and sometimes ‘IDI’s were mentioned, but the reader may feel difficulty to understand. Case scenario description’ part may go to the method section. Otherwise, you need to rephrase the sub-heading such as ‘findings from the case studies’ or rewrite the body of the paragraph in line with the previous sub-heading, so that it could be understood that you are describing result, not the process or method. The study reveals many opportunities to reduce the maternal mortality and morbidity of tea garden mothers. However, does this study uncover any challenges or obstacles that need further attention? Additionally, one of the recommendations should be ‘the scale-up of this intervention as a model for other marginalized communities in remote areas, who are experiencing ‘poor’ maternal health services. 