 I carefully read the manuscript entitled The assessment of CD146-based cell sorting and telomere length analysis for establishing the identity of mesenchymal stem cells in human umbilical cord from Kouropis et al. The aim of the study is verifying the hypothesis that umbilical cord-derived MSCs reside in the CD146-positive fraction, and could be discriminated by their possible longer telomeres. The authors demonstrated that frequency of CD146-positive cells in the culture-initiating suspension was much higher than the frequency of CFU-F confirming that this population also include non MSC-progenitors. Telomere length analysis revealed non-significant differences between CD146-positive and negative cells, in three of four samples. Thus, the authors correctly conclude that the CD146-positive population was unlikely representing pure native UC-MSCs, and that a prospective isolation of ex vivo MSC necessarily should include more antigens to investigate. My review will be concentrated on some technical aspects regarding conduction of cell sorting and telomere analysis, which should be clarified. My major comments are as follows: From the density plots reported in figure 1A, it is not clear if a morphology gate was applied in the SSC/FSC plot, to exclude events of no-cellular origins. A Gate was applied in the dead-cells exclusion plot and in R1 would be counted no-cellular 7-AAD negative events, which could significantly alter the CD146 positive or negative percentages on total living cells. The authors extensively discussed the percentage of CD146-positive frequency in correlation to CFU-F frequency. Thus, the authors should clarify this aspect, and I strongly suggest clearing the flow cytometry data from the non-cellular events. As the CD146-positive and -negative populations are not sufficiently separated in the R4 gate, the sorting gates R5 and R6 should be defined by applying isotypic control. Moreover, I suggest reporting the isotypic control plot in the figure, in order to demonstrate the absence of events in the R5 region. Purity, and possible Yield, of sorted cells should be indicated in the results section, in order to reassure the reader of the quality of the sorting process. Telomere length has been described as T/S ratio, reported data are close to the value of 1.0 and two of four have values lower than 1.0. How could it be possible to detect telomere repeat copy numbers lower than the single copy gene (36B4)? According to Cawthon R.M. (2002) T/S ratios should be normalized. PCR efficiency could vary gene to gene, and should be evaluated in order to normalize qPCR data with the efficiency correction factor. 