In this manuscript Cohen et al. describe a valuable addition to the HaloTag toolbox. They developed and characterized an efficient and inexpensive non-fluorescent blocker (ligand) of HaloTag sites. They make use of a fluorescent protein/HaloTag fusion-based experimental design to evaluate relative labeling of HaloTag sites with fluorescent ligands offering the advantage to normalize and also quantify background labeling. As a result they present a strategy to robustly identify and label newly synthesized HaloTag proteins without several current pitfalls. The need of such a low-cost, efficient blocker is underlined by the simultaneous development of a similar compound in a different lab (as properly cited). The manuscript without doubt describes a very useful compound and method in sufficient detail to be used by others as it is. As an improvement, a couple of small points could be discussed in more detail to guide the reader through potential further uses, pitfalls or limitations or could be presented with more of the available information embedded into the figures: Related to Figure 2: As important for the method in the text regarding the quantification in D the points of ‘complete’ blocking are discussed. It nonetheless would be helpful to also have a sentence on the data without and with low concentration of CPXH (e.g. high variability between time points in the 0M). Add a line how similar this is for neurons (was the concentration used in the following experiments based on the HEK data or determined independently). Toxicity of new compounds and also influence on physiology is an important issue (especially in neurons). The authors have addressed this by not only live/dead assays in HEK cells but also generated data by long-term CPXH incubation on neuronal network activity. This important dataset should be present in a main figure. Related to Figure 4-6/discussion: The use of a fluorescent protein-HaloTag fusion as a means to normalize the fluorescence from a HaloTag ligand over time helps to follow the time-resolved behavior but also adds a source of influence on the apparent behavior that is not readily visible when only the normalized data are presented. In the discussion the authors mention that this normalization might be imperfect but only discuss one side of the imperfection: the overall influence of newly synthesized mTurq on total mTurq (which is indeed most likely not very high). What is missing from my point of view is the discussion of the influence of mTurq fluorescence decline over time as e.g. visible in Fig. 4B. Is this bleaching? What is the order of magnitude of this effect on the apparent increase in relative ligand fluorescence? At least for one of the figures the non-normalized data of all fluorescent partners could be presented alongside the normalized ones. The potential effect of residual CPXH labeling after washout on the onset of ligand labeling of newly synthesized protein should be discussed: Is there any detectable lag phase? Does the shape of the curve in the early time points give any hints that an ongoing labeling after washing is either negligible or should be considered? Regarding the Oregon Green labeling: it is not clear to me whether the sentence ‘Interestingly, we noted that labeling with Oregon Green ligand was associated with strong non-specific labeling that washed out relatively slowly’ refers to transfected cells or all cells (I guess all). The visible variation of Oregon Green fluorescence in the images in 6B should be discussed. It could also be worth addressing how short labeling with different ligands and CPXH chase might help to determine how ‘reliable’ a fluorescent ligand can be used for time-resolved studies. Related to Figure 7: Just out of curiosity and not necessary for description of the method at all: since often protein synthesis inhibitors are used at much shorter timescales – did you check how complete is the protein synthesis block judged by this method and under the conditions given after up to 1 hr? 