This opinion article by Bhavin Parekh puts forward an interesting hypothesis about how ammonia neurotoxicity might influence and propagate ALS pathology. The article provides a concise introduction to the etiology of ALS with primary focus on the involvement of the skeletal muscle and liver in ALS pathogenesis. The author postulates a novel premise centering on the involvement of the liver and the distinctive occurrence of hepatic steatosis in motor neuron diseases including ALS. In depth literature is discussed for the existence of hepatic steatosis and hyperhomocysteinemia in ALS patients and other motor neuron diseases. The opinion article then focuses on ammonia and imbalances in interorgan ammonia metabolism and further discusses how this specific ammonia imbalance induces functional deficits in organelles (Golgi, ER, lysosomes), thereby impairing critical ALS associated pathways such as macroautophagy, oxidative/nitrosative stress, neuroinflammation, and hyperexcitability of motor neurons. Lastly, the authors search for a conceptual framework to account for clinical heterogeneity observed with respect to upper and lower motor neurons in ALS and they suggest that calcium binding proteins (CaBPs) are key molecules involved in neutralizing ammonia toxicity. The author further discusses the role of calcium binding proteins such as Calreticulin in ER stress and ALS pathogenesis and proposes that ammonia neurotoxicity and the parallel loss of expression of CaBPs leads to ALS. Overall the review is informative, well written and postulates an interesting hypothesis which might be of general interest to the neurodegeneration field. One of the limitations of this opinion article is that the discussion about CaBPs is restricted to Calreticulin in motor neurons, while recent studies have implicated various other ER chaperones in the ALS pathogenesis. The lack of these recent citations in the discussion concerning the involvement of ER chaperones in ALS does weaken the hypothesis. Nevertheless, this article provides an interesting area of reading and brings forward new experimental ideas for the further understanding of ALS and other neurodegenerative disorders. 