Hypoxemia in the immediate postoperative period is a well-known and feared complication after bariatric surgery. Risk factors for hypoxemia include patient age (likely because of the increase in closing volume with aging), loss of lung volume during induction and maintenance of general anesthesia, alterations in respiratory drive related to general anaesthetics and use of opiates, as well as the the presence of obstructive sleep apnea. 1,2 The exact incidence of hypoxemia and hypercarbia after bariatric surgery has not been well studied, but several studies in relatively small numbers of patients have documented worrisome levels of hypoxemia. 2,3 Wickerts and co-workers 4 have studied 45 good risk bariatric surgery patients. The mean age of the cohort was 39, the mean BMI was 37, and patients with known Obstructive Sleep Apnea were excluded. They all underwent uncomplicated and brief laparoscopic foregut procedures for obesity and were studied for 8 hours with pulse oximetry during the first postoperative night. Study findings included 22% with a mean SaO2 92%, 9% with mean SaO 2 90% (lowest mean SaO 2 was 87%), and 36% with nadir SaO 2 85% (lowest nadir SaO 2 was 63%). In addition, sleep disordered breathing events were documented in several patients. No clinical events related to hypoxia or sleep disordered breathing are recorded. These findings are important as because they do document a small, but significant risk of potentially dangerous postoperative hypoxia even in low risk patients. Recently published guidelines recommend continuous monitoring with pulse oximetry in the early postoperative period. 4 Guidelines for perioperative management of low risk patients as studied here are lacking. Additional studies of the epidemiology of perioperative hypoxemia and hypercarbia complicating bariatric surgery are needed in order to begin to identify potentially modifiable patient-specific risk factors and interventions such is inspiratory muscle training 3 which might reduce the risks of this potentially dangerous problem. The authors are encouraged to continue this survey and attempt to relate hypoxemia to risk factors. In addition, continued studies to include EKG monitoring with pulse oximetry might add to the clinical significance of these findings. The authors comment that the observed episodes of desaturation were brief, but they do not share any data regarding the duration of desaturations. I would be concerned about the possible clinical impact of 30 seconds of apnea in an unmonitored setting on the initial post operative night following bariatric surgery In this era of cost constraints and limited patient access to bariatric surgery, cost reduction strategies designed to encourage same day bariatric surgery procedures are popular. Improved ability to recognize and address risk factors for postoperative hypoxemia should be an important component of the selection process for accelerated care. The phrase that “hypoxia not only stops the engine, but destroys the machinery” has been attributed to JBS Haldane. Case reports of respiratory arrest and sudden unexplained fatality after bariatric surgery suggest that he was correct. 