The article proposes and analyzes a network model that is capable of reproducing the hourglass effect in the number of genes that undergo a functional state transition as a function of the developmental stage. The hourglass effect refers to higher morphological divergence at earlier or later stages of embryonic developmental, compared to medium stages. The main idea of the model is to explain the waist of this hourglass (the number of "transitioning genes" w(l) having a minimum at medium developmental stages l) by an interplay between the impact of random rewiring events in the developmental gene execution network (DGEN) and stage specificity. The DGEN is a network representing regulatory interactions between genes at different developmental stages, while stage specificity s(l) defines the probability 1-s(l) with which a gene at stage l regulates a gene at stage l+1. One of the key assumptions in the model is that s(l) is an increasing function of l. As a result of the interplay between a decreasing impact of DGEN perturbations as a function of l, and increasing s(l), the lethality of perturbations is maximized at mid ls, leading to evolutionary incentives to minimize w(l) at those mid stages. The article consists of three parts. The first part describes the model in detail. The second part discusses extensive simulation results of the model. The third part presents an extensive analysis of existing developmental data on Drosophila melanogaster and Arabidopsis thaliana in the model context. The most interesting aspect of the article is that provides a possible intriguing explanation of the hourglass effect in developmental biology, which may foster future creative thinking and research in this important direction. The most obvious reservation one can express about the article is that the model cannot be currently refuted since it is formulated at the DGEN level, and there is currently no data from which a reliable DGEN reconstruction would be possible. The fact that some outcomes of model simulations qualitatively agree with available data does not directly validate either the model, or its main assumptions. The article does not contain such claims, however, that would not be supported by the data. My minor comments that may help to improve the article are: The main idea of the model is buried somewhere on page 6 in the middle of a paragraph after sentence "What is the reason behind the hourglass shape of DGENs?" Why not explain this as early as possible, certainly in the Introduction, if not in the abstract? The third paragraph in the Introduction reads somewhat unclear and imprecise, as well as the "Developmental gene execution networks" section. When D(g) and Gamma notations first appear, its not spelled out what they are. DGEN removals upon DF events have a clear meaning. But what do replacements correspond to in reality? The Mann-Kendall statistics could be briefly described, or at least a reference could be provided. 