The authors attempt to evaluate if an ethanolic extract of the plant Curcuma Aeruginosa possesses bronchodilatory actions in the guinea pig trachea. Figure 1 shows that the influence of the extract is no different from a presumed negative control (DMSO). The data therefore do not support the author’s conclusion that the extract has anti-asthmatic effects. The title of the manuscript is therefore wrong. Specific major concerns: Although figure 1 displays data without indications of the variability, the curves for the extract and the negative control are almost superimposed, whereas the curve for aminophylline shows the expected relaxation. The calculations for Figure 2 are impossible to understand, and as far as I can see incorrect. EC 50 values are often calculated as 50% of the maximal response to e.g. a supramaximal dose of aminophylline. Here, it seems that the value causing 50% of the response to the highest dose tested (3 mg/mL) has been used for aminophylline, but this dose causes only 35% relaxation of the preparation. It is even more difficult to understand how an EC 50 value can be calculated for the extract because figure 1 indicates it causes no relaxation. In addition, the weight of an extract containing many undefined ingredients cannot be compared for potency with a pure pharmacologic agonist. The only comparison that would be relevant would be the qualitative documentation that the extract has bioactivity. The study has failed to show that. The method description is unclear. Was the extract and the controls tested in a histamine-precontracted preparation, or only in a preparation kept at baseline tension? Minor comments: Why was DMSO the negative control? Was really the lyophilized extract dissolved in DMSO for the tests? The dosage of DMSO is given in mg/mL and seems to be quite high. The statement in the introduction suggesting that herbal preparations are popular for treatment of asthma is new to me. This needs to be referenced. The description of the experimental protocol is incomplete, eg. dose of histamine not stated, the isometric load not defined, etc. In the discussion, the authors report a number of pharmacologic activities of the extract. This would seem to preclude the use of the extract as many of the effects eg on endocrine regulation would be expected to be associated with adverse reactions. The language of the manuscript needs language review. The wording is often imprecise and incorrect. 