 Review of “Patient treatment pathways of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis cases in coastal South India: Road to a drug resistant tuberculosis center” paper for F1000Research. The authors have written about an important topic related to the treatment pathways of drug-resistant TB patients in India. The manuscript reads well, however I have a number of major comments which need to be addressed to ensure the scientific level of the manuscript is raised. My major and minor comments follow, namely: Major comments: In the flowchart and text, the authors talk about “Presumptive MDR-TB patients”. However the patients enrolled in the study are diagnosed and registered MDR-TB cases. These are not the same thing. How is “Presumptive MDR-TB patients” defined and is the same definition being used in both the private and public sector facilities in the study? This needs to be stated by the authors and how the “Presumptive MDR-TB patients” are being identified in the facilities of the 2 sectors and whether similar levels of identification of “Presumptive MDR-TB patients” was being done in the different sector facilities? Time to diagnosis will be determined to a degree by what diagnostic capacity is available in the respective health facility. Hence if a facility has the capacity for rapid molecular diagnosis of TB and rifampicin resistance (RR-TB) e.g. if it has a GeneXpert machine on site, then diagnosis of RR-TB can be done within the day. If not and the patient or sample has to be sent to another facility which then does only culture and phenotypic drug susceptibility testing (DST) and not rapid molecular DST, there will be an inherent time difference between the patients seen at the initial health facility. So did all the health facilities involved in the study have the same access to diagnostic capacity? Even if the diagnostic capacity available to all health facilities involved in the study, where any RR-/MDR-TB cases diagnosed but not registered? If yes, were the proportions the same in the different sectors analysed? Were the 15 DR-TB patients who did not consent to be participate in the study similar to the 40 patients who did participate in the study? Was there any difference in these 15 patients between those who initially visited a public sector facility versus those who visited a private facility initially? Minor comments: Reference 1 and related text could be updated as the WHO 2019 Global TB Report is available. Introduction, 2 nd paragraph. It should be stated that PMDT is part of the Revised National TB Control Programme (now renamed as the National TB Elimination Programme) and is not a separate programme as implied by the current text. Introduction, 2 nd paragraph. Reference 5 should be updated as it refers currently to a 2011 WHO document which has been updated since then. Introduction, 3 rd paragraph. Reference 6 is from a paper dealing with Argentina. Is there no relevant reference paper from India that could be used instead? Also does the current reference paper talk about DS-TB and/or DR-TB? Methods, Study settings, 1 st paragraph. The district name and hospital name where the PMDT centre is located should be given. As should the names of the 3 districts that the centre caters for. Methods, Study settings, 1 st paragraph. For non-Indian readers, the meaning of “… by Kayakalp.” needs to be explained. Also the reference given is no. 6 which refers to a paper dealing with Argentina and hence seems incorrect. Methods, Study settings, 1 st paragraph. The authors mention “.. DOTS-Plus centres” and only mention about initial in-patient care. DOTS-Plus is outdated terminology and initial in-patient care practice alone is outdated practice under RNTCP. The text should be amended so the reader understand what is current RNTCP terminology and practice. Especially as in Figure 1, the term of DR-TB Centre is used. Methods, Study settings, 2 nd paragraph. 12.5% of patients in the study were illiterate, hence how was “written consent” given? Methods, Data collection, 1 st paragraph. Is it correct then that there was no actual field testing of the questionnaire prior to the study being conducted? What training did the PI have on the questionnaire prior to conducting the patient interviews? Methods, Operational definitions, reasons for shifting from one HCF to another, 1 st paragraph. As pointed out by the previous reviewer, what is listed here are options or answers expected to be provided by the patients. Hence this part of the methods section needs revising. Results, 1 st paragraph. Need to be consistent in the use of both numbers and % in the last sentence. Results, Details of first visit and shift from one HCF to other HCF, 2 nd paragraph. Although 12 of the 15 who initially visited a public HCF were diagnosed with MDR, only 10 were immediately referred to the DR-TB centre. Why did the 2 other patients have to attend a HCF for a 2 nd time before referral to the DR-TB Centre? Discussion. As stated by the previous reviewer, the authors spend a lot of the discussion section comparing with other studies. Many of the times this is just in relation to confirming previous observations. Such text could be reduced (e.g. 2 nd and 4 th paragraphs). Discussion, 2 nd paragraph. Should ease of access to service be more prominent amongst important issues surrounding health seeing behavior of patients? Is this not a major reason why patients initially seek care in the private sector rather than the public sector? Discussion, 3 rd paragraph. DR-TB is now more of a “transmitted” disease rather than the “acquired resistance” as discussed in the first few sentences of the paragraph. This needs to be noted. Also the meaning of the sentence “Further, the private sector poses many hurdles in TB control.” is unclear? Discussion, 5 th paragraph. For clarity of reading, the authors should to include the actual numbers involved when they state “57.5%” (=23/40) and “82.3” (=14/17). Discussion, 6 th paragraph. Did the study by Charles et al. (ref 28) include DR-TB cases as well as DS-TB? If not, how relevant is the reference to the current study? Limitations. The authors need to include a paragraph or two on “Limitations” of the study. Conclusions. Some of the statements made are pretty sweeping with little data or evidence from the study to support them. For example the statements in the 1 st paragraph made about female and the elderly – these are based on very small patients numbers and hence how valid and generalizable are they? In the 2 nd paragraph, an alternative view is that there may be better awareness in the community of the disease and availability of services. Hence a higher proportion of those who actually have the disease present to the public sector facilities for their 1 st visit. And surely better linkages between the HCFs of the two sectors needs to be established, in addition to the option of providing everything in all private HCFs? Consistency of language. DOTS-Plus centers / DR-TB Centre / PMDT center are all used in the manuscript. Firstly I would suggest the authors use “centre” and “programme”, and also are consistent in the term they use for the centre where the DR-TB patients were registered. 