 The authors make an investigation in which they observe characteristics in the dental arches of patients with suspected condylar hyperplasia (HC). Since they do not use a group of patients without suspected HC as a control group, they can only provide descriptive statistics and the only comparison they can make is between genders or according to age. Therefore the title should mention "differences in dental arch characteristics between genders in patients with suspected HC". With respect to materials and methods, the authors use a millimeter rule to take measurements. There are now digital micrometric gauges as well as digital compasses to establish more accurate measurements that deliver decimals and thus provide measurements that may lead to statistically significant differences. (Measurements should be taken with these instruments that provide better accuracy). Additionally, the overlap of the upper palatal midline over the lower arch may be very inaccurate with manual techniques. At present, scanned models, tomography and the use of software reduce these errors in the method, which, although the study mentions that it values intra-operative variability, the method itself, being manual and on plaster models, allows inaccuracy. Being an observational retrospective study in study models it would have been very easy to have a control group to compare those same measures with patients without suspected HC. The study group was between the ages of 10 and 30. At ages close to 10 years, the upper canines have generally not erupted, nor have the second molars or even the premolars. Measures of intercanine or intermolar distance may vary between permanent and temporary dentition. This should be mentioned in the study. It could be a serious method error. The study does not mention whether the patient sample had active or passive condylar hyperplasia. There is a clear difference between a present metabolic activity assessed with a bone scan with growth already stopped. The study doesn't mention what kind of hyperplasia the patients had. It was Hemimandibular Elongation (horizontal vector), Hemimandibular Hyperplasia (vertical vector) or hybrid form. Authors such as Obwegeser et al. in 1984, Wolford et al. (2014) and Lopez et al. (2019), mention it adequately. The inclusion criteria mention that patients should have temporomandibular dysfunction within their diagnostic process. On the one hand, temporomandibular dysfunction is not a pathognomonic sign of the pathology. (There may be condylar hyperplasia without temporomandibular dysfunction). On the other hand, if this variable is taken, the occlusal findings could be the result of the dysfunction or hyperplasia? This should be mentioned in the discussion. In the results, the distance of the upper canines from the mid-palatal suture in women appears to be statistically significant. This finding could be related to the anatomical characteristics of female arches and not to arches of hyperplastic patients. This could be solved, using a control group. There are dental measures that could have been easily taken in the models and that would increase the variables of the study, such as: the angle classification, the torque of the posterior teeth. Finally, HC is an alteration that produces anatomical changes due to condylar overgrowth and positional changes due to the displacement of the jaw towards the contralateral side. Therefore, the long or hyperplastic side should be compared with the short or contralateral side in the variables taken. The conclusions postulate that asymmetric occlusal changes were observed in these patients, but the only statistically significant change was the superior canine distance in women. This should not be such a general conclusion and secondly this finding could be both occlusal and skeletal. 