Fadhil Al-Doori et al. have written a report of a prospective cohort analysis of echocardiographic features in CKD. The main finding is that of greater LVMI in patients with CKD that seems to correlate with duration of CKD and lack of significant valvular calcification. The study design is reported as prospective cohort but there was no clear prospective analysis completed. Most of the analyses demonstrated is cross sectional. In the limitations section it is mentioned that repeated analyses to assess changes over time is planned. It is not clear to me why this preliminary analysis would be submitted with very inconclusive data. Many issues with presentation are present: Introduction : The entire introduction is about adult CVD with only a statement in the last paragraph that little is known about CVD in pediatric CKD. There needs to be more background about pediatric CKD. It's not clear to me why diastolic function and LV EF were not available. This seems to be a routine parameter in most echo readings. That needs to be explained in the methods section as well as the limitation section. Was it just not recorded for the study or was it actually not in the echo report - the echocardiographer never calculated those values? Results : There are far too many sections describing baseline parameters, as well figures and graphs. Figures 1-5 and Tables 2 and 3 all need to be condensed into Table 1. Then a single section can speak to background features and lab values. Many of the lab values are not surprising in terms of differences between CKD and normal - so not clear individual sections need to be dedicated to how each lab value is different between cases and controls. The meat of the study should be in the Echo findings. What are the differences between cases and controls? You can subsequently look at differences between your eGFR classifications ( and = 15) and duration of CKD ( and = 1yr). These are the interesting findings. You have an outcome of death and it seems awkward to have the outcome as a predictor in Table 6. It seems more appropriate to perform a multivariate analysis of death as an outcome and see how echocardiographic parameters compare to CKD and HTN and other lab parameters to predict death. Discussion : The first half of the discussion is spent describing results (which should not be there) and talking about biochemical abnormalities in CKD which is already well known. Essentially the appropriate discussion section should starting at page 9 paragraph 4 - which starts "Left Ventricular Hypertrophy...." Overall - This manuscript seems premature especially since follow up data is planned. It is not clear to me what can be presented except a very brief report with the follow up data. I would recommend revising this when the follow up data is available. 