This paper by R. Naftalin addresses a facet of gastrointestinal physiology that has for decades caused highly controversial discussions amongst the experts. Carbohydrates in our diet represent the quantitatively most important class of nutrients and a large fraction of our daily caloric intake. After digestion in the upper small intestine glucose derived from starch, glycogen, sucrose and lactose is the nutrient with the highest absorption rate of all dietary components and yet, we still do not understand in details how this is accomplished. There is no doubt that the rheogenic SGLT1 transporter in the brush border membrane is of prime importance and this is known from studies utilizing phloridzin that inhibits SGLT1 with high affinity, from humans suffering from hereditary glucose-galactose malabsorption and from mice lacking a functional SGLT1 protein. One of the critical issues is that SGLT1 when expressed heterologously in a target cell has a very high affinity whereas when glucose absorption is assessed in vivo either in rodents or in human intestinal perfusion studies affinities reported are one to two orders of magnitude lower. This discrepancy has been the starting point to search for additional glucose transporters that might be involved. Based on studies in rat intestine G. Kellett finally proposed that at very high luminal glucose concentrations SGLT1 transport function would induce a signalling cascade involving PKC that in turn would cause the recruitment of GLUT2 (a low affinity type uniporter) into the apical membrane from intracellular vesicles. This would allow glucose to move into the cell along a concentration gradient with GLUT2 simultaneously mediating also efflux across the basolateral side as the prime glucose transporting protein constitutively present in this membrane domain. However, as a uniporter GLUT2 could when incorporated into the apical membrane also cause a back-flux of glucose into the intestinal lumen in particular since SGLT1 allows uphill transport of glucose by its rheogenic transport mode. Since all biochemical studies published so far do not give conclusive and convincing data on whether GLUT2 can translocate into the apical membrane and thus contribute to overall glucose absorption, R. Naftalin now takes a modelling approach to assess how feasible a significant contribution of GLUT2 is. Since movement of bulk quantities of solutes (glucose and sodium) by the glucose transporters also induces osmotic gradients and in turn water movement, the conceptual work and the simulations presented also address water movement this as well as blood flow effects. A model has been build that is plausible and reveals the knowledge base of the author. This model allows changes in a variety of parameters to be visualized for the different compartments when glucose concentrations are increased. Simulations reveal that accumulation of glucose in the cytosol of intestinal epithelial cells mediated by SGLT1 is accompanied by increases in the cytosolic volume whereas an increased density of apical GLUT2 would prevent excessive glucose accumulation at high luminal glucose concentrations by back-flux that would also reduce the enterocyte volume increase. In this context GLUT2 fulfils primarily the role of an osmoregulator in controlling epithelial cell volume that is subject to rapid changes when bulk quantities of the solutes are absorbed. Although the work by R. Naftalin does not prove or disprove that GLUT2 has a important function in overall glucose absorption, it adds some novel ideas and other dimensions to the discussion. GLUT2 and its role in intestinal epithelial cells thus remains a mystery not only in its proposed function in the apical membrane but also for basolateral glucose efflux.