The authors present an opinion article summarizing information from prior literature in defence of their claims that a) some first-person accounts cannot be reduced to their third-person neural and psychophysiological correlates and b) that these first-person accounts are the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents. I believe this is an important topic to discuss, even if I am sceptical about whether the issue underlying the arguments, the reducibility of qualia to psychophysiological information, is one that can be decided just through scientific insight. Nevertheless, I feel that the manuscript needs a thorough revision before being finalized, making the claims themselves and the logic of the arguments supporting them clearer. The authors make several claims in this opinion article. One of the main points is summarized well in the Abstract and Discussion: "for many phenomena, first-person accounts are the only reliable source of information available and the knowledge of their neural and psychophysical correlates don’t offer any additional information about them”. Based on the information presented by the authors, I tend to agree with this statement if we start the sentence with “at this point in time” or “at our current level of scientific advancement”. It is true that presently our neuroimaging and electrophysiological monitoring techniques used in humans are extremely crude and come nowhere close to providing the level of detail that can be gained from a first person account on most of the listed phenomenon. However, the author’s claim doesn’t seem to stop at the present time. They seem to argue that third person accounts will never provide reliable information about the listed phenomena. This is problematic because this part of their claim is not justified by any arguments. Instead, the authors seem to extrapolate from the fact that third person accounts are unreliable today to the claim that they will always be unreliable and redundant compared to first person accounts. I think that this logical jump is too much to ask of the reader. Thus, either the claim should be restricted in time, or further argumentation is necessary. Another issue with the manuscript in its current form is that 1PAs and subjective experiences (qualia), are often confused. For example in this sentence: “Our statement that 1PAs are irreducible to 3PAs…”. I like that the authors take the time to define both first person accounts and third person account in the beginning of the paper. However, the claim that 1PAs are irreducible to 3PAs are refuted by the very definition that the authors provide. 1PA is defined as: “First-person accounts (1PAs) are written, verbal or intentional (conscious) behaviour, e.g. sign language, accounts related to what a person feels, perceives or thinks, in other words, every mental content the person is aware of and can communicate to others if requested or desired.” While 3PA is defined as: “third-person accounts (3PAs), are identical types of accounts plus their neuro and psychophysiological correlates, obtained by people who observe or measure other behaviour and mental contents and processes.“ An example for a 1PA by the authors is if a person says “I feel happy today”. This accounts can always be directly transformed to a 3PA like: “She feels happy today”. So in this sense a 1PA can be “reduced” or made directly equivalent to a 3PA. At another point in the manuscript the authors use a longer version of this claim: “some 1PAs cannot be reduced to third-person neural and psychophysiological correlates accounts”. However, this cannot be true either with the current definition the authors have for 1PA, because all of the examples the authors bring for 1PA can be reduced to muscle movement (speech, writing, sign language), and it is well established that muscle movements are directly evoked by neurobiological phenomenon. So it is logically possible to completely reduce the movements produced when a person utters “I have a throbbing pain in my temple” verbally or in sign language to its efferent neural source. In fact, we understand the processes that are at play here so well that we can create an artificial limb with which an arm amputee will become able to produce the same sign language sentence on her own again. So I would venture that reducing these reports themselves to their neurobiological correlates is not only a logical possibility, but is plausible within a few years of research. I guess what the authors really meant is that the qualia, the subjective feeling of happiness or pain, the feeling that the 1PA refers to, can never be reduced to simple 3PAs (and because of the above argument about the equivalence of 1PAs and 3PAs, it cannot be reduced to 1PAs either if we define 1PAs as the authors do right now). So either the definition of 1PAs needs to be changed to involve the subjective feeling and not just the report of that feeling, or the manuscript needs to be looked over carefully to identify sections where the authors meant qualia (first person experiences) instead of first person reports about qualia. I also feel that several statements and claims in the manuscript could be clarified. For example, the authors claim that “the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to the knowledge of these phenomena”. This statement is very general in its current form and the preceding text does not justify it. Let’s take for example pain or mood disorders, example phenomena brought up by the authors. I believe we have gained extremely useful knowledge already about these phenomenon by understanding the neural and biochemical mechanisms involved in them, which help us in their respective treatment. We are able to further improve our treatments by understanding the mechanisms even better. I am sure that the authors did not mean that we cannot learn anything useful about these phenomenon by studying their neural correlates. They probably meant that we do not get any useful information on the exact quality of the subjective experiences involved in these phenomenon by studying their neuronal correlates, or something similar. If so, the original sentence needs much clarification. The quote from Coltheart (2013) is also misleading: ‘“testing theories of cognition” by using fMRI investigations requires “both sensitivity (a claim that brain region X will always be active when cognitive process C is being executed) and specificity (the claim that brain region X will not be active except when cognitive process C is being executed).”’ I don’t think any brain researcher today would think that a certain area of the brain would be responsible for a single thought or idea and nothing else. This is not even true for individual neurons. It is the networks and connections that are proposed to do the computations, and a brain area and even individual neurons are suspected to be part of multiple networks. So in this sense we cannot and do not expect this kind of specificity of brain areas anymore. It is strange that the authors bring up a fact that falsifies one of their claims and then they never explain why this falsification is invalid. It is left hanging in the air: “Our statement that 1PAs are irreducible to 3PAs, could be falsified by the evidence suggesting that it is possible to change 1PAs by acting on their biological correlates. For example Saitoh et al. (2007) were successful in reducing pain due to spinal cord or peripheral lesions by applying high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on the primary motor cortex.” Later they add: “As a result, the 1PA is no less relevant than 3PA, even in the context of the pragmatic approach of clinical medicine, despite having been understated by the ruling reductionist paradigm.” However, this is nowhere near as strong a claim as the original one. The original claim is that 1PAs are irreducible to 3PAs, while the later claim is that 1PAs are relevant as well, not just 3PAs. By leaving the falsification open like this the authors practically invalidate one of their main claims in this opinion article, so it is strange why they make this claim the first place, if they think it is in fact false, or incomplete in its original form. I suggest either refuting the falsification, or elaborating their claim in its original form (at every instance of its appearance in the manuscript, not just after the falsification is mentioned in the end), so it is no longer falsified by the fact that it is possible to change 1PAs by acting on their biological correlates. Relatedly, I found it unclear how does the fact that hypnosis brings about an increase in pain threshold relate to the same section. For me, this sentence in its context without any further explanation implied that the authors think that contrary to transcranial magnetic stimulation, hypnosis would affect 1PAs directly, without involving neural correlates of pain. This is not true, because we see from several neuroimaging studies that the brain behaves differently when noxious stimuli is applied with and without hypnosis. It is also very probable that hypnosis relies on at least some neural mechanisms to enact its effects on pain, if nothing else, by relying on the sensory neurons which allow the hypnosis participant to perceive the words of the hypnotherapist. If this sentence is important in the manuscript, the authors should make it clear how it is relevant exactly to this discussion. Otherwise I suggest deleting it because it invites misinterpretation. It is also hard to see how does the following sentence help any of the arguments of the authors “In fact in the Saitoh et al. (2007) example, the modification of primary cortex activity do not contain any useful information about the participants’ change in pain perception.” Transcranial magnetic stimulation was an experimental manipulation in this example. I am not sure why should it contain any information on the change in pain perception. This is not a measurement, but a manipulation targeting the suspected mechanism underlying pain, which in the end was successfully able to modify the subjective pain experience, or at least the 1PA thereof. Similarly, a hammer blow does not have to contain information on the subjective quality of pain to cause pain. If the authors meant this sentence to refute the falsification, they need to make it clearer. Correcting the following minor issues should also serve to improve the manuscript: “opioids are only wake hallucinogens” – weak instead of wake “according to classical, Newtonian physics” – according instead of acording “content that can only measured by using 1PAs” – content that can only be measured by using 1PAs Irreducible is spelled incorrectly as irriducible several time in the document “this is a very relevant fact allowing for Enhanced Recovery After Surgery without costs” – why is Enhanced Recovery After Surgery capitalized? Furthermore, “without costs” indicates that this is a completely free intervention, however, most surgeries do not have a trained professional who can use hypnosis in a clinical setting, so in most cases this would require the presence of a new professional, who needs to be paid. And even if the medical staff gets the proper training, the training itself is not without costs, etc. So I suggest deleting “without costs” from this sentence. 