This is well thought through and timely opinion piece on the barriers to research data sharing, especially for issues of public health emergencies. The authors report on the findings from two related surveys and a workshop, and of note reported out of 319 published papers, excluding case studies, only 98 (31%) provided access to all the data underlying the paper. They also reported 65% of these papers gave no information on how to find or access the data (does the 65% refer to the 319 papers or the 98?). They provide several recommendations, but outside of the checklist the recommendations seem more aspirational and more about why one would want to or should share data. But as framed are not easily actionable. First - Funders need to engage early with the researchers and related stakeholders to understand their concerns and work harder to define the more explicitly the benefits to all stakeholders. Second - there needs to be a direct benefit to sharing data that is directly relevant to those people that collect and curate the data. Third - more work needs to be done to realize the intent of making data sharing resources more equitable, ethical and efficient. Finally - a checklist of the issues that need to be addressed when designing new or revising existing data sharing resources should be created. This checklist would highlight the technical, cultural and ethical issues that need to be considered and point to examples of emerging good practice that can be used to address them. The discussion needs to capture more of the following: There are legitimate concerns about early or premature data sharing that are not discussed, especially focusing on low resource research entities and the power dynamics that leverage the early release of data to the public as an opportunity for resource intensive researchers to leverage the data not only for “public good” but for their gain with no need for attribution to or sharing of downstream resources with the low resource entities that conducted the work. While many health research funders have a generic policy requiring research data to be shared in a manner that maximize health and societal benefit, these are often unfunded mandates, especially for research conducted in low resource countries or by low resource institutions. Releasing data in the absence of the context of much of the data can lead to significant misinterpretation of the data. Also, for certain data there needs to be time to clean and collapse the data to ensure participant privacy before it can be made publicly available. This can be a laborious process to do correctly and in many instances there may not be funding for this provided by the funder and low resource institutions may not have resources to conduct this unfunded work in an expeditious manner. For WHO pathogen work it seems funders might consider an a priori explicit plan of a cooperative agreement/partnership for early shared data for studies led by low resource “partners” doing the hands-on work and a more resource intensive partner (or funder) with capacity to do intense data analysis, with shared credit and equity in leveraging the data to get more funding for both partners. This can help to balance the power dynamics, and support early widespread data dissemination with the resource intensive partner (or funder) co-leading rapid production of publications and the creation of publicly available cleaned data for public benefit. 