The authors analyzed 92 episodes of ventriculoperitoneal shunts in patients aged under 18 years at the time of infection. The article is well written, however, I have some concerns regarding the content and conclusions. Patient data were collected with the use of a standardised proforma, however, no definition criteria were presented. Simply citing that “A shunt infection was defined as any patient coded as ‘shunt infection’ at discharge or any patient who received treatment for suspected shunt infection, with or without microbiological confirmation” is not sufficient. There are different established definition criteria and at least one of them should be used and the frequency of each defining criteria should be presented. The second main concern is that conclusions do not follow the results. As this was a retrospective observational study, no recommendations can be given regarding the antibiotic or surgical treatment. It is just a description of the treatment children received in this institution. In particular, I strongly disagree with recommending a combination of linezolid and ceftriaxone as first-line treatment. For the evaluation of the outcome, only one sentence was provided, which insufficient – how was the outcome evaluation performed, what was the definition of failure, what was the follow-up time etc. Another point is that the author recommend complete removal of the shunt and placement of an EVD seems the safest surgical treatment. The question is, however, when the shunt can be retained an eradication of biofilm-associated infection with biofilm-active antibiotics can be achieved. Rifampin was used in about half of patients, but detailed data are lacking. That it would be beneficial to develop a guideline for recognition and treatment of shunt infections and that empirical antibiotic treatment should be started as soon as possible is not a conclusion of this study and was already known from previous studies, so it should be deleted from the conclusion section. 