There is one significant omission from this manuscript and it concerns the availability of quality peer reviewed science in the field of AEFI. How do we know if a vaccine is the origin of AEFI if the vaccine has not been subject to clinical trials involving true placebos. The vehicle for most vaccines, probably all injected vaccines, is 0.9% NaCl. How many vaccine safety trials have used 0.9% NaCl as the placebo? The injection of 0.5mL of 0.9% NaCl IM or SC should be close to being 100% safe. The needle may damage a capillary and this could produce mild inflammation at the injection site. This could be uncomfortable for a short period of time, there may be some individuals where their genetic make-up means that the discomfort might last a little longer. However, for the vast majority of recipients, 99.9%, the injection of 0.5mL of 0.9% NaCl is absolutely safe. This is the gold standard placebo against which the safety of all vaccines should be tested and ensured. Of course, the reality is totally different. In my field of interest, vaccines that include an aluminium salt as an adjuvant, there have not been any clinical trials where a vaccine has been tested against a true placebo. I say this with the proviso that in one trial of the HPV vaccine Gardasil there is a report, filed with the Clinical Trials Database, where a small number of trial participants did receive a saline placebo. These individuals reported no (zero) AEFI, while the vaccine group and the Al adjuvant only group reported an incidence of ca 2.5% AEFI. The reality is that the design of causality assessment of AEFI is purposely flawed to give both the impression that all vaccines are safe and, of course, to allow those conducting the trials (who are never independent) to decide which of the many and serious AEFI occurring regularly might be attributed to the vaccine. Vaccines are inherently unsafe and rather than investing in improving their safety the industry has devised a mechanism to disguise their toxicity. I do wonder why the author has not included some discussion of this in his otherwise well informed text. 