This is a very well-written review aimed to provide mechanistic explanations for different variants of perceptual learning (PL). I enjoyed reading the manuscript and am inclined to follow the logic of the authors although a bit more data confirming the conjectures made by the authors would be desirable. The authors first review a number of papers from their laboratory that showed evidence for task-irrelevant perceptual learning. As opposed to more traditional forms of task-relevant PL, task-irrelevant PL occurs in the absence of attention and is supposed to be driven by external or internal rewards. Based on their data, the authors suggest the existence of two mechanisms giving rise to perceptual learning: an automatic reward-driven and a top-down goal-directed one. The studies listed in the review also suggest an interesting and common mechanism shared between conditioning and task-irrelevant perceptual learning. I only have a number of suggestions that the authors may take into account to improve the manuscript. The authors attempt to dichotomize mechanisms underlying task-relevant vs task irrelevant PL. Are these two parallel systems? Is it possible that only one mechanism exists which can be based on task constraints? In other words, have they considered only one basic principle, whereby goal-directed PL is simply a variant of task-irrelevant PL? For example, one could argue that rewards are the driving force for perceptual learning dependent plasticity and that additional higher cognitive signals such as selective attention strengthen (or override) the reward-driven changes? Given the fact that the authors promote two different mechanisms, it would be interesting if they can speculate about the neuronal pathways involved. What should be done next? Are additional experimental demonstrations for task-irrelevant perceptual learning required? At this moment a rather limited set of stimulus parameters have been used in task-irrelevant PL paradigms. Does one need additional tests, for example by using other stimulus features, other sensory modalities? What about comparative experiments including other species? What about causal experiments trying to identify structures driving PL-dependent plasticity? 