In the second version of the manuscript, the authors have made only a few changes. Concerns remain regarding description of data, methods, and the overall structure of the manuscript: In the second version of this manuscript, the authors do not to provide the basic information pertinent to a neuroimaging study. This includes the total number of subjects, mean age, sex distribution, inclusion and exclusion criteria, and the MRI acquisition sequences and their parameters. These basic pieces of information are mandatory for any publishable study. We recommend that the authors review best practice guidelines in reporting neuroimaging research (Poldrack, Russell A., et al. "Guidelines for reporting an fMRI study." Neuroimage 40.2 (2008): 409-414; Poldrack, Russell A., et al. "Scanning the horizon: towards transparent and reproducible neuroimaging research." Nature Reviews Neuroscience 18.2 (2017): 115-126.) In the methods section, the authors provide a disclaimer that ANNs will not be explained due to the vastness of the science. The authors go in detail to explain the history of the software package MaZda, but do not provide relevant information regarding the statistical analysis used in the study. The authors go into extensive detail to explain information not relevant to the study in the introduction. For example, the legal practices surrounding abortion and pregnancy are not relevant to this study and do not add value to the manuscript. The structure of manuscript is still very difficult to follow. For references, the authors should review articles from journals such as Neuroimage and Human Brain Mapping. Consider headings such as Introduction, Methods (subjects, MRI acquisition, texture analysis, etc), Results, and Discussion The authors provide excel files as datasets; however, those tables should be included in the manuscripts as tables or figures. Overall, the authors have not made satisfactory changes to the previous comments. The manuscript needs to be re-structured and streamlined to focus on the science and methods.