The reviewer congratulates the investigators for undertaking a challenging study that considers wound healing in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The authors delineate the methodology for performing this double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial that compares use of the Haruan fish extract to a placebo to evaluate wound healing and quality-of-life in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The authors state that wound healing is a primary problem in surgical cases and, based on preliminary information, they study the Haruan fish extract. It would be good to have a standardized extract to test and to determine which may be the active components of this extract. In this study, the design seems reasonable and the outcome measures of wound pain mobilization and health-related quality-of-life using the Nottingham Health Profile is appropriate. In the abstract, the authors state that those who received the Haruan capsule showed better wound healing and had better pain scores as well as improvement in quality-of-life. The analyses seem appropriate as does the determination of the size of the study. Unfortunately only 72.3% completed the study in up to three months of follow-up. Additionally, the study applies mainly to males of the Malay background. Unfortunately, in the results section, there is very little evidence that the Haruan capsule actually had any benefit. It would be good to have some tables and charts demonstrating the efficacy, or not, with Haruan capsule. With regard to mean hospital stay, the results were not significant. Perhaps the study was underpowered to determine significance but, nevertheless, the results were not significant. In terms of the ASEPSIS score, there were no significant differences throughout the follow-up. Additionally, there were no significant differences in mean pain score using the visual analog scale and no difference in mobilization. With regard to the health related quality-of-life, there were no significant differences at discharge and in follow-up. Therefore, this reviewer is puzzled that the abstract states benefit when the results do not show this. Much of the issue may be related to limitations but this manuscript does not confer evidence that the Haruan capsule actually has benefit. Further, any hypothesis that wound healing would be improved by the Haruan extract is not supported here. In the discussion there is enthusiasm about using this Haruan extract with statements that this extract actually improves wound healing but it did not. This reviewer does not understand how the authors can implicate benefit or even discuss mechanisms when there is no evidence based on the results that this actually works. One other thing relates to the costs of hospitalization mentioned in the conclusion but not discussed in any detail in the manuscript. 