 General Comments: In the Summary Table (Table 1), it is advisable to add a separate column indicating the periodicity or the frequency of availability of these different data sources/datasets. This could help informing about for e.g. the variables/indicators for which a longer time-series may be available. Also, the ordering of the information in Table 1 appears rather clumsy. The authors could either follow their own framework of the HTA-associated domains in some sequence or adopt an alphabetically arranged order. A significant omission in the Table 1 is the data available from the WHO Survey on Global Ageing and Adult Health (WHO-SAGE) which is a longitudinal study collecting data on mostly older (50+) population but also a sub-sample of adults aged 18-49 years in China, Ghana, India, Mexico, Russia and South Africa. Under the Wave 1 conducted in India during 2006-07, about 11000 individuals surveyed. While there are a number of standardized health measures available from the survey (a new round has been completed in 2015, and data expected soon), its most important aspect is the availability of a set of health vignettes, and rare availability of a number of Quality of Life measures such as the Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) scale. Details are available here . The other useful data source – particularly for the elderly population (aged 60+) – is the UNFPA-supported database under the Building Knowledge Base on Population Ageing in India (BKPAI). This is undoubtedly the richest source of data available for a nationally representative sample of the elderly population, providing rich information on an extensive set of physical, functional and mental health conditions, apart from standard information on sources and costs of medical care. Specific Comments: Epidemiological data: Under ‘Demographics’, it may be useful to mention that the Indian NFHS is based on the USAID-supported Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), currently covering 90 countries. Also while referring to the recent NFHS, it is wrongly referred as ‘District House Survey’ (The District Level Household Survey-DLHS is a distinct entity, most likely being discontinued after the Round 4 conducted in 2012-13). Also, can mention the NCDs covered in the NFHS (anaemia, hypertension, blood glucose levels/hyperglycaemia). Although it has been mentioned in the summary table, it may be useful to indicate in the discussion on burden of diseases (BOD) that data from the IDSP (and mostly from other disease-specific national programmes) are population averages, or aggregate prevalence/incidence levels. I am not aware of the availability of any large-scale, nationally representative disease-specific survey by ICMR, but the periodic NSSO health surveys are probably India’s only health data from which disaggregated BOD estimates can be derived for different socioeconomic (education, social groups, economic status) and demographic parameters. For rarer diseases, sample sizes can be an issue, but broad patterns should be well discernible. Under the ‘Costs’ it is important to recognize and distinguish between ‘private’ costs or expenditures (under which the OOP expenditure falls) and ‘public’ expenditure. This has been discussed to some extent in the following section on ‘Healthcare costs’ but that is only limited too publicly-funded health insurance schemes. Hence, it is suggested the authors include the sources of aggregate health expenditure for e.g. the National Health Accounts which have already mentioned in Table 1, and other time-series sources such as the Reserve Bank of India compendium of state budget documents, from the health-systems perspective of the costs in the context of HTA studies. In pg 9, under ‘service use’ there has been an erroneous mention of the word ‘census’ after NFHS, NSSO In the discussion part, the authors might consider the suggestion – in the light of the observation they themselves make – to the insurers, including the relevant public/quasi-public agencies to make available suitably anonymized data from public health insurance schemes, given India’s increasing orientation towards such a model. The authors need to consider – as a matter of style – the use of upper and sentence cases while referring to terms such as state, national, government, ministry etc. a single, common style needs to be followed, and also for acronyms such as AADHAR. 