Illposed answers to illposed questions The manuscript raises a seemingly intriguing and provocative question about perspective taking in experimental Neuroscience. It argues that many daunting problems would benefit from a first-person frame of reference, both as a method as well as a subject at the same time. More specifically, the question has two main aspects: (A) One concerns with the method of studying neuronal functions from first-person versus a neutral (third-person) point of view, and (B) the other aspect concerns with the first-person ontology of consciousness. Unfortunately the confusion of these two aspects creates an ill-posed contradiction between third-person methods and first-person subject leading the author to questioning the adequacy of standard scientific method. Since the manuscript fails to disentangle the two aspects above, it necessarily fails to provide a tangible solution. Main concerns: A) Starting with the first-person methods: Regarding the adequacy of third-person scientific method (aspect A): The third-person point of view is typically not a matter of choice. (Actually, the term "third-person" is imprecise, as it should be a depersonalized point of view.) The concept of "impartiality" is central in the philosophy of science. It has a huge literature and long history from Plato to Karl Popper. There are a number of good reasons why scientific investigations consistently attempted to dissolve the role of observer in scientific paradigms until physicists, including Einstein, Heisenberg, Schrodinger, Planck to name a few, showed that observations necessarily interfere with the observed system. Einstein in general relativity, inspired by Ernst Mach's conjecture (Von Baeyer 2001), approaches the limitation of "objectivity" as the dependency of measurements on the position and speed of the observer relative to the speed of light and the time of observation. Acknowledging that there IS NO observation without interference, objectivity is asymptotic. Nevertheless, the independence of data from the observation should be maximized as a general principle. The "third-person" perspective in science as being the most "impartial" perspective became standard, because minimizes bias while also allowing for replication of results. I don't see any controversy about that. Nonetheless, none of these philosophical historical contexts were mentioned in the manuscript. "In contrast to other systems in the body, nervous system functions are unique in that all the higher brain functions are first-person properties of the mind." Not true. There is a whole group of allocentric systems in the brain, the hippocampus and a number of temporal lobe areas. Extract from Introduction: "First-person reports of these sensations through motor activity such as behaviour and speech provide surrogate markers to the third-person observers. Currently, clinical evaluation of neurological and psychiatric diseases is based on assessing the first-person reporting and third-person observed findings. This severely limits our understanding of a) internal sensations in non-responsive patients, b) defects in the mechanism of formation of the internal sensation of memory, and c) the compelling sense of reality of hallucinations in psychiatric disorders." These are not factors that inherently limit our understanding. We all know what hallucinations mean. Mentally healthy people are able to communicate with a certain degree of clarity their internal states and the listeners are able to relate to them. The locked-in syndrome is a different issue, which requires special methods to establish communication. We are also able to communicate our introspection by descriptions. For example, pain scales, memory tests, and tests of awareness are widely used in clinical practice. In contrast there is a much bigger communication barrier between animal species and humans preventing from obtaining first-person accounts that IS an inherent limitation of interpreting data from animal models, such as "fear" and "anxiety" for example. Because the motivation of the whole paper hinges on the quoted arguments and they are weak, they are unable to support the rest of the paper. Notably, first-person reports are not at all alien to science. Sigmund Freud's legacy and specifically the psychoanalytic method are fundamentally based on first-person reporting and reference for interpretation. A method, which is often criticized (see for instance by Karl Popper) as lacking of scientific rigor, and more so because of the psychoanalytic reasoning is theoretically unfalsifiable. Other methods of self reports and introspection were always part of scientific resources, from the ancient Greek thinkers to contemporary psychophysics and still are important components of clinical case studies. Nevertheless, consolidation of first-person ontology with third-person objectivity have been initiated by a number of scholars, for example Francisco Varela (Shear and Jonathan 1999), Josephson (Josephson 1996), and Daniel Dennett in his Heterophenomenology (D. C. Dennett 2001). Dennett noted: "heterophenomenology is nothing new; it is nothing other than the method that has been used by psychophysicists, cognitive psychologists, clinical neuropsychologists, and just about everybody who has ever purported to study human consciousness in a serious, scientific way." (D. C. (. C. Dennett 1991). Moreover, Dennett writes in Consciousness Explained, "I described a method, heterophenomenology, which was explicitly designed to be the neutral path leading from objective physical science and its insistence on the third-person point of view, to a method of phenomenological description that can (in principle) do justice to the most private and ineffable subjective experiences, while never abandoning the methodological principles of science." (CE, p72.) Still in Introduction: "..., almost all the current approaches use third-person observed findings at various levels4 in correlational studies with surrogate makers of biochemical changes, neuronal activations, oscillating potentials, signal changes in imaging studies, and behavioural responses to connect with the first-person properties." Not at all. A number of those changes (biochemical changes, neuronal activation, oscillating potentials) never reach first-person quality and remain unconscious to the agent. Nobody feels the activity of a place cell firing in his/her hippocampus. Nevertheless, we know where we are at in an environment. The electrophysiological and neurochemical processes underlying the creation of representations and their readouts that may generate a first-person ontology are different entities, which are confused here. "Emergence can be adopted as a framework to study properties that cannot be explained using the third-person-observed features of the system." Again, "emergence", a subject of a number of scientific investigations, one for instance in nonlinear dynamics, provided numerous insights and rigorous formalism, which comply well with third-person ("agent agnostic") observations. In "Converting first-person sensations to third-person features" . Quoting: "Recent research work is attempting to overcome this barrier by approaching higher brain functions from a first-person frame of reference" is a misrepresentation. A number of disciplines with long established history are devoted to study first-person frame of references. Classical psychophysics, research on episodic memories, consciousness, neuroeconomics, studies of decision-making and consumer behavior are all rely on first-person perspectives and first-person reporting. After I argued that there is nothing new about first-person methods, I turn to the second aspect, the ontology of first-person reference. B) First-person ontology The separation and integration of first-person and third-person experience in a single brain derives from the duality of two systems: an allocentric (hippocampus) and egocentric system (parietal/occipital lobe/basal ganglia). The integration of information deriving from these two systems inside the brain is an intriguing question and a subject of active research. Nevertheless, according to a common working hypothesis, the third-person (allocentric reference) derives from the first-person (egocentric reference) experience. Hence the challenge is not how to explain the first-person experience, since sensory input is genuinely addressed in a first-person coordinates, but rather how does the brain arrive to the third-person (allocentric) representations from the first-person data. To bring an even more banal example, autonomous cars today use a navigation system, which converts first-person referenced information through cameras and the car's radar system to third-person information (map, distances of objects, movement of other objects on the map) and then converts it back to first-person instructions to change the speed and direction of the vehicle. No magic, no emergence, no need to change strategy in science just straightforward yet brilliant engineering. "Focal points of emergence" this chapter is eluding to the idea that dendritic spikes are utilized to form sources of first-person ontology. The assumption that subthreshold postsynaptic activity does not have a contribution to the neuronal signal processing is incorrect. Although these subthreshold events may fail to elicit action potentials (by definition), their contribution to the membrane potential oscillation that affects the integration of subsequent EPSPs in the same neuron is undeniable. Therefore, these subthreshold events are not merely a waste of energy waiting for a function to support. Even if their role is still elusive, nothing implies that they play a specific role in conveying "first-person" modality of information. Hence the answer to the question "At what focal points in the nervous system do the units of internal sensations emerge?" does not make sense, because "internal sensations" are unlikely to be caused by mechanisms different from external sensations, but instead they are pathway dependent. Moreover, the same question "At what focal points in the nervous system do the units of internal sensations emerge?" implies yet another confusion. "Internal sensations" and first-person ontology are not the same. "Internal sensation" is not a term, introduced by the author's earlier paper ( "The nature of “internal sensations” of higher brain functions may be derived from the design rules for artificial machines that can produce them" (Vadakkan 2012)). The closest interpretation of it is "interoception", which are sensations deriving from inside the body. However, based on the context the author uses "internal sensation" as a sensory stimulus with a first-person quality. Most sensory, except interoception, are reporting third-person qualities. A color of an object in my visual field is rarely interpreted as first-person experience, it is a feature attributed to an object, regardless I am looking at the abject or I am not. When the first-person quality of sensory input is concerned, arguably, conscious perception emerges at the level between the primary and secondary sensory cortical areas in the mammalian brain. The exact location and mechanism of the "conscious quality" are still argued (Koch 2004). Even though our consciousness has a first-person ontology, not all higher brain functions are first-person experiences. To give a few examples, declarative memory is lacking first-person ontology. Also, hippocampus-dependent spatial memory transforms egocentric sensory information into allocentric or object-centered coordinate systems. Following up on the dorsal visual stream, we see the sensory information progressively being transformed to an allocentric coordinate system as information become increasingly independent of the sensory data source and also invariant of the position of sensory data acquisition. Hence, higher brain functions do not require first-person perspective. Because first person experiences are phenomenologically inaccessible without making them third-person experiences, they can only be simulated by another person. Simulation, however, does not equal understanding. Conveying first-person experiences is not necessarily the function of science. It is more suitable to Art. The systematic studying of the origin of first-person experience is the subject of consciousness research and it is referred as the "hard-problem" of consciousness (Chalmers 1995) or "Qualia" . The history of psychology and neuroscience provides great examples such as the Weber-Fechner's law (and related Stevens' power law) how physical magnitude of the stimulus translates to sensation. The law will never reproduce the sensation but describes the phenomenon. Next is "The first step is the theoretical derivation of the basic functional units of the system at the correct level that is also connected to the motor system, which can explain all the higher brain functions along with behavioral motor activity." This is also called modeling. Indeed, since Turing, our proof of understanding relies on conceptual or quantitative or physical realization of models. Again, nothing new is here. In summary, the description of first-person experience in Neuroscience is only relevant when addressing consciousness and methodology follows the same as any other subject, modeling and reverse engineering (see next). "The Gold Standard" : I don't see any innovative approach here. We neuroscientists consciously or by intuition follow Allan Turing's legacy and method of understanding brain functions in terms of modeling them by machines that are able to reproduce those functions and essentially capable of learning from experience. Such an autonomous systems at certain point may generate internal representations that may have a first-person quality as it achieves the capacity of detaching itself from the observed world (have a concept of 'self') and also able to correctly reference (localize) those representations as its own (the Cartesian criterion of consciousness). "Major Hurdles" : The statements "Since the mechanism of the nervous system functions has not discovered yet, it is understandable that a novel approach is required" is overly general and meaningless. It does not imply the next sentence: "Changing the frame of reference from which to examine the higher brain functions suits such an anticipation." . Why would changing of the reference suddenly explain the function of the nervous system, if that was not obvious from an objective (third-person) point of reference? The "fear of discovering the operations of the mind" and the "growing concern about ‘the Singularity’" are popular concepts that are fun to entertain, but lacking substance. If I can afford a "first-person" comment, in light of recent political events, we seem to way overestimate the collective human intelligence, which is unable to cope with burning issues such as social injustice and terrorism, religious fanaticism, global environmental catastrophe, etc., relative to which the fear of AI turning against humanity is irrelevant. Humanity needs to defend itself from itself. In the "In Conclusions" section the author lists a bunch of disconnected ideas such as "low-level species produce intentionality to carry out survival and reproductive instincts" and "[first-person intelligent systems will] provide methods to prevent climate change" and "first-person properties will have similarities to the development of complex numbers in mathematics" . These predictions are overly ambitious and unsubstantiated while also lacking any references. First-person view is also an interpreted view as much as third-person referenced information. Every measurement is affected by the imprecision of the measuring device. Take for an example sensory transmission. The brain has to compensate for the delay of the information transfer, such as conduction delays relative to the onset of events. Libet showed that this indeed the case and introduced the term of "subjective referral" (Libet et al. 1979). Hence, not even the first-person point of view is reliable. We needed a third-person point of view (the observer reading the clock in Libet's experiment) to show its imprecision. The notion raises a question, isn't the first-person point of view just a construct? If it is, then how is it different from a third-person reference? I return to the question again: How would it help to have first-person point of view? What problem would it solve that could not be solved by third-person point of view ? Lastly, the author fails to give us an example for what information may first-person reference provide that the third-person reference cannot. I do not see any symmetry breaking between first-person vs. third-person reference frames. Since we are sharing the same universe instead of each of us encompassing his/her own private universe, using an outside reference is more parsimonious than taking only a first-person perspectives. While the question of how the brain acquires first-person view remains to be a challenging one (not the subject of this manuscript), the author failed to convince the reader that methods of studying the underlying mechanisms need a fundamental revision. If I seriously misunderstood the author's position, I am open to follow up on a discussion and revise my opinion . In summary, the first-person frame of reference is not novel, and the article fails to provide examples of new insights deriving from this approach. Last remark: If the author claims that both point of views are useful for grasping the complexity and multifaceted human mind I must agree, however it is not clear whether the author suggests to switch completely to the first-person reference frame. References 1. Chalmers D.J: Facing up to the problem of consciousness. Journal of consciousness studies . 1995; 2 (3): 200-219 Publisher Full Text 2. Dennett D.C: Consciousness explained. Boston, MA: Little Brown . 1991. 3. Dennett D.C: The fantasy of first-person science. 2001. 4. Josephson B.D: First-Person Experience and the Scientific Exploration of Consciousness. In Biomedical and Life Physics . 1996. 383-389 Publisher Full Text 5. Koch C.: The Quest for Consciousness: A Neurobiological Approach. Roberts and Company Publishers . 2004. 6. Libet B, Wright EW, Feinstein B, Pearl DK: Subjective referral of the timing for a conscious sensory experience: a functional role for the somatosensory specific projection system in man. Brain . 1979; 102 (1): 193-224 PubMed Abstract 7. Varela F.J., Shear, J.: First-person methodologies: What, why, how. Journal of Consciousness studies . 1999; 6 (2-3): 1-14 Publisher Full Text 8. Vadakkan K.I.: The nature of “internal sensations” of higher brain functions may be derived from the design rules for artificial machines that can produce them. Journal of biological engineering . 2012; 6 (1): 1 Publisher Full Text 9. Von Baeyer H.C.: The Fermi solution : essays on science. Dover Publications . 2001. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Nadasdy Z. Reviewer Report For: The necessity for the observer to examine the system from a first-person frame of reference to trace the path of generation of inner sensations [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :173 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7218.r18244 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-173/v1#referee-response-18244 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 25 Jan 2017 Kunjumon Vadakkan , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada 25 Jan 2017 Author Response I thank Dr. Zoltan Nadasdy for his comments. I understand that I didn’t provide the logical arguments well in the initial manuscript. Explaining the need for a frame change ... Continue reading I thank Dr. Zoltan Nadasdy for his comments. I understand that I didn’t provide the logical arguments well in the initial manuscript. Explaining the need for a frame change made it difficult. I have rewritten the article to explain the necessity for examining the system from a first-person frame of reference. I have provided additional references to the first-person methods of previous investigators. I find that there was a confusion between a) the work by previous investigators who used first-person reporting of the inner sensations and b) the subject of the present work that explains the need for making a first-person approach to understand the mechanism of generation of first-person inner sensations. The first-person methods used in the past relied on behavioral expression of the contents of the inner sensations in the form of language. The results of those approaches have not helped us to derive a cellular level mechanism that generates the first-person inner sensations for solving the system. I have explained why the observer has to undertake an examination from the first-person frame of reference at the cellular-level to derive the qualia of the sensory content of the internal sensations. The first-person inner sensations of different higher brain functions such as perception and memory are not accessible by third-person approaches, making it difficult to understand the operations of the nervous system. The seriousness of this will become very clear when we keep a gold standard of replication of the mechanism in an engineered system as the criteria for understanding the system. It can be initiated by asking the question “What properties should be present in a synaptically-connected nervous system to generate internal sensations when replicated in an engineered system?” This immediately provokes one to examine the system operations for the locations, systems conditions and mechanism for the generation of internal sensations. It is expected that learning induces signature changes from which internal sensations are generated. By keeping all the constraints, a search for the locations and the conditions where the cue stimulus can induce internal sensations can be carried out. Under appropriate conditions, the mechanism at an optimal location is expected to make an approach “from within” the system to sense the qualia of the retrieved memories. This is expected to involve a retrograde search from the optimal locations towards the sensory receptors for sensing the sensory stimuli that can activate those receptors. In other words, the cue stimulus reaches at the locations where learning has made changes and reactivates the system to make a first-person approach towards the sensory receptor level to sense the sensory qualities of the stimuli required to activate those receptors. The observer who would like to trace the above path has to follow the same path, which will constitute the examination from a first-person frame of reference. No previous first-person studies have undertaken this novel approach. I have kept strict criteria for the verification of the above mechanism by adhering to the acceptable scientific standards. The derived mechanism should be able to make predictions that can be verified. Different nervous systems can be examined for comparable circuitries. By keeping the gold standard of replicating the mechanism in engineered systems, the investigations can focus directly on the problem. As the reviewer pointed out, current measurements in physics are being carried out without taking into account the observing subject. Both Ervin Schrdinger and Niels Bohr knew about it very well and they have mentioned it in their papers (1, 2). Recent attempts to incorporate the subject in the measurements (3) is a clear example of the need for understanding perception. In this context, knowing how the nervous system is making subjective assessment through the formation of first-person inner sensations is of great importance. The division of the human brain functions into allocentric and egocentric was made at a time when only one option of third-person observations was available. The current work introduces the option to make a first-person examination of the system for its operations. In this context, we need to take a fresh look at the system. Once the basic principle is discovered, the reasons for differences in the function at different locations can be determined. For example, the hippocampus has new granule neuron formation, which will continuously alter the circuitry at the higher neuronal orders above the level of the granule neurons. The effect of this on the first-person qualia generated at specific locations in the brain circuitry can be examined for details. Reviewer has pointed out that my opinion article has concluded that the current methods of studying the underlying mechanisms need a fundamental revision. Even though, I want to remain modest, I would like to face the reality. The severe difficulties for discovering how first-person properties are generated within the system indicates that some major revision will be required at some level to find the solution. Large amount of data has already been collected by examining different nervous systems from different levels. This will allow for rigorous testing of any newly derived operational mechanism. I have to admit that both the third-person observations and examination from the first-person frame of reference are required for grasping the human mind. For instance, this opinion article has used third-person observations made by investigators from a large number of laboratories to derive a feasible mechanism for the generation of first-person inner sensations. However, examination of the system from a first-person frame of reference will be a necessary step at some point during the investigation. References E. Schrdinger. Eine Entdeckung von ganz ausserordentlicher Tragweite, ed. von Meyenn K 490 Springer (2011). N. Bohr. Atomic Theory and the description of human knowledge. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. pp. 17-18 (1934). Physics: QBism puts the scientist back into science. Nature. 507:421-423 (2014). I thank Dr. Zoltan Nadasdy for his comments. I understand that I didn’t provide the logical arguments well in the initial manuscript. Explaining the need for a frame change made it difficult. I have rewritten the article to explain the necessity for examining the system from a first-person frame of reference. I have provided additional references to the first-person methods of previous investigators. I find that there was a confusion between a) the work by previous investigators who used first-person reporting of the inner sensations and b) the subject of the present work that explains the need for making a first-person approach to understand the mechanism of generation of first-person inner sensations. The first-person methods used in the past relied on behavioral expression of the contents of the inner sensations in the form of language. The results of those approaches have not helped us to derive a cellular level mechanism that generates the first-person inner sensations for solving the system. I have explained why the observer has to undertake an examination from the first-person frame of reference at the cellular-level to derive the qualia of the sensory content of the internal sensations. The first-person inner sensations of different higher brain functions such as perception and memory are not accessible by third-person approaches, making it difficult to understand the operations of the nervous system. The seriousness of this will become very clear when we keep a gold standard of replication of the mechanism in an engineered system as the criteria for understanding the system. It can be initiated by asking the question “What properties should be present in a synaptically-connected nervous system to generate internal sensations when replicated in an engineered system?” This immediately provokes one to examine the system operations for the locations, systems conditions and mechanism for the generation of internal sensations. It is expected that learning induces signature changes from which internal sensations are generated. By keeping all the constraints, a search for the locations and the conditions where the cue stimulus can induce internal sensations can be carried out. Under appropriate conditions, the mechanism at an optimal location is expected to make an approach “from within” the system to sense the qualia of the retrieved memories. This is expected to involve a retrograde search from the optimal locations towards the sensory receptors for sensing the sensory stimuli that can activate those receptors. In other words, the cue stimulus reaches at the locations where learning has made changes and reactivates the system to make a first-person approach towards the sensory receptor level to sense the sensory qualities of the stimuli required to activate those receptors. The observer who would like to trace the above path has to follow the same path, which will constitute the examination from a first-person frame of reference. No previous first-person studies have undertaken this novel approach. I have kept strict criteria for the verification of the above mechanism by adhering to the acceptable scientific standards. The derived mechanism should be able to make predictions that can be verified. Different nervous systems can be examined for comparable circuitries. By keeping the gold standard of replicating the mechanism in engineered systems, the investigations can focus directly on the problem. As the reviewer pointed out, current measurements in physics are being carried out without taking into account the observing subject. Both Ervin Schrdinger and Niels Bohr knew about it very well and they have mentioned it in their papers (1, 2). Recent attempts to incorporate the subject in the measurements (3) is a clear example of the need for understanding perception. In this context, knowing how the nervous system is making subjective assessment through the formation of first-person inner sensations is of great importance. The division of the human brain functions into allocentric and egocentric was made at a time when only one option of third-person observations was available. The current work introduces the option to make a first-person examination of the system for its operations. In this context, we need to take a fresh look at the system. Once the basic principle is discovered, the reasons for differences in the function at different locations can be determined. For example, the hippocampus has new granule neuron formation, which will continuously alter the circuitry at the higher neuronal orders above the level of the granule neurons. The effect of this on the first-person qualia generated at specific locations in the brain circuitry can be examined for details. Reviewer has pointed out that my opinion article has concluded that the current methods of studying the underlying mechanisms need a fundamental revision. Even though, I want to remain modest, I would like to face the reality. The severe difficulties for discovering how first-person properties are generated within the system indicates that some major revision will be required at some level to find the solution. Large amount of data has already been collected by examining different nervous systems from different levels. This will allow for rigorous testing of any newly derived operational mechanism. I have to admit that both the third-person observations and examination from the first-person frame of reference are required for grasping the human mind. For instance, this opinion article has used third-person observations made by investigators from a large number of laboratories to derive a feasible mechanism for the generation of first-person inner sensations. However, examination of the system from a first-person frame of reference will be a necessary step at some point during the investigation. References E. Schrdinger. Eine Entdeckung von ganz ausserordentlicher Tragweite, ed. von Meyenn K 490 Springer (2011). N. Bohr. Atomic Theory and the description of human knowledge. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. pp. 17-18 (1934). Physics: QBism puts the scientist back into science. Nature. 507:421-423 (2014). Competing Interests: U.S. patent number 9477924 pertains to an electronic circuit model of the inter-postsynaptic functional LINK. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 25 Jan 2017 Kunjumon Vadakkan , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada 25 Jan 2017 Author Response I thank Dr. Zoltan Nadasdy for his comments. I understand that I didn’t provide the logical arguments well in the initial manuscript. Explaining the need for a frame change ... Continue reading I thank Dr. Zoltan Nadasdy for his comments. I understand that I didn’t provide the logical arguments well in the initial manuscript. Explaining the need for a frame change made it difficult. I have rewritten the article to explain the necessity for examining the system from a first-person frame of reference. I have provided additional references to the first-person methods of previous investigators. I find that there was a confusion between a) the work by previous investigators who used first-person reporting of the inner sensations and b) the subject of the present work that explains the need for making a first-person approach to understand the mechanism of generation of first-person inner sensations. The first-person methods used in the past relied on behavioral expression of the contents of the inner sensations in the form of language. The results of those approaches have not helped us to derive a cellular level mechanism that generates the first-person inner sensations for solving the system. I have explained why the observer has to undertake an examination from the first-person frame of reference at the cellular-level to derive the qualia of the sensory content of the internal sensations. The first-person inner sensations of different higher brain functions such as perception and memory are not accessible by third-person approaches, making it difficult to understand the operations of the nervous system. The seriousness of this will become very clear when we keep a gold standard of replication of the mechanism in an engineered system as the criteria for understanding the system. It can be initiated by asking the question “What properties should be present in a synaptically-connected nervous system to generate internal sensations when replicated in an engineered system?” This immediately provokes one to examine the system operations for the locations, systems conditions and mechanism for the generation of internal sensations. It is expected that learning induces signature changes from which internal sensations are generated. By keeping all the constraints, a search for the locations and the conditions where the cue stimulus can induce internal sensations can be carried out. Under appropriate conditions, the mechanism at an optimal location is expected to make an approach “from within” the system to sense the qualia of the retrieved memories. This is expected to involve a retrograde search from the optimal locations towards the sensory receptors for sensing the sensory stimuli that can activate those receptors. In other words, the cue stimulus reaches at the locations where learning has made changes and reactivates the system to make a first-person approach towards the sensory receptor level to sense the sensory qualities of the stimuli required to activate those receptors. The observer who would like to trace the above path has to follow the same path, which will constitute the examination from a first-person frame of reference. No previous first-person studies have undertaken this novel approach. I have kept strict criteria for the verification of the above mechanism by adhering to the acceptable scientific standards. The derived mechanism should be able to make predictions that can be verified. Different nervous systems can be examined for comparable circuitries. By keeping the gold standard of replicating the mechanism in engineered systems, the investigations can focus directly on the problem. As the reviewer pointed out, current measurements in physics are being carried out without taking into account the observing subject. Both Ervin Schrdinger and Niels Bohr knew about it very well and they have mentioned it in their papers (1, 2). Recent attempts to incorporate the subject in the measurements (3) is a clear example of the need for understanding perception. In this context, knowing how the nervous system is making subjective assessment through the formation of first-person inner sensations is of great importance. The division of the human brain functions into allocentric and egocentric was made at a time when only one option of third-person observations was available. The current work introduces the option to make a first-person examination of the system for its operations. In this context, we need to take a fresh look at the system. Once the basic principle is discovered, the reasons for differences in the function at different locations can be determined. For example, the hippocampus has new granule neuron formation, which will continuously alter the circuitry at the higher neuronal orders above the level of the granule neurons. The effect of this on the first-person qualia generated at specific locations in the brain circuitry can be examined for details. Reviewer has pointed out that my opinion article has concluded that the current methods of studying the underlying mechanisms need a fundamental revision. Even though, I want to remain modest, I would like to face the reality. The severe difficulties for discovering how first-person properties are generated within the system indicates that some major revision will be required at some level to find the solution. Large amount of data has already been collected by examining different nervous systems from different levels. This will allow for rigorous testing of any newly derived operational mechanism. I have to admit that both the third-person observations and examination from the first-person frame of reference are required for grasping the human mind. For instance, this opinion article has used third-person observations made by investigators from a large number of laboratories to derive a feasible mechanism for the generation of first-person inner sensations. However, examination of the system from a first-person frame of reference will be a necessary step at some point during the investigation. References E. Schrdinger. Eine Entdeckung von ganz ausserordentlicher Tragweite, ed. von Meyenn K 490 Springer (2011). N. Bohr. Atomic Theory and the description of human knowledge. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. pp. 17-18 (1934). Physics: QBism puts the scientist back into science. Nature. 507:421-423 (2014). I thank Dr. Zoltan Nadasdy for his comments. I understand that I didn’t provide the logical arguments well in the initial manuscript. Explaining the need for a frame change made it difficult. I have rewritten the article to explain the necessity for examining the system from a first-person frame of reference. I have provided additional references to the first-person methods of previous investigators. I find that there was a confusion between a) the work by previous investigators who used first-person reporting of the inner sensations and b) the subject of the present work that explains the need for making a first-person approach to understand the mechanism of generation of first-person inner sensations. The first-person methods used in the past relied on behavioral expression of the contents of the inner sensations in the form of language. The results of those approaches have not helped us to derive a cellular level mechanism that generates the first-person inner sensations for solving the system. I have explained why the observer has to undertake an examination from the first-person frame of reference at the cellular-level to derive the qualia of the sensory content of the internal sensations. The first-person inner sensations of different higher brain functions such as perception and memory are not accessible by third-person approaches, making it difficult to understand the operations of the nervous system. The seriousness of this will become very clear when we keep a gold standard of replication of the mechanism in an engineered system as the criteria for understanding the system. It can be initiated by asking the question “What properties should be present in a synaptically-connected nervous system to generate internal sensations when replicated in an engineered system?” This immediately provokes one to examine the system operations for the locations, systems conditions and mechanism for the generation of internal sensations. It is expected that learning induces signature changes from which internal sensations are generated. By keeping all the constraints, a search for the locations and the conditions where the cue stimulus can induce internal sensations can be carried out. Under appropriate conditions, the mechanism at an optimal location is expected to make an approach “from within” the system to sense the qualia of the retrieved memories. This is expected to involve a retrograde search from the optimal locations towards the sensory receptors for sensing the sensory stimuli that can activate those receptors. In other words, the cue stimulus reaches at the locations where learning has made changes and reactivates the system to make a first-person approach towards the sensory receptor level to sense the sensory qualities of the stimuli required to activate those receptors. The observer who would like to trace the above path has to follow the same path, which will constitute the examination from a first-person frame of reference. No previous first-person studies have undertaken this novel approach. I have kept strict criteria for the verification of the above mechanism by adhering to the acceptable scientific standards. The derived mechanism should be able to make predictions that can be verified. Different nervous systems can be examined for comparable circuitries. By keeping the gold standard of replicating the mechanism in engineered systems, the investigations can focus directly on the problem. As the reviewer pointed out, current measurements in physics are being carried out without taking into account the observing subject. Both Ervin Schrdinger and Niels Bohr knew about it very well and they have mentioned it in their papers (1, 2). Recent attempts to incorporate the subject in the measurements (3) is a clear example of the need for understanding perception. In this context, knowing how the nervous system is making subjective assessment through the formation of first-person inner sensations is of great importance. The division of the human brain functions into allocentric and egocentric was made at a time when only one option of third-person observations was available. The current work introduces the option to make a first-person examination of the system for its operations. In this context, we need to take a fresh look at the system. Once the basic principle is discovered, the reasons for differences in the function at different locations can be determined. For example, the hippocampus has new granule neuron formation, which will continuously alter the circuitry at the higher neuronal orders above the level of the granule neurons. The effect of this on the first-person qualia generated at specific locations in the brain circuitry can be examined for details. Reviewer has pointed out that my opinion article has concluded that the current methods of studying the underlying mechanisms need a fundamental revision. Even though, I want to remain modest, I would like to face the reality. The severe difficulties for discovering how first-person properties are generated within the system indicates that some major revision will be required at some level to find the solution. Large amount of data has already been collected by examining different nervous systems from different levels. This will allow for rigorous testing of any newly derived operational mechanism. I have to admit that both the third-person observations and examination from the first-person frame of reference are required for grasping the human mind. For instance, this opinion article has used third-person observations made by investigators from a large number of laboratories to derive a feasible mechanism for the generation of first-person inner sensations. However, examination of the system from a first-person frame of reference will be a necessary step at some point during the investigation. References E. Schrdinger. Eine Entdeckung von ganz ausserordentlicher Tragweite, ed. von Meyenn K 490 Springer (2011). N. Bohr. Atomic Theory and the description of human knowledge. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. pp. 17-18 (1934). Physics: QBism puts the scientist back into science. Nature. 507:421-423 (2014). Competing Interests: U.S. patent number 9477924 pertains to an electronic circuit model of the inter-postsynaptic functional LINK. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Shifu X. Reviewer Report For: The necessity for the observer to examine the system from a first-person frame of reference to trace the path of generation of inner sensations [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :173 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7218.r12536 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-173/v1#referee-response-12536 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 18 Feb 2016 Xiao Shifu , Alzheimer’s Diagnosis and Treatment Centre, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200030, China Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7218.r12536 This article impressed me. I personally respect the thinking of the author on researches. Referring to mathematics, neuroscience, the systems science, biological systems, evolutionary biology, comparative physiology and artificial intelligence, the author has an open mind and provides us a ... Continue reading READ ALL 