The authors provide a detailed guide to reproduce an in vitro tissue model of the bovine air-blood barrier, that consists out of bovine pulmonary arterial endothelial cells in co-culture with one out of two different immortalized bovine alveolar epithelial cell lines. The introduction puts the experiments in a concise but at the same well explained scientific context. The methods section is easy to follow and should allow for the reproduction of the presented model, although it could profit from some revisions: The diameter (mm) of all used Transwell growth supports should be exchanged by the growth area (cm) to easily identify the growth area. Measurement of cell layer integrity: It is unclear if pre-warmed medium was used to restore submerged conditions and then TEER was measured after 15 min of equilibration. In our case submerged conditions are restored by adding 200 l apical and 600 l basolateral (in case of 0.33 cm inserts) of pre-warmed (37C) medium to the ALI cultures. TEER values are then measured after at least 1 h of equilibration. The TEER measurement is performed on a heating plate (37C), to prevent a fast temperature drop. Although a detailed overview of possible applications for this model to aid the 3R’s in future research is given be authors, the conclusions drawn from the displayed often appear not to be justified based on the data presented. This especially accounts for the results as well as the discussion section. The scientific benefits claimed in the “Research Highlights” appear to be exaggerated and are not based on the actually provided data. Results section: In accordance with the comments of Pietro Mastroeni, a scientific discussion of the selected markers is missing. Inspiration for discussion could be taken from references 1 1 and 2 2 . Figure 6 A and B clearly show different magnifications Figure 6 C and D show the formation of multilayered epithelia and are not further discussed. BPAEC in Figure 7 A looks as the same as in Figure 7 B. Is it the same? Maybe combine into one figure. Discussion section: The model is termed a “bilayer” of epithelial and endothelial cells. As shown in Figure 6 C and D, the BAT II culture shows the formation of multiple stacked layers, the B2AE culture at least more than two layers. This issue is not properly mentioned in the discussion. The development of TEER values greater than 1000 Ohm*cm for the BATII cells, could be explained by the increased resistance of paracellular flux based on the formation of functional tight junctions within a monolayer (as expected in vivo) or by an increase in resistance through the formation of multilayers. The formation of functional tight junctional complexes was in this study only indicated via TEER measurement and reduction of dextran permeability; immunohistochemistry or transcriptomic data are missing. Given the context of the massive multilayer formation shown in Fig. 6 C for the BATII culture, the missing information on tight junctional integrity would at least need a thorough discussion. The authors appear to be completely unaware of some quite relevant scientific work by other groups in the context of primary rat or human alveolar epithelial cells, resp. (See references 3 3 and 4 4 ) In the context of human alveolar epithelial cell lines the work of Tetley et al. 5 Kuehn et al. 6 should be considered. The same is true for the work as regards co-cultures of alveolar epithelial cells and immune cells by Rothen-Rutishauser et al. 7 Hittinger et al. 8 Kletting et. al. 9 . A very recent paper by Costa et al. 10 describes a co-culture of human alveolar epithelial cells, endothelial cells and macrophages. The whole discussion could benefit of an even more critical reflection of the advantages as well as disadvantages of the proposed model. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 