I read with great interest the above titled article. However, there are major problems in the submitted manuscript. Abstract: under background. State that you are searching the top-cited articles (rather than determine …of the published materials and research endeavors on the topic of refugees. Add the rationale of the study, and your research question instead of the long background. Abstract: Method: only stated in 2 lines. You need to add the search words used and how the study was designed and implemented. Focus on important key issues. Results: Results. Is the 203 is the mean? Add the IQR. Needs to be organized. The last sentence in results could be stated earlier Abstract conclusions: Is the research about “conditions” of refugees? Correct grammatical errors. It should be strengthened and linked with the overall concept of refugees included in the study. Introduction: The first two paragraphs should be written in a way that reflects the purpose of searching top-100 cited articles on refugees. Item (i) for example and others, in the third paragraph are not fitted with the purpose of this study. Introduction: The fourth paragraph should include the rationale of the study, why this study is needed, and the research questions. Methods: Explain why the Web of Science was selected as the search engine rather than Scopus or others. “Methods: Top line in the second column: What are these “All Databases”? I thought you are using Web of Science only, as stated, please explain and amend. The method on top cited articles has been described by Azer SA 2015,2016,2017, and Azer SA and Azer S 2016,2018 and the research of Lin CL in this area. You should acknowledge earlier research in the field of bibliometrics. The search was conducted in June 2016 over 2 years ago. The citation numbers and possible some articles are not among top 100. For example, the first article by Bery JW stated to be cited 1493 times, which current check of the Web of Science by the reviewer showed a total citation of 2,355. Higher by 862. Other changes have been noticed in other articles number of citations. Please review and update your work. Again the items or parameters of search of articles have been described earlier in Azer’s research . It is not clear if the authors included research articles, reviews, articles, letters to the editors, commentaries, editorials, monographs, or limited their findings on original research? The authors must include inclusion and exclusion criteria. Table 1: the title started “research areas”, again, where these all research articles? I doubt. Please be specific. Which of these were research, and which were articles, or reviews or…. These categories should be defined. I suggest that all the top-cited articles should be cited to the reference list of the manuscript. Also add the reference numbers in the Table for each category rather than giving the number of articles only. Results: Is this a catalog of the 100-most cited, or an appendix or a table summarizing the top-cited articles. Include them as references (12-111) and add them to the list of references, if possible. Study design: The title should be under methods rather than under results. How did you agree on research or article or commentary etc.? How these results were reached? Explain this under methods. Did you measure the inter-rater agreement? Figure 1: Is redundant. Not clear why the authors are measuring Core collection vs all databases? Figure 1 shows no differences across all categories. Should be omitted. All databases is fine. Journals: could be listed in a table, and the references numbers added in the second column. The subtitle: “Authors, fields of affiliations, etc.: is too crowded and not clearly written. Figure 4: Not clear. The yellow colour is making it difficult to read. Figure 6 could be omitted or included as a column with the table suggested for journals under item 16. Discussion needs to be strengthened and discussed against other important studies in the literature. Why the year 2004 had a higher number of cited publications. You need to explain in regard to historical events, topics raised in these articles, and the meaning of the findings, rather than the numbers. Conclusions should be strengthened. Figure 7 not needed. Please omit. References: add the references in the table (12-111). examples of citations to read: Azer et al, 2016 1 , Azer et al, 2016 2 ; Azer et al, 2017 3 ; Azer et al, 2018 4 