As the author has responded to my review in a comment, I will format this review of the revised version as a response to her comment. Dear Corina, thank you for taking the time to read, digest and look into my undoubtedly rather strong criticism. I tried to be as professional, constructive and objective as I could, despite the passion I feel for this topic. I am aware these criticisms are hard, but I have brought the best arguments I could muster to explain why I think this approach is wrong. We are clearly on the same side, we both want to change scholarship for the better. However, while good intentions are what unites our approaches, the consequences will be what distinguishes them. Experience and evidence lead me to believe the consequences of your approach will probably not match your noble intentions. Already in the first version, one could clearly see your motivation in writing this article - it is nearly identical to mine now more than 10 years ago: if only we could convince all our colleagues to do things differently, the world would be a better place. While it is obvious that you have researched further and directly tackled many of my comments, I regret to say that overall the main thrust of the article appears to me now to be even more misguided than before. By focusing on ethics more and even less on prestige, you drift even further away from people's actual motivations into wishful thinking than in the previous version. So many of our colleagues already are conflicted between looking for prestige and looking for readership - career and scholarship are already not easy to reconcile. Now, on top of that, you're also trying to give them a bad conscience for being forced to behave, as you spell it out, unethically if they care for their families. I'm still far from convinced that it is a winning strategy to shame people into risking their careers and livelihoods, by telling them they behave unethically if they don't: https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/living-single/201506/11-reasons-never-shame-anyone As a behavioral biologist I must say I find this approach to changing the behavior of 7 million colleagues rather questionable, to say the least. Do what you feel you must do, but I am now actually less convinced than before that disregarding the elephant in the room which is the actual root cause of the problem and instead coming up with some psychologically highly dubious attempt at convincing people to act against their own self-interest will get us anywhere other than hell (figuratively speaking). Either way, while I have tried to provide the best arguments I could come up with as to why I find that your approach is wrong-headed on several levels, I obviously can’t claim to be the sole purveyor of truth. People have different opinions and this is an opinion piece after all. As everyone else, you are entitled to yours. From my perspective, in terms of bare scholarly necessities, this article now passes the lowest bar of at least citing the most relevant literature. I still find that it misses some much more important aspects of the problem and merely repeats decade-old statements that have been repeated in the literature over and over again ad nauseam, to no real effect. It also fails to even attempt to explain how your approach extends or improves on the ineffective strategies of the past decades. Obviously, none of my arguments appear to have any effect, so in this report I’ll click on “approve” despite my opposition. In a likely futile last ditch effort, I've picked a few things in your reply I felt compelled to comment on: "One confusing aspect of version 1 was that I phrased the aim of my paper as changing the incentive structure" Personally, I never felt confused and never read the article the way you allude to. To me, your article just read as "I know your livelihood depends on publishing in these journals, but shame on you for putting your family before science!" The new version does so now even more than the previous version. "The focus of my paper is to explain how the current publishing landscape works because this is what researchers always find surprising when I give this paper as a talk." You are probably right in that there are now hundreds of articles spread over all fields with largely identical content to yours published over the last 20+ years and people still don't know these things. What does this tell you about the effectiveness of writing such articles? Kudos for not giving up and believing that your article can succeed where hundreds before have failed. "If researchers align their publishing choices with ethical publishing practices, then academic culture changes. We can all easily change our values and actions right now." Where have I heard those words "if only researchers would do X right now" before? Ah, yes, here: "If every esoteric author in the world this very day established a globally accessible local ftp archive for every piece of esoteric writing he did from this day forward, the long-heralded transition from paper publication to purely electronic publication (of esoteric research) would follow suit almost immediately." Published 23 years ago in 1994, the “subversive proposal”: https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!topic/bit.listserv.vpiej-l/BoKENhK0_00 Obviously, the last 23 years of writing articles with "if only researchers would do X right now" haven't really changed anything. According to your own experience, most people don't even know the basic facts. Kudos to you for not giving up and doing exactly the same thing others have done for 20+ years and believing that when you do it, it will work. "It is my intent with this paper to list the most ethical journals that are available right now so researchers can go out tomorrow and change their publishing choices without having to wait for the infrastructure to change. This doesn't mean that all of the journals in the list are ideal models for how publishing should work, nor does it mean that they will remain ethical (according to the criteria in the paper) in the future if they are, for example, sold to Elsevier." I admit these journals indeed all publicly state that they intend to be more ethical publishers than the usual suspects. Inasmuch as I personally know the individuals behind the scene, I have little reason to doubt these statements. On the other hand, a) the road to hell is paved with good intentions and it is easy to see (see my review) how your route might turn out to make things actually worse, as an unintended consequence; b) *all* publishers claim they serve scholarship and only exist to promote science and society. While of course one must pay attention such that the best does not become the enemy of the good, it is far from obvious that these well-intended but superficial ameliorations listed in the table may not eventually turn out to be driving out the demons with Beelzebub. "If journals are aware that their researchers want to publish reproducible manuscripts, then they can adapt accordingly, but we need to speak directly to the journals to make this happen." Well, there are only over 30k journals, so we better start talking now if we want things to happen while humanity is still around. At one journal a month, it’ll only take 2500 years.