The paper "Continuous outcome logistic regression for analyzing body mass index distributions" presents a new approach for estimating conditional BMI probabilities, which avoids the necessity to specify ad hoc BMI categories/cutoff points, e.g., as defined by the World Health Organization. More precisely, the authors use recently developed conditional transformation models that directly model the distribution function of BMI outcomes and are therefore capable to estimate all moments of the response distribution simultaneously. Although computationally the model is quite complex, the authors show in numerous examples that probability statements can be easily obtained in a simple fashion, similar to commonly used models, e.g., when using ordered logistic regression models for BMI categories. The paper is excellently written and clearly shows how information loss can be avoided by the presented model in contrast to applying models onto ad hoc categorized BMI measurements. I only have minor points: * In section "Likelihoods for BMI models" the authors show how likelihood contributions are obtained using different measurement scales. This was immediately clear to me, however, in the next section the sentence: "The model was fitted to BMI observations categorized according to the WHO and to a different categorization with intervals of two BMI units (Int 1)." is confusing. What did the authors do exactly, please clarify. * In section "Discussion" the authors say that a conditional normal distribution with covariate specific variance would describe the BMI distributions less accurately. I agree, however, using distributions other than the normal might lead to equivalent results. It would be nice to add some more discussion on that. * In Table 2 there is a little typo, two commas "i.e.,,". Regarding the Data Availability, I think to ensure full reproducibility readers should also be able to download the data from F1000Research, that is why I answered "NO". However, this point is not too critical, since it is possible to obtain the data on request. 