As noted by Review 1, the manuscript is well written and easy to follow. However, I would agree with both of the other reviews that problems arise from both the survey questions and decisions on method of analysis. The first 3 questions about completing an IDP don’t really lead to a clean number of how many people do and do not complete one. A person could answer no to being required to complete an IDP but could be doing it voluntarily. And the issue of doing it at all vs. doing it annually makes the numbers even more ambiguous and difficult to sort out. An additional challenge comes from the 5 choices for questions 1-3 when they are really only yes/no situations. It is hard to imagine what could lead a person to be neutral on these 3 questions. I would also agree with the other reviewers that there is no rational for combing neutral responses with negative responses. This will skew the interpretation to a negative side without any evidence the respondent meant it to. This is one reason surveys often don’t provide the neutral point as the data are very difficult to interpret. At least, as reviewer 2 points out, including neutral as a distinct option would allow readers to reach their own conclusions. I also agree that % responses to questions 4 and 5 should be based only on those who actually complete the IDP as others really don’t have any basis for judgement. But as noted above and by other reviewers, this number of those who completed it is illusive from the question designs. RE: Figure 2, as pointed out by the other reviewers, it really does not reveal effectiveness of the IDP. At most it displays associations between some of the questions. I also would raise a concern with the 2 questions about mentors: “My PI/advisor provides real mentorship” and “My PI/advisor provides ample support”. Both of these are very ambiguous – e.g. is the intent to separate ‘real’ mentorship from some other form of mentorship? And what kind of ‘support’ – financial, psychosocial, professional? This level of ambiguity adds to concerns for including neutral responses with the disagree categories because neutral could easily reflect not knowing what the questions are asking for. 