The article establishes a guide to the protocol that should be used to improve the bond strength of adhesive systems to the de/remineralized enamel surface. The subject is relevant, once that the use of the adhesive technique is a common procedure in the dental office and any change on the dental subtract can affect the effectives and longevity of the restauration. Abstract The results and conclusion in the abstract are clear and related to the objective of the study. Introduction The authors should have explained that the choice of treatment for caries lesions is not only related to the progress and location of the injury, but also to the patient's caries risk. It would have been interesting if they had addressed the importance of studying the bond strength of the adhesive systems to the enamel surface and the differences (possible vantages and disadvantages) of the adhesive systems that were used in the study, this would provide a stronger support for the relevance of the study and a link with the discussions and possible results. Methodology Good study design with clear and detailed methodology. References should have been cited to support the use of bovine tooth considering its similarity to the human tooth. It would have been relevant to establish the correlation between the number of thermo-mechanical cycles used and the correspondent period of activity in the oral cavity. Results The results of the Tukey’s test are clear and showed that the etch-and-rinse adhesive system performed better than the self – etch adhesive system, and that the use of the resin infiltration was effective to maintain a good bond strength for both types of adhesive systems used, been equivalent to the control group. The authors should have used SEM images of the control groups of the two adhesive systems, as this should be the standard to be achieved, thus clarifying the effectiveness of the resin infiltration in maintaining the bond strength of the treated enamel. Discussion The discussion is consistent with the results of the study and the authors were able to justify the good performance of the resin infiltration and the limitations regarding the use of the self - etching adhesive system when compared to the etch-and-rinse adhesive system. Review the last paragraph of the discussion; Instead: '…and the conventional two-step self-etching adhesive systems…' I believe that it should be: '…and the conventional two-step total-etching adhesive systems…' 