This paper presents an original online tool for comparing mutational signatures represented according to two alternative formats, namely COSMIC vectors with the relative frequencies of the 96 types of substitutions on one side 1 , and lower dimensional "pmsignature" vectors on the other side 2 . The article is well written and the method behind the tool is clearly explained. The interactive tool runs smoothly and has the potential to provide useful support to researchers running mutational signature analyses using alternative frameworks. My comments: One important point worth stressing is that the proposed solution for comparing "PM signatures" and "COSMIC signatures" is to represent the former lower dimensional probabilistic vectors in the larger space of the latter vectors. This is clearly explained in the methods, but I believe it is worth mentioning explicitly that this happens even when the input is of the COSMIC type. My major concern is that the described method relies on the pmsignature assumption of independence between the mutation features. Could the authors comment about the possible limitations entailed by this assumption? In my understanding, another possibility would have been to represent "COSMIC signatures" as 11-dimensional "PM signatures" by eliminating through summation two features out of three. For instance, one could compute the "PM signature" component representing the probability of the substitution S=[CA] as P(S = [CA]) = sum_{l, r} P(L=l, S=[CA], R=r), where L and R denote the -1 and +1 flanking bases, and P(L=l, S=[CA], R=r) is one of the 96 probabilities in the input "COSMIC signature". This approach does not rely on the pmsignature assumption of independence. (This solution does not make it possible to consider "PM signatures" with more than two flanking bases, but in any case the information about such extra bases is lost when converting "PM signatures" to "COSMIC signatures" using the method described in the paper). Have the authors explored this other method? A comment on this point could possibly help clarifying the reason why the authors have decided to rely on the independence assumption. I suggest to add a figure with the heatmap showing the cosine similarity between the original 27 "PM signatures" and the 30 v2 "COSMIC signatures". This would help understanding the type of correspondence between the two databases. Minor point: "Implementation" paragraph, line 6: pm-signature - pmsignature. 