The authors in this report examined the regenerative potential of conditioned medium derived from rat and human apoptotic mononuclear cells (MNC) in experimental stroke. They found that administration of rat as well as human apoptotic MNC-secretomes (rMNC apo sec and hMNC apo sec ) significantly reduced ischemic lesion volumes and improved neurological function after stroke in both treatment groups. Furthermore, co-incubation of human astrocytes, Schwann cells and neurons with hMNC-secretomes resulted in activation of several signaling cascades associated with the regulation of cytoprotective gene products and enhanced neuronal sprouting in vitro. These data indicate that apoptotic MNC-secretomes elicit neuroprotective effects on rats that have undergone ischemic stroke. Overall, this is an interesting study. However; there are some important pieces of information missing that should be addressed to improve the manuscript: The authors should include the references for their protocol on inducing apoptotic rat MNCs, as well as the references for the protocol on rat MNC preparation. Data need be presented showing apoptosis and characterizing of their rat MNCs. The authors mentioned in the Materials and Methods that they will discuss the rationale for the two-step-approach of their hMNC apo sec administration. However, this rationale is absent from the text. It is important to address why the authors employed two dosages instead of one dose (like the rMNC apo sec ). In the part Neuronal sprouting assay , the authors should describe with more precision the methods they employed for measurement of neurite length. In the part Determination of BDNF in rat plasma , the authors should include the dose and amount of hMNC apo sec they administered to rats. In the Results Apoptotic MNC-secretomes induce CREB phosphorylation and neuronal sprouting in human primary neurons and contain BDNF , the authors state that Interestingly, only high amounts of BDNF (356,613,66 pg/mL)were detected in hMNC apo sec , suggesting an exclusive role for this neurotrophic factor in hMNC apo sec (Figure 7). But these data are not shown in Figure 7. The authors used a comma symbol as decimal point, and the number of significant figures should be uniform throughout the manuscript. Typos in the text, e.g. in third line of the conclusion part should be . 