I very much appreciate the effort of putting results together to compile a dataset that makes comparison across taxa possible. The authors could take more advantage of that. See more detailed comments below. Unfortunately, the manuscript does not have line numbers. Title: Your title does not really suit your story. In particular, I am not in favour of your Casanova analogy. It is not clear to me how and in which part of your paper you may have tested the males properties of being “Casanovas” – I would have expected you to test a males multiple mating success – which you did not. Furthermore, the “liar” is not clear to me either. You did not test how male’s fitness correlated traits are dishonest or something like this. Anyways, analogies from the liberal arts always come with the problem of being a bit inaccurate since the definition of such characters are always somewhat blurred (is a “Casanova” a male with many matings? Many mates? High reproductive success? Is also male-male competitive ability part of the syndrome? What about the male aggression level?). I suggest refraining from using such non-scientific terms in your title and rather find a suitable title. Reading the abstract and introduction would suggest a title on sperm competition risk and audience effect. Abstract: your start is a bit odd. You start with what seems to me to be the most exceptional example for the cause of sperm competition. Mate copying and even more specific male mate copying is not required for sperm completion. A simple scenario of multiple mating in a promiscuous mating system is a much more straightforward explanation. Article content: the methods section is well explained. Looking at Table 1, I started wondering how many cases were excluded because a clear winner-loser situation could not be established. Comparing N dyads and the df’s, it seems that some species ( H. milleri , P. reticulata feral, L. tridens, P. latipunctata ) have more difficulties in establishing hierarchies under the given size differences. In the mentioned species, no more than 50% of trials ended with a winner-loser situation ( H. milleri 4 out of 14 dyads). Thus, the n of trials with established hierarchy is 103, not 146. Your experimental procedure on male mating behaviour comes with the side-effect that some of the males (and females) got to mate successfully in the first round, but others maybe not. Does this potentially affect their behaviour in front of an audience? I was wondering whether there would be an alternative and more efficient approach to test species level regressions/correlations? Maybe you can compare regression slopes. Figure 2c may suggest that real deception only occurs in L. tridens, P. mex. lim, P. mex sulf , and P. mex mex which have an average likelihood to swap preferences and approach the other female of more than 50%. Introduction: the introduction is a bit weak in underlining the novelty and achievements of the current study compared to the already existing body of articles on SCR and audience effects in poeciliids. A reader skimming through the paper may wonder why another study on SCR and audience in poecillids would be an interesting read. I very much appreciate the effort of putting results together to compile a dataset that makes comparison across taxa possible. Take more advantage of that. In particular, I was wondering how encounter rates and population density may affect SCR and related coping styles. A life-history approach by looking at shifts in the reproductive periods may be interesting. Depending on whether first or last males sperm precedence is applicable, one may predict an advancement of the mating activity on the population level. Nevertheless, I am aware that this is beyond the scope of this paper. Discussion: I am not convinced that your first sentence is supported by your data: where do you show that variation in audience effects is less pronounced among taxa? Why is personality and behavioural syndromes not touched upon in your introduction? Not sure it really belongs to your story. There is no real data on SCR in your paper. Your introduction deals with SCR in great detail, but it is not really in your data. Is there any solid data that supports your proposed link between sexual activity and SCR? Data: having 13 taxa at hand, it would be interesting to see which and how some species cluster together. Could you include multiple contrasts or a factor analysis to illustrate similarity vs dissimilarity among species? As it is, Table 2 with “species” being significant, only reports that at least one species is different from the others. Would be useful to add more information. What you really want to show is how the species are clustering and how this relates to their mating system and sperm competition risk.