 Title I consider that the title is not totally in agreement with the study. This could be modified at “ Samonella diversity isolated from ... “ without the word “Prevalence” because the study is not a follow-up of previously reported cases in those same conditions Introduction In the fourth line you would change the word “poisoning” by contamination At the end correct one “and” that is in italics When you say "among the layer hens, no information about prevalence or diversity of Salmonella has been reported", you could specify or support if that lack of information is only in Ecuador or at a South American or global level. In the same way, it could important to include some epidemiological data of salmonelosis in Ecuador. Methodology I think that is not necessary to do DNA extraction to perform PCR, because Salmonella an is gram negative bacteria and during the start of the PCR where the temperature rises to 90 C it is possible to destroy cellular wall and release the DNA. However, it does not affect the results, taking into account that the procedure has been carried out correctly avoiding cross contamination. On the other hand, in order to reproduce the methodology of this study, the program used for PCR should be indicated. The concentration of primers (30 uM) is the final or initial concentration? It would be useful to indicate why those particular genes were used as molecular markers for the identification of the species and the serovars Results You can ignore the phrase "amplification of the bcfC gene" and leave the table 1 referenced because it is a bit redundant Regarding statistical analysis and sample number in representation or not, I prefer not to give many opinions because I'm not qualified enough for that. However, it would be important that the methodology explain in detail how the statistical analysis was performed and the calculation of the incidence. In order of reference, table 1 of results should be table 2 and vice versa Regarding table 1 (positive S almonella samples ...), it could be a little more consistent with what they explain in the methodology because it took me a bit to understand it, taking into account the classification of columns in terms of location, samples, etc. Discussion I believe that at some point it can be said that the regulations of Ecuador in relation to the health and control of layer farms and local markets and explain how the work is contributing to improve local control, taking into account that this layer farms produce around 60% of egg production in the country. 