This study analyzes the relationship between Federally Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) premiums and the number of insurers participating in the region. The authors present a good overview of the dataset used, existing literature, and limitations in the availability of data (particularly the lack of plan-level signup data, which would allow for examination of market concentration). The use of family premiums is appropriate, but as the authors note, age curves are the same in almost all FFE states, so single adult premiums would have yielded similar results (though the dollar amounts would be smaller). Rating regions are also the appropriate level of analysis. The analysis could be repeated with the second year of data (2015) as this has been publicly available for some time. The study consists of two parts: 1) simple regression where average premium is the dependent variable and 2) a varying-intercept, varying-slope model of the relationship between unique plans premiums and the number of insurers in the rating area. As I will describe in more detail below, the first analysis has significant flaws/limitations. I would suggest minor revisions and elaboration on the second analysis. On the first analysis, my concern is that the dependent variable should not be the average premium in the rating area. Rather, the dependent variable should be the lowest and/or second-lowest cost premium by metal level in the rating area. This is for two reasons: First, conceptually, exchange subsidies are structured such that insurers have an incentive to compete to offer the lowest-cost product within each metal level (or possibly the benchmark in the case of silver plans). We saw from 2014 HHS enrollment reports that the majority of consumers purchased one of the two lowest cost silver or bronze plans. Second, in urban areas, where more insurers participate, a wider range of products are typically offered within each metal level, and insurers may also be more likely to offer higher-cost platinum coverage. A wide range of products may result in higher average premiums, even while insurers are competing to offer the lowest-cost product within a metal level. The second analysis has potential to make a contribution to the literature and bears elaboration. One small methodological issue, though, is the use of plan names, rather than the plan ID standard component, to identify unique plans. Insurers may offer similar plans that are listed with the same marketing name in the dataset but in reality have slight variations. In some cases this is because one plan may have a narrower network (and therefore lower premium), and in other cases it may be that the insurer filled out the plan marketing name incompletely. For example, FirstCare Health Plans in San Saba County Texas offers two gold HMO plans with marketing names of FirstCare Health Plans but the plan IDs differ (26539TX0140001 and 26539TX0140002), and they have slightly different premiums ($310.39 and $305.89, respectively, for a 40-year-old individual). From the dataset alone, we do not know whether this is simply an error in the marketing name or that the two plans are similar other than their networks, but in either case, they should be counted as two distinct plans. An alternative would be to use a combination of unique plan marketing names and unique premiums within the rating area to identify unique plans. To be clear, I doubt the use of plan IDs vs. plan names to identify unique plans would have a significant effect on the overall findings, but it would be a cleaner analysis. Finally, I would like to see more elaboration on the second analysis. For example, I am interested in hearing more about the plans that are only offered in one rating area or that did not vary in price between rating areas. Are these plans lower cost, on average, relative to the insurers other products in those areas? More elaboration on the excluded plans would be beneficial. 