The authors introduce a new Cytoscape.js-based web app that enables users to simulate a given biological network based on a range of parameters, taking advantage of most of the features of ANIMO (originally developed as a Cytoscape app) without the requirement of installing Cytoscape on the desktop. In general, the new webANIMO system seems useful and well developed, but we have a number of suggestions to improve the manuscript. General comments: The paper mixes descriptions of the user interface with implementation, which is confusing for the reader. It would be better to start with the analysis and use case sections, showing a flowchart of the overall workflow as figure 1, followed by a section describing the user interface (UI) and then the implementation details in a separate section. In particular, the meaning of a ‘model’ should be explained. Also, the ‘analysis’ should be described. What is involved? What is the input and what is the output? The authors claim that webANIMO was developed because users find the ANIMO app difficult to install. They even go so far as to describe the process as “hideous and difficult”. This claim should be better supported e.g. by providing results of user uptake or satisfaction between ANIMO and webANIMO. ANIMO installation does not seem terribly difficult. Abstract: “Useful analyses can be performed and displayed to the user in an effective way.” Be more specific in what useful analyses webANIMO is for. The webANIMO URL should be presented more prominently (e.g. at the top), as it currently only appears at the end of the text. Introduction section: The introduction should start with an explanation about what ANIMO and webANIMO are for. Activation and inhibition symbols are defined but don’t seem to be used again in the text – is this just explaining the network visualization representation? In this case, it should be in a figure legend. The UPPAAL system should be briefly described. Implementation Section: What is the purpose of the front end and what is the purpose of the back end? What information is shown/processed at each end? An overall figure explaining the information flow would be useful. What does it mean to run ‘headless’ ANIMO? Is this implemented as a standalone java process, or is it running inside of the Cytoscape OSGi container? This is an important distinction because the ANIMO app depends on Cytoscape. Was that dependency removed? User Interface section It is mentioned that the decision was made to make the web interface “different”. Different in what way? The very next sentence says the user interface still resembles the desktop version. These sentences seem to contradict each other. Result view section: A more detailed description of the meaning of the result view and what it shows would be useful. Import and Export section: The ability to work in webanimo and desktop animo seamlessly is a great feature. It could be pointed out that this will help Cytoscape users share information with collaborators who may not have installed Cytoscape. It is mentioned that import/export is done client side to avoid server workload. This contradicts the statement in the implementation section that “Since web browsers have limited memory and processing power, the tasks of the client are kept to a minimum”. It is mentioned that users can switch to desktop ANIMO when they need more processing power. How powerful are the webANIMO servers and when should users move to the desktop version? In general, the authors should clarify when to use the desktop vs. web-based versions and what are the capabilities and features supported by each. What sort of network size (number of nodes and edges) does this limit support? At what point do users need to move to the cytoscape desktop version? What are the limits of the server? (All of these details should be added to the implementation section) Analysis: Clarify description of time throughout the paper – server processing time or simulated concentration over time? Why was the limit of one minute chosen? Is this one minute of processing time on the server or does it also include data transfer? “The UI is disabled during the analysis and the waiting time is limited to one minute, after which the simulation is forced to terminate and no result is sent back.” Why does the platform not return any partial results? “The choice to perform the analysis on the server was made so the user is not required to install the tools that are needed to perform the simulation. As an added benefit this may improve the simulation time for the user if the device sending the request has slower hardware than the server (which is usually the case if the user accesses webANIMO through a tablet or smartphone).” This sounds useful, however, the web platform became non-responsive on mobile devices while the simulation is running during testing. A useful feature not available in webANIMO is the possibility to change the "Reaction kinetics" (available in the desktop version). Is this feature expensive in term of computational costs? Looking at the code, this feature has been implemented (embedded in the HTML code) and disabled. Why did the authors decide to not enable this feature? Plot Export section: Clarify meaning of graph (network vs. plot/chart) throughout the manuscript. Revision History section In the implementation section it is mentioned that one of the features of ANIMO that was not implemented in webANIMO is “history of previous simulations”. This section describes a feature called “revision history”. How are these features different? Online shared networks section: What are the benefits of saving and sharing a network vs. just saving the cytoscape session and sending the session? Is there anything in the saved and shared network that is not in the session? With the lock files, if you share the network with someone who opens it but then leaves it open in the browser (potentially for hours or days) does that lock you out of your own network? It is nice how the user is given the choice to store their data locally or on the server. Operation section: "Installing webANIMO on a server requires PHP version 5.2 or higher, Java version 8 or higher and an UPPAAL 4.1 installation." – clarify why one would want to install a local version vs. using the easy to use web version or the Cytoscape app. use cases section: This is more like a simple tutorial than a list of use cases. Suggest either describing use cases only (e.g. gene knock out), develop the tutorial better (e.g. adding figures), or replace with a link to an online tutorial. Minor points: "propery" should be property Figure 1: this picture could be improved by moving the "Cytoscape JS" block inside the "webANIMO" block and the "webANIMO" block inside the "web browser" block. Also, remove "JS" from the webANIMO block name, since webANIMO is platform, not a library. Or, if the JS is meant to indicate that the block is implemented in javascript (and not a module name), then the languages for the other blocks should be specified for consistency. In the latter case, “Cytoscape JS” should be “cytoscape.js” Figure 4: "POST" could be removed from the I/O system diagram – the main point is request/response. We noticed a Javascript error associated with the tooltip library (when interacting with the line chart)