Chronic immune-mediated inflammatory diseases represent major challenges in medicine. The reasons for the perpetuation of inflammation are only incompletely understood. Explanations for the chronicity of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases are essentially required to initiate causal therapeutic strategies. The authors of the manuscript have chosen a novel approach to obtain insights into the molecular mechanisms associated with chronically perpetuating inflammation. For this purpose, they focus on two clearly defined T-cell mediated disorders serving as model diseases for inflammation: delayed-type i.e. T-cell mediated hypersensitivity reaction (DTH) in response to an obligatory hapten antigen, diphencyprone (DPCP), and psoriasis vulgaris, a chronic T-cell mediated inflammatory skin disease. Both diseases are particularly suited for this approach. DPCP-specific DTH reactions are immune mediated, resolve naturally and have well-defined self-limited kinetics. This allows for the accurate definition of time points for the analysis of inflammatory peak reactions and resolving inflammatory activity. Psoriasis instead constitutes a persistent T-cell mediated skin inflammation. The approach to obtain insights into the mechanisms perpetuating inflammation consists of the analysis and comparison of gene expression profiles in lesional and non-lesional skin probes of both diseases. Regarding psoriasis the authors refer to meta-analysis derived transcriptome data that cover the gene expression profiles from 193 lesional and non-lesional biopsy pairs as recently published. For DPCP-treated patients 11 lesional/non-lesional sample pairs were included for different time points during inflammation. Like the psoriasis transcriptome analyses the data acquisition in DCPC samples has been peer peer-reviewed in a high ranking scientific journal. To achieve meaningful results regarding the posed question, the authors define two groups of genes for comparison. One comprehensive gene list includes positive regulatory or inflammatory genes that enhance inflammation, the other genes particularly related to negative regulatory or immunosuppressive functions. The composition of the gene lists is based on scientifically verified Gene ontology terms. In addition to the microarray data, for select genes expression levels are verified by quantitative RT-PCR and by immunohistochemistry analyses of protein expression in skin samples. As a result the authors report, that at the time of the peak inflammatory response DPCP-induced DTH reactions contain significantly more genes related to suppression of inflammation than psoriasis lesions. This results in an altered balance between positive vs . negative regulatory transcripts in psoriasis compared to DTH reactions, which is maintained throughout DTH healing. The authors conclude that in psoriasis, but also beyond this disease the lack of negative immune regulatory genes may be related to inflammatory disease chronicity. They furthermore propose that DPCP reactions may serve to examine regulatory immune pathways. The study addresses a highly relevant question. The scientific approach is novel, original and represents a truly innovative solution to obtain novel insights into immune regulation. The comparison of psoriasis and DCPC reactions is reasonable because in both of them inflammatory reactions result from T-cell driven mechanisms. The methods are sound and appropriate for the analysis. The underlying data are extensive and due to the large sample size create a reliable and credible basis for the study. Accordingly, results and conclusions are well supported. The abstract provides an adequate summary of the study. The results are clearly presented. The discussion is short, draws a clear and valid conclusion and avoids unnecessary speculations. Indeed, the insights from the study provide a novel approach to understand the chronicity of inflammation. My personal assessment is that of an intriguing approach, which by itself is revealing and at the same time opens novel access paths into the investigation of chronic immune-mediated inflammation. I support the publication of this article in the present form without any reservation. There are no changes necessary.