The article provides a series of best practise proposals on the important subject of encapsulating bioinformatics software. Conda and containers are fast becoming indispensable technologies for the deployment, sharing and reuse of bioinformatics tools and analyses. The availability of software through a Bioconda package or BioContainer is becoming a prerequisite for the adoption and use of any given bioinformatics tool. The widespread use of packages and containers has been made possible through the use of workflow managers such as Nextflow and Galaxy that wrap the standard commands into Docker or Singularity commands, mount the required volumes in the container or even build the Conda environment at run time. The recommendations provided in the article are sensible and well justified. The joint focus on both package managers and containerisation technologies allows the reader to compare and contrast the approaches with examples, whilst providing a description of shared resources such as Bioconda Packages being built as BioContainers. One comment I have relates to the “One tool, one container” recommendation. In reality, this is often not practical. For example, the inclusion of utility tools for the basic reading, writing and conversion of files (e.g. Samtools) often becomes a practical requirement. The author's state “is important to highlight that workflow composition is not addressed in the scope of this article as we are tied to the one container = one tool paradigm”, however, the use of containers without a workflow manager is not recommended for the majority of users. This recommendation could be updated to include for the recent multi-container registry. Minor fixes: “Is important to highlight that” should be “It is important to highlight that”. “which will be the one user will download” should be “which will be the one users will download”. Reference 16 (Tyler J, Frith GH: Primary drug abuse among women: a national study. Drug Alcohol Depend. 1981; 8(4): 279–86 1 ) appears to be incorrect. 