The authors of the article titled; “Oral mucositis patients undergoing radiotherapy for head and neck cancer: An observational cross-sectional study”, investigated the oral mucositis (OM) rate, grades and effect on treatment continuation in a sample of 50 head and neck cancer (HNC) patients undergoing treatment at Baghdad Radiation Oncology and Nuclear Medicine Center, Iraq, from 30th April to 10th September 2017. The article may present an important statistical tool for Iraqi HNC patients, however, many issues should be addressed in order to improve the scientific impact of the article. The population sample size looks relatively small compared to similar studies. I think, if the sample size increased, that would show significant differences for the authors’ selected variables, especially when applying more complicated significance tests other than simple T-test. At the abstract conclusion section: The authors mentioned OM occurred more in female patients who received chemotherapy (CT) plus radiotherapy (RT). But, they did not illustrate the chemotherapy details (type, dose, duration, and whether it was definitive or adjuvant). Please, track this throughout the article sections and include it at the study statistics. The authors stated “OM-related unplanned breaks may interrupt treatment schedule”. The authors did not show data with significant difference for that conclusion. Again, the sample size needs to be increased. At the introduction section: The authors mentioned different primary causes for HNC, yet, they investigated smoking only. Are other variables investigated for the study population? The last paragraph of the introduction section should be reformatted and attached to references. The methods section: The authors did not mention surgery as a treatment modality for HNC patients. This should be addressed and included at the study statistics. The authors selected variables: Please, state “tumor stage” instead of “stage” Please, state “OM grade” instead of “grade”. Did you show any data for OM onset? Did you investigate viral infections as well? Treatment unplanned breaks issue needs to be discussed in detail and data sorted as well. Who decided the break? Which treatment was interrupted in “CT plus RT” group? And, for how long was it? Were the breaks caused by OM only? Please, discuss why there was no significant difference in all groups (Table 3). I would recommend reformatting the recommendation section to reflect the study results and conclusion. Table 1: please, adjust clearly the P-value (done for which groups) and mention in the text. Figure 2: please, add the axis title for the graph, and make the graph simple. Table 2: better to change the % of total OM for the “Type of tumor” to be the % of OM within the same tumor type. Example: Nasopharynx has 17 OM patients out of 18 patients, so the % of OM in Nasopharynx patients will be 17/18*100 = 94.4 %. Apply for all then readjust the statistics for that. Also, please, mention the P-value in text. Figure 3: please, write the axis titles for the figure. Make it simple. Table 3: The P-value for the tumor stages is not clear. Please, specify. In total, the article English language should be improved. I suggest to it be reviewed by a native English speaker. 