The manuscript by Dr Prechl entitled “Thermodynamic projection of the antibody interaction network: The fountain energy landscape of molecular interaction systems” proposes theoretical framework for quantitative description of antibody-antigen interaction at repertoire level. The author presented in convincing manner a novel theoretical approach, referred to as “fountain energy landscape” for description of multidimensional space of antibody interactions. The text is written in an unambiguous language and the reader easily follows the logic of the author. This work is an important contribution to theoretical immunology and may be of interest of scientists from other fields. Clarification of certain points in the manuscript would improve the work significantly. On Page 2 the author correctly stated that intramolecular interactions are affected by solvent, pH and molecular crowding and that considering these parameters as state the author is “indispensable for a realistic depiction of the binding energy landscape”. However, this Reviewer did not find later in the text how these parameters are incorporated in the model. On Page 2 (paragraph 4) for the sake of logic it would be better if the description of origin of antibodies is transferred before introduction of antibody polyspecificity and cross reactivity. It would be nice if author comment how the model applies for antibodies with flexible binding sites as compared to antibodies with rigid antigen binding site. The studies of Manivel et al. (PMID: 12097393 and PMID: 11114374) demonstrated that interactions of antibodies with rigid binding sites can be driven by favourable (for free energy) entropy changes. Would energy hypersurface will have a similar topology for flexible (polyspecific) and rigid (monospecific) antibodies? On Page 5, first paragraph, and Page 8, first paragraph, the author stated that the best fit of antibodies to their targets results in the highest entropic penalty and that maturation of the binding site increases the entropy penalty. These statements contradicts with previous studies where it was demonstrated that entropic penalty decreases with improvement of the fit (PMID: 12097393 and PMID: 11114374). How this model would account in the changes in non-equilibrium (activation) thermodynamic parameters during antigen-antibody interactions? 