Comment to the authors and editor: Abstract:- Introduction: Authors should give more information on the vitomolt and also any other plants that contain natural active molting compounds. Examples of testing those compounds in crustaceans should be mentioned. Methods: How the authors differentiated crab at stage II ovary from those at other ovarian stages? Typically, the ovary is not seen from outside. Authors could not say "5 replications" since the number of 5 was a number of crabs for each treatment (n = 5). The replication will be used if the authors repeat the whole treatment. How did the authors be sure for the concentration of amaranth extract used in this study. How the spraying of 20 mL/kg of 80% EtOH solution onto the test feed of 250 ng/g treatment differed from 0, 500 and 750 ng/g treatments? Results: If possible, the authors should start the experiment with the same crab size in each treatment. In table 1, crabs started at 100+ g BW naturally had higher growth curve than those started at 200+ g. Sensitivity to the amaranth extract between small and big crabs might not be equal! These factors might also affect the trend of result rather than the dose of amaranth extract itself. Due to the number of 5 in each treatment with some variations in your result, I am not sure that the regression with low R2 value was best in describing the relationships between the dose of extract and tested parameters. Table 4 was not necessary. Simple statement mentioning the survival rate of crabs in each treatment might be enough. Table 5 was not necessary. Almost shown parameters were mentioned already in method section! If applicable, the data on molting cycle for all treatments should be added. Discussion: Authors may provide more evidences on natural ecdysteroid, vitomolt, as well as stimulating effect of these natural compound on crustacean growth and molting. By feeding, authors should discuss how ecdysteroid, when consumed by crab, was able to be absorbed into the bloodstream. Paragraph discussing the culture parameters (pH, salinity,...) was not necessary and made this manuscript weaker. Authors should discuss to sharply find out why the amaranth extract promote growth and molting and how about the same group of compound (in other plants or in nature) effects in other crustaceans. Discussion may include the possibility of practical use for this extract in massive crab aquaculture. 