General description. This is a well written “opinion” article where the author examined the parallel view that “we should take a collective stance on making the dissemination of scientific data fair in the conventional sense, by being mindful of equity and justice for patients, clinicians, academics, publishers, funders and academic institutions.” The views are based on oral and written dialogue (including 2 online questionnaires, 102 academics and 37 representatives of the publishing industry,) with clinicians, academics and the publishing industry. Parts of the work were presented earlier at 2 meetings. It is concluded that further progress is needed to improve collaboration and dialogue between these groups, to reduce misinterpretation of metrics, to reduce inequity that arises as a consequence of geographic setting, to improve economic sustainability, and to broaden the spectrum, scope, and diversity of scientific publication. Major comments. This is in some way a relatively “short” text, mostly presented as a letter or a superficial comment, yet as such it appears to be quite long. There is no precise analysis of the announced results of the 2 online questionnaires, with 102 academics and 37 representatives of the publishing industry. The text remains to be just, as indeed announced, an opinion. It looks to me that the text could be much shorter and much more focused on the acute problems, like expertise of the peer reviewers, negligence of the editors and the editorial boards of the journals, co-authorship and commercialization of the open access journals (‘predatory’ journals). Probably also the last paragraphs (Future challenges and Conclusions) could be substantially shortened. Or, if the questionnaires were appropriate, it would be possible to develop much more relevant and informed study. It is hard to see what how the study would look like since the questionnaires are not available. The explosion of the number of the journals worldwide in the last decade or so was not discussed and there is no mention of the problem with the printed journals that are facing their slow disappearance. The discussion does not reach deep enough to provide more concrete solutions to the problems that are presented in the paper. Minor comments Peer review Insisting on the expertise of the reviewers is justified, although the existing methods - some are mentioned in the text, do not guarantee it. It should be mentioned that the journals should have some more secure methods to choose the relevant experts for the peer review. May be the reviewers should supply some evidence what kind of the expertise they have in the relation to the paper that they give an opinion and the journals should be obliged to respect it. Metrics Problem of co-authorship and possible unjustified benefits for the co-authors was not mentioned. Open access Problem of commercialization (of the ‘predatory’ journals) could be more elaborated. Formatting requirements Probably some negative comments are not fully justified. I personally find impossible to review an article that, even if well written, is badly formatted. Badly presented text, even if it is of high quality, inevitably loses its impact. Please revise if you agree that your judgment was not carefully measured. 