CELL5M works toward solving a major problem in the area of food policy decision making; working with the glut of disparate data with differing spatial and temporal resolutions to identify accurate insights relevant to policy makers. Koo and colleagues provide a excellent overview of the CELL5M database. The paper also provides the basic information on the methods used to harmonize the multiple data sets. It appears that the CELL5M team has thought through most of the pitfalls of decision making at this scale. Our main concern in presenting this to policy makers is in abstracting some of the possible inconsistencies in data scale. Here are a few specific comments related to this concern: Is there some acknowledgement where data has been disaggregated from the national scale, yet presented at a smaller scale? While there is no choice but to use spatially mismatched data in this type of work, it should be made very transparent when the data is not presented at its true scale. It should also be transparent where indicators are created from source data at multiple scales. Combining national and sub-national data to create a fine-scale indicator can create a false sense of precision. Many of the indicators are likely derived from data sets that either have similar features, creating an uber metric. How do you avoid double counting / weighting some features more than others? Was the harmonization mainly spatial or did you also standardize feature names and units? More general comments: The abstract could be strengthened. It does not explicitly address this paper until after three long sentences. It’s then very general. A few points to make the abstract more concrete include: harmonized 750+ data sets for feature names, units, and spatial resolution. main themes are: w,x,y,z. Provide the type of analysis that is possible and how it can be used (generalize one of the nice examples in the section “ Agricultural development domains”). Be explicit that can integrate social, economic, and biophysical data How did you choose among the many data sets that provide similar information? For example, there are a few sources of data on crop production, yield gaps, and market access. Since different primary data (and methods) were used to create the various data sets, you will get different results when they are integrated here. For you audience, it’s probably better to only have a single data source for each feature, but it would be helpful to be clear on your general criteria for which data are included. The unique cell ID is a great feature for integrating multiple data sets. This also allows for faster, more stable queries and spatial operations using the web mapper or offline. Although we have not yet used it, the CELL5M data set is a great source for harmonized data for accessing, exploring, and analyzing data for the many uses the authors reference (baseline, setting goals, targeting actions, assessing scenarios, etc.).