There are currently no blood based or CSF biomarkers commonly used on a routine basis for screening, diagnosis, or monitoring progression of Alzheimer’s disease. This work is an effort to fill the gap as it examines 30 candidate proteins from CSF and their relationship with disease progression. This was done by examining levels of the CSF proteins in patients at various stages of disease ranging from mild cognitive impairment to severe dementia. Initial assay of the 30 proteins was carried out using tryptic digestion and analysis of signature peptides by LC-MS/MS selective reaction monitoring technique. An attempt to validate results was undertaken by examination in a second set of patients representing the four stages of disease, from mild cognitive impairment to mild, moderate, and severe dementia. The study shows that the biomarker, neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 best discriminates mild cognitive impairment from advanced stages of the disease. This finding was confirmed by ELISA assay of the same protein. The study concludes that this CSF protein in a potential biomarker of Alzheimer’s disease progression with potential utility in monitoring treatment. The patient population was well described, and the experimental design sound. Findings of the study are well discussed with previous work and with limitations identified. Although, not explicitly stated this study apparently measures the 30 candidate biomarkers in CSF from 101 different individuals at different disease stages. Future use of neuronal pentraxin receptor-1, or any biomarker, for disease monitoring purposes at least partially involves establishing a baseline for individual patients and possible serial measurement. Based on information in the box and whisker plots, results for neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 in patients with mild cognitive impairment varied over a range that was about 3-fold and showed significant overlap with results of patients from the moderate and severe dementia groups. There were also noted outliers in the latter two groups (moderate and severe) showing results well within and even higher than in patients with mild cognitive impairment. Moreover, most of the biomarkers examined showed similar outliers in both sets of analyses. This presents many questions. It is not clear is these outliers for the different biomarkers are from the same patients (or samples) or if different patients and samples produce different biomarker outliers. Also, it is not clear if the neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 outliers, which represent 5 to 10% of the samples from patients with moderate and severe disease, are causes by pre-analytical issues concerning samples or confounding physiological/pathological processes in these patients. It is also not clear how variable levels of this protein is in CSF from an individual patient; and the imprecision of the two different assays (LC-MS/MS method and ELISA) for neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 used was not stated. Between-run assay imprecision and intra-individual biological variability will have bearing on the usefulness of a CSF neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 measurement in practice. It would also be interesting to see how levels change in individual patients as Alzheimer’s disease progresses. But, the requirement of repeated lumbar puncture to assess disease course using this or any CSF biomarkers will be a difficult sell given the absence of effective disease modifying therapy. Nevertheless, this does not take away from the value of this early work in highlighting potential value of neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 for disease progression with potential future clinical value if effective disease modifying treatments become available. But as implied by the authors, what would be most useful is a biomarker, like neuronal pentraxin receptor-1, that not only correlates with disease severity but is also predictive of Alzheimer’s disease progression and related outcomes. 