This pilot study with 10 subjects (8 males and 2 females) provided assessment of postural balance in children with mild autism using a Matscan pressure mat. Since the purpose of pilot study is to keep minimal variability among subjects’ demographics, what was the rationale of having only two female subjects? This small sample size of female subjects needs to be justified. Since COP measured with MatScan pressure mat sensors provides area (cm*cm) of pressure distribution under the sole, the results cannot be comparable to sway area measured by the “gold standard” force plate which is a measure of area contained within x-y distribution of center of pressure sway positions of whole body during the balance test. The discussion section needs to address the issues of concerns about the differences in measures of COP with a MatScan pressure mat vs with a Force Plate. Recent 2018 article by Goetschius et. al 1 reports that the pressure-mat COP measurements are smaller than those of the force-plate, and the differences between devices appeared to increase as the measurement magnitude increased. Goetschius et. al (2018) also reported that data collection period longer than 10 sec (15 sec test was used in the current manuscript) may demonstrate an even greater discrepancy in time dependent metrics between a MatScan pressure mat and Force plate devices. In other words, while a MatScan pressure mat data may be correlatable to those reported with a Force platform, the absolute values of postural balance outputs cannot be compared between two measurement systems. Therefore, measurements by a MatScan pressure mat and Force Plate should not be used interchangeably. Is it possible that under the feet pressure distribution pattern (instead or in addition to COP) captured by a MatScan pressure mat provides a unique signature of discrimination between mild autism and advanced autism? These issues need to be added as a limitations, as well as possible future utility of MatScan pressure mat metrics for quantifying proprioception feedback by the autism associated changes in pressure-receptors distribution patterns under the sole of feet. 