F1000 Research Cusc et al. ( https://doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.16817.1 ) Comments to the authors: The manuscript describes a study assaying 2 mock bacterial communities or 2 complex skin microbiome samples from dogs (chin or dorsal back) using both near-full length 16S rRNA genes and near-full length rRNA operons with the Oxford Nanopore MinION. The authors employ a library preparation method generating either 16S amplicons (1400 bp) or rRNA operons (4500 bp) including barcoding with a 1D ligation/sequencing kit and FLO-MIN 106 cells. The data analysis pipeline utilized Albacore basecalling, near-full length amplicon size selection, and screening by What’s in my Pot (WIMP) and Minimap2 against both NCBI and rrn databases. The authors demonstrate increased resolution at the species level with longer reads, that there can be large losses of raw sequence reads by size selection for rrn amplicons in their hands, and that the data analysis software and database can influence the results of MinION bacterial community analysis. It would have been very helpful for the authors to put these findings into context with other papers in the literature using MinION and rRNA genes. For example, their results support what others directly sequencing near-full length16S amplicons (e.g. Shin et al. (2016 1 ), Mitsuhashi et al. (2017 2 ), and Benitez-Paez et al. (2016 3 )) or rRNA operons (e.g. Benitez-Paez et al. (2017 4 ), Kerkhof et al. (2017 5 )) have shown in mock communities or complex samples with respect to species-level resolution. Additionally, the screening of MinION reads with different 16S rRNA databases has also been described in the supplementary figures of Kerkhof et al. (2017 5 ). Likewise, an acknowledgement of the various software packages that has been employed to analyze the MinION reads in the scientific literature would benefit the readership. It appears that QIIME, BLASTN, Centrifuge, LAST aligner, Discontinuous MegaBLAST, WIMP, and MiniMap2 have all been used to identify OTUs for the MinION platform for 16S rRNA genes or rrn operons. As the authors have shown, the software/database being used can be very influential in the results of MinION screens and a synopsis of what they have found in context with other investigators (% bacterial assignment vs. % error) may point to a best practice for future studies. Other Specific Comments: Page 3: I find it awkward/confusing to indicate the number of operons per microorganism per microliter here for the mock communities. Bacteria generally have 1-15 ribosomal operons in their genomes. I think it is clearer to just indicate the number of target rRNA operons is 10^3-10^6 for this particular DNA mixture. Page 3: The barcoding expansion pack (EXP-PBC001) requires that the primers contain overhangs attached to the rRNA primers. This is not mentioned by the authors. Did they put overhangs on 27F/1492R/2241R? If so, the first round of target amplification may be affected by the presence of these overhangs. This should be indicated. Page 4: The authors clearly show the danger of performing PCR and only characterizing the amplification product by Qubit fluorescence. If they had done agarose gels on the PCR reactions, they may have detected the short amplification products in their initial rrn operon reactions. Furthermore, these short reads are preferentially ligated using the SQK-LSK108 sequencing kit since there are more picomole ends. This best practice of visualizing PCR amplifications for size determinations before sequencing should be explicitly stated. Page 4: I am a little confused by the 0.5 nM notation for PCR product in the barcoding reaction. If the authors used 50 microliter reactions, did they put 25 ng of 1st round PCR product in their barcoding reactions for a 15 cycle amplification? Can the authors just state the mass of DNA used to barcode? Secondly, Table 2 indicates BC1, BC2, and BC3 were not used. Was there a reason these barcodes were not utilized? Page 6: Stating that the rrn operon profiling was more biased probably because of the lower sequencing depth does not recognize that others have not reported comparable bias or that it is probably a reflection of their potentially compromised amplification efficiencies. This conclusion should be viewed with caution, given the amplification issues noted above. Page 11: The running of shorter (1500 bp) and longer (4500 bp) libraries on the same flow cell at the same time should enrich for the shorter reads. The MinION uses electrophoresis to move DNA molecules through the pores and smaller fragments should mobilize easier. 