 This commentary on NIH budgeting is a cri de coeur from a well-respected MD/PhD immunology investigator about his perception of the untold damages that recent changes in NIH budgeting will likely have on “the long-term health of the country”. His views, which are likely representative of a great many NIH-supported scientists, appear to focus primarily on the cyclic changes in dollars of support leading to continued “cull[ing] of established research teams” (i.e., the lemmings) and that these trends are (for reasons less clear to me) “analogous to those heralded in Silent Spring”. Although one sympathizes strongly with the concerns of the author, the manuscript is, in my opinion, not a serious contribution to the long overdue but badly needed policy discussion of how NIH and other medical research funding should be structured. Cynically, one might even say that the paper is yet another example of the “sky is falling in” response to any suggestion that the author’s source of support may be undergoing changes. The author surprisingly points out in the abstract that his paper was rejected by Science two-and-a-half years ago but resubmits it now with some updating; I think it still is not a substantial contribution to these policy issues. The figures and data in the paper show NIH numbers on different types of funding mechanisms and grants over the last several decades and, although the author does not explain which of these he approves of, the implication seems to be that there has been some relative decline in “the gold standard RO-1″ as calculated in various comparisons. This change apparently is apparently the cause of our current crisis. The author seems unaware that these changes, which in my analysis are really quite small, have occurred in the last decade-some initiated by the NIH leadership and some from other factors, such as congressional mandates to study child development- because of increasing skepticism about the results of the overall program. Thoughtful people and organizations have questioned whether the policies of the “golden years” are still as fruitful-whether measured by changes in public health parameters, new pharmacological agents or more subjective evaluations of our successes in dealing with the major chronic illnesses. In this era of genomics, proteomics and other aspects of “big biomedical science” the author is silent on how these needs are to be balanced with his desire for “a hundred thousand flowers”. The strange history of this paper also results in its being largely outdated at this point. Specifically, the author does not discuss the very recent creation of the National Center for the Advancement of Translational Sciences, the slightly older Centers for Translational Science Awards or the components of the ten year old NIH Roadmap (now the Common Fund). Although perhaps not in the author’s ken, these new programs have been created in response to needs articulated by other investigators. Even FASEB, which presumably supported the earlier draft of this paper, has just issued a “white paper” in support of the new NIH initiatives in translational research. I wonder if this surprises the author. I would recommend the author uses the rigor of his approach to other research problems to make his contribution to what will be a very important continued debate in the several decades ahead, especially if political and economic trends continue to limit greatly funds for medical research, about the relationship of basic and applied science, little vs big science, what planning is needed and is valuable, and many other questions. 