This is a well conceived and rigorously carried out clinical trial addressing an important issue in a difficult to study patient population. Although the data was collected a decade ago, the information is still relevant because remarkably little progress has been made since 2003 in the treatment of PD related psychosis. Dr. Richard’s referee response presents the methodological shortcomings and correctly points out resulting limitations in data interpretation. I agree with all of the comments in her review. In addition, I would like to add the following comments/observations: In the abstract and introduction, the authors suggest that because olanzapine has a similar receptor binding profile to clozapine, it is a good candidate drug to study in the PD population and they cite Seeman et al. 1993 . More recent work by Seeman shows that what is unique about clozapine is that it binds D2 receptors “loosely” and that its receptor occupancy is short-lived. Quetiapine has a similar D2 binding profile to clozapine but, olanzapine behaves much more like haloperidol and risperidone in this regard. This may explain the motor worsening that seems to be associated with olanzapine use in PD. ( Kapur and Seeman. Am J Psychiatry 2001;158:360-369 . Seeman and Tallerico. Am J Psychiatry 1999;156:876-884 .) I disagree with the statement in the introduction that “ Delusions, when they occur, often antedate visual hallucinations... .” The natural history of hallucinations in PD has been looked at in only a few longitudinal studies and the interaction between hallucination and delusions has not been adequately studied but my clinical experience and the bulk of what is presented in the literature suggests that minor hallucinatory phenomena (illusions, passage or presence hallucinations, benign hallucinations with insight) are much more common and occur earlier in PD than delusions. Delusions are generally associated with more severe underlying cognitive impairment, by definition are associated with lost insight and are generally considered to indicate a more advanced stage of disease progression than isolated visual hallucinations. ( Fenelon et al. Brain 2000;123:733-745 ). I would also question the premise that allowing for a dopaminergic medication dose adjustment in the study protocol (to reverse any worsening of PD motor symptoms due to the introduction of low dose olanzapine) might produce study results that are a more appropriate way to evaluate how this drug might work in the clinic. My experience is that this strategy is unsustainable even in the short term in this population. One reason is that each dose increase of dopaminergic medication is prone to reignite symptoms of psychosis and thus lead to a need for higher doses of the antipsychotic, setting up a cycle of overall worsening. Secondly, these patients tend to have more advanced motor symptoms including high risk symptoms such as postural instability and dysphagia. It may be very difficult to continue a drug known to worsen PD motor symptoms after the first fall or choking episode even if one cannot be sure it was a direct result of the antipsychotic drug. I would suggest more clearly pointing out that this study cohort had relatively mild cognitive impairment (MMSE 26) which may be quite different than what is encountered in practice. More demented patients may be more susceptible to side effects of atypical neuroleptics including sedation, encephalopathy and motor worsening. More demented patients may also have more severe psychosis which is likely to be less responsive to the low doses used in this and some other clinical trials. Finally, I suspect that some readers may not have a full grasp of “Type II error”. This should probably be spelled out without jargon in the discussion.