This report by Losasso, Bostrom and Messinger expand upon our growing understanding of the appropriate treatment with and management of asparaginase-based therapies in lymphoblastic leukemia. In this retrospective study, the authors have reviewed the single center experience of therapeutic drug monitoring, examining patient drug levels to determine the incidence of drug inactivation and looked at the relationship between pre-treatment and serious adverse events. In their review, the authors found a 1.7% rate of drug inactivation. Of note, this rate is comparable to several different prior studies which the authors have referred here. Although the authors did not measure directly for inactivating antibodies, the use of drug activity levels to impute the presence of antibodies is now considered an acceptable approach as it is generally the primary determinant of drug activity for most patients, and as such is not a limitation in this work. Their observation of transient inactivation and then recovery of drug efficacy is an important finding, and bears future examination as this strongly argues, as others have, for rechallenging patients with prior history, especially in high-risk patients where receiving multiple doses of asparaginase has been conclusively linked to better outcomes. Contrary to other studies, the authors remark that they did not observe a significant decrease in clinically significant (grade 3-4) reactions with predication. Although statistically correct, it is difficult to support this statement for several reasons. First, although the authors do not see a statistically significant effect, there is without a doubt a clinically important trend of 50% reduction in events. Indeed, this would represent an absolute risk reduction of 8.7% with a number needed to treat of about 11, and is almost identical to other studies. Post hoc power analysis, although an admitted abuse of statistics, suggests that this data may have reached significance with 30-40 additional patients. Furthermore, the authors themselves continue to use and argue for premedication, which would argue that they agree that there is benefit to pre-medication despite the lack of statistical findings. Yet, the only reason for pre-medication, given the historic concerns regarding silent inactivation, is to reduce severe adverse reactions. These contradictions need to be resolved. Finally, the authors suggest that monitoring of drug levels is not necessary in low-risk patients, given that they did not identify inactivation during the first two doses. This statement is too strong. The authors themselves admit that there was a large number (83%) of missed levels during the first administration, likely a consequence of the admittedly chaotic logistics of early induction therapy experienced at many institutes. Although their data do suggest that silent inactivation following one dose would likely still be detectable at the second dose, this has not been rigorously tested, and is based primarily upon the experience of a single patient. Therefore, to include the recommendation of not testing low-risk patients, especially its inclusion within the abstract that (regrettably) may be all that some read, and without mentioning the rate of missed levels in the same abstract, is difficult to support. 