Introduction: "Altering the expression of a gene ligand, like Wnt, through injecting heparin at the crucial stages of wing pattern development, can provide a glimpse into the mechanisms underlying wing pattern evolution and development". Replace "expression of a gene ligand" by "activity of a signaling ligand". Binari et al 1 could be cited here. "Eurytides marcellus", replace with "Protographium" (as well as elsewhere in the manuscript) Methods: Provide the Molecular Weight of the commercial source of Heparin sodium sulfate in kDa (shall be indicated on the container) Table S1: Please convert all the dosage estimates into ng. For instance, 1uL of 5% = 5ug/100nL corresponds to a 50ug dose. This allows a more direct comparison of all the experiments. What were the conditions used on the species that did not provide meaningful results? Results: Acrea / Leopard moths. Since heparin tends to mimic the effect of cold-shocks, it would be expected to find natural aberrants of those species that look similar to the heparin treatment. By any chance, are there MGCL specimens that go along similar axes of variation? Asterocampa: Regarding: "Marginal eyespots in many Nymphalidae are concentrically organized and serve as models for studies of development, as for example, in Bicyclus anynana, where they have been shown to be positively regulated by Wingless (Wnt) (zsu et al., 2017 2 ). Wnt signaling delimits the boundaries of wing spots, as reviewed by Martin Courtier-Orgogozo.,2017 3 , and is affected by heparin. Figure 4(Aiii–Diii) suggests that, even though the serial border spots of the tawny emperor are not as concentrically organized as in many other nymphalids, they are nevertheless homologous. The marginal bands migrating basally under the influence of heparin are inhibited from invading eyespot centers." It shall be noted 1) that WntA Knock-Outs results in marginal effects in various nymphalids (Mazo-Vargas et al.,2017 4 ), shifting the distal Parafocal Elements towards the margin, leaving the hindwing eyespots unaffected, but reducing the size of the WntA-positive forewing eyespots and 2) that the current results in Asterocampa hindwings (and perhaps forewings) seem analagous to the effects of Heparin in Vanessa cardui, as reported in Martin and Reed Dev. Biol. 2014 5 . To me, the Asterocampa heparin results are best explained by analogy with the Vanessa system (also analyzed by Otaki in several articles such as Ataki et al.,2008 6 . Asterocampa shows a similar color inversion effect on hindwing eyespots (both ventral and dorsal) to Vanessa heparin injected specimens. This must be independent of WntA, because WntA KOs do not affect the Vanessa hindwing, and the effect of heparin on those Asterocampa/Vanessa hindwing eyespots could be explained by other morphogens, possibly an eyespot focal Wg signal as proposed in Bicyclus (zsu et al., 2017 2 ), non-Wnt heparin-sensitive morphogens, or a complex interaction dynamics between wing margin signals and eyespot color patterning (the Nijhout book, or some Otaki references goes into classic surgery experiments). Notice however that one could expect an expansion of eyespots upon heparin injection if a focal eyespot Wg signal was in place. Oliver et al.,2012 7 provide comparative and developmental evidence of complex interactions between the margin and the eyespot positioning process, so I think that overall we are still scratching the surface of the iceberg and the effects of heparin in that area are difficult to interpret. Discussion: Junonia: provide more comparisons of the results with those reported by Serfas and Carroll. It seems to me that the pre-pupal injection results in less striking effects than the early pupal ones, for instance on the Wg-positive Discalis elements (orange stripes in Junonia forewings)? Weight loss data: please provide more data on the phenomenon of fluid excretion (time, amount?) by the silk-spinning species. 