 Page 2, paragraph 1: Consider adding information about CMS limited reimbursement for heart failure readmissions as this is a significant current concern in US hospitals. Figure 1 and throughout entire paper: Consider simplifying terms self-management knowledge to , Self management efficacy to . Many different variations of these terms are used throughout which reduces the readability of the paper. Table 2 on page 5 is organized well and has these terms outlined more simply. Page 2, paragraph 3, last sentence: Consider changing self-efficacy for heart failure self-management to Efficacy for heart failure self-management as the terms can be confusing if the reader is trying to understand the concept using Figure 1. This may be considered throughout the paper. Page 2, paragraph 4: It might be more helpful for the reader to see the PAM scores 1-4 in a table to allow for easy referencing when reading the paper. Page 2, paragraph 5, first sentence: Consider changing to (see comment number 2 above). Page 2, paragraph 6, last sentence: Consider removing as this specific study make correlations but does not address the length of time the patients behavior will be impacted. Page 3, paragraph 1, sentence 1: Consider changing term self efficacy to efficacy (see comment number 2 above). Page 3, paragraph 6, sentence 1: Consider changing term self efficacy to efficacy (see comment number 2 above). Page 3, Measurement section: Consider arranging paragraphs to match flow in Figure 1 (Knowledge, Efficacy, Patient Activation, and Self-management behavior). Page 3, paragraph 8: Change patients behavior to patients self-management behavior. Table 1: Consider additional category of stage of heart failure (A,B,C,D) if available. Page 5, paragraph 3 (first paragraph of discussion section): The statement regarding this studys similarity to other findings which show educational attainment as the most powerful predictor for patient activation may led readers to believe that knowledge, efficacy, and behavior were compared and that education outweighed the others. I would consider re-wording and removing the term most powerful.. Page 5, paragraph 4, sentence 2 (second paragraph of discussion section): Can be changed to here to keep language consistent? Page 5, paragraph 4, sentence 4: This sentence infers that the intervention in this study was to increase knowledge and efficacy to improve patient activation, but from my understanding this was a correlation and not an intervention. 