Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript and congratulations to the authors for their great efforts in putting this systematic review together. Research on the role of cytokines in HS is important, as it may lead to new targets for therapy and a better understanding of the pathophysiology of HS. Summary This systematic review focused on collecting all data published on cytokine studies in tissue, blood, serum and exudate in hidradenitis suppurativa. 81 discrete cytokines were examined in HS patients (n=564) and control patients (n=198) in 19 studies. Methodology varied greatly among studies, which were generally of low quality. When measuring levels of cytokines, substantial variance was found and the majority of cytokines showed heterogeneity. IL-17 signalling appeared to be a significant component. Suggestions for further research were discussed. Questions Are the rationale for, and objectives of, the Systematic Review clearly stated? Yes. Are sufficient details of the methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? Yes. However, I wonder why the term ‘hidradenitis suppurativa’ is not in the search strategy and ‘hidradenitidis suppurative’ is? ‘Hidradenitidis’ is not an existing word, as far as I know and will not provide any search results. Please adjust. Is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes, as far as I can judge as a non-statistician. The analyses used are ones I have little experience with myself. I’ll refrain from commenting on this section. Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results presented in the review? Partly. The last conclusion ‘examining the natural history of the disease through longitudinal measurements of cytokines over time’ is not discussed anywhere else in this article. First, I suggest changing ‘history’ to ‘course’. Moreover, I am wondering, how the authors propose to do this. Monitoring the natural course of the disease, would mean patients cannot receive any treatment for their HS, during this proposed study. Depending on how long the natural course is meant to be monitored, I don’t think it is ethical to withhold patients from treatment. Please elaborate on this conclusion with a specific proposal or otherwise rephrase or maybe leave out this conclusion. Other comments Page 9 last paragraph/Page 28 – 1 st paragraph: You state that ‘psoriasiform epidermal hyperplasia is seen in HS’. Please provide a reference for this statement. The reference provided only references to the pathway likely responsible for this in psoriasis. Page 28 – 4 th paragraph: ‘These potential mechanistic pathways (which may prime or contribute towards inflammation in HS) require validation in functional studies.’ Could you please provide an example on how such a functional study should be designed to produce reliable results? Table 4: the abbreviation ‘Lpa’ is not clarified in the key section of the table. Does ‘Le’ (page 11, IL-1a, first row) mean lesion exudate? Table 6: the number four of question four is missing in the top row of the table on both pages (24-25). Please insert. 