The study aimed to assess the antibacterial and antibiofilm properties of ginger oil on E. faecalis which is a pathogen often isolated from tooth root canals. E. faecalis used were in the planktonic (cell suspension) and monospecies biofilm forms. Tests performed include MIC, MBC and an antibiofilm assay. Comments: 1. Introduction: Adequate 2. Methods: (i) OD readings from ELISA plate reader were used as a measurement of cell density in both the planktonic and biofilm state. This procedure should be revised as in the former, the cells are free in the suspension while in the later, the cells are sedimented/attached to the bottom base, which blocks vertical light source from the bottom and may contribute to higher OD readings. A different set of readings would be obtained if using a spectrophotometer with horizontal light source. (ii) An inoculation of 20ul of the broth mixture on agar plates would not be able to indicate a bacteriostatic effect of a test agent, it can only confirm the bactericidal activity of a test agent i.e. when there is no colony growth. (iii) How was a stable 3-day preformed biofilm defined, and how can Fig. 2 explain this? (iv) The 3-day biofilm could have resulted from sedimentation since the biofilm was left static for 3 days. It is thus suggested that the biofilm is gently washed first before adding the test agent. The use of a shaking incubator is also suggested. 3. Results: (i) What were the MIC and MBC for ginger and ampicillin towards E. faecalis ? (ii) Figure 3 does not really show a dose-dependent antibacterial response of E. faecalis to ginger oil, or to ampicillin. This would be obvious if error bars were shown in the figures. (iii) It is not accurate to claim that the anti-biofilm activity of ginger oil was observed to increase between 1.25 to 5 mg/ml. referring to Fig. 4 the increase were insignificant, and again this would be obvious if the error bars were shown. 4. Discussion: Cross referencing to more relevant journals/works to defend and justify the study outcome would help improve the discussion. Overall comment: The manuscript was poorly prepared and certain details such as error bars in the figures were missing. Many steps were over simplified. Analysis and presentation of results can be further improved to give meaningful outcome. I agree with Reviewer 1 that the conclusion was rather over-interpreted, and very weak considering only one species of bacterium was used. More experiments are required to come to such conclusion. 