This article comprehensively evaluates a series of named entity recognition tools for identifying mutation mentions. The different tools are evaluated using two kinds of scenarios: First, they are evaluated in an intrinsic setting, using the manually annotated "Variome" corpus. This strategy represents the typical evaluation of named entity recognition tools. Second, tools are compared in an extrinsic context, where the goal is to reconstruct mutational information contained in the COSMIC and InSiGHT databases. In the latter experiment, the authors identified supplemental material as the biggest resource for mutation mentions. The overall verdict of this publication is that several tools have complementary coverage and combination of methods leads to a performance increase in both evaluation settings. Finally, the authors provide some ideas to improve the recognition of genetic variants in text. This work is scientifically sound and provides an interesting analysis of five different mutation recognition tools. I only have a few remarks considering the presentation: The results for the intrinsic evaluation, shown in Table 5, require some more details. For all tools a considerable increase of recall can be observed when switching from the exact matching to the partial matching scenario. However, for OpenMutationMiner, recall increases by almost 86 percentage points whereas the increase for the other tools is about 10 percentage points. This is a surprising result and should be at least briefly mentioned in the text. A frequently found statement is that SETH recognizes only mutation mentions described in HGVS nomenclature. However, as a participant in the SETH project (see competing interests), I suggest that this claim is incorrect as SETH builds on MutationFinder to detect mutations not following the nomenclature. Furthermore, SETH modifies MutationFinder's original capabilities in order to match a wider scope of mutations (DNA mutations, nonsense mutations, and ambiguous mutations) not following the HGVS nomenclature. This is done by modifying the original MutationFinder implementation together with additional and modified regular expressions. Furthermore, SETH contains a separate component (OldNomenclature.java) for the recognition of insertions, deletions, and frameshift mutations written in deprecated HGVS nomenclature. For these reasons it is surprising, that SETH achieves lower recall than MutationFinder in many extrinsic evaluation settings (Table 8 and Table 9). In my opinion, SETH should at least find as many mutations as MutationFinder. Please use the citation provided on the SETH project site to cite SETH. (Thomas, P., Rocktschel, T., Mayer, Y., and Leser, U. (2014). SETH: SNP Extraction Tool for Human Variations. http://rockt.github.io/SETH/ . ) I also have a list of minor remarks, which I would like to mention here. However, these are just ideas to further improve the publication. Table 3 shows that merging results of all tools increases performance in the partial evaluation setting. It would be interesting to see how this compares to exact matching. Do you see similar effects? It would be great to mention the numbers in the table. " For a few cases like the substitution p.H776_C777QS SETH also does not return any mutation type. There are many cases in which a DNA mutation cannot be mapped to a protein mutation and frameshift mutations like L280FfsX4 are not covered by SETH. " I find this example a bit contrived, as neither p.H776_C777QS nor L280FfsX4 follow the HGVS nomenclature. The sentence " There are many cases in which a DNA mutation cannot be mapped to a protein mutation and frameshift mutations like L280FfsX4 are not covered by SETH " on page 13 is (in my opinion) confusing and could be reformulated. If I understand correctly, you are saying that COSMIC and InSiGHT cannot provide protein mutations for all DNA mutations. Integration of different tools usually is an ungrateful task. It would be very interesting if the authors could share some of their experiences made using the five different tools. " The tools do not reliably identify insertions, although a large number of variants that could not be annotated by SETH are actually insertions ." It would be highly interesting to see a list of these mutations (maybe as Supplemental data), to help tool developers improve named entity recognition tools. Additionally, I think that it would be very valuable to add all mutation mentions extracted by the five different tools to the Supplement as well. This information should facilitate the improvement of existing named entity recognition tools. 