The authors present a prospective study about effect on sexual functions of JJ stent. The manuscript presents basic results. This was a useful and interesting article. Your manuscript is clear and understandable without discussion section. A few issues, however, need to be addressed: Abstract Background section: Please erase this sentence: "Indonesia is known as one of the world’s stone belt areas in Asia." Method section: Please erase this sentence: "This study was approved by the Research EthicCommittee of Kardinah Hospital (#445/3840/2017)." Result section: Please, define it. Are there any differences of sexual functions male patients before and after procedure? Keywords: Complete change without sexual function. Introduction Generally well written. First and second paragraph: First reference, Bolat et al. made a study comparing sexual function about URS procedures in males 1 . But you refer to this article about the prevalence of erectile dysfunction (ED) and cause of ED. Bolat et al. did not study prevalence of ED. So you have to change this reference. Third paragraph: Second reference, Akdeniz and Bolat worked on female sexual functions in their article 2 . But you refer to this article about the prevalence of urolithiasis. Akdeniz did not study prevalence of urolithiasis. You cannot use these articles about prevalence of urolithiasis and ED. So you have to change this reference too. Third paragraph: Please add shock wave lithotripsy, and reference this sentence: "Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL), ureteroscopy (URS), laparoscopy or open ureter are the main procedures of the kidney and ureter for the removal of stones." Fourth paragraph: You wrote: "Procedures to remove urinary stones must be accompanied by JJ stent insertion." Why? Routine stenting after uncomplicated URS is not necessary (EAU guideline 2018). How did you come to this opinion? What is your reference for this claim? An introduction section should include precise, accurate and clear information. Please change the first and second references. You should choose suitable new references about prevalence of urolithiasis and ED. Methods Generally well written. What was the JJ stent insertion reason? Only urolithiasis? Please define it. When was the JJ stent removed for each operations? The authors did not mention about surgical procedure especially URS. Results Generally well written. What was the educational status of the patients? Were patients predominantly urban based or rural based? What was the body mass index of the patients? Were patients evaluated for depression? (For example, Beck depression scale). Did the patients get medication for stent complications (urgency, dysuria, etc)? (Alpha blockers, anticholinergics, combined, etc..). Have patients developed any complications? When was the JJ stent withdrawn for each procedure? Was the same JJ stent used in the patients? URS is more painless and more effortless procedure than PCNL, pyeloilithotomy and ureterolithotomy. Pain is the cause of sexual dysfunction. So these operations cannot be evaluated at the same level. In my opinion, the authors should evaluate only same operations not all the stone surgery (only URS or only PCNL or only open surgery patients). Discussion Generally well written. More details about similar studies should be provided. Please clearly explain, what is the difference between this study and others? Conclusion Please clearly explain what are the strengths and weaknesses of your manuscript? Tables Generally well written. Table 1. Written PCNL and URS. It is necessary to write the abbreviation explicitly under the table. Table 1. Authors wrote stone burden were 1.48 1.58 mm 2 (men) and 3.7 5.7 mm 2 (women). Is there a mistake here? I think, operation of such small stones is unnecessary. Table 3. Written FSFI. It is necessary to write the abbreviation explicitly under the table. Strengths of the manuscript: 1. Article is appropriately organized and the headings are indicative of content. 2. Article clearly written. Simple, plain and legible. 3. References are satisfactory. Weaknesses of the manuscript: 1. This article not contain new ideas or useful synthesis of existing material. 2. The subject matter is suitable for the intended audience but the results need to be developed. 3. The article does not include a single operation. I regret to say that the article needs to be improved. The amount of patients data is very small, and not satisfactory. The data (especially demographic and patients) should be developed (addition new data), give more details about surgical procedure, results need to be improved, and discussion should give more details about similar studies. Briefly, the manuscript should be re-written. The manuscript should be revised by authors and reconsidered for possible indexing. 