The authors hypothesized that population density and climatic variables affect the growth rate of the population of guanacos in the study area. However, as it is detailed under the “Study area” subsection, the domestic sheep share the area with the guanaco and substantial changes in stocking rate have been reported for the ranch during the study period. It is known that sheep and guanacos select similar diets across different parts of the range they share, and usually sheep presence and abundance explain a substantial amount of variation in the abundance of guanacos, included the study area comprising the Estancia Cameron as described by Raedeke (1979) . In his work, Raedeke described that sheep are managed “rotationally” around the property, taken seasonally to different areas in winter and summer, and this makes guanacos move seasonally to the forest habitat. Therefore, it would be expected that variations in sheep abundance, not only seasonally but in total numbers through time, could affect the estimates of guanaco abundance. In my opinion, this is a major issue in the design of this work. Also, as explained below, the survey design of this work could play a key role in the quality of the estimates obtained, which is reflected also in the interpretation of results. All of these do not mean that density dependent processes are not likely to occur, but to my understanding it is not possible to rule out other processes to be conclusive. Guanaco population sampling The surveys were conducted at a 2,000 km 2 ranch where the habitat is a mosaic of steppe and forest biomes. The authors indicate that they surveyed guanacos using the “transect method with a variable width” from 1977 to 2000. Is this the distance sampling? If so, it is based on measuring the perpendicular distance from the transect to the object. Also, it is says that the surveying methodology was changed to “fixed width band” in 2001 and subsequent years. Some comments and questions on these issues regarding survey design are: Were both the steppe and forest habitats surveyed using the same methodology? Transect lines to observe individuals and make direct counts are commonly used in open habitats, but not in the forest. However if this was not the case, the authors need to account for the variation in the probability of detection as it is expected to vary significantly between such contrasting habitat types. There was a change in the surveying method, which also brings the point of detection probability. While the line transect method assumes that the probability of detecting objects on the line (distance=0) is p=1, and as objects are far from the line the probability of detection follows a certain declining function, the main assumption of the strip transect method is that the probability of detecting objects within the strip is 1 (i.e. no objects are left undetected). This variation in the probability of detection according to the methodology applied during each period must be discussed. Also, the ways that the density estimates were obtained are unclear and must be specified (i.e. distance sampling, other calculation methods). Regarding the estimate of population size, several considerations can be made about the extrapolation of absolute densities to population numbers. First, the spatial pattern of the transects surveyed could be determinant of biased estimates, if the objects are not randomly distributed in relation to the survey line (i.e. if the transect follows a geographic feature in such a way the animals are either attracted or deterred). Perhaps the transects are located across certain areas – for example the steppe – but not the forest and thus the estimate could be biased towards the density calculated for the surveyed portion of the total area. This is especially important at the time of extrapolate densities to obtain population size numbers, as densities are strictly valid for the areas effectively surveyed while traveling along the transect lines. In any case, it would be useful to provide the distribution of surveyed lines across the area. The second point I find relevant to discuss regarding survey design is the proportion of the area effectively surveyed. How many km 2 were comprised by the lines and strips surveyed? Again, the extrapolation of densities to population size at a larger scale must account for possible limitations related to the survey design and effort invested. Results and discussion Major fluctuations of the guanaco population occurred during the last 10-12 years analyzed, as can be found in the additional data file provided, and also pointed out by the authors. But this variation could well be due to the changes in methodology at the time of the population surveys. As said above, it is necessary to provide detailed information on the type of survey conducted, the differences with the previous method and the way the density estimates were obtained. It would be informative if the authors provide the errors associated with the population estimates. As proposed above, sheep densities could be affecting guanaco population trends, but the design of the work does not allow accounting for this factor. In my opinion, sheep densities must be included as an explanatory variable as there is evidence they affect guanaco numbers. Also, as the authors concluded that in this study the guanaco populations was near carrying capacity, and this must be common to both guanacos and sheep, thus sheep must be considered in the analysis as its density was markedly variable during the study period. Another factor that should be considered at the time of the discussion is the possibility of guanacos moving from the surveyed surroundings or even from Cameron to neighboring sites, as they may respond to changes in the spatial availability of resources by occupying different sites. In summary, the marked fluctuations in population size require the examination and discussion of other possible factors before concluding that density dependent processes would drive population trends.