The authors have created a web-based tool to predict the effect of mutations on the angiogenin protein that utilizes Molecular Dynamics simulations to evaluate if the selected mutation is benign or otherwise deleterious. I have several criticisms regarding this work both in terms of: 1- The implementation of the web-tool described here and more importantly, 2- The methodology behind the web-tool. These are discussed below: Web-tool implementation and function. The web-tool seems to only be accessible online intermittently. On several occasions I could not access it. When I could, using Firefox or Safari browsers in Mac OS 10.9, the interface seemed badly designed, not allowing the visual inspection of the selected potential mutations in a 3D model of the protein. The authors could for example, use Jmol for that. 48 hours after submitting a query I am still waiting for any results. The MD protocol implemented by the authors calls for a 25 ns simulation, in our experience we observed that a 25 ns simulation takes approximately 5 days using 48 cores. I would therefore expect the MD simulations performed by the authors to take less than one day. While the language used in the manuscript is not sufficiently precise, the authors mention that "each trajectory is analyzed for the presence of several structural and dynamic attributes" . To me this suggests that there is possibly manual human intervention in the analysis of each query as part of the results and as such, the method would be impractical unless using mechanisms such as Amazon's Mechanical Turk. I cannot comment further on any potential outputs for the submitted queries as I never obtained a result to my first submitted query. The methodology behind the web-tool Despite the authors having published 3 papers in peer-reviewed journals using the same methodology as proposed in this web-tool, the reliability of the method in my opinion remains to be proven. I will proceed here to describe the reasons why. The first publication by the authors ( PLoS ONE 7(2): e32479. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0032479 ) analyzes 6 mutations (K17I, S28N, P112L, L35P, K60E and V113I). In this work, the authors observe computationally several changes. Notably a conformational change of the catalytic H114 residue side chain and decrease in solvent accessible surface area of the 31 RRR 33 signal residues. Later ( Scientific Reports, January 2013, doi:10.1038/srep01225 ), the authors considerably expanded their analysis to other mutations and predicted the effect of several other mutations entirely (I46V, K17E, R31K) or partially (R121H and K54E). This was followed by a third paper ( FEBS Letters, Volume 587, Issue 12, 19 June 2013, Pages 1762–1766 doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2013.04.022 ) where some other, rarer mutations are analyzed using the methodology. While the authors present compelling computational results in all these three papers, these results should be viewed as a hypothesis for the mechanism by which such mutations lead to loss of activity. These mechanisms remains to be proved experimentally. It is important to always keep in mind that correlation does not mean causation. As these suggested mechanisms have not been proven to cause the loss of function, their correlation with loss-of-function cannot be used to for ‘predicting and analyzing functional loss mechanisms of deleterious angiogenin mutations casing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis”. In summary, I have several reservations regarding the usability of the web-tool presented in this manuscript and I object to the use of the mechanisms suggested by the MD simulations, no matter how compelling their likelihood based on computational evidence, as if they were accepted mechanisms without having ever been experimentally validated. The fact that the authors have already published three papers in which the reviewers did not seem to point out this issue, makes this issue all the more important.