Thank you for the additional data regarding the time course of experiments in the wild type host background. This was particularly important since the bacterial strain used in this study is not as well characterized as those used in other studies. The infection with E. coli 1677 diverges from the other UPEC strains with a continual decrease from the early 4-hour time point, as opposed to a cyclical increase and decrease in bacterial burden in the bladder observed with other UPEC strains evaluated. This newly provided data, while very helpful, still does not provide sufficient evidence in support the conclusions that the NLX1 mutation enhances early bacterial growth and promotes bacterial clearance from the bladder. Without the earlier time points in the NLX1 mutant mouse strain, it is impossible to distinguish your interpretation from the alternative interpretation that there is an overall delay in the clearance of the bacteria in the bladder in the NLX1 mutant mouse strain. A side by side comparison of the wild type and NLX1 mutant mice strains at the earlier time points is needed to support the conclusions stated. The data presented is suggestive of a potential for differences in the kinetics of infection, which is intriguing and could provide important information to the field, particularly in light of the intracellular lifestyles of UPEC strains in the bladder. The limited snapshot of two time points for the kidney, particularly when resolution of the infection is not complete, also limits the types of conclusions that can be made from the data presented. There are technical limitations in the experimental approaches that led to the conclusion that NLX1 is not involved in immune responses in the kidney. The cytokine profiling indicates that there is an increase in the production of the neutrophil chemoattractant KC. In addition, even modest twofold changes in cytokine responses can have an effect on persistence in the kidney. The authors use indirect methodologies to determine whether there are differences in the recruitment of immune cells to the kidney. MPO is not considered quantitative or sensitive, particularly when measuring in tissue homogenates and assumes that the amount of MPO produced by the mutant neutrophils is equivalent to the wild type. The analysis of systemic leukocytes, while interesting, is likely not be sensitive enough to determine whether there is an increase in local leukocytes in the kidney. There are concerns with the use of light scattering alone to identify populations of immune cells from the blood. The standard for immunology is to use specific antibodies as markers for the identification of cell types in conjunction with flow cytometry. Thus, there is limited confidence that the populations are assigned appropriately, and with sufficient sensitivity and specificity to make the stated conclusions.