Alternative splicing (AS) definitely contributes to the complexity of gene regulation at post-transcriptional level. To understand if and how AS is involved in the regulation of gene expression, for a particular multiexon gene, it will be necessary to determine the pattern of alternative splicing and to identify functional splice variants. In this study by Ko et al. report their alternative splicing analysis of an Arabidopsis gene At1g74140. They applied RT-PCR approach with a variety of primer sets to detect alternative spliced variants of At1g74130. Main results obtained in this study are that alternative splicing of At1g74140 was mainly attributed to two regions of this gene. Based on the RT-PCR results, a conclusion was reached by the authors that the overall discontinuous splicing pattern of the At1g74140 gene may reflect its mode of involvement in activities like controlling gene expression. Comments: Since the study just verified the splice variants annotated in public available database, no new variant was detected. RT-PCR can be no doubt used to detect particular type of splicing events, but this method is prone to false positives, especially when too many PCR cycles were used. Given the PCR cycles used in this study were 35-40, it is difficult to conclude that some of the faint bands saw in the gel were come from mRNA rather than contaminations. At least, no RT samples should be included as negative controls in these PCR experiments, which was missing. Further, the conclusion that the discontinuous splicing pattern of the At1g74140 gene is associated with gene expression does not have any support from these RT-PCR analysis; no gene expression analysis was conducted to show any of these splice variant contribute to gene expression levels. Suggestions: Figures 2-4 may be combined with Figures 5-10 and Figures S1-S3, which will help readers to better understand how the experiments were performed and what these figures are showing. Essentially, these figures summarized results from RT-PCR validation of alternative splicing events of At1g74140 in the tissues sampled. The gel images in Figure 5-10 are of low quality. The unnecessary portions of the gel images in the six figures can also be cropped off, they are just distracting. Will the authors be able to show which variant(s) was detected predominantly in particular tissues or under specific growth conditions? That information may link AS events with physiological processes. 