Love and colleagues describe a typical RNA-seq gene-level differential expression workflow, using their popular DESeq2 Bioconductor package, as well as other core and contributed Bioconductor packages. The paper is a valuable resource for researchers that are new to RNA-seq differential expression (DE) statistical analysis and/or want to learn how to carry out such analysis within R/Bioconductor. The advantage of the presented workflow over ad-hoc pipelines is that (almost) the whole analysis (from aligned reads to DE results) is carried out within the open source Bioconductor project, facilitating transparency and reproducibility. I was pleased to be able to completely reproduce all the results and figures of the paper on my machine (although I was able to download the .Rmd file only from the Bioconductor and not from the F1000Research article page -- see next paragraph). I have only a few points that the authors should address. Most of the critical statistical steps of the DE analysis are "hidden" inside a single call to the "DESeq" wrapper function. I can see why the authors created and make use of this function in the workflow, as a typical practitioner will not need to worry about the internal computations. However, the authors should consider adding a section illustrating the steps carried out by the DESeq function (normalization, dispersion estimation, model fitting), as this will have a great educational value. Right below Figure 6 (mid page 18 in the pdf) the authors state that the model should account for "differences between cells [...] by using a paired design. [...] We are already set up for this design by assigning the formula ~ cell + dex earlier." The term "paired design" usually refers to a design where the same units are tested before and after a treatment, and the effect of the treatment is usually tested by modeling the differences between the measurements before and after. The specified formula describes a factorial design, where the effects of treatment and cell line are included as main effects in the model. Please make sure that the right terminology is used. I found the section on independent filtering a bit confusing. Reading the fourth paragraph of the section (first paragraph of page 28 in the pdf), I understand that DESeq2 will decide how many genes to filter out by maximizing the number of genes with a low adjusted p-value. However, the next paragraph states that this type of filtering is permissible only if independent of the test statistics. How can the filtering be independent if the threshold is chosen by maximizing the number of significant genes? It would be a nice addition to the manuscript to have a concluding paragraph describing how to download and reproduce the workflow. Minor issues: The first time the authors mention Figure 1 they are referring to Figure 1 of a different paper, hence this should not link to the authors Figure 1. Fourth paragraph of "The DESeqDataSet, sample information, and the design formula": the authors write colData(dds) although dds is not yet defined. The third paragraph of page 12 (of the pdf) is a bit confusing. Perhaps, it could be rephrased in terms of unsupervised problems. Its not clear why somebody with a supervised problem would want to omit the design at the EDA stage. Figure 4: the authors say that one should use unnormalized counts to compute the Poisson distances. Wouldnt this affect the heatmap if there are large sequencing depth differences between the samples? Or is the function internally adjusting for sequencing depth? The first paragraph of the "PCA plot" section should be re-written more clearly. The "reduced" argument of the DESeq function, used in the "Time course experiments" section, deserves a brief explanation for those readers that are not familiar with Likelihood Ratio Tests. 