In this concise article, Li and co-authors reported that the infantile hemangioma (IH) patients showed significantly higher eosinophil levels more than the healthy control subjects suggesting a potential diagnostic relevance. Although promising, the article requires more in-depth analysis especially in addressing the causation factors that result in the increase of eosinophil levels. I have some concerns on the data analysis. Firstly, the mean values of percent eosinophils observed in IH patients of 3.96 and in healthy subjects of 1.91, as shown in Table 1, are both still within the normal clinical range of 0-6% EO (Medscape). Thus, the elevated eosinophil levels in IH patients might be interpreted as physiologically irrelevant by clinicians as the values are still within the normal range. Secondly, whilst the difference of %EO values between IH and healthy subjects is statistically significant, the raw data show that only 15% of the total IH patients and about 5% of the healthy subjects have high %EO values above the normal range of 6%. It would be useful if the authors will include this in their analysis considering the clinical implications. In addition, the authors should also specify what is the normal range of %EO used in China as this can vary in different clinical laboratories. Lastly, I think that there are other factors contributing to the observed increase of eosinophil levels that might be present but not measured in this study such as drug treatment given to IH patients, which could be the underlying cause of the increase but not taken into account. This is the limitation of a retrospective study such as this, in which the authors have no control on how the data were designed and collected, and whether the patients received drug treatment or not. The claim of a potential diagnostic usefulness for this study is an overestimation as the causation is not well-established but only through the association. But this is a good pilot study to test the hypothesis that can be further explored. As a minor comment, it would be useful to include the units used for all the parameters mentioned in the raw haematological data. 