In this article the Authors seek ways on how to better interpret the functional impact of mutations/polymorphisms currently classified as variants of unknown significance (VUSs). To tackle such a problem, the authors propose “molecular modeling and molecular dynamic simulations as tools that can significantly increase the yield of information to aid in the evaluation of pathogenicity.” Expectations are that this “will significantly benefit the mission of clinical genomics for individualized medicine.” The idea is good and deserves to be published. Most of all, it deserves to be extensively discussed. Points to be discussed As much as the idea is good, it would benefit from better highlighting its (current) limitations. Ab initio molecular modeling is a difficult enterprise. It can rarely be performed to some extent of accuracy by automatized engines/softwares and often reaches good structure prediction in around 60% of cases. Several large-scale, tentatively whole-coding genome, protein crystallization initiatives have been undertaken. Discussion of the state of the art of these initiatives may provide metrics on what could be expected from real-life application of the Authors’ proposal, and how this is expected to evolve in the near future. Most mutations/polymorphisms are detected in non-coding regions of DNA. This is hardly surprising given that non-coding DNA represents approximately 97% of the total content of a mammalian cell. The authors mention mutations in non coding regions, but this deserves being more extensively discussed in the publication. Suggestions Discussion of the points above and of the suggestions below, may possibly lead to extend the proposed approach to additional layers of prediction. Algorithms are there that do recognise promoter, enhancer and super-enhancer regions with increasing accuracy. Clearly, allocating a mutation/polymorphism in one such region would increase its investigational and possibly medical value. Additional regions of interest are CpG islands upstream or, less reliably, within coding regions. Additional regions of interest are anchoring sites of DNA loops to distinct nuclear/nuclear membrane regions. Additional regions of interest are those hosting the increasing family of non-coding RNA (NCRNA), including long NCRNA and miRNA, that have been shown to play distinct regulatory functions and may have roles in cancer development.