MetaboMAPS is an interesting small application for making available and displaying numerical data on non-standard pathways. It can be seen as complementing the well-known and standard pathway resources, such as KEGG and others. The advancement of MetaboMAPS is the possibility to store and present incomplete or so far not described pathways. Moreover, it has a nice visualization toolbox to display numerical data on the pathways. There are some points that should be addressed: The way the introduction is formulated currently indicates that well-established pathway resources are ignorant concerning species-specific differences of pathways. This is not true. KEGG for instance offers a rich selection of organisms and indicates that genes are missing/added to the classical pathway. It is true however when it comes to the overall display of the pathway map, which is – I think – what the authors want to express here. They should reformulate this to reflect what they mean to say properly. I do not fully understand, why it is necessary to point out the disadvantages of printed pathway maps (in a book, citation Michal Schomburg) – which by default cannot be used for any form of computerized work? Sparse information is given – also on the website – of how to upload user-provided pathways. For instance, it seems necessary to add an organism, before adding a pathway. This is very un-intuitively presented at the website and should be improved. The SVG format offers many advantages. However, it is not so easy to e.g. build on an existing pathway from other resources, as they often do not offer download in SVG format. Do the authors have any thoughts on how the interoperability with existing pathway resources could be improved, e.g. by allowing more and different formats for upload? Should the resource become more widely used for pathways that are incomplete, it will become a problem that users don’t stick to the same nomenclature. How do the authors think about consolidating novel pathways coming from multiple users that illustrate the same biological pathway, yet under a different name? Whether or not it is an advantage to offer such great flexibility with respect to the pathway map is questionable. Often, users don’t sick to official gene symbols, but use synonyms or other, officially not recognized gene names. The authors should comment on how they could address this issue of unconventional gene names or rarely used synonyms. 