This article by Prof. Allen and associates addresses the important issue of inadequate intake of calcium by those who do not have access to, or the ability/willingness to consume milk and dairy products. The possibility that leaves from three common plant foods in rural areas or developing countries can serve as an alternative source of calcium merits investigation. The results provide novel information regarding calcium content and dialyzability in dried powders of leaves from spinach, sweet potato and drumstick. These results will be of interest to nutrition and food scientists, horticulturists and food processors. I have several specific suggestions for enhancing the presentation: Abstract : Use of the term mock serum solution is a stretch for the presence of BSA outside the dialysis bag. Plasma contains numerous proteins and low molecular weight compounds that can bind a portion of plasma calcium. The rationale for use of BSA should be added to the manuscript e.g., serves as a for calcium diffusing into the outer solution, some calcium in plasma and some of the divalent metal in plasma complexes with albumin. I suggest that albumin be substituted for mock serum solution. Abstract: middle of paragraph 2. Moringa oleifera had higher calcium content.. . Add % after 0.99 and 1.06. Abstract: paragraph 2. A dialysis system was designed... 1.4 times higher - than what? The term bioaccessibility generally refers to availability for uptake by, or paracellular transfer across the epithelial cell barrier. Passive diffusion across the barrier represents a portion of calcium absorption; particularly when the lumen concentration of soluble calcium is relatively high. As the investigators determined the amount of dialyzable calcium I suggest that it is not appropriate to use the term bioaccessibility in the title and throughout the manuscript. The great majority of papers reporting results for electrolytes and low molecular weight organic compounds obtained using in vitro digestion coupled with dialysis refer to dialyzability; not bioaccessibility. Results: The text and tabular data are quite redundant with means and SD from the table stated in text. The text can be less specific, i.e., delete the numerical details. Discussion: The translation of the in vitro results to the amount of calcium provided by powdered leaves is excellent. However, individuals in poor rural areas of developing countries generally consume boiled leaves from the three plants. How much calcium would 1 serving of leaves from each plant provide? Might a distinction of use of these leaves in a dried form as a supplement vs as an actual food, provide a more balanced viewpoint? 