This paper presents the methyvim R/Bioconductor package for differential methylation analysis, a common task in the analysis of data from DNA methylation microarrays. The method has 3 main steps: A pre-screen of CpGs to identify putative differentially methylated CpGs. A secondary statistical procedure to obtain "targeted" estimates of nonparametric variable importance measures (corresponding to either the average treatment effect or relative risk) for these filtered CpGs. Adjustment of the results obtained in (2) using a modified Benjamini-Hochberg procedure for multi-stage analysis. I have 3 major concerns with the paper: The statistical methods are almost certainly unfamiliar to potential users of the software and that the paper does not do enough to explain or justify the use of these procedures. The example dataset is not appropriate, nor is its analysis enlightening, to demonstrate to the interested reader where this method may be useful. The results of the method applied to the example dataset are not compared to existing methods. Furthermore, when graphically compared to a simple analysis, the results obtained by methyvim do not look like convincing differentially methylated CpGs. The software itself appears to be well written and documented and is available as part of Bioconductor. Its development follows good practices for open-source R packages such as use of unit tests and continuous integration, integration with existing Bioconductor packages, and code available from open-source repository (Bioconductor git server and GitHub). Below, I have also included some minor suggestions with respect to the software. In light of these 3 major concerns, each discussed further below, I find it very difficult to assess whether methyvim is software I would be interested in using or recommending to someone analysing DNA methylation data. Consequently, I cannot approve this article at this time. Main Concerns: Lack of a simple explanation and justification for the statistical procedures I came to this paper being unfamiliar with a statistical technique central to this paper, namely, 'targeted minimum loss estimators' (TMLE). Unfortunately, after carefully reading the paper several times, it's still not clear to me the purported benefits and limitations of this method nor its appropriateness and utility for analysing DNA methylation data. Although there are several references to books and papers that cover the "general framework of targeted minimum loss-based estimation and [detail] accounts of how this approach may be brought to bear in developing answers to complex scientific problems through statistical and causal inference", there is no simple explanation of TMLE for the reader who might care about it solely in the context of the current paper: how it is being used to identify differentially methylated loci and how this differs from existing methods. Choice of example dataset and analysis Please use a dataset that is suitable to demonstrate the utility and appropriateness of methyvim . The example dataset comes from the minfiData R/Bioconductor package and contains matched tumour-normal samples from 3 donors (n = 6, mistakenly referred to as n = 10 on p6). The authors admit that this is a small sample size for their method and that this "compromises the quality of inference obtained" by their method. Consequently, it seems unlikely that methyvim is going to produce new insights on this dataset nor will it exemplify the purported utility and appropriateness of the methods implemented in methyvim . Lack of comparison to existing methods The results obtained by methyvim need to be compared to those obtained by one of the existing tools (that are claimed to have poor performance for the types of problems methyvim seeks to address). In particular, as a reader, I was looking for the types of differentially methylated sites that this method detects that others might not and vice versa. To satisfy my curiosity, I applied the very simple minfi::dmpFinder() to the example dataset and took the top-250 CpGs (the same number of CpGs as reported in by the example code in the paper). I then plotted methyvim 's and minfi::dmpFinder()'s top-250 CpGs using minfi::plotCpg() to visually assess the quality of the differential methylation analysis. The top-250 CpGs from minfi::dmpFinder() look like real differentially methylated CpGs: large between-condition mean differences and small within-condition variances. In contrast, many of the top CpGs identified by methyvim do not look like real differentially methylated CpGs: small between-condition mean differences and/or large within-condition variances. This is exemplified by the top CpG called by methyvim (cg15703790, P = 6 x 10^-33, adjusted-P = 3 x 10^-27), which is not a called as a differentially methylated CpG by minfi::dmpFinder() (P = 0.11, Q = 0.26) and when plotted does not appear to be a real differentially methylated CpG. The code to run this comparison and the results figures are available in Result 1 (the R file containing code to generate Result 2 and Result 3) , Result 2 (the methyvim output from Result 1) and Result 3 (the minfi output from Result 1) (produced using methyvim v1.3.1). Minor Suggestions: Some of these suggestions may be difficult to incorporate (even if desirable) while incorporating backwards compatibility. Design of the methytmle class The clusters slot could perhaps be a metadata column on the rowRanges slot, accessible via the rowData() getter/setter. That way when the object is subsetted the clusters would automatically get properly subsetted (currently the clusters slot doesn't behave when the object is subset with [). The screen_ind slot could also be a metadata column on the rowRanges slot but would need to be a TRUE/FALSE vector (rather than a numeric vector) with the same length as the number of rows of the object. For both of the above, you could use how spike-in genes are handled in the SingleCellExperiment class for inspiration. The var_int slot seems like it should just be part of the colData slot rather than its own slot. Again, this would ensure proper subsetting behaviour when the object is subset with [. The call , param and vim slots could perhaps be elements of the metadata slot. The vim slot could be a DataFrame rather than a data.frame . The main advantage is that then the show,methytmle-method wouldn't print out as much output as it currently does (the obvious alternative would be to alter the show() method to prevent so much output). Constructor function .methytmle(): A period at the start of a function name typically indicates that the function is for internal use and not exported; see https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/SummarizedExperiment/inst/doc/Extensions.html#defining-the-class-and-its-constructor Plots The colour scale and legend on the histograms (Figures 1-2) and volcano plots (Figure 3) don't seem to add anything and are a bit distracting. Are they necessary? 