Joshua Powles and Kenton Ko conducted a study on rhomboid serine proteases with respect to their alternative splice variants. The study is based on a discovery of the same researchers in 2012 that two of the Arabidopsis thaliana homologs contain alternative splice variants. The manuscript displays several conceptual problems that would demand a major revision if touched. Therefore I suggest the authors to completely revise all in silico analyses and completely re-write the paper. The problems are as follows: = The authors provide much unneeded information for certain aspects (which would just be a style problem) but, most importantly, miss a lot of essential information to recapitulate and redo their analyses. Example: The authors state in the Methods section: “All variant RNA sequences were assumed to result in the generation of functional proteins, including extensively truncated products.” This, however, is not a method. A method would be that the authors write, that they used tool-x or tool-y to translate the RNA sequences, which they subsequently analysed by tool-z. Instead, the authors continue: “The resulting predictions did not indicate that this assumption would not hold true.” What does “resulting” mean here? Which tool was used? A translation of an RNA is usually not termed “prediction”. Which tool was used for the verification? Apart from these style problems, the authors did not provide any evidence that the translations “do” result in functional proteins. It still is just their assumption. In terms of missing information to recapitulate/redo the analyses, the authors do not provide any information on: A) how the set of starting proteins were assembled (search by name? Using BLAST?), B) how the entries were assessed for alternative splicing (on RNA? On protein level? By alignment?), C) the authors claim that their analyses required comparisons between genomic sequences but do not provide any genomic sequence in the main text or supplements, D) the authors claim “alignments with current models of rhomboid proteins” without providing the tool used for doing these alignments nor providing a list or reference for the “current models of rhomboid proteins”, E) the authors state that they used Ni-NTA chromatography for protein purification without providing any buffer. While column washing-buffers likely do not have any effect, the elution buffer has. Was the elution done in a gradient? By a step-wise process? Just by eluting with 500 mM Imidazole? Which pH? Was the purified protein dialysed afterwards? This is essential information, because the proteins were subsequently used in other assays, and these might be compromised by pH or imidazole concentration. F) the authors do not provide any information on ampicillin-concentration used for selection, nor any cell lysis procedure. G) was the purified protein always used directly? Frozen and reused later? How long is the protein stable in which buffer (pH? Imidazole?)? H) I do not understand this sentence: “If used, the rabbit polyclonal anti-rhomboid protein (At1g74130) antibodies were established by our lab and validated as reported in Powles et al. 51 .” Did the authors use this antibody for the western blots? Why did they “validate” the antibody again? I) which media were used for yeast cell growth? Just writing “Cells were grown in glucose-supplemented media” does not make the experiment reproducible. Which glucose concentration? What is a “complete medium”? J) The authors experimentally analyse three variants for the At1g74130 gene, termed L, M, and S, but it is not described anywhere to which splicing events these transcripts belong. Every study that I know that deals with alternative splicing contains a gene structure scheme and shows which exons would be present in which transcript. This is just an incomplete list of examples, where absolutely essential information is missing. The authors would need to check every sentence in the Methods section to see, whether it is really describing a method, and they need to check where and which information is missing. = I have looked at the provided accession numbers for the genes/proteins. The numbers for human and mouse all represent “predicted transcripts”, thus these could all be wrong. I recommend the authors to read a few papers about gene prediction software and pipelines, they will notice that on average every prediction in e.g. human, Drosophila, C.elegans contains 1 wrong exon (e.g. the paper from the eGASP comparison of gene prediction software on these 3 species would be a good starter). Prediction of alternative splice variants is even more error-prone. Thus, the authors should only use transcripts with cDNA evidence in their study (and keep in mind, that cDNA/EST data also sometimes contains errors from e.g. missplicing). Discussing just gene predictions is complete artificial and fiction. The authors could, for example, download a few RNA-seq datasets from the ENCODE and modENCODE data and do the RNA-seq mapping themselves to validate the gene predictions. If the authors cannot do this, they should only analyse and discuss transcript variants for which they find cDNA/EST evidence (and of course the accession numberss for these cDNA sequences need to be given). If the authors did a RNA-seq mapping themselves they could also provide some measure for the likeliness that a suggested variant is a true variant or the result of missplicing, transcription errors, etc. E.g. if thousand of reads are found for a certain gene, is it likely that a variant is a true variant and functional if only supported by 1-2 reads? Or are these 1-2 reads rather representing missplicing and other errors? = The authors claimed several times that they re-did the analysis every 6 months since 2012. Wouldn’t it be a much better way to just look first whether updates on these species were made available at all before spending time in redoing an analysis? I know that these updates only happen occasionally, and not even every second year. Also, the techniques completely changed since about 2010. At least I am not aware of any major study providing new EST/cDNA datasets for the species studied here. All the new data since about 2008 is generated as RNA-seq data. Thus, which further cDNA evidence did the authors expect for the transcripts since 2012 so that they decided to redo the analysis every 6 month? I highly recommend the authors to read all the README-files for the various gene prediction datasets that GenBank and the other databases provide. E.g. Ensemble decided in 2012 (if I remember correctly) to not use any cDNA data anymore for validating their gene predictions. Thus, many exons with cDNA data available (e.g. from isolating and sequencing single genes by research groups) are not present in Ensemble’s gene predictions anymore, if these exons are not predicted by gene prediction tools. Similarly, there are many predicted exons for which no evidence (cDNA/RNA-seq) is available. Please check the GETx-project: There you can see how many RNA-seq reads in each tissue are found for each transcript. You will find out, that for many of the “alternative” transcripts, there is not a single read. The presented discussion of the variants (figures 3 to 6) supports my assumption that most predictions are just wrong. Could the authors provide any reference that it would be possible for such a seven-transmembrane-protein (the rhomboid proteases) to result in a functional protein if e.g. 1 transmembrane region in the middle would be missing due to alternative splicing? If 1 transmembrane region would be missing (this is suggested by several variants the authors discuss) this would turn the direction of the rest of the transmembrane helices and regions: what was inside before would be outside, and what was outside would be inside. To all what I know from membrane protein structures, the transmembrane helices stick together forming a dedicated tertiary structure. Could the authors provide a reference that transcripts with early terminations would ever result in stable and functional proteins, if e.g. only some of the 7 transmembrane helices are present anymore? The C.elegans ROM-4 was stated to contain a variant with just the first TM-helix present. Do the authors really think that this would result in a functional protein? How do the authors exclude that such misspliced/unstable variants would not result in NMD? = The authors claim several times throughout the entire manuscript that they analysed selected model species without giving any information how these were selected. E.g. wikipedia contains a list of about 100 model organisms. Which was the rationale to just look at the 6 in the manuscript? Why not more plants? In this respect, there are many statements of the authors that are just wrong, such as “Currently, of the sequenced model genomes available,”. Of the 100 model organisms at wikipedia (and there are likely more model organisms if other researchers were asked) at least for 80 of them complete genomes are available. Altogether, there are about 5000 eukaryotes with genome assemblies available, of which at least 4000 are complete (e.g. check www.diark.org ). In this respect, all the speculations and discussion about which organism contains the most homologs or the most variants are just speculations and should explicitly termed as such. E.g. Brassica species underwent another whole-genome-duplication after separation from the Arabidopsis, and will thus contain many more than the 22 Arabidopsis homologs. Fish also underwent another 1 or 2 (depending on lineage) whole-genome-duplication, therefore will also contain more homologs. = The authors state several times that, although not observed, they expect more alternative variants for the Arabidopsis homologs, because many more variants were identified for human. What is the basis for this expectation? Is there any reference that demonstrates, that Arabidopsis genes have as many alternative splice variants as mammalian genes, on average? All what I am aware of just contradicts this expectation. Arabidopsis genes have fewer exons (thus less possibilities for alternative splicing) and less alternative splice events. Why do the authors not expect more alternative variants for Drosophila or C.elegans, based on their rationale? Shouldn’t yeast have at least some variants (doesn’t have any yet)? Of course, yeast doesn’t, but this should make the authors aware of the problems in their argumentation. = Although the manuscript deals with alternative splice variants, I did not find any reference on the ample literature on this subject. Not even references to a few reviews. Similarly, there is not even mentioning of the accepted types of alternative splicing, e.g. differentially included exons, alternative 5’/3’ splice sites, mutually exclusive splicing, etc. Categorizing the variants detected with these categories would be much more informative than categorizing by region. Based on the descriptions in the supplementary tables, many variants are highly likely just the result from sequencing errors leading to frame-shifts or alternative amino acids. There is only a single alternative splice form that would lead to alternative amino acids for a certain regions, which is mutually exclusive splicing, but this information I did not find anywhere. This could easily be confirmed. = I did not see any gene structure in the manuscript or supplements. The usual procedure in the field is to provide a gene structure drawing of each gene and mark the splicing events on these structures. This is common practice since 30 years. The authors do not show any protein sequence, nor any cDNA sequence, nor any alignment. I cannot see any use of the provided tables in the supplements for other researchers. Terms such as “Original UTR missing, new UTR generated from coding region” (table S3) are not useful. How can a UTR be generated from a coding region? Does this mean that this is just an alternative translation start site? What does “Default 5’UTR missing, extended downstream from isoform 1” mean? When I think of a gene structure with exons and introns, which splice event would represent this prosaic description? I will not provide more examples here, but by browsing through the supplementary tables I did not find a single useful description. Thus, the authors should provide a gene structure scheme for each gene and mark the events for each gene accordingly. Such schemes would represent exact descriptions of the splicing events. All prosaic descriptions need to be removed. = The authors state in the Methods section: “This was necessary to acquire sequences that resulted from alternative splicing only, as opposed to derivations from other routes.” Which other routes would lead to variants, if not alternative splicing? = The authors state in the Methods section: “A prime example of such a situation occurred with the human database entries, where the newest version contained more verifications than the previous versions.” How did the authors determine, whether the newest version contains “more verifications”? Is there any reference that GenBank obtained more full-length cDNA data in 2016 and that these data were used in the gene predictions? = The authors confirm by experiments the alternative splicing of two Arabidopsis genes, but exactly these variants have already been published by the same group some years ago. Thus the authors do not provide any further and new evidence that any of the predicted variants of the other genes is present and functional. The authors would not even need to do experiments to show functionality. If they only analyse those transcripts for which cDNA/EST data are available, these cDNA/EST data are already the evidence. Further evidence could be obtained if the same transcripts were found for closely related species. = The Introduction is extremely unbalanced. E.g. for this very general statement “Rhomboids are also part of an even larger group of proteins involved in regulated intramembrane proteolysis 2–31.” the authors provide 30! references, but the authors miss to provide a useful description of the protein superfamily in general. As far as I understand, these proteins are present in bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes. It would be essential information how the various subgroups are phylogenetically separated. Without such information, there is no possibility to understand the variants. For example, which of the Arabidopsis homologs are the result of the many plant whole-genome duplications? Do such duplicates have identical alternative splicing? Similar for human and mouse: Which homologs are related to which Drosophila and C.elegans homologs, do the orthologs in human/mouse (derived by the two whole-genome duplications at the origin of the vertebrates) have identical splice variants? 