Given that Bio-Rad Laboratories is a supplier of antibodies to the scientific community, the two authors who are employed by Bio-Rad Laboratories could be perceived as having a ‘competing interest’. This should be declared as such. My biggest concern with this paper is what might be interpreted to be an over-reliance upon published studies to support the use of antibodies for particular indications. For example: (i)The statement that “Vendors frequently show cropped blots, share validation data that lack appropriate controls, or use large amounts of purified protein or cell lines overexpressing proteins of interest instead of physiologically relevant samples as positive controls” is correct. But this is further compounded by investigators who continue the same practices and further contaminate the literature by reporting results that purport to support the use of a particular antibody by not disclosing its lack of specificity. (ii) The comment “Their high specificity makes monoclonals an ideal choice for immunohistochemistry applications” is correct. However it is worth adding the caveat that simply because these are monoclonal antibodies, does not guarantee that they will be suitable for immunohistochemistry. The control experiments are still required to validate their utility. (iii) It is strongly recommended that the statement “You can also look to validation data in published studies to evaluate antibody performance” be modified. One should be extremely careful about relying upon the published literature as a source of confirmation for an antibody. It is very rare that published studies validate an antibody for the purpose for which it is applied. It is unfortunately much more common that antibodies that should not be used immunohistochemistry or flow cytometry are used for that purpose. Once the first paper is published, subsequent investigators simply cite that paper as evidence of ‘validation’ without any confirmatory studies. This is a major problem for careful investigators. (iv) “When reviewing the literature, trust an antibody cited in a publication only if appropriate positive and negative controls are included.” Because most publications typically only show a tiny ‘window’ of a gel, I recommend adding the phrase “and for western blots and immunoprecipitation experiments, only if the entire gel is shown”. It may be worth commenting that different vendors sell the same antibody but with a different name and lot number. Thus while an investigator is purchasing antibodies that appear to be different, they might actually be the identical antibody. Researchers should at least be aware that is currently occurring. With respect to “Publishing meaningful antibody data”, I suggest the Authors add a comment that (i) All westerns and IPs should have size standards shown (in addition to showing the complete gel). (ii) Subjective assessment of IHC (for example counting the number of metastases in the lung) should be performed by blinded investigators. (iii)For flow cytometry experiments, “outlier points” should not be removed. (iv)Experiments should be repeated – investigators should resist publishing a single positive western result, or analysing a single IHC sample as “typical”. “IP”, “DAB”, “IHC” should be defined when they occur in the text. 