This paper describes the establishment of a co-culture bilayer model of the bovine alveolus using bovine pulmonary arterial endothelial cells (BPAECs) and immortalised bovine alveolar type II epithelial cells cultured for 14 days at an air-liquid interface (ALI). The authors highlight the practical, scientific and 3Rs benefits of their model and provide examples of current and potential applications. The rationale for establishing a bilayer alveolus model is well justified and the methodology is generally detailed and clear. The authors have chosen to create their bilayer by seeding the alveolar epithelial cells directly on top of confluent BPAECs and culturing at ALI (it is not clear whether an initial submerged phase was used which is normal practice). However, in previously established bilayer models of the alveolus (Hope et al ., 2007 1 ; Morton et al ., 2014 2 ; Costa et al ., 2019 3 ), the endothelial and epithelial cells have been grown on the basal and apical surfaces of the membrane, respectively. This better mimics the uninterrupted interaction between the endothelial cells and tissue fluids (i.e. blood). It is not clear why the authors have taken the approach they have, but I think this is an important point that should be highlighted with reference to other published studies and discussed. Was there a specific reason this approach was chosen? In relation to this, in the 5-day and 14-day cultures shown in Figure 1, cells are shown on the basal surface of the membrane; this is confusing. If these represent BPAECs that have migrated to the underside of the membrane, this needs to be explained because, in effect, a double endothelial layer has been created which is not representative of the in vivo situation. Is this related to the use of 8 mm pores (which seems very large) and could this have been avoided by the use of a smaller pore size (which were used in other experiments - see also comment below)? The reasoning behind the development of immortalized cell lines is logical although there are also disadvantages to this approach as demonstrated and discussed in the paper (the B2AE cell line, in particular, was not very successful). The imaging shown in Figure 3 highlights significant differences between the wild-type and immortalized cell lines grown on “coverglass”. Unfortunately, wild-type primary alveolar epithelial cells do not appear to have been used in subsequent bilayer experiments which would have allowed important direct comparisons to have been made between these and the immortalized cell lines. In particular, the histological section of the BATII/BPAEC layer shown in Figure 6C shows a thickened structure (and is certainly not pseudostratified) that is not representative of the native alveolar epithelium. The latter is obviously a very thin monolayer to allow for gaseous diffusion and, on this point, it would be helpful to have a figure of a histological section of ex vivo lung tissue showing the alveolar epithelium. Indeed, a more realistic single-cell layer is seen in the alveolar model created by Costa et al . (2019) 3 . It would be helpful to readers and potential users of the cell lines for these points to be discussed. In relation to these observations, the authors have switched between using membranes of different pore-diameters (0.4, 3.0 and 8 mm). Pore diameter is extremely important and selection is based on the experimental objectives. It is not clear why different pore size have been used and this could also be discussed. 