For much of the second half of the twentieth century, the absorption of nutrients from the small intestine was regarded as largely a question of understanding the detailed mechanisms of epithelial transport. That other factors might be involved was suggested by the high rates of glucose absorption from the small intestine of unanaesthetised mammals (including humans) that greatly exceeded those estimated or predicted from in vitro studies An analysis of the transport processes between the epithelial brush border and the blood flowing through the villus capillaries drew attention to the importance of the increased blood flow which accompanied glucose absorption 1 . This maintained gradients of glucose concentration through the mucosa sufficient to sustain the high rates of glucose uptake. At the time, the connection between intestinal glucose absorption and villus blood flow was unknown but the discovery and isolation of the glucagon like peptide, GLP-1, has led Professor Naftalin to suggest that this signalling molecule is the missing link, in addition to its other roles in glucose metabolism. From this starting point in the present paper, he develops a model of glucose absorption which is co-ordinated with changes in blood flow to both the jejunum and the liver and also the insulin dependent uptake of glucose in the liver, adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. From this simulation of the regulation of glucose absorption and metabolism in the healthy human, he uses his model to explore changes in occurring in patients suffering from non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, non-alcoholic liver disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus. While there are well known models of glucose metabolism 2 , to my knowledge, this is the first to incorporate intestinal glucose absorption. The way in which the different steps are coordinated here indicates a substantial advance in our understanding for which Professor Naftalin is to be applauded. I believe others will follow his lead and develop his model. It is interesting to see that it accounts successfully for the interactions between the portal and systemic circulations of the liver by simply assigning them with different compliances and different flows. I was a little surprised, however, that the model ascribed so much of the vascular regulation to GLP-1 when GLP-2 is both released concomitantly with GLP-1 and, in some mammalian species including humans, is known to act as a vasodilator in duodenum and ileum, the sites of glucose absorption. There is also evidence that GLP-1 and GLP-2 act synergistically in promoting glucose absorption 3 . Also, the governing equations of the present model involve many simplifications. For example, the equation for glucose absorption assumes the passive component is entirely accounted for by diffusion and lies in parallel with the active component when there is evidence for passive transport by solvent drag 4 and interaction between active and passive components 1 . These, however, are relatively minor criticisms when the real achievement of the model is its demonstration of the importance of integrative physiology. I should say that I did not find this an easy paper to read. This is probably because I believe that the most important part of a paper describing a mathematical (or computer) model of a physiological process lies in the model's governing equations. When the governing equations are set out and justified in a “methods” or “theory” section, the reader can appreciate the simplifying assumptions and the extent to which they might compromise the model's predictions more quickly. Also, I believe, the values used for the model's parameters should be justified by references to the literature, wherever possible. In the present paper, the governing equations are listed in a table with little justification for their general form. The values taken for the constants and parameters are also presented in a table. I appreciate that the modern trend of many journals to relegate mathematical argument to appendices, may increase the readership of a paper and its number of citations but by doing so, it makes the true evaluation of the work more difficult. For this particular paper, however, I believe the additional effort is well worthwhile. References 1. Pappenheimer JR, Michel CC: Role of villus microcirculation in intestinal absorption of glucose: coupling of epithelial with endothelial transport. J Physiol . 2003; 553 (Pt 2): 561-74 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Bergman RN: Orchestration of glucose homeostasis: from a small acorn to the California oak. Diabetes . 2007; 56 (6): 1489-501 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Drucker DJ, Yusta B: Physiology and pharmacology of the enteroendocrine hormone glucagon-like peptide-2. Annu Rev Physiol . 2014; 76 : 561-83 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Pappenheimer JR, Reiss KZ: Contribution of solvent drag through intercellular junctions to absorption of nutrients by the small intestine of the rat. J Membr Biol . 1987; 100 (2): 123-36 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Michel CC. Reviewer Report For: A computer model simulating human glucose absorption and metabolism in health and metabolic disease states [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :647 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8925.r14320 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-647/v1#referee-response-14320 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bogle IDL. Reviewer Report For: A computer model simulating human glucose absorption and metabolism in health and metabolic disease states [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :647 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8925.r14254 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-647/v1#referee-response-14254 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 09 Jun 2016 Ian David Lockhart Bogle , Department of Chemical Engineering, University College London, London, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8925.r14254 This is a comprehensive piece of modelling work. A complex model has been developed and tested and seems to support the evidence, particularly the effects of porto-systemic shunting which I don’t believe has been included in other modelling studies. In ... Continue reading READ ALL 