Prostate cancer is a common cancer in men that is driven in part through deregulated androgen signalling. The importance of androgen inhibitors in prostate cancer therapy and the clinical challenges posed by the development of androgen-resistant disease both justify the detailed description of the effects of androgen treatment on gene transcription and alternative splicing in prostate cancer cells. In this sense, the analyses reported by Munkley and colleagues represent valuable additions to the literature. However, further explanation of the results presented would increase the reader’s ability to understand these results and their significance, and to identify which results should be prioritised for further research. I have therefore provided some specific suggestions to increase the accessibility of the data as they are currently presented. Specific comments The genes shown in Tables 1, 2, 3 and 5 are not shown in alphabetical order. It is unclear how these genes are ranked and why they are shown in the orders displayed. It would be helpful for any groupings of genes to be more clearly displayed in these tables where this is relevant. It would be helpful to more clearly indicate which findings are novel and which are supported by the literature in Tables and/or Figures. In Table 1, a number of genes are shown in bold, but this is not explained. In Table 1, it would be helpful to annotate the isoform ID’s shown (columns towards the right side of Table). What does “comparable” mean here? It is challenging to show data for a large number of genes, most of which the authors will not be familiar with. However, in Figure 2, incorrect information is shown for the TPD52 gene (panel A). The PrLZ isoform is actually longer than the TPD52 isoform (through an extended N-terminal sequence specific to PrLZ), yet the sizes of these isoforms indicated in the diagram at the right have been switched (TPD52 is incorrectly shown to be the longer isoform). The authors should check whether this is an isolated error or whether other data for the TPD52 and PrLZ isoforms have been switched (for example in Figure 3). It would be helpful for Table 4 to include percentages as well as sample numbers so that readers can compare the composition of the TCGA PRAD cohort with other published cohorts. Analyses compared differential isoform expression in prostate cancer and normal tissue. The cohort included 497 prostate cancer patients, for which 52 had matched normal tissue (Table 5, Figure 3). I’ve assumed that these analyses compared transcript levels in the 497 prostate cancer cases with those in the 52 normal tissue cases. However, given that the 52 normal tissue cases had matched tumour samples available, were analyses conducted to compare the 52 matched cases? These analyses could be argued to be more robust through comparing matched samples, albeit in a smaller cohort. Table 5 should indicate the numbers of tumour and normal tissue samples compared. Some data in Tables 5, 6, and 6 are shown in bold, but this is not explained. I could not open Dataset 2. Could this be made available as a pdf file? All violin plots (Figures 3-5, also supplementary data) should specify the sample numbers compared, either below the X axis or in the figure legend if the same sample numbers apply to every plot shown. 