The case of this 60 y/o man with a history of at least two non-melanoma skin cancers details the use of targeted hedgehog inhibitors for the initial BCC histology followed by cytotoxic chemotherapy and ultimately EGFR directed treatment for what now appears to be cuSCC at the same location. The authors raise the important point of re-biopsy at progression particularly in skin cancers where blended histologies or collision tumors may occur. The use of Cetuximab has been a strategy for some time. The results outlined here are consistent with what is known—relatively modest clinical value. As referenced, the largest series found a relatively low response rate with modest durations for stable disease. The follow up here is short and the three month assessment is stable disease at best. Thus, the use of Cetuximab is of limited benefit as a single agent. Anti-PD1 therapy is referenced as an option at progression. For usual advanced cuSCC in elderly not immune suppressed patients, this is actually the preferred first line therapy. The monoclonal Cemiplimab was approved for use in Europe in July of 2019 and prior to that in the US following the NEJM publication by Migden et al July 2018. 1 The field has dramatically changed and the case should be updated to reflect this change. In the absence of a contra-indication of immune therapy, anti-PD1 therapy is standard of care. It would be very interesting to see an update to this case and the progress of this patient. At that point, the case would provide more information to clinicians. Specific suggestions: Include the NEJM paper outlining use of Cemiplimab in cuSCC not amenable to curative surgery or radiation. Provide longer follow up than the 12 weeks reported. Outline if the patient was treated with anti-PD1 therapy and why not. Comment on toxicity of therapies. The authors are correct in making the statement that PDL1 testing may not be needed for response to anti-PD1 therapy in this disease. In fact, Cemiplimab is approved without the requirement for testing. If available, it would be interesting to see NGS on the tumor. The tumor mutation burden for cuSCC is very high with some usual mutations (i.e. p53 and NOTCH). As this was a confusion in the case, this data may help clarify the origin of this tumor. 