 Prohormone convertases (PCs) are clearly a critical component for the normal function of secretory granules and the mechanism by which PCs are efficiently targeted to the correct compartment needs to be well understood. The carboxy (C) terminus of PC1/3 is important for efficient trafficking to granules and interaction of the C-terminal sequence with membranes appears to be important for sorting. In neuroendocrine cells, processing of the 87 kDa ER to the 64-66 kDa form of PC1/3 occurs in a late compartment of the secretory pathway and involves the removal of the C terminus. Based on the observations that in chromaffin granules PC1/3 may adopt a transmembrane orientation whereas in non-endocrine COS-1 cells, ER localized PC1/3 did not behave as a membrane spanning protein, Cawley and colleagues generated an antibody specific to the C terminus. In this report, the authors use biochemical and imaging approaches to characterize the behavior of the C terminus of PC1/3 in both endocrine (AtT20) and non-endocrine (COS7) cell lines to determine if the presence of the regulated secretory pathway influences the topology of PC1/3. Figure 1 . AtT20 cells were lysed by freeze thawing and upon centrifugation and Western blot detection using the N-terminus directed antibody, proportionately more of the 87 kDa form is recovered in the membrane associated pellet. Alkaline carbonate extraction of the pellet fraction retrieves predominantly the proform. Overall, comparison of carbonate extraction profiles of PC1/3 to bone fide membrane or cytosolic proteins suggests that the unprocessed form of PC1/3 exhibits properties resembling those of a membrane protein. Figure 2. To examine the relationship between PC1/3 maturation and epitope recognition by the N-and C-directed antibodies, radiolabeled PC1/3 was evaluated. Prolonged labeling of cells is expected to load the more slowly turning over pools with radioactive PC1/3. Thus, 24 h metabolically labeled cells should have accumulated both the 87kDa and the processed 64 kDa forms preferentially within late compartments of the secretory pathway. The immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that both antibodies are capable of detecting PC1/3 but why, using the same cell lysate do the N-term and C-term antibodies differ so substantially in their recovery of the 87 kDa? In addition, PC1/3 does not have the traditional transmembrane segment and is thought to fully translocate into the ER lumen. Thus, a more careful pulse-chase analysis including sequential immunoprecipitations would have improved on the existing antibody characterization. Generally speaking, antibodies that recognize only denatured epitopes do not work well for immunofluorescence. Since the epitope recognition by the antibody is important for the analysis, the authors should provide an explanation why the rather elaborate heating/solubilization protocol was required to prepare the cell lysates for immunoprecipitation. Nevertheless, The C-and N-terminus directed antibodies show a distinct pattern of recognition in metabolically labeled cells, with C-term antibody capturing the immature forms of PC1/3. Figures 3-5. For immunocytochemical analysis, treatment with Triton permeabilizes plasma membrane as well as intracellular membranes and allows antibodies to bind to epitopes oriented towards both cytosol and lumen. Tested in this section of the report is the underlying assumption that paraformaldehyde fixation permeabilizes the plasma membrane leaving intracellular membranes intact and antibodies cannot gain access to the lumen of organelles. Antibodies raised against the N-terminal domain of PC1/3 (oriented towards the lumen) is expected to immunostain PC1/3 only in cells treated with Triton X-100, whereas antibodies raised against the C-terminal domain (if oriented towards cytoplasm) will stain PC1/3 in the presence or absence of Triton X-100. Indeed, PFA fixation is sufficient for access by the C-terminal PC1/3 antibody as well as the antibodies to cytosolic proteins, whereas lumenal proteins cannot be detected–antibody to N terminus of PC1/3 falls into this latter category. The reduced but similar pattern of C-PC1/3 antibody staining obtained in the absence or presence of detergent permeabilization is taken as evidence for the membrane spanning topology of PC1/3. To strengthen the conclusion and to exclude the possibility that some of the staining reflects damaged, hence leaky or ruptured organelles, controls to demonstrate organelle integrity are needed. Co-localization experiments shown in Figure 5, should have also characterized the appropriate lumenal markers. Protease protection is an additional method for assaying cytosolic protein domains and a fluorescence-based technique involving protease protection (Lorenz H, Hailey DW, Lippincott-Schwartz J, 2008) would have been an additional test to use in support of PC1/3 trans-membrane orientation. Figure 6 . Finally, in COS7 cells, the C terminus of PC1/3, clearly detectable in perinuclear regions when detergent is present, is not available to antibody binding in the absence of detergent. This is in agreement with the report from Stettler and colleagues (although the reference appears to be missing) and raises the intriguing possibility that ‘helper’ proteins, specific to cells with a regulated secretory pathway, may potentiate the insertion into membranes. Here as well, the work would have benefited from a more extensive characterization of ER localized PC1/3. 