In their Software Tool Article “Quantification of cancer cell migration with an integrated experimental-computational pipeline”, Juarez et al present a software to quantify circular monolayer migration assay. The assay itself is quite basic and widely used, although mostly not with circular geometry, which is used as an assumption by the segmentation algorithm. Multiple algorithms and tools exist for this task and the authors should compare their methods to alternatives. Quite a few details are missing making the algorithm very hard to read and interpret. Specific major concerns / revisions: The authors missed to cite a significant body of work methods for quantification of monolayer cell migration. Also, the experimental assay should be put into context – there are many alternatives assays to perform monolayer migration, Oris is just one example. As a “Software Tool” article, I am expecting the authors to benchmark using a ground truth annotated dataset and compare its performance to at least one of the existing alternatives. Here is one easy-to-use optional method, Gebck et al 1 (that does not use the information about the circular geometry). The authors missed to discuss the limitations of their method. Specifically, the assumption that the pattern is circular does not fit most experimental settings. Missing technical details: The description of the algorithm is not clear to me. Is there a first stage of segmentation (thresholding?). Second stage of using the binary mask an input to optimize a fit to a circle as the initial geometry (is it the negative control?) using a genetic algorithm (GA). Third stage where segmentation is performed by simple thresholding and Q is calculated in relation to the initial circle as a measure to migration? This is very hard to interpret from the text. A major revision is essential. No details are provided for the GA. Many (most?) of the readers will not even know what is a GA. Moreover, there are practically no implementation details provided in the text. I am not certain from the text whether m_ij values are binary (0/1) or the actual pixel intensity. In the latter case, the assumptions used to define the function to optimize with the GA do not necessarily hold as they are heavily dependent on the values and variability of the pixel’s intensity in the background and foreground. The sentence “we can interpret the optimization performed by the genetic algorithm as finding “the largest circle which contains the least number of cell pixels.” is not necessarily true when using the raw pixels intensities and has to at least be discussed - how was this equation derived? what were the assumptions? how to set the value of the parameter p? I would like to see the complete algorithm and how the equation was derived in any case. What statistical tests were performed? Why do we see only 4 replication per experimental condition when the experiments were performed in a 96-well plate. Other revisions and suggestions: “A key aspect of metastasis is cell migration 1 ” - this association of cell migration and metastasis is not established, definitely not through a 2D monolayer migration assay. Also, bone cancer (ref #1) is very different than the model used for this study (breast cancer cell line). Monolayer cell migration assays are quite prevalent and a more relevant argument as motivation can be articulated. Overall, I suggest to tune-down the relevance to cancer throughout this article. I would suggest to switch the order of the 2 nd and 3 rd paragraphs in the introduction. The focus of this article is the software tool. The experimental perturbation (AGR2) can come later (or better, not at all in the introduction). In the same paragraph, why mention solely the AGR2 perturbation and ignore the Taxol-perturbation. The authors should also mention somewhere that Taxol is a drug that inhibit microtubules. “Our pipeline aids in the verification of well-established hypotheses” – it is the other way around: the known perturbation that is known to impair migration can be used to validate the method. Typos / grammer: “ZeoissObserver.Z1” “ First , the script first trains” “If the user desires change the format of the images” Missing detail: “and applying a series of morphological operations” “We then used a genetic algorithm to determine the coordinates of the center and the radius of a circle” 