This study hypothesised to assess the impact of different drip irrigation treatments at different later depth on root growth particularly at flowering stage in rice. They have shown that there is positive response of 0.8m lateral distance with 5-10cm depth drip irrigation treatment on root growth in comparison to conventional and other irrigation treatments. This is an important piece of observation from this study. However, the hypothesis of the study has not been detailed, the materials and methods have been inadequately detailed, and there are some typographical or grammatical errors. Also the approach taken for root phenotyping may not be completely justifiable. Major issues Introduction: the motivation to conduct this study has not been justified sufficiently. What was the reason for measuring ATPase and how is it relevant to root physiology or drip irrigation? There are many more such links missing the introduction, which the authors need to address. Martials and methods: are these experiments conducted under field conditions? If the answer is yes, then the root extraction procedure under field conditions is questioned. Also regarding the details provided on how the root system were extracted and how many days after sowing, were all the genotypes tested flowered at the same time? Which type (primary or nodal) of portion of the roots were used for imaging and estimation of the ATPase? A number of such gaps in the MnM will need to be seriously addressed. Results: What was the maximum root length across the genotypes tested; authors should provide maximum root length along with total root length; i find it hard to understand the total root length data - is it an average or how was it measured? It is not clear whether the authors had used winRhizo to capture root system variability? Did the authors take into account the different days on which the genotypes flowered; was the scheduled irrigation different for each genotype? I did not see soil moisture content in the study at different drip irrigation depths. Discussion: I could see the repetition of results in the discussion section, and the logical connection seems to be missing. There is a lot more scope to improve the manuscript qualitatively. 