Most assays that leverage high-throughput DNA sequencing ultimately involve counting molecules that align to genome loci. The observed counts are, in turn, used as proxies for some underlying cellular phenomenon. If the process of sequence alignment is fundamentally biased, so too will be the observations and potential conclusions drawn. In this manuscript, Saha and Battle explore the important role of sequence similarity between genes ("cross-mapping") on the spurious detection of trans eQTLs and gene co-expression. In particular, they argue that up to 75% of trans e-QTLs detected with standard methods could be spurious owing to systematic mapping (and thus both downstream read-counting and subsequent expression measures) artifacts caused by sequence similarity. This manuscript is well-structured, easy to read, and provides yet another warning that properly accounting for mapping and alignment artifacts is critical genomic research. The approach and analyses are sound overall. However, there are a few area that would benefit from clarification, and some technical aspects that warrant greater detail and perhaps further analysis. Choice of k-mer size. While the choice of k=75 for exons and k=36 for UTRs is certainly reasonable, one wonders whether these choices provide the greatest power to detect and quantify cross-mappability. Were analyses conducted to choose these k-mer sizes empirically? It would also be nice to add methods describing from which gene models the k-mers were derived. Furthermore, 5' UTRs are, on average, only slightly smaller than the typical exon, and 3' UTRs are actually larger on average (https://gist.github.com/arq5x/0d44bae195fc6260984ee01fd253712c). Therefore, it is not clear that k=36 for UTRs versus k=75 for exons is well-justified. When reading the manuscript, one naturally wonders whether the effects revealed by cross-mappability could be detected via existing "mappability" scores from ENCODE and others. It would helpful to have an explicit discussion and/or analysis of how this metric differs. By my reading and interpretation of Figure 1B, k-mers spanning exon/exon junctions were not modeled. This is perhaps critical given the results describing an enrichment of cross-mappable eQTLs corresponding to processed pseudogenes. Echoing the point raised by Rob Patro, it is important to understand how the gene expression qualification was done for GTeX and discuss how these methods impact cross-mappability analysis. Mappability is defined as 1/C_k where C_k is the number of genomic loci to which the k-mer aligns with = 2 mismatches. Given sequencing errors, polymorphism, and the fact that RNA-seq is actually cDNA-seq, one might be concerned that allowing more mismatches (and/or INDEL errors) would more properly model cross-mappability. While perhaps a minor concern, it would be nice to know how much the scores and resulting cross-mappability table differ with tolerance for larger edit distances. In the results describing an enrichment of spurious trans eQTLs associated with cross-mapping pseudogenes, it is unclear whether the authors are referring to all types of pseudogenes or solely processed pseudogenes. Crossmapping could arise from both "classic" (i.e., duplicated owing to NAHR) and "processed" (i.e., mature RNAs duplicated/inserted into the genome). However, the effect of excluding k-mers that span exon/exon boundaries from the cross-mappability would have a differential effect on these two types of pseudogenes. It would be helpful to be explicit in which types of pseudogenes are being discussed. SNPs were excluded from evaluation if they overlapped annotations in the RepeatMasker track. I would argue that SNPs should (and typically would be) excluded if they lie within segmental duplications. Such regions also harbor genes with a high degree of paralogy (because of the ancestral duplication) and if excluded, may have a substantial impact on the results. For example, I suspect many "classic" pseudogenes would also be excluded were SNPs in segmental duplications excluded. While I have never conducted a trans eQTL analysis, I suspect that removal of segdups is standard practice owing to the inherently high paralogy between duplicated regions. 