 Introduction Older people from high Andean populations, in the majority of the cases, they do a lot of physical activity. However, the social context and the lack of health access services could be a negative factor for healthy ageing. It could be important to add something about physical activity in the introduction . A previous study of physical performance in older adults in rural areas in Peru found better physical performance in those who lived at height compared to those who lived at sea level, then probably height is not the cause to have a better or worse physical performance but other factors such as physical activity, multimorbidity, etc. Methods The best design for this kind of study is of case and control but the tranversal studies give us relevant information. The presence of osteoarthritis of knee and hip and low physical activity previous can impact in the physical performance in this study. In older people the BMI is not the best parameter to evaluate malnutrition and the recommended levels are different, as mentioned in this study. Describe the inclusion criteria and exclusion ones in detail, they are partially mentioned in the results. Results Related to the comorbility takes my attention the low percentage of arterial hypertension found in 10% and the high frequency of functional dependence is 83%. Very different amounts to that reported in previous studies. Discussion 83% has functional dependence by the Barthel index, so it is a study to the community that is surprising, one of the hypothesis it is the population has high rates of multimorbility but to collect information but self-report the information was not given. There are other variables or conditions about the people living at high altitude that was missed in this study and that were not adjusted for in the regression models. The population that has cognitive impairment in a mild-moderate way by the test of Pfeiffer (screening test) could have a low score in the physical performance due to they did not understand in an appropriate way the orders to use SPPB; thus, in the context from people with low educational levels. The fact that they do not find links between poor physical performance and to live at high altitude support a previous study done 1 . 