The manuscript is focussed on a comparison between two Pseudogymnoascus fungal species, which belong to different species but have a partly overlapped ecological niche, based on the use of metabolic profiling with Biolog Phenotype Microarray commercial multiwell plates. These plates are used with redox dyes to evaluate substrate use. With fungi this colorimetric approach is very complicated, and as the authors actually did, the fungal growth in the wells is usually measured as a change in optical density. The interesting aspects and merits of this work are the following: This is a brilliant use of this technique, since the comparison between a pathogenic/parasitic species and a mainly saprophytic one can really highlight important clues on the nutritional requirements for the pathogenic organism to spread and develop. The two compared species P. destructans and the closely related species P.pannorum are truly interesting from different points of view. They live in caves, they live at low temperatures, they are very close but behave differently, they attack mammals, etc. The main criticisms regard: The description of the methods (very poor: it is difficult to understand the procedure followed both in data production and analysis), and the way data are presented. Figure 1 is really useless. Figure 3 is informative, but little or nothing is reported on data analysis in the methodological section. Apparently, the authors harvested the two fungi for inoculum preparation in two different moments (different sporification time: 3 to 5 weeks, it can be very different). They also chose two different incubation times for comparing the catabolism of the two fungi. These choices should be discussed and justified. The two fungi have different development times. This can be the main reason for the differences observed. A better description and motivation of the chosen approach would make the work stronger and clearer. Instead of single time-point comparison the authors could have used empirical models and regression splines that allow extrapolation of curve parameters of biological interest, namely, lag time, maximum rate of increase and maximum absorbance. Curve integration and the resulting area under the curve condenses these three parameters into a single estimate that can also be used to compare kinetics across substrates and samples. Curve parameters offer the main advantage of being independent of incubation time, while also accounting for potential differential rates of colour development across substrates and plates. An example of this approach is given in the following work: Canfora et al (2017) 1 , and theory is reported in the references therein. The authors tested only one strain for each species (I agree that PM plates are very expensive, but drawing a result using only one strains in the comparison is a limitation in case of intraspecific variability, even if they used two replicates) The lowest value on the heat map is an OD of “zero”. How was data scaling performed? What the red and green lines stand for in Figure 3? Legends are needed. References list is lacking of some important elements. One is the following: Atanasova L, Druzhinina IS 2 . The authors reported that predicted enzymes are related to the number of carbon sources that can be utilized by the two fungal species however, a better definition of the kind of correlations observed between genotype and phenotype is needed to better understand this connection. 