First, I would like to clarify that I am a clinician, and not a researcher. I have an expertise in mast cells, in particular, mast cells and interstitial cystitis. I believe that it is very important to publish case reports, particularly on a disease that is relatively rare, and little is known about. I applaud the authors in their efforts. This case report focuses on a patient with aggressive systemic mastocytosis (ASM). The drug used for treatment was subitinib, which has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma and imitinib–resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Sunitinib, an oral medication, is a multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor, as opposed to imitinib, which is also an RTK inhibitor, but can only target one type of receptor. 20% of patients do not respond to imitinib, and 50% become resistant to this drug over time. The most common side-effects of sunitinib include HTN, fatigue, stomatitis, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Other adverse events include weakness, diarrhea, nausea, anorexia, erythrocytosis (an increase in the mass of the RBC’s) and yellow discoloration of the skin. In addition, the patient may develop hand-foot disease, also called acral erythema, where the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet become red, swollen, numb and cause the skin to peel off. Side-effects in patients using sunitinib occurred in 10% or less of cases, with the exception of HTN, which occurred with much higher frequency. There has been only one previous successful case report using sunitinib for aggressive systemic mastocytosis in the European literature. Molderings, et al., reported that the patient experienced less fatigue, which made daily ADL’s (activities of daily living) easier for the patient to perform. In addition, after treatment, the subcutaneous fibrous nodules became movable (as opposed to firmly attached to the underlying tissue) and the smaller nodules disappeared completely. It is unclear why the remaining nodules, now movable, became tender. In this second case report, where sunitinib was also used to treat progressive aggressive systemic mastocytosis, there were some benefits. The authors pointed out that the patient had complete resolution of his intense bleeding gums within just 3 days of treatment, and also reported less fatigue. The subcutaneous nodules also became movable and tender. However, the patients’ body hair became white, and there was a decrease in the number of thrombocytes and total protein in the blood. The uric acid level increased to the point of causing gout. At this point, the authors agreed that the side effects outweighed the benefits, and the medication was discontinued. There is one case report published by L. Afrin in 2015 about the use of sunitinib in a patient with Mast Cell Activation Syndrome (MCAS) here in the U.S. The patients’ symptoms have completely resolved as long as she remains on the drug, and thus far she has had no side effects. It has been over a year now. The cost of sunitinib (Pfizer) is extremely high - almost $150,000 per year. Often, in the U.S., insurance companies have refused to pay for all or part of the costs of this drug, so the cost to the patient can be a tremendous burden. Sunitinib most likely costs less if the dose is lowered and used cyclically. Cyclical use (for example 4 weeks on followed by 2 weeks off) may actually decrease the side effects more than a lower daily dose. However, though cyclical use may be sufficient to control malignancy, it is unlikely that cyclical use would be sufficient to control dysfunctional mast cells, as in MCAS, which might quickly revert to a more symptomatic baseline state of inappropriate activation as soon as the plasma concentration of the drug drops below a therapeutic threshold. 