The literature review is more like an annotated biography. I would have liked to have seen some discussion of the limitations of the existing research. There is no discussion of how the current research adds to or improves upon the existing literature. While the survey questions are available, it would be very helpful if the questions were made part of the paper. Furthermore, a table of the responses would be helpful for the reader. The existing table only provides the mean response, but the distribution of the responses would be very helpful in understanding the results. A minor point, but the first three and second three tables could each be combined into one table, saving some space. The table numbers referred to in the text do not match the table numbers. Tables 5 and Table 6 both refer to educational attainment, while the text discusses location and refers to table 5. There is a reference to Table 5.1, but there is no table 5.1 in the paper. The table titles and hypotheses statements could be improved; the current title makes it seem that the analysis is pitting the ADP program against (“versus”), for example, crop development. The survey asks multiple questions on some issues, but the authors do not explain what question or questions are used to calculate the means reported in tables. The authors misstate the what the tables show. For example, they state that “…ADP have significantly affected…” What the survey can tell us, is that these services are perceived to have affected, say farm development, which is substantially different from knowing that the services actually affected, say farm development. The authors note when the effects are statistically significant. But, it would be important to note whether the effects are economically significant. The paper suggests some policy changes. However, the research reported in the paper does not provide support for (or against) the various policy recommendation. For example, the authors state that the authorities should re-strategize and reengineer the extension services. But there are no questions in the survey that suggest that such changes are necessary or would improve the services. 