The authors implement an interactive tool, called iSEE, to perform exploratory analyses for high-throughput experiments. The tool inputs a Bioconductor core structure, the SummarizedExperiment object (coerced into a SingleCellExperiment object) and builds an interactive interphase for data exploration. iSEE provides several tools for data exploration by plotting features of an assay along with sample metadata, feature metadata, and reduced representations of the assays. Furthermore, iSEE enables users to interact with the plots and to dynamically link panels with different representations of the data. The analyses performed using iSEE are reproducible, since the code that was run through the graphic interphase can be downloaded. Overall, the manuscript presents a very good idea and the code implementation is of great quality. iSEE will be very useful for people without programming background to perform basic analyses. I believe that the success of this tool will depend on whether the authors continue to develop it based on feature requests from users. I don’t have major concerns. However, I do have some recommendations to increase the interest of potential users. Enable users to select more than one group of samples from the dimensionality reduction plots. Furthermore, it would be very useful to enable users to fill new columns of colData based on the interactive grouping of samples. Enable users to retrieve an R data object if the initial input was modified during the analysis. In the context of single-cell or large-scale analyses, it would be helpful to implement tools for differential abundance analyses and gene set enrichment analyses. For instance, one could think of an implementation where users manually define groups of cells from tSNE/PCA plots, retrieve the genes that are differentially expressed between these groups, and extract the pathways that are enriched among the differentially expressed genes. When grouping samples manually on the tSNE/PCA plots, the violin plots of individual features (for example, genes) could be stratified based on these selections (e.g. plot one violin per group of selected points in the “Feature assay plot” panel). In the current implementation, it is only possible to colors the points within the violin plot, which makes difficult to compare distributions between groups of samples. 