The present article described the effect of FGF6 on RNA contents of microvesicles. In addition, the correlation of detected RNA on cell proliferation was described. There are many issues required to address in order to improve scientific content of this article. According to Dominici et al. (2006) 1 , mesenchymal stem cells can be characterized by 1) plastic adherence properties, 2) surface marker expression, and 3) multipotential differentiation ability. This article lacks of mutipotential differentiation test. Hence, the claim of these cells as stem cells isolated from human exfoliated deciduous teeth was not accurate. Indeed, these cells may be dental pulp fibroblast cells. Authors did not mention which time points that they evaluated for cell viability and proliferation. To determine cell proliferation, at least 2 time points are required and the second time points should be longer than the normal doubling time of these cells. Please provide more detail on those reagent used in the study. The catalog number as well as company is crucial information for others to replicate these finding. The main reagents (for example FGF6) were lacking this information. How many cells were seeded in the tissue culture plates and treated with FGF6 for further cell viability test and MV isolation? Authors mentioned 10 3 -10 5 cells and this is a wide range. Different cell density could reflect the different results obtained. In PCR, authors indicated the use of beta-actin as reference gene but provided GAPDH sequence. In TEM results, it seems that there were a lot of contaminated substance in MV collection. Would this effect the evaluation of gene expression since the RNA from the cells might also contaminated with MVs RNA? In PCR results, it seems that there was no statistically significant difference. This might be due to the different baseline expression among donors. Plots demonstrated the individual data could help to visualize the trend between control and treatment in each donors. What is the r for correlation analysis? Please indicate the statistical number. Please indicate n in each experiment. Overall, the results seems preliminary and required further improvement to strongly support the conclusion claimed by authors. 