The study investigated the ability of mangrove Rhizophora mucronata to produce glutaminase-free L-asparaginase and then production enhancement by optimizing parameters L-asparagine concentration, pH, temperature, and inoculum concentration by Taguchi method. Numerous reports are available on glutaminase-free asparaginase producing microbial sources and considering this, results presented in this study are too preliminary and authors should think the novelty of this study. The following are the comments to improve the quality of the manuscript. Major comments: The Introduction part is looking very general like in many other published papers. There is no strong rationale to screen another strain that produced very low levels of L-asparaginase. It was mentioned in ASNase assay that 1.5 μl of Trichloro Acetic Acid 1.5 M was added to stop the reaction. Eager to know how this lower volume 1.5 μl TCA will stop the reaction and can be accurate? It is better to include the equation to calculate the activity. The results of this study in terms of activity measured is very low (8.5 U/ml to 15 U/ml) compared to other commercial L-asparaginases ( E. coli ) and other novel reported sources. Moreover, the study is titled the enzyme is ‘glutaminase free L-asparaginase’; however, no evident experiments or data reported in this study for claiming this. Did the authors also check for urease activity? Tables are numbered 1-5, showing only coding and interpretation results obtained from Taguchi statistical analysis. Many can be compiled as a single table and if necessary can be filed as supplementary data. For figure no.3, more description needed and clarify the 2 curves shown in each plot. What is the rationale in choosing only four variables for optimization? Why did the authors screen the variables initially? Did the authors try to fit the experimental results to any quadratic equation? How did the Taguchi experimental design optimize the four variables? How did authors arrive at the optimal values and verify? At optimal settings, the expected result is ~ 19 U/ml but the authors obtained only 8.51 U/Ml. The huge variation between experimental and predicted values suggests that the design is not able to perform to good optimization. There is no growth data provided in the manuscript. The experimental values represented in Table 1 corresponds to what time of growth? The study showed mangrove Rhizophora mucronata as producers of L-asparaginase and optimization of its production parameters. More experiments must be included to reveal its biochemical properties, glutaminase free activity, molecular weight, and purity to explore it into application level as mentioned in the introduction part. 