This is a compelling manuscript from Gajinder Pal Singh and Amit Sharma, which conducts an analysis of the accrual of non-synonymous changes within Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) genes across the breadth of the MalariaGen population genomic dataset. This work builds upon a trend observed in the initial MalariaGen publication(s) that South East Asian (SEA) populations exhibited a general trend of higher Non-synonymous to synonymous mutation ratio (N/S) compared to African populations. The authors replicate and expand this analysis and then compare this trend to a protein dataset comprised of Eukaryotic sequences to show that even among the most conserved sites SEA continues to accrue more NS polymorphisms than African isolates. Lastly the authors set out an argument for the mechanism behind this apparent relaxed negative selection within SEA Pf , attributing it to the lower rate of mixed genotype infections across SEA and the subsequent lack of competition within host. This would create the circumstances that would allow for multiple independent resistance mutations arising and fixing within the SEA population. Exploring general patterns of genome architecture within P. falciparum is vital to understanding the spread and prevention of resistance to anti-malarial drugs, and as a result this work is of interest to the malaria community. There are some clarifications required, and two significant areas of improvement for the paper: Major clarifications: More detailed results/discussion sections, and deeper discussion of previous literature.While the authors cite the MalariaGen publication (citation 18) they should more explicitly describe the relationship between that publication and this analysis. Specifically, highlighting Figure 5 of citation 18 and its supplemental material, which shows a similar genome-wide analysis of N/S ratio between Africa/SEA. It would be good to directly acknowledge this article/figure as the first description of this African/SEA pattern. Furthermore, it would be constructive for the reader if the authors added a deeper justification for their extension of this work. Language used to describe the accrual of Nonsynonymous sites overstates the general trend of NS SNPs at conserved sites. Figure 4 shows that NS SNPs accrue at a higher rate in SEA across the set of conserved sites within Plasmodium and at the set of conserved sites across Eukaryotes. However, the language used to describe this figure in the legend states that “NS polymorphisms… in SEA are more likely to occur at conserved positions.” This statement implies that this is a general genome-wide trend of higher rate of fixing NS SNPs at sites with high conservation. Perhaps extending this legend to mention that NS SNPs are “are more likely to occur at conserved positions when compared to Africa” would avoid this implied generalization. Additionally, on page 3 the authors state “these mutations preferentially occur at the conserved sites”. This statement repeats the highlighted issue above, and adds the word “preferentially” which may create an unintentional teleological statement about the occurrences of NS mutations. NS SNPs occur at a higher rate within the pre-selected subset of conserved sites when compared to Africa, but the figures do not show a general genome-wide preference for NS mutations at conserved sites. Minor clarifications are as follows: “Kelch” is misspelled multiple times throughout the article. “Cambodia” is misspelled in multiple figures. “PNG” Abbreviation should be written out fully. 