This paper describes a one-year experience using continuous EEG monitoring in a developing healthcare system. The authors experience with a growing cEEG program is a valuable addition to the literature. We have some comments and questions to better understand the results described: Methods: What were the inclusions and exclusions criteria? Was EEG duration less than two hours the only exclusion criteria? How frequently were studies reviewed and results communicated to treating team? It would be helpful to know the timing of when the seizure occurred on EEG and the identification of these findings on EEG and communication with the treating physician. When discussing mortality and morbidity, it would be helpful to adjust for comorbid conditions and severity of underlying illness. In the statistical analysis were p values adjusted for multiple comparisons? Results: The author indicates a total of 202 cEEG records were identified. Are these for 202 unique patients? Did any patients have more than one cEEG study during this time? If so, were the subsequent studies excluded if the patients had more than one cEEG study during the one-year period? How were the clinical diagnoses defined? For example, was “epilepsy” used only if the patient had a prior diagnosis of epilepsy, or was it also used for new-onset seizures? Subcategorization of “cerebrovascular disease” would also be helpful. (Based on prior studies intracranial hemorrhage is much more likely to be associated with seizures than ischemic stroke.) For Table 2, did any patients have more than one of the periodic patterns? Did patients have NCS and periodic patterns? Why is NCSE not listed in the table? It would be interesting to look at the diagnoses associated with NCS, NCSE and periodic patterns. In addition to describing the primary diagnosis of the patients it would be helpful to know why they were connected to cEEG. What were the indications for EEG monitoring and frequency for each indication? It would be helpful to describe a table of indication for EEG monitoring and percentage for each reason (example, clinical seizure, altered mental status. abnormal movements, etc). Discussion: The author states: “The data are consistent with prior knowledge and experience from other countries that CEEG is effective in detecting NCS and other likely harmful subclinical EEG patterns on the ictal-interictal continuum.” This paper does not define nor discuss the ictal-interictal continuum. The discussion should compare the findings at the current center to prior publications on the yield of CEEG. Without adjusting for underlying diagnosis and comorbidities, it is difficult to claim that there is “a significant association between NCS and mortality.” It would be helpful to provide a more detailed discussion as to why the following finding was noted “periodic or rhythmic patterns was significantly associated with longer hospital stays.” In the method section, the author states: “The duration of CEEG monitoring is decided by the neurology consultation or ICU physicians.” It appears that the longest duration for a study was 24 hours; however, as mentioned 52 patients had nonconvulsive seizures, with 10 patients fulfilling the criteria for non-convulsive status epilepticus. How were these patients monitored for response to treatment? Were NCS and NCSE successfully treated by the time of disconnect? Throughout the article the authors refer to the resource requirement for CEEG monitoring. It would be interesting to know if and how resource limitations affected monitoring. What was the time from request to connection? Is there any reason to suspect this affected outcomes? 