 Overview The paper's central thesis of the correlation, or putative causative mechanism of the gut microbiome on IBD and depression, is important. The application of machine learning techniques may be suitable because of the high dimensional structure of the data and lack of knowledge of a simple causal relationship between the microbiome and IBD/depression. I have a number of concerns and suggestions about the article in its present form. Most of these concern the presentation of the data, methods, and results. Addressing these concerns will help bring the article into a shape where readers can better evaluate the results and contribution of this study. Presentation of the methods and results The article should explicitly specify the dimensions and form of the data/features that were fed to the random forest algorithm. Were they the estimates of each species abundance in each individual from the respective RNA and DNA sequences? Was it derived from ribosomal seqeunces only? How many species were included? What was the total dimension of this data set? Does it correspond to a specific table in the IBDMDB resource? Since the intended audience may be researchers generally interested in IBD or metagenomics who are not experts in random forests, algorithmic details should be provided in terminology that is common to the broader field. N-fold cross-validation generally refers to using 1 out of N data samples as a hold out test sample. However, the article mentions 1000-fold and 500-fold cross-validation for a data-set with 70 individuals. Does this correspond to individual re-sampled bagging or feature bagging in the random forest? A more explicit explanation will make this comprehensible to more readers. The supplementary figures and tables may have been mixed/corrupted. S. Figures 1 and 2 are described as corresponding to pathway analysis but are actually ROC curves. SF4 and 5 are supposed to be ROC curves but probably show pathway results. The resolution is too low to make out the text. The method of calculating the pathway abundances should also be described somewhere. Is it the total number of reads corresponding to genes in the pathway, does it depend on the species abundances or any other parameters? Some of the ambiguity in the analysis may be removed by providing the code for any pre-processing, random forest analysis, feature selection, and pathway abundance analysis etc. Interpretation and Conclusion A machine learning algorithm can build an accurate prediction system, or generate hypotheses about the mechanisms at play or provide some other insight into the process. Here, I see two possible results of the ML analysis: The prediction accuracy can be a measure of the amount of information contained in the microbiome about the diseases. Alternatively, how predictive is the gut microbiome, and does this imply evidence for the causative effect of the microbiome on the disease? These would be comparatively harder claims to make, and would probably require a few more calculations. The random forests are used to arrive at the most important features (bacterial species) affecting bowel disease and depression. I think this is the main claim/result of the analysis. In this case, how much more does information does ML give us compared to simply finding the species whose abundance is most different between the disease and non-disease states (in terms of fold-change or p-value). For the case of the multi-class problem, ANOVA can provide p-values for the non-random abundances in the different classes of patients. The article describes the results of such t-tests and ANOVA results. A sufficient and logical argument for the ML approach supported by any relevant calculations will strengthen the case for this analysis. Overall, I feel the discussion of the possible role of some of the species and metabolic pathways etiology of the disease is the most interesting for biologists and clinicians. The article is important in this regard and further development of this discussion can only add to its strength. 