This paper aims to contribute to the discussion on use of UIDs for citation linking. It states two objectives: Explore the coverage, precision, and characteristics of publications matched versus not matched with UIDs as the match key. Illustrate how publication sets formed by using UIDs as the match key may affect the bibliometric indicators: Number of publications, number of citations and the average number of citations per publication. The paper usefully lists the common UIDs used for research publications, and in so doing illustrates the problem of disjoint UID sets (intersected by other attributes of the publication) and lack of universal uniqueness but without commenting upon it. An important facility in PURE (based on CERIF) is the ability to utilise 'federated IDs' so that there can be several 'unique identifiers' for the same object thus allowing crosswalking within the metadata for a given publication. The paper mentions UIDs for publications and persons but not for organisations; the use of such UIDs is becoming more common and is useful for comparative analysis of performance by research organisational units. The paper states (P3) "Opposite to the other UIDs, the DOI is assigned to the publication itself and not merely to the publication’s representation in a database". There is a lack of clarity of thinking here. The DOI is a digital identifier and thus is not assigned to the publication itself (the scholarly content) but to a digital representation (textual, diagrammatic, tabular...) of it. The representation in the database is of two parts: the metadata (traditionally the library catalog entry) and the publication content (possibly with added datasets, software or artifacts). Throughout the paper it should be made clear that the work is based on the metadata - although the citation is within the textual content of the publication referring to a reference at the end of the publication from where a link can/should be made to the full text of that (cited) article. In fact ideally the link should have a time period of validity and semantics of the kind of citation (such as negative or positive, explanatory...). The paper states (P4) "The matching of identical publications in different databases is called citation linking or reference linking. Matching within the same database is called deduplication. The term citation matching is also used, but often for the more specific purposes where citing and cited publications are matched". It is important that the paper clarifies the thinking here also. Citation has nothing to do with matching or de-duplication, although 'clean' data is required for effective and efficient citation. In fact the paper does not really discuss citation itself but only the utilisation of UIDs to achieve citation - and more particularly the difficulties of obtaining 'clean' data. The paper does not reference "Citation Linking: Improving Access to Online Journals" S. Hitchcock*, L. Carr, S. Harris, J. M. N. Hey and W. Hall Proceedings of the 2nd ACM International Conference on Digital Libraries , edited by Robert B. Allen and Edie Rasmussen, 1997 (New York, USA: Association for Computing Machinery), pp. 115-122 available at http://journals.ecs.soton.ac.uk/acmdl97.htm which states clearly (and as early as 1997): "The likely effect of citation linking can be gauged by recognising a direct parallel with citation indexing, which is sometimes referred to as 'forward' referencing (i.e. for a given article, all the subsequent papers that cite it), developed by Garfield (1955). Garfield's description of citation indexing as an 'association of ideas' bears remarkable similarity to Bush's 'association of thoughts' which anticipated modern hypertext. Citation linking combines the two approaches, mapping both reference data and citation index data on to the text in the form of links. Adding electronic links to the literature is introducing a new culture in many respects, but citation linking is likely to be acceptable to the academic community because it builds on practices established in other forms such as print. It also allows the community to exploit its own intellectual input in this process, recognised in Garfield's original rationale that "by using authors' references in compiling the citation index, we are in reality utilizing an army of indexers"." Here citation linking is used - and with precedence - to mean something quite different to the use in this paper. The literature review is appropriate. The case study is limited in organisational unit, research discipline, time period; however the results are useful and could - with advantage - be compared with similar studies in other disciplines /organisational units and time periods. Overall the paper is a useful contribution and hopefully will stimulate similar studies in other disciplines and time ranges. but the lack of clarity of thinking should be addressed. I would suggest: a paragraph clarifying the inter-relationships of metadata and content for one publication with that for another cited from the first; a paragraph explaining citation, citation linking, citation indexing; the existing paragraph on UIDs being expanded to explain the usefulness of 'federated IDs' for crosswalking within the metadata of a given publication. 