This study aims at replicating, in a Japanese sample, Experiment 3 by Bryan et al. (2013), which investigates whether and how subtle cheating-related ethical reminders (don’t cheat/be a cheater) subsequently prevent cheating behavior. In general, I find the proposal interesting, informative, and worthy to be further conducted. However, I have some concerns/suggestions after carefully reading the report. Minor aspects concerning the introduction: I find the storyline a bit difficult to read. As a suggestion, and if the authors consider it appropriate, I propose reordering some pieces of information. After the first paragraph, I would introduce [According to Blasi (1984)… till (Cojuharenco et al. )] followed by [a moral character model… till “euphemistic labeling” regarding language]. Then, [different ways of description…till (Gelman et al. ]] followed first by the studies regarding ethical behaviour and [According to Bryan et al. (2011)…correlated behaviors]. Finally, I would introduce Bryan et al. (2013), which is the main study of reference in the current proposal. I think that the motivation of the study could be reinforced beyond the methodological arguments. For example, are there other studies investigating such prevention of unethical behaviour linked to semantic priming? Has this question been investigated in a different cultural setting at all? Please amend the term “decrease” and use “prevent” “reflects less proportion” or something similar. Decrease or increase denotes change. This is not the main point of the study but rather testing the hypothesis that the “cheater” condition will significantly reflect less ratio of cheating behaviour. In the abstract, amend also “no instruction” as control and use baseline control or non-related cheating instruction or something similar. Participants in this group will also have instructions. Does your hypothesis skip the baseline condition for any particular reason? (e.g., “cheater” curbing unethical behavior more than both “cheating” and “baseline”). Methodology section: I understand that you will use ANOVAS to compare your results with those by Brian et al. However, I think that the study will be methodologically more sound if, in addition, you perform an alternative analysis. Considering that your DV is based on counts and that the 10 trials are nested within each participant (therefore probably correlated), I propose a Poisson or quasi-Poisson regression from a generalized estimating equations approach to investigate differences in proportions and Odds Ratio (see Ruiz Fernndez, Kastner, Cervera-Torres, Mller, Gerjets (2019)). You can include gender, age or, another demographic predictor such as job status (working/not working). The analysis can be performed first without such predictors to stick with the original hypothesis and then with the predictors. In the procedure section, I would change “stimulus” I the first lines with “cover story”. In the data analyses section, the term “original” is confusing because it refers to you experiment and Bryans’. Unless you are sure that they didn’t, I suggest stating that [a problem in the original study was that the authors did not report adjustments for any significance level…] Linguistic issue: The study by Bryan et al. (2013) and the proposed replication relay on the core assumption that instructions compelling self-identity (“don’t be a cheater”) prevent cheating behavior due to “increased” self-identity activation/social-desirability bias. You suspect that the direct translation of the original English instructions “don’t be a cheater” into Japanese might be perceived as rather unfamiliar. In other words, your expected effects might be potentially due to (a) the remainder “cheater” activates self-identity more than the remainder “cheat” and/or (b) the remainder “cheater” promotes extra attentional salience due to unfamiliarity, which, as the authors state, may be problematic to fully support the initial theoretical assumptions. I have some questions in this regard. Please, could you clarify whether your preliminary pilot study testing the familiarity of the expressions is based on direct translations from English or analogous expressions in Japanese? It is a bit confusing as it is written in the text “…asking participants to evaluate their familiarity with certain expressions in Japanese. The expressions Don’t cheat and Don’t be a cheater were translated into Japanese”. In my opinion, using genuine Japanese expressions instead of direct translations should be adequate for a conceptual (cultural) replication. I am wondering if you could find a way to examine whether familiarity predicts/moderates the expected effects. It could be the case that participants grasp the meaning of the expression even if they find it relatively unfamiliar. For example, like a loose idea, a baseline task could be created where participants can rate the familiarity of a series of words/expressions in which the ethical reminders or related words of interest are included. Or, in addition, a multiple-choice task could be designed to reinforce the meaning of the expressions while at the same time potentially reducing unfamiliarity (e.g., in your opinion, which meaning/description do you think that fits better with this expression). If the authors consider that this question is beyond the scope of the study, it would be necessary at least to make this point clear in the discussion. Beyond familiarity, why do you plan to exclude the “cheater” condition in Experiment 2? If you assume that the “cheating” condition captures less attention than the “cheater” one and design a “cheating with task” condition to compensate somehow the attentional bias, should you not compare this new condition with the “cheaters”? I think that you would be able to potentially provide stronger arguments supporting that the attentional bias is less likely to explain the expected findings in Experiment 1. 