The study protocol describes a pilot project that examines the effectiveness of a social skills training program – originally developed for youth on the autism syndrome spectrum – applied to the social skills deficits of adolescent and young women with Turner syndrome (TS)(45,X). The neurocognitive profile of girls and women with TS has been extremely well documented and has repeatedly been shown to be associated with deficits in social cognition and skills. This aspect of the TS phenotype is likely a significant factor accounting for the gap between educational attainment in this population (shown to exceed to population norms), and their occupational status and measures of independence from family caregivers. Women with TS have also been shown to exhibit both delays and arrest in psychosexual milestones which are more than likely linked to the characteristic social behaviour phenotype associated with this karyotype 1 . The investigators should be commended for proposing to adopt a proven efficacious and effective intervention for social skills deficits to potentially modify the behavioural phenotype in TS. The PEERS program is well-suited to the task because of the similarities in social skills deficits in high-functioning ASD and TS. Work on this topic is long overdue. The rationale for the pilot study is well described, although the authors have possibly overstated, in the Introduction, the lack of “systematic evaluations of the mental health of young women with TS…”. In fact, there are multiple studies assessing both the psychiatric status and psychosocial/sexual adaptation of this population. What has been sorely missing are psychosocial interventions to potentially ameliorate deficits, and the proposed study is directed precisely toward this objective. There are the following elements I found missing from the protocol or require further consideration: p.2 Study Design - it’s unclear what the following refers to: “All participants will be matched for age, degree of social impairment, intellectual ability and hormone therapy treatment.” Each participant will serve as their own control, so I don’t understand the “matching” piece. p. 2. Participant inclusion and exclusion criteria – details are not provided regarding the SOAR questionnaire screening for eligibility based on social skills deficits. Will recruitment be restricted to girls/women with a 45,X karyotype or will those with a variant, including chromosomal mosaicism, be eligible? The Discussion notes that self and parent reports are prone to bias because of expectations regarding the intervention and note that a remedy to overestimating the benefits can come from employing external observers. The investigators justify not employing external observers because of the small scale of this project. However, one could turn that argument around by questioning whether it would be worthwhile to pursue a full-scale trial of PEERS in TS if the effects observed in the pilot are driven by biased reports. 