The author has done considerable work in assembling data relating the use of sedatives and hypnotic drugs to harmful outcomes and increased healthcare costs. The main thrust of this article is, assuming that hypnotic use causes harmful health outcomes, what would be the economic costs of this harm? However, the question about hypnotic use by itself causing harm and health morbidity is still frustratingly not completely resolved. The author amasses a wealth of evidence associating the two, lending strength to the notion of causality but not confirming it. There is good experimental evidence showing negative effects of hypnotics including slowed reactions, cognitive and memory impairments, impaired balance arising from their sedating effects both before sleep and, for longer acting hypnotics, after sleep. However, the evidence for the direct effects of hypnotics on physical health measures is not as strong since these are largely correlation studies. The greater increase in health morbidity and mortality in those prescribed hypnotics may arise from the possibility that hypnotics are more likely to be prescribed by health professionals in cases with greater and more serious co-morbidity and those likely to have increased mortality risk. This self selection of hypnotic prescriptions to those likely to have higher morbidity and mortality may account for all or some of the subsequent elevated risks. The author, himself, admits that this may not be resolved without randomized control trials (with some diagnosed insomniacs not receiving hypnotics or receiving non-drug therapies instead). However, it may be difficult to obtain ethics approval for a study allocating insomnia sufferers to a non-treatment control over a long period of time (e.g 2-3 years to measure long term health outcomes). The only opportunity might be to compare pharmacotherapy alone with cognitive/behavior therapy with long term follow-ups of sleep and many health outcomes. This should be acceptable ethically. The difficulty with drawing causal conclusions from epidemiological studies is nicely illustrated by one of the cited references with some of the most compelling evidence, the study by Anderson, et al 1 . In their study they reported on an insomnia subset of 5,773 of which 75% were treated with a prescription medication and the other 25% were not and all were followed up after a 12 month period. The treated subset was more likely to have a mental health diagnosis and anti-depressant medications. These differences were significant between the groups at baseline which supports the notion that it is the higher morbidity patients more likely to receive hypnotic medication. These initial morbidity differences were then amplified at the follow-up and the medicated group showed greater increases in health costs ($4276 vs $2309) over that time. This is strong circumstantial evidence that the hypnotic medications were causing an increase in medical costs. At least one could say with greater certainty that the medications were not curing their insomnia and reducing health costs. The only lingering doubt, however, is not knowing the outcome had they not been medicated. Would they have been even worse off, no different, or, as Dr. Kripke is suggesting, better off? We simply cannot be certain until randomized controlled trials are conducted. A crude but good analogy to the point I am making is the effect of hospitalization. Should a 70 year old with a severe chest infection be hospitalized? Those admitted to hospital certainly have a higher morbidity and mortality risk. Does that mean someone with these symptoms will be better advised to stay out of the hospital? In the mean time, the weight of the evidence presented by the author is compelling. My only suggestion is for the author not to slip into the use of terminology that the causal connection is proven. By doing so he is in jeopardy of reducing the strength and consistency of the correlation data. Let the data be presented and just percolate in the reader's mind. It will thus be more effectively taken up than if the author takes the one step too far to insist upon the causal link. Already there is too much research being presented implying causal links between sleep variables (e.g. reported total sleep time) and health outcomes from epidemiological studies. Let's not contribute to this inappropriate trend. 