This is a highly informative and comprehensive review on our current knowledge about the anti-cancer mechanism of nelfinavir. It also deals with the pros and cons of a possible repurposing of nelfinavir (and other HIV PIs) for cancer treatment. The following amendments and corrections are suggested: Proteasome: In the abstract, the proteasome is listed among the factors to be by nelfinavir. Is the proteasome or in its activity? This might be a slight semantic inaccuracy but is important because it reflects different molecular mechanisms. The same applies to Akt, which, according to the author, is mentioned to be in some phrases and to be (as a protein?) by nelfinavir in other phrases. Independent of this, there is also a controversy in the literature about the ability of nelfinavir to inhibit proteasomal activity. Some authors observed inhibition of proteasomal enzyme activity by HIV PIs, whereas proteasomal target genes such as HIFalpha and cyclins have unexpectedly not been described to accumulate in the presence of PIs. Instead, as mentioned in this review, several of these proteasomal target proteins were found to be downregulated by nelfinavir treatment. Using yeast terminology (HAC1) to introduce human ER stress mechanisms might confuse the reader. Fig.1: How does ER stress lead to proteasome inhibition? I have problems with the authors proposed classification of PIs into ER stress inducers and Akt inhibitors (Abstract and Conclusion). Ritonavir is listed as an ER stressor only (conclusions ), but has been identified by several researchers to cause both ER stress and Akt inhibition. Furthermore, according to our experience, the ability of PIs to reduce Akt activity appears to be dependent on the cell line(s) used. Our group also observed enhanced Akt phosphorylation by nelfinavir in cell lines with low endogenous Akt activity, and Akt activation is also a known response to ER stress. A combination of nelfinavir with mTOR inhibitors is suggested by the author. There are some independent recent reports indicating that nelfinavir also acts as an mTOR inhibitor. The ability of nelfinavir to induce oxidative stress should be mentioned, because this may represent one of the reasons why nelfinavir may exert ER stress or other anti-cancer effects. (Fig. 2, for example, suggests undefined protease inhibition as the only mechanism of nelfinavir-induced ER stress). Some typos in the text and in the figures should be corrected (hidroxychloroquine; phosphorilation; endothelial (=endoplasmic?) reticulum; Bc12 (=bcl2? Fig. 5)).