I have a few comments on Dr Berger's manuscript, which raises interesting discussion points Dr Berger states that “Psychotherapy clinical outcome trials for major depressive disorder (MDD) are often described as “randomized”, “controlled”, “singleblind”, etc. These words may not adequately describe the level of methodologic rigor of the design of a trial for MDD because the endpoints are subjective symptom ratings ” (my italics). This latter point might benefit from some expanding and clarifying. All current psychiatric ratings are subjective to some extent (in pharma trials as well), but there are a variety of subjectives. For example, differences in terms of whether such 'subjective' assessment occurs using a self-rating tool (like the Beck Depression Inventory: BDI) or a clinician-rating scale (e.g. Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression). This is especially pertinent in depression trials as self-rating tools like BDI are frequently used and in effect, this renders trials 'open'. As Dr Berger states, meta-analyses show quite clearly that open psychotherapy trials can produce highly inflated effect sizes (see also Jauhar et al . 2014). The latter meta-analysis proves two points a) that compared with even single-blind trials, open trials of CBT can inflate effect sizes hugely and b) that contrary to what some say, psychotherapy trials can be very effectively blinded to assessors. I agree that the term ‘evidence-based’ in psychotherapy has been rendered somewhat meaningless and glosses over -what could be - important variability in terms of what this phrase covers. In some instances, paradoxically, the phrase is offered as an bland substitute for providing actual evidence...not unlike the often repeated “as recommended by NICE” - a shorthand way of avoiding the presentation and evaluation of actual evidence ... as if these phrases were chiselled in stone atop Mount Sinai. Study quality is undoubtedly the key factor and conflating evidence from double-blind, single-blind and open trials under the rubric of ‘evidence-based’ is unhelpful - especially to patients who require guidance on the efficacy of prospective psychotherapy as Dr Berger argues. Indeed, it would be much more helpful to patients and clinicians if bodies such as NICE incorporate study quality directly into their analysis of the evidence-base and hence, their recommendations. Its worth noting in passing that even when meta-analyses might reveal the same numerical effect size for a drug and a psychological intervention, this does not indicate equivalence of efficacy . Again, it depends crucially upon the quality of the data underpinning each effect size - so claims that CBT and anti-depressants have comparable effects really depends on the assumption that designs are equivalent (which they clearly are not). As Dr Berger suggests, drug trials are better controlled and so, any equivalence is more apparent than real. The proposal to use “partially-controlled clinical data” in place of “evidence-based clinical data” certainly highlights a key difference, though I guess it all depends upon the extent to which psychological therapy can be squeezed into the 'RCT template' that has served drug evaluation so well…RCTs of psych therapies are necessarily at best single blind or at worst (and still very often) ‘open’. Some psychotherapy advocates would of course make a special case for psychotherapy - that it is simply not amenable to the same paradigms as drug studies and perhaps Dr Berger could expand on how he views the validity of such counter-arguments. References 1. Jauhar S, McKenna PJ, Radua J, Fung E, et al.: Cognitive-behavioural therapy for the symptoms of schizophrenia: systematic review and meta-analysis with examination of potential bias. Br J Psychiatry . 2014; 204 (1): 20-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Laws KR. Reviewer Report For: Double-Blinding and Bias in Medication and Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy Trials for Major Depressive Disorder [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :638 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7488.r11959 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-638/v1#referee-response-11959 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Parker G. Reviewer Report For: Double-Blinding and Bias in Medication and Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy Trials for Major Depressive Disorder [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :638 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7488.r10898 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-638/v1#referee-response-10898 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 23 Oct 2015 Gordon Parker , School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7488.r10898 A straightforward paper, well written and taking the reader through the difficulties of undertaking and interpreting ... Continue reading READ ALL 