This version is improved from the original, and I have no remaining “reservations.” However, I do have a very few comments: The authors recognize that what they may have found is a “longitudinal survivorship effect” within a worker cohort, not a “healthy worker effect,” and they now use the former term more often than the latter. However, the first time either term appears is in the Abstract, where “healthy worker effect” alone is used. Because so many articles in the football-risk literature fail to appreciate the HWE, it’s important that this one—which does “get it”—uses the term correctly. I may not have been completely clear in my prior review about my concerns with respect to outliers. The authors have justified their use of players with an extremely long number of seasons played as a statistical matter (although their response to reviews claims they have added a statement about the limitations of using all data, which they haven’t really done…). But my concern was/is about how the outliers with respect to the number of seasons may not in fact be outliers with respect to the number of games played, and thus that the entire analysis using seasons may be sub-optimal. I merely note that the five players with the greatest number of seasons (Tittle, Baugh, Blanda, Unitas, and Morrall) may well not have played any more games than players in the middle of the distribution, because they were backup QBs for part of their careers. So a second analysis using games rather than seasons as the main independent variable could be very illuminating. I agree that the authors have examined all-cause mortality, but that’s why it’s slightly confusing that they invoke “frequent head trauma” in the abstract and use three keywords relating to concussion and CTE. I look forward to their future research where cause-of-death and quality-of-life data may be marshaled to firm up the connection between seasons (games) played, head trauma, and those causes of death and morbidity that are plausibly related to head trauma. The new “policy implications” paragraph is welcome, but it does not mention the single most important point, one that the authors put in their response to reviews: “To make the game safer, we must identify which players are at an elevated risk.” This is the policy implication of a survivorship effect. As a policy analyst, I would personally go on to say that we need not only to identify those players but craft policies (rule changes, medical monitoring, protective equipment, etc.) that can reduce these players’ risks without discriminating against them needlessly because of their “susceptibility.” The football literature is already replete with confused and tautologous statements about how CTE only occurs “among those who are sensitive.” 