The paper is well written and the tables and figures are clear. The conclusion is well based on the results. There is a recent review that was related to the current review. Phelan (2012) conducted a critical literature review about pharmacologic venous thromboembolism prophylaxis after traumatic brain injury. The method by Phelan was less systematic, and he only included pharmacological prophylaxis (instead of also mechanical). However, 9 of the included studies in this review were also reviewed in the study by Phelan. Overall, the current study is therefore quite similar to the review by Phelan. The main conclusion remains that further research is urgently needed in this area. Some specific comments: Introduction The authors state that this population is at increased risk for VTE due to a combination of factors (i.e. the brain injury itself, other injuries, intensive care unit admission, immobilization, major surgery etc.). They do not mention a source here. Perhaps a subgroup of TBI patients at risk for VTE, however, not all patients will be at risk (e.g. uncomplicated mTBI patients). In the introduction I miss some information about pharmacological and mechanical prophylaxis (what is it, when is it used, examples etc). Methods No patient and injury characteristics are mentioned as inclusion criteria, however, GCS may be an important confounding factor in the research question. The search terms and mesh terms are not mentioned. It is not mentioned whether papers were excluded if published before a certain date. In table 1 authors mention a long list of population exclusion criteria. This seems in contrast with the ISS score 15 in all studies, indicating multi-system trauma. Some more information is necessary here (how did the authors handle studies in which some of the patients met the exclusion criteria?). It is not clear to me what is meant by trauma with brain injury. Also, underweight and obesity are mentioned as exclusion criteria. How did the authors account for this? BMI is not often reported in studies examining TBI. Results The injury severity score is used to indicate severity. However, this score does not account for severity of TBI. Do the studies report GCS scores? In the table with study characteristics, the study by Sadeh is not included it seems? Discussion An extra limitation is that the authors excluded studies that were comparing drugs not available in the US (n=26). 