 The title is appropriate for the work. The abstract needs to be revised to improve its clarity. Specifically, the authors need 1) to include a brief definition for skill learning and 2) to clarify that after-effects equate to poor skill performance in their study since literature presents some other cases of after-effects leading to improved movements. Overall the article content is clearly explained and very well written. There are only a few general conceptual points that should be addressed. Authors should consider revising their conclusions based on these points. It is unclear how different the reaching directions need to be, for them to be considered the same tasks or skills? A common patients deficit is their perseverant behavior from one situation to another (even when this is inappropriate). Literature shows this motor perseverance appears beneficial when experiencing environmental adaptations. Given that patients continue doing the adapted motion when the external perturbation is removed, it ultimately leads to long-term changes in their movements with repeated exposure. The authors are very adamant in their conclusions that environmental adaptation cannot be used as a rehabilitation intervention, yet their two-mechanism model does not seem to include this perseverance feature of patients behavior. Kindly elaborate on this. In their theoretical framework, authors present a single performance error and they do not seem to differentiate between self-generated and externally generated performance errors. Possibly this simplification limits their model to predicting behaviors during visual tasks but it would fail at explaining behaviors in proprioception-driven tasks, like reaching in a force field or walking on a split-belt treadmill. Other comments in order of appearance: Page 4: Link description of model predictions to their visual representation on Fig 4. Conceptual question in Figure 2: It is not clear why the desired trajectory generator is not part of the controller block in which all the trajectories are generated. What are the learning network blocks computing? Illustration points in Figure 2: The "environment adaptation module" in Model C could be better indicated, since it is not very clear that it is missing in Model A and B. The equations for the online correction on Fig. 2 do not match the ones on the text (page 7). Kindly add V and V on the text or change equations on Fig. 2. Page 6: x c and y c are missing the c. Page 6, under Trajectory generator section: It is not well explained what j and i are on the equations. Page 6 under environment adapter section: Authors should consider adding the equation in which x c and y c = Phat -1 [x c y c ] and the learning rule for P, as they do for indicating the update of W. Page 7: Authors randomize the order of the 4 experiments to account for the order of the task. However, it is not very clear if repeated exposures of the adaptation task changes subjects behaviour. Page 7, under procedure: In the explanation of experiment 4 it is unclear if subjects were able to see the cursor or not. Page 7: Authors equate the intended movement to the target position. However, the intended movement could be different from the target position when subjects are told to aim at a different direction (as done by Mazzoni and Krakauer, 2006 ). Please clarify. Page 9, under data analysis section: Authors perform z-score to determine if after-effects are statistically different from baseline. It is unclear whether similar results are obtained if means (baseline vs after-effect) are compared. 