I like the approach of generating statements from local people, rather than adapting measures developed in other cultures and assuming they are meaningful to the indigenous population. Also, the authors are open about the weaknesses in the scales identified by the Rasch analyses. However, the article is very unclear about the nature of the measure they are testing or what its purpose is. Reading the literature about the instrument development the same lack of clarity is found. Is it intended for children and adolescents with TBI or for all people with TBI? The items represent health beliefs so this is not an outcomes measure. If it is measuring health beliefs do these differ dependent on the condition? As the items were not generated from people who had experienced TBI, why should the measure be relevant to a TBI population? This lack of relevance appears to explain why the four scales are poorly targeted to the study population. Clinicians and family members are notoriously poorly informed on the impact of disease on others. As some of the study population did have a TBI it would be important to test for DIF by the presence of the condition. To produce an instrument specific to TBI, fundamental work would need to be done with a representative sample of people who had experienced TBI. As well as being poorly targeted, the reliability of the scales is average to poor. The poor targeting suggests that the instrument would not be responsive to changes in health beliefs, if this was an intention of the instrument. The article covers Rasch analysis of the data. While fit to the Rasch model is fundamental to the validity of an instrument, additional analyses are required to show that the measure works as expected. For example, data should be presented showing that scores are related to perceived severity of TBI. Much of the information in the Methods section covers work previously conducted, rather than that conducted in the present study. This should be included in the Introduction if it is deemed relevant. 