The design of this study is flawed, and several conclusions are not justified by the results. Since the PCR technique seems sound (and the authors are commended for including information such as PCR efficiency), there may be several subcomponents of the study that could be separated out and published as a smaller paper (e.g., the results of the gender and freezing experiments). I would encourage the authors to remove immediately the baseless claims about putative problems with the PAXgene reagents or protocol. A major (and wrong) conclusion of the paper is that the PAXgene method results in putatively excessive hemolysis, or, as the Figure 4 title incorrectly states, "Erythrocyte contamination". The putative difference from the other methods is described as "significantly" high, and although no statistical analysis is reported, one could hardly quibble with a ten-order-of-magnitude difference. However, this difference has nothing to do with hemolysis as a processing variable and in fact reflects well, not poorly, on the PAXgene method. The PAXgene tube is designed to lyse blood cells and stabilize RNA. This study is thus not an examination of methods, hemolysis or RBC contamination! It is simply a confirmation that lysed RBCs contain RBC RNA, whereas PBMCs do not contain RBC RNA. There appears to be a fundamental confusion about what constitutes hemolysis vs. red blood cell contamination. Where is the evidence that "haemolysis has been reported to alter miRNA measurements in whole blood, plasma, serum, and tissues"? The two cited references examine the effects of hemolysis in plasma and serum, where lysis of cells can indeed have a great effect. It is clear that the very low abundance extracellular RNA fraction of blood is influenced by an influx of cellular RNA. It is unclear how degree of hemolysis could affect detection of very high abundance cellular miRNAs in whole blood (where erythrocytes dominate anyway) or in cells like PBMC that are purified away from other components. The title does not describe the study. The study is presented incorrectly as a comparison of RNA extraction methods and of RNA expression in whole blood and PBMCs. Unfortunately, too many variables are changed at once in the study to allow any conclusions to be drawn. For example (see Figure 1): substrate type (whole blood vs PBMC); initial treatment (PAXgene tube for whole blood, heparin for PBMC); cell isolation (none for whole blood, centrifugation over a gradient for PBMC); and RNA isolation method (PAXgene for whole blood, two nearly identical Ambion kits for PBMC). The only variable that can be isolated is the use of the mirVana PARIS vs miRNA kit. Heparin, as a PCR inhibitor, may not be the best anticoagulant for use in qPCR-based studies. No special steps are described for removal of heparin. Minor points There are no error bars to indicate biological or technical variability in Figure 3 or 4. The workflow of Figure 1 does not indicate that the right-hand-side pathway involved only PBMC, not whole blood. The PAXgene Blood RNA Tube and the PAXgene Blood miRNA Kit are presented as the "gold standard" in the field, yet the citation is a publication by the company, and it does not mention the miRNA kit. This should be replaced by a more objective assessment. More clarity is needed in the use of terms. For example, there may or may not be RNA "expression" differences between genders or cell types. In contrast, differences in RNA quantitation observed upon freezing, or addition of PCR inhibitors, or after purification of the same sample with different kits, are not due to "expression" differences. The underlying expression in the cell remains the same; the ability to characterize it changes. Citations of the literature are somewhat thin. 