The paper describes homology models of 15 proteins encoded in the genome of Zika virus that are built by the SWISSmodel web server. A glycolysation site was also identified. Using the models of Zika glycoprotein E a complete structural model of the virion was constructed. The practical results of the work are the 11 high quality homology models that could be used in the future for structure based drug development. I believe an interested researcher will initiate time consuming follow up studies with these models only if there is a substantial added value. These models passed quality assessment criteria according to the authors. However a number of successful models (passing similarly well the same quality requirements) can be generated that will differ in small but essential details by e.g. side chain placement, or loop conformations. However, these differences can have a dramatic effect on the outcome of subsequent drug docking trials. These alternative models can be obtained when different softwares are used, as the authors allude to it, e.g. using Modeller vs SWISSModel, as these use different forcefields and restraints to generate models. Therefore, the authors should consider providing a more insightful result by running several different modeling programs or using alternative templates (see 4., below), and comparing the results, identifying similarly modeled parts of these models and providing a set of possible solutions for subsequent studies. A battery of model quality checks were performed and additional energy minimization. However the overall high sequence identities between the target proteins and their respective templates (55% and up,) ensure that these models are highly reliable. Therefore the extensive reporting on Ramachandran plots (Figure 3) is not adding much to the results, it can be transferred to supplementary material. Similarly, Table 2 can be shrunk by eliminating many details of PROCHECK results. However the information on templates should be reported in the table, instead listing them extensively in the text. Template selection was purely based on sequence similarity requirements. Given how influential this step and how few cases require attention in this specific study, one could imagine to perform a more detailed quality check of potential templates. For instance, if several templates are available in the same sequence identity range, one should consider picking the one wit the best resolution etc. Figure 4 exposes this dilemma where two isoforms of the same template can results models with very significant differences. Energy refinement rarely, if ever, improves model quality and its use here should be better justified. Some statements require attention e.g in Abstract: “Eleven out of 15 models pass our criteria for selection”. What selection? This must be referring to quality or accuracy of models, and should be rephrased accordingly. 