I see this paper as a first draft of what could become an important contribution to neurally based approaches to the study of the evolution of the human brain’s capacity for language. Its importance is three-fold: It treats the ventral and dorsal streams for both the auditory and visual modalities. It regards monkey calls not in terms of perception alone or production alone but rather in terms of their role in the interaction between two individuals in the context of their environment. It places the ability to ask and answer questions at the heart of language use. Below, I will offer several comments on how some shortcomings of the current version might be removed in future work by Poliva, but first a disclosure: I have emphasized the role of the two visual streams in relation to both the production and comprehension of language with an emphasis on the role of manual gesture and protosign in language evolution, and in terms of visual perception of what an utterance may be about (Arbib, 2013). By contrast, Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2013) offer hypotheses on the roles of the auditory streams in the perception of sentences of a spoken language, linking them to neurolinguistic data from their lab and others. I have attempted a preliminary synthesis of these approaches (Arbib, 2015). More recently, they have co-authored a review of relevant data on the auditory streams in both monkey and human with the claim that no major evolutionary innovations were required in these streams to make language possible (Bornkessel-Schlesewsky, Schlesewsky, Small, Rauschecker, 2015) – a claim with which I (and, I suspect, Poliva) would disagree. I hope to support the counter-claim in a forthcoming article in the Journal of Neurolinguistics. I believe Poliva’s assessment of these articles would enrich his work, but now let me turn to other issues. I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) The dorsal auditory stream was over-emphasized at the expense of assessing the role of the ventral stream and how these streams are integrated. (ii) Poremba notes the relevance of work from Mishkin’s lab on auditory memory – see, e.g., Fritz, Mishkin, and Saunders (2005) which “raises the possibility that language is unique to humans not only because it depends on speech but also because it requires long-term auditory memory.” I would add that Aboitiz and his colleagues have emphasized the expansion of working memory capacity as a key element in evolving a language-ready brain (see Aboitiz, 2012, for a recent review of this approach). (iii) The leap from contact calls to “individuals … capable of inventing new words and offspring … capable of inquiring about objects in their environment and learning their names via mimicry” is essentially unbridged. Since there are many monkey calls, it seems unclear why, if one is to use these calls as the core for evolving a brain with language, one should focus on contact calls alone. Including other calls might add more “evolutionary opportunities.” In this regard, note the argument of Seyfarth and Cheney that one may see the structure of language prefigured in the “rules” monkeys develop for social cognition (Cheney Seyfarth, 2005; Seyfarth Cheney, 2014). I suspect that further work in language evolution will reveal a “mosaic” of innovations, some of which are apparent in different monkey or ape species. One may hope that studies of the brains of different species will reveal diverse cues that illuminate, perhaps, the convergent evolution of different tiles of the language-supporting neural mosaic of the human brain. Consider, for example, the capability for turn taking in geladas (Gustison, le Roux, Bergman, 2012; Richman, 1987) and marmosets (Miller, Thomas, Nummela, de la Mothe, 2015; Takahashi, Narayanan, Ghazanfar, 2013) as just one of the diverse components of language-ready brain that are differentially evident in different species of nonhuman primate. Figure 1 shows dual stream connectivity between the auditory cortex and frontal lobe of monkeys and humans. What can be said about the intersection of the 2 streams in VLPFC? And what can be said about the interaction of DLPFC and VLPFC? Figure 2 depicts the “From Where to What model” via three stages of neuroanatomical modifications. It might be useful to first provide a diagram focusing on VVS and VDS (initial V for Visual) and discussing the relation in both anatomy and function of these paths with each other. It might also be helpful to present pieces of the model along with the exposition of the related data, postponing this integrative figure until the pieces are in place. A valuable feature of Poliva’s model is its suggestion of how the response to an auditory call might initiate visual search as the basis for action (he emphasizes the mother emitting a call if the child is not seen; a related scenario would be movement toward the child if it were seen). This issue of integration of communication and action, which may (but need not) integrate audition with vision, is an important feature which too few studies take into account. My question is whether he unduly emphasizes cortical pathways involving the frontal eye fields and shortchanges subcortical interactions involving the superior colliculus (noting of course that these are open to cortical influences modulated by the basal ganglia). In Figure 2, Poliva asserts: (i) “Approximately 2.5 million years ago, the Homo genus emerged as a result of [my italics] duplication of the IPS and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections” (a) Surely, many more changes led to the emergence of Homo. (b) At the end of Section 7, Poliva suggests the relevance of endocast data to this claim. Are there relevant data on apes that could help us assess this transition? (ii) “Since the auditory cortex targeted the more proximal of these duplicated parietal regions, a new pathway dedicated for auditory processing emerged (i.e., auditory dorsal stream; ADS.” But monkey data show an ADS, so what is the transition being suggested here? Picking up on the issue in (5), one needs to better understand the division of labor between ADS and subcortical mechanisms (as well as AVS, to reiterate Poremba’s point). Poliva claims to review “evidence for a role of the ADS in the transition from mediating contact calls into mediating human speech” but simply cites data correlating ADS impairment with disorders like speech apraxia. Nothing in the data privileges contact calls over other vocal productions – and, anyway, clear articulation is a far cry [sic] from mechanisms supporting the role of syntax and semantics in language production and perception. In relation to 6(i), Poliva notes the dual role of the parietal lobe in sensory-motor transformation of both audio-spatial and verbal information, and proposes that during Hominin evolution there was a cortical field duplication, of the IPS with further duplication of its projections to the VLPFC which resulted in a pathway dedicated for audio-vocal conversion. How would this serve people who employ a signed language? (Of course, those who advocate a gestural origin of language must face the complementary question of how visuo-manual pathways came to support audio-vocal signals – which they must do because other primates lack vocal learning, let alone the use of syntax and semantics in either domain.) Poliva stresses that the ability to ask and answer questions is an essential feature of language use. I agree. Future work on language evolution should pay more attention to the challenge of explaining how this evolved. However the focus on modifying contact calls with prosodic intonations seems to me too narrow (I may be wrong, but more argument would be needed) and (as Poremba observed) the account of the transition remains too sketchy. Poliva cites “the ability of present-day infants of using intonations for changing the pragmatic utilization of a word from a statement to a command/demand (“mommy!”) or a question (“mommy?”),” but one must be careful to distinguish these infant “communicative acts” from the ability to deploy grammar to formulate an open-ended repertoire of commands and questions using the structures of a language – let along being able to marshal answers to questions of even modest complexity. In any case, it seems mistaken to place exclusive emphasis on the role of ADS in the transition – one might thus assess the hypotheses of Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2013) on the roles of both ADS and AVS (and frontal areas) in speech comprehension. However, a companion paper is promised: “Discussing the transition from exchanging low-level distress contact calls into complex vocal language, however, is beyond the scope of the present paper and a model for such transition is discussed [at] length in a sibling paper titled ‘Vocal Mimicry as the Sculptor of the Human Mind. A Neuroanatomically based Evolutionary Model of The Emergence of Vocal Language’ (Poliva, in preparation).” Perhaps it would be better if less were said about this topic in the present paper so that the implications of the evidence on ADS function and evolution could be better assessed for their merits irrespective of the contact call hypothesis. References 1. Aboitiz F: Gestures, vocalizations, and memory in language origins. Front Evol Neurosci . 2012; 4 : 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Arbib MA: Mirror Systems and the Neurocognitive Substrates of Bodily Communication and Language. In C. Müller, A. Cienki, E. Fricke, S. Ladewig, D. McNeill. Body-Language Communication . 2013. 445-460 3. Arbib MA: Towards a Computational Comparative Neuroprimatology: Framing the language-ready brain. Phys Life Rev . 2015. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Bornkessel-Schlesewsky I, Schlesewsky M: Reconciling time, space and function: a new dorsal-ventral stream model of sentence comprehension. Brain Lang . 2013; 125 (1): 60-76 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Bornkessel-Schlesewsky I, Schlesewsky M, Small SL, Rauschecker JP: Neurobiological roots of language in primate audition: common computational properties. Trends Cogn Sci . 2015; 19 (3): 142-50 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Cheney D, Seyfarth R: Constraints and preadaptations in the earliest stages of language evolution. The Linguistic Review . 2005; 22 (2-4). Publisher Full Text 7. Fritz J, Mishkin M, Saunders RC: In search of an auditory engram. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2005; 102 (26): 9359-64 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Gustison ML, le Roux A, Bergman TJ: Derived vocalizations of geladas (Theropithecus gelada) and the evolution of vocal complexity in primates. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci . 2012; 367 (1597): 1847-59 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Miller CT, Thomas AW, Nummela SU, de la Mothe LA: Responses of primate frontal cortex neurons during natural vocal communication. J Neurophysiol . 2015; 114 (2): 1158-71 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Richman B: Rhythm and melody in gelada vocal exchanges. Primates . 1987; 28 (2): 199-223 Publisher Full Text 11. Seyfarth RM, Cheney DL: The evolution of language from social cognition. Curr Opin Neurobiol . 2014; 28 : 5-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. Takahashi DY, Narayanan DZ, Ghazanfar AA: Coupled oscillator dynamics of vocal turn-taking in monkeys. Curr Biol . 2013; 23 (21): 2162-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Arbib MA. Reviewer Report For: From where to what: a neuroanatomically based evolutionary model of the emergence of speech in humans [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :67 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6619.r11960 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-67/v1#referee-response-11960 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Reader Comment 21 Jan 2016 Oren Poliva , Bangor University, UK 21 Jan 2016 Reader Comment I want to thank the reviewer for his positive review and for his insightful and constructive comments. Below are my responses: I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) ... Continue reading I want to thank the reviewer for his positive review and for his insightful and constructive comments. Below are my responses: I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) The dorsal auditory stream was over-emphasized at the expense of assessing the role of the ventral stream and how these streams are integrated. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article focuses on the ADS, and pay little attention to the AVS. I also agree that the AVS partakes an important role in the perception and production of human language, and that it interacts with the ADS. However, as I also previously responded to Poremba, in the present paper I propose a model for the emergence of speech and not language, and speech appears to be primarily or solely a function of the ADS. A possible course for the transition from speech to language and the role the AVS in such functions is discussed in detail in the second paper (mentioned in the article). Poremba notes the relevance of work from Mishkin’s lab on auditory memory – see, e.g., Fritz, Mishkin, and Saunders (2005) which “raises the possibility that language is unique to humans not only because it depends on speech but also because it requires long-term auditory memory.” I would add that Aboitiz and his colleagues have emphasized the expansion of working memory capacity as a key element in evolving a language-ready brain (see Aboitiz, 2012, for a recent review of this approach). Response: I agree with the reviewer that expansion of auditory memory (or its ability to sustain interferences as shown by Scott, Mishkin Yin, 2012) took an important part in the evolution of language. However, as I previously responded to Poremba, this change likely occurred after Hominins acquired volitional control over the vocal apparatus, and thus is beyond the scope of the present paper. This issue is also discussed in detail in the second paper. Scott BH, Mishkin M, Yin P. Monkeys have a limited form of short-term memory in audition. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2012 Jul 24;109(30):12237–41. The leap from contact calls to “individuals … capable of inventing new words and offspring … capable of inquiring about objects in their environment and learning their names via mimicry” is essentially unbridged….. In any case, it seems mistaken to place exclusive emphasis on the role of ADS in the transition – one might thus assess the hypotheses of Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2013) on the roles of both ADS and AVS (and frontal areas) in speech comprehension. However, a companion paper is promised: “Discussing the transition from exchanging low-level distress contact calls into complex vocal language, however, is beyond the scope of the present paper and a model for such transition is discussed [at] length in a sibling paper titled ‘Vocal Mimicry as the Sculptor of the Human Mind. A Neuroanatomically based Evolutionary Model of The Emergence of Vocal Language’ (Poliva, in preparation).” Perhaps it would be better if less were said about this topic in the present paper so that the implications of the evidence on ADS function and evolution could be better assessed for their merits irrespective of the contact call hypothesis. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article doesn’t delve enough into the transition from speech to vocal mimicry. As I responded to Poremba, and mentioned in the paper, this topic is discussed in detail in the second paper. As the primary concern of the present paper is the emergence of speech, I removed from the abstract and introduction any mentioning of the transition from speech to vocal mimicry based language, and limited its discussion to a short paragraph near the end of the paper. Since there are many monkey calls, it seems unclear why, if one is to use these calls as the core for evolving a brain with language, one should focus on contact calls alone. Including other calls might add more “evolutionary opportunities.” In this regard, note the argument of Seyfarth and Cheney that one may see the structure of language prefigured in the “rules” monkeys develop for social cognition (Cheney Seyfarth, 2005; Seyfarth Cheney, 2014). Response: The reviewer presents an interesting question when he suggests that contact calls might not be special. The paper he cites suggests that rule based alarm calls could serve as a potential precursor to human language. In my opinion, contact calls are a more likely candidate precursor to present day vocal conversation than alarm calls. Like present day vocal conversations, contact call are characterized with turn taking and require interaction between (at least) two participants. The content of contact calls is also similar to present day question answer dialogue (as if similar to the question ‘where are you?’ and the answer ’I’m here, Where are you?’). Alarm calls in contrast, although context dependent and thus likely under cortical influence, do not require vocal response and thus don’t resemble conversation. Moreover, as I present in the paper, converging evidence suggests that both human speech and contact call exchange in non-human primates are processed in the ADS. As far as I’m aware of, no study provided evidence that alarm calls are processed in the ADS. (Given its dependence on observing emotive stimuli, I would assume that expressing alarm calls occurs through processing in the visual ventral stream and amygdala, and response to alarm calls occurs through the auditory ventral stream and amygdala.) I suspect that further work in language evolution will reveal a “mosaic” of innovations, some of which are apparent in different monkey or ape species. One may hope that studies of the brains of different species will reveal diverse cues that illuminate, perhaps, the convergent evolution of different tiles of the language-supporting neural mosaic of the human brain. Consider, for example, the capability for turn taking in geladas (Gustison, le Roux, Bergman, 2012; Richman, 1987) and marmosets (Miller, Thomas, Nummela, de la Mothe, 2015; Takahashi, Narayanan, Ghazanfar, 2013) as just one of the diverse components of language-ready brain that are differentially evident in different species of nonhuman primate. Response: I admit I got confused from the reviewer’s comment. The reviewer argues that turn taking occurs in gelada monkeys. The studies he cite however don’t mention such behavior. The reviewer then proceed to cite turn taking vocal behavior in marmoset monkeys, as an alternative explanation to how humans developed turn taking in conversations. The reviewer, however, cite studies that explore turn taking in the exchange of contact calls, which further support the discussed model. Figure 1 shows dual stream connectivity between the auditory cortex and frontal lobe of monkeys and humans. What can be said about the intersection of the 2 streams in VLPFC? And what can be said about the interaction of DLPFC and VLPFC? Response: In the paper I describe two pathways connecting the auditory cortex with the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is primarily ascribed with planning and problem solving. When detecting and responding to contact calls, the prefrontal cortex likely mediates high level processing, such as determining the best way to overcome an obstacle in order to reach the caller. In the present model, I attempt to demonstrate that the detection and production of contact calls occur in the same pathway as speech in humans, and on that account attribute a relationship between them. The role of the prefrontal cortex in such high level processing is not necessary for establishing this relationship and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. Figure 2 depicts the “From Where to What model” via three stages of neuroanatomical modifications. It might be useful to first provide a diagram focusing on VVS and VDS (initial V for Visual) and discussing the relation in both anatomy and function of these paths with each other. It might also be helpful to present pieces of the model along with the exposition of the related data, postponing this integrative figure until the pieces are in place….. In Figure 2, Poliva asserts: (i) “Approximately 2.5 million years ago, the Homo genus emerged as a result of [my italics] duplication of the IPS and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections” (a) Surely, many more changes led to the emergence of Homo. (b) At the end of Section 7, Poliva suggests the relevance of endocast data to this claim. Are there relevant data on apes that could help us assess this transition? (ii) “Since the auditory cortex targeted the more proximal of these duplicated parietal regions, a new pathway dedicated for auditory processing emerged (i.e., auditory dorsal stream; ADS.” But monkey data show an ADS, so what is the transition being suggested here? Picking up on the issue in (5), one needs to better understand the division of labor between ADS and subcortical mechanisms (as well as AVS, to reiterate Poremba’s point)…. In relation to 6(i), Poliva notes the dual role of the parietal lobe in sensory-motor transformation of both audio-spatial and verbal information, and proposes that during Hominin evolution there was a cortical field duplication, of the IPS with further duplication of its projections to the VLPFC which resulted in a pathway dedicated for audio-vocal conversion. How would this serve people who employ a signed language? (Of course, those who advocate a gestural origin of language must face the complementary question of how visuo-manual pathways came to support audio-vocal signals – which they must do because other primates lack vocal learning, let alone the use of syntax and semantics in either domain.) Response: I agree with the reviewer that in depth description of the visual streams and addition of evidence for the parietal duplication hypothesis could add more depth to the paper. However, reviewer 2 (Josef Rauschecker) argued that the section of the paper discussing the relationship between the auditory and visual streams is problematic, and overall disagreed with the parietal duplication hypothesis. Although I don’t entirely agree with his perspective, given that the paper is already rich in hypotheses and evidence, I chose to remove the sections discussing this topic from the paper. Possibly, the parietal duplication hypothesis will be presented in the future in its own paper. A valuable feature of Poliva’s model is its suggestion of how the response to an auditory call might initiate visual search as the basis for action (he emphasizes the mother emitting a call if the child is not seen; a related scenario would be movement toward the child if it were seen). This issue of integration of communication and action, which may (but need not) integrate audition with vision, is an important feature which too few studies take into account. My question is whether he unduly emphasizes cortical pathways involving the frontal eye fields and shortchanges subcortical interactions involving the superior colliculus (noting of course that these are open to cortical influences modulated by the basal ganglia) Response: I agree with the reviewer that area LIP in the intraparietal sulcus likely guides eye movements via projections to the frontal eye field and the superior colliculi. Such connections from the area LIP to the superior colliculi were described in tracing studies (Lynch et al., 1985). However, to the best of my knowledge no study so far demonstrated that this parieto-collicular pathway carries auditory information. It would also be very difficult to demonstrate that auditory influence on the superior colliculus occurs via connections from area LIP and not via ascending connections from the inferior colliculi. Given the lack of evidence of an auditory parieto-collicular pathway I chose at this point not to include it in the revised paper. Lynch, J. C., AMs Graybiel, and L. J. Lobeck. "The differential projection of two cytoarchitectonic subregions of the inferior parietal lobule of macaque upon the deep layers of the superior colliculus." Journal of Comparative Neurology 235.2 (1985): 241-254. Poliva claims to review “evidence for a role of the ADS in the transition from mediating contact calls into mediating human speech” but simply cites data correlating ADS impairment with disorders like speech apraxia. Response: In addition to the paragraph discussing the role of the ADS in speech production, I present throughout the paper many other studies that indirectly show a role of the human ADS in speech production, such as fMRI studies that compare speech production to the production of melodies (Hickok et al., 2003) and many studies that ascribe the ADS with a role in speech repetition (Hickok et al., 2007). Nothing in the data privileges contact calls over other vocal productions Response: Many studies have shown that the ADS (associated in human with speech production) has a special role in the detection and production of contact calls. For example: “Further corroborating the involvement of the ADS in the perception of contact calls are intra-cortical recordings from the posterior insula (near area CM-A1) of the macaque, which revealed stronger selectivity for a contact call (coo call) than a social call (threat call; Remedios et al. , 2009a ). Contrasting this finding is a study that recorded neural activity from the anterior auditory cortex, and reported that the proportion of neurons dedicated to a contact call was similar to the proportions of neurons dedicated to other calls ( Perrodin et al. , 2011 ).” Also: “Consistently, a study that sacrificed marmoset monkeys immediately after responding to contact calls (phee calls) measured highest neural activity (genomic expression of cFos protein) in the posterior auditory fields (CM-CL), and VLPFC ( Miller et al. , 2010 ). Monkeys sacrificed after only hearing contact calls or only emitting them showed neural activity in the same regions but to a much smaller degree (See also Simes et al. , 2010 for similar results in a study using the protein Egr-1).” – and, anyway, clear articulation is a far cry [sic] from mechanisms supporting the role of syntax and semantics in language production and perception. Response: I agree with the reviewer that arguing that the ADS processes speech does not necessitate that the ADS process more complex linguistic functions such as semantics and syntax. This is why in the paper I only present a model for the emergence of speech. More complex linguistic functions and possible evolutionary course will be discussed in the second paper. Poliva stresses that the ability to ask and answer questions is an essential feature of language use. I agree. Future work on language evolution should pay more attention to the challenge of explaining how this evolved. However the focus on modifying contact calls with prosodic intonations seems to me too narrow (I may be wrong, but more argument would be needed) and (as Poremba observed) the account of the transition remains too sketchy. Poliva cites “the ability of present-day infants of using intonations for changing the pragmatic utilization of a word from a statement to a command/demand (“mommy!”) or a question (“mommy?”),” but one must be careful to distinguish these infant “communicative acts” from the ability to deploy grammar to formulate an open-ended repertoire of commands and questions using the structures of a language – let along being able to marshal answers to questions of even modest complexity. Response: I agree with the reviewer that adults often use complex syntax to ask questions. However, given that children (and occasionally adults) can express a question with a single word using intonations, suggests, in my opinion, that such question asking method could have preceded syntax, and thus indicate of an intermediate stage in the evolution of language. A transition from a single word question to syntax likely occurred at later evolutionary stages, and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. I want to thank the reviewer for his positive review and for his insightful and constructive comments. Below are my responses: I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) The dorsal auditory stream was over-emphasized at the expense of assessing the role of the ventral stream and how these streams are integrated. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article focuses on the ADS, and pay little attention to the AVS. I also agree that the AVS partakes an important role in the perception and production of human language, and that it interacts with the ADS. However, as I also previously responded to Poremba, in the present paper I propose a model for the emergence of speech and not language, and speech appears to be primarily or solely a function of the ADS. A possible course for the transition from speech to language and the role the AVS in such functions is discussed in detail in the second paper (mentioned in the article). Poremba notes the relevance of work from Mishkin’s lab on auditory memory – see, e.g., Fritz, Mishkin, and Saunders (2005) which “raises the possibility that language is unique to humans not only because it depends on speech but also because it requires long-term auditory memory.” I would add that Aboitiz and his colleagues have emphasized the expansion of working memory capacity as a key element in evolving a language-ready brain (see Aboitiz, 2012, for a recent review of this approach). Response: I agree with the reviewer that expansion of auditory memory (or its ability to sustain interferences as shown by Scott, Mishkin Yin, 2012) took an important part in the evolution of language. However, as I previously responded to Poremba, this change likely occurred after Hominins acquired volitional control over the vocal apparatus, and thus is beyond the scope of the present paper. This issue is also discussed in detail in the second paper. Scott BH, Mishkin M, Yin P. Monkeys have a limited form of short-term memory in audition. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2012 Jul 24;109(30):12237–41. The leap from contact calls to “individuals … capable of inventing new words and offspring … capable of inquiring about objects in their environment and learning their names via mimicry” is essentially unbridged….. In any case, it seems mistaken to place exclusive emphasis on the role of ADS in the transition – one might thus assess the hypotheses of Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2013) on the roles of both ADS and AVS (and frontal areas) in speech comprehension. However, a companion paper is promised: “Discussing the transition from exchanging low-level distress contact calls into complex vocal language, however, is beyond the scope of the present paper and a model for such transition is discussed [at] length in a sibling paper titled ‘Vocal Mimicry as the Sculptor of the Human Mind. A Neuroanatomically based Evolutionary Model of The Emergence of Vocal Language’ (Poliva, in preparation).” Perhaps it would be better if less were said about this topic in the present paper so that the implications of the evidence on ADS function and evolution could be better assessed for their merits irrespective of the contact call hypothesis. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article doesn’t delve enough into the transition from speech to vocal mimicry. As I responded to Poremba, and mentioned in the paper, this topic is discussed in detail in the second paper. As the primary concern of the present paper is the emergence of speech, I removed from the abstract and introduction any mentioning of the transition from speech to vocal mimicry based language, and limited its discussion to a short paragraph near the end of the paper. Since there are many monkey calls, it seems unclear why, if one is to use these calls as the core for evolving a brain with language, one should focus on contact calls alone. Including other calls might add more “evolutionary opportunities.” In this regard, note the argument of Seyfarth and Cheney that one may see the structure of language prefigured in the “rules” monkeys develop for social cognition (Cheney Seyfarth, 2005; Seyfarth Cheney, 2014). Response: The reviewer presents an interesting question when he suggests that contact calls might not be special. The paper he cites suggests that rule based alarm calls could serve as a potential precursor to human language. In my opinion, contact calls are a more likely candidate precursor to present day vocal conversation than alarm calls. Like present day vocal conversations, contact call are characterized with turn taking and require interaction between (at least) two participants. The content of contact calls is also similar to present day question answer dialogue (as if similar to the question ‘where are you?’ and the answer ’I’m here, Where are you?’). Alarm calls in contrast, although context dependent and thus likely under cortical influence, do not require vocal response and thus don’t resemble conversation. Moreover, as I present in the paper, converging evidence suggests that both human speech and contact call exchange in non-human primates are processed in the ADS. As far as I’m aware of, no study provided evidence that alarm calls are processed in the ADS. (Given its dependence on observing emotive stimuli, I would assume that expressing alarm calls occurs through processing in the visual ventral stream and amygdala, and response to alarm calls occurs through the auditory ventral stream and amygdala.) I suspect that further work in language evolution will reveal a “mosaic” of innovations, some of which are apparent in different monkey or ape species. One may hope that studies of the brains of different species will reveal diverse cues that illuminate, perhaps, the convergent evolution of different tiles of the language-supporting neural mosaic of the human brain. Consider, for example, the capability for turn taking in geladas (Gustison, le Roux, Bergman, 2012; Richman, 1987) and marmosets (Miller, Thomas, Nummela, de la Mothe, 2015; Takahashi, Narayanan, Ghazanfar, 2013) as just one of the diverse components of language-ready brain that are differentially evident in different species of nonhuman primate. Response: I admit I got confused from the reviewer’s comment. The reviewer argues that turn taking occurs in gelada monkeys. The studies he cite however don’t mention such behavior. The reviewer then proceed to cite turn taking vocal behavior in marmoset monkeys, as an alternative explanation to how humans developed turn taking in conversations. The reviewer, however, cite studies that explore turn taking in the exchange of contact calls, which further support the discussed model. Figure 1 shows dual stream connectivity between the auditory cortex and frontal lobe of monkeys and humans. What can be said about the intersection of the 2 streams in VLPFC? And what can be said about the interaction of DLPFC and VLPFC? Response: In the paper I describe two pathways connecting the auditory cortex with the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is primarily ascribed with planning and problem solving. When detecting and responding to contact calls, the prefrontal cortex likely mediates high level processing, such as determining the best way to overcome an obstacle in order to reach the caller. In the present model, I attempt to demonstrate that the detection and production of contact calls occur in the same pathway as speech in humans, and on that account attribute a relationship between them. The role of the prefrontal cortex in such high level processing is not necessary for establishing this relationship and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. Figure 2 depicts the “From Where to What model” via three stages of neuroanatomical modifications. It might be useful to first provide a diagram focusing on VVS and VDS (initial V for Visual) and discussing the relation in both anatomy and function of these paths with each other. It might also be helpful to present pieces of the model along with the exposition of the related data, postponing this integrative figure until the pieces are in place….. In Figure 2, Poliva asserts: (i) “Approximately 2.5 million years ago, the Homo genus emerged as a result of [my italics] duplication of the IPS and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections” (a) Surely, many more changes led to the emergence of Homo. (b) At the end of Section 7, Poliva suggests the relevance of endocast data to this claim. Are there relevant data on apes that could help us assess this transition? (ii) “Since the auditory cortex targeted the more proximal of these duplicated parietal regions, a new pathway dedicated for auditory processing emerged (i.e., auditory dorsal stream; ADS.” But monkey data show an ADS, so what is the transition being suggested here? Picking up on the issue in (5), one needs to better understand the division of labor between ADS and subcortical mechanisms (as well as AVS, to reiterate Poremba’s point)…. In relation to 6(i), Poliva notes the dual role of the parietal lobe in sensory-motor transformation of both audio-spatial and verbal information, and proposes that during Hominin evolution there was a cortical field duplication, of the IPS with further duplication of its projections to the VLPFC which resulted in a pathway dedicated for audio-vocal conversion. How would this serve people who employ a signed language? (Of course, those who advocate a gestural origin of language must face the complementary question of how visuo-manual pathways came to support audio-vocal signals – which they must do because other primates lack vocal learning, let alone the use of syntax and semantics in either domain.) Response: I agree with the reviewer that in depth description of the visual streams and addition of evidence for the parietal duplication hypothesis could add more depth to the paper. However, reviewer 2 (Josef Rauschecker) argued that the section of the paper discussing the relationship between the auditory and visual streams is problematic, and overall disagreed with the parietal duplication hypothesis. Although I don’t entirely agree with his perspective, given that the paper is already rich in hypotheses and evidence, I chose to remove the sections discussing this topic from the paper. Possibly, the parietal duplication hypothesis will be presented in the future in its own paper. A valuable feature of Poliva’s model is its suggestion of how the response to an auditory call might initiate visual search as the basis for action (he emphasizes the mother emitting a call if the child is not seen; a related scenario would be movement toward the child if it were seen). This issue of integration of communication and action, which may (but need not) integrate audition with vision, is an important feature which too few studies take into account. My question is whether he unduly emphasizes cortical pathways involving the frontal eye fields and shortchanges subcortical interactions involving the superior colliculus (noting of course that these are open to cortical influences modulated by the basal ganglia) Response: I agree with the reviewer that area LIP in the intraparietal sulcus likely guides eye movements via projections to the frontal eye field and the superior colliculi. Such connections from the area LIP to the superior colliculi were described in tracing studies (Lynch et al., 1985). However, to the best of my knowledge no study so far demonstrated that this parieto-collicular pathway carries auditory information. It would also be very difficult to demonstrate that auditory influence on the superior colliculus occurs via connections from area LIP and not via ascending connections from the inferior colliculi. Given the lack of evidence of an auditory parieto-collicular pathway I chose at this point not to include it in the revised paper. Lynch, J. C., AMs Graybiel, and L. J. Lobeck. "The differential projection of two cytoarchitectonic subregions of the inferior parietal lobule of macaque upon the deep layers of the superior colliculus." Journal of Comparative Neurology 235.2 (1985): 241-254. Poliva claims to review “evidence for a role of the ADS in the transition from mediating contact calls into mediating human speech” but simply cites data correlating ADS impairment with disorders like speech apraxia. Response: In addition to the paragraph discussing the role of the ADS in speech production, I present throughout the paper many other studies that indirectly show a role of the human ADS in speech production, such as fMRI studies that compare speech production to the production of melodies (Hickok et al., 2003) and many studies that ascribe the ADS with a role in speech repetition (Hickok et al., 2007). Nothing in the data privileges contact calls over other vocal productions Response: Many studies have shown that the ADS (associated in human with speech production) has a special role in the detection and production of contact calls. For example: “Further corroborating the involvement of the ADS in the perception of contact calls are intra-cortical recordings from the posterior insula (near area CM-A1) of the macaque, which revealed stronger selectivity for a contact call (coo call) than a social call (threat call; Remedios et al. , 2009a ). Contrasting this finding is a study that recorded neural activity from the anterior auditory cortex, and reported that the proportion of neurons dedicated to a contact call was similar to the proportions of neurons dedicated to other calls ( Perrodin et al. , 2011 ).” Also: “Consistently, a study that sacrificed marmoset monkeys immediately after responding to contact calls (phee calls) measured highest neural activity (genomic expression of cFos protein) in the posterior auditory fields (CM-CL), and VLPFC ( Miller et al. , 2010 ). Monkeys sacrificed after only hearing contact calls or only emitting them showed neural activity in the same regions but to a much smaller degree (See also Simes et al. , 2010 for similar results in a study using the protein Egr-1).” – and, anyway, clear articulation is a far cry [sic] from mechanisms supporting the role of syntax and semantics in language production and perception. Response: I agree with the reviewer that arguing that the ADS processes speech does not necessitate that the ADS process more complex linguistic functions such as semantics and syntax. This is why in the paper I only present a model for the emergence of speech. More complex linguistic functions and possible evolutionary course will be discussed in the second paper. Poliva stresses that the ability to ask and answer questions is an essential feature of language use. I agree. Future work on language evolution should pay more attention to the challenge of explaining how this evolved. However the focus on modifying contact calls with prosodic intonations seems to me too narrow (I may be wrong, but more argument would be needed) and (as Poremba observed) the account of the transition remains too sketchy. Poliva cites “the ability of present-day infants of using intonations for changing the pragmatic utilization of a word from a statement to a command/demand (“mommy!”) or a question (“mommy?”),” but one must be careful to distinguish these infant “communicative acts” from the ability to deploy grammar to formulate an open-ended repertoire of commands and questions using the structures of a language – let along being able to marshal answers to questions of even modest complexity. Response: I agree with the reviewer that adults often use complex syntax to ask questions. However, given that children (and occasionally adults) can express a question with a single word using intonations, suggests, in my opinion, that such question asking method could have preceded syntax, and thus indicate of an intermediate stage in the evolution of language. A transition from a single word question to syntax likely occurred at later evolutionary stages, and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Reader Comment 21 Jan 2016 Oren Poliva , Bangor University, UK 21 Jan 2016 Reader Comment I want to thank the reviewer for his positive review and for his insightful and constructive comments. Below are my responses: I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) ... Continue reading I want to thank the reviewer for his positive review and for his insightful and constructive comments. Below are my responses: I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) The dorsal auditory stream was over-emphasized at the expense of assessing the role of the ventral stream and how these streams are integrated. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article focuses on the ADS, and pay little attention to the AVS. I also agree that the AVS partakes an important role in the perception and production of human language, and that it interacts with the ADS. However, as I also previously responded to Poremba, in the present paper I propose a model for the emergence of speech and not language, and speech appears to be primarily or solely a function of the ADS. A possible course for the transition from speech to language and the role the AVS in such functions is discussed in detail in the second paper (mentioned in the article). Poremba notes the relevance of work from Mishkin’s lab on auditory memory – see, e.g., Fritz, Mishkin, and Saunders (2005) which “raises the possibility that language is unique to humans not only because it depends on speech but also because it requires long-term auditory memory.” I would add that Aboitiz and his colleagues have emphasized the expansion of working memory capacity as a key element in evolving a language-ready brain (see Aboitiz, 2012, for a recent review of this approach). Response: I agree with the reviewer that expansion of auditory memory (or its ability to sustain interferences as shown by Scott, Mishkin Yin, 2012) took an important part in the evolution of language. However, as I previously responded to Poremba, this change likely occurred after Hominins acquired volitional control over the vocal apparatus, and thus is beyond the scope of the present paper. This issue is also discussed in detail in the second paper. Scott BH, Mishkin M, Yin P. Monkeys have a limited form of short-term memory in audition. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2012 Jul 24;109(30):12237–41. The leap from contact calls to “individuals … capable of inventing new words and offspring … capable of inquiring about objects in their environment and learning their names via mimicry” is essentially unbridged….. In any case, it seems mistaken to place exclusive emphasis on the role of ADS in the transition – one might thus assess the hypotheses of Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2013) on the roles of both ADS and AVS (and frontal areas) in speech comprehension. However, a companion paper is promised: “Discussing the transition from exchanging low-level distress contact calls into complex vocal language, however, is beyond the scope of the present paper and a model for such transition is discussed [at] length in a sibling paper titled ‘Vocal Mimicry as the Sculptor of the Human Mind. A Neuroanatomically based Evolutionary Model of The Emergence of Vocal Language’ (Poliva, in preparation).” Perhaps it would be better if less were said about this topic in the present paper so that the implications of the evidence on ADS function and evolution could be better assessed for their merits irrespective of the contact call hypothesis. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article doesn’t delve enough into the transition from speech to vocal mimicry. As I responded to Poremba, and mentioned in the paper, this topic is discussed in detail in the second paper. As the primary concern of the present paper is the emergence of speech, I removed from the abstract and introduction any mentioning of the transition from speech to vocal mimicry based language, and limited its discussion to a short paragraph near the end of the paper. Since there are many monkey calls, it seems unclear why, if one is to use these calls as the core for evolving a brain with language, one should focus on contact calls alone. Including other calls might add more “evolutionary opportunities.” In this regard, note the argument of Seyfarth and Cheney that one may see the structure of language prefigured in the “rules” monkeys develop for social cognition (Cheney Seyfarth, 2005; Seyfarth Cheney, 2014). Response: The reviewer presents an interesting question when he suggests that contact calls might not be special. The paper he cites suggests that rule based alarm calls could serve as a potential precursor to human language. In my opinion, contact calls are a more likely candidate precursor to present day vocal conversation than alarm calls. Like present day vocal conversations, contact call are characterized with turn taking and require interaction between (at least) two participants. The content of contact calls is also similar to present day question answer dialogue (as if similar to the question ‘where are you?’ and the answer ’I’m here, Where are you?’). Alarm calls in contrast, although context dependent and thus likely under cortical influence, do not require vocal response and thus don’t resemble conversation. Moreover, as I present in the paper, converging evidence suggests that both human speech and contact call exchange in non-human primates are processed in the ADS. As far as I’m aware of, no study provided evidence that alarm calls are processed in the ADS. (Given its dependence on observing emotive stimuli, I would assume that expressing alarm calls occurs through processing in the visual ventral stream and amygdala, and response to alarm calls occurs through the auditory ventral stream and amygdala.) I suspect that further work in language evolution will reveal a “mosaic” of innovations, some of which are apparent in different monkey or ape species. One may hope that studies of the brains of different species will reveal diverse cues that illuminate, perhaps, the convergent evolution of different tiles of the language-supporting neural mosaic of the human brain. Consider, for example, the capability for turn taking in geladas (Gustison, le Roux, Bergman, 2012; Richman, 1987) and marmosets (Miller, Thomas, Nummela, de la Mothe, 2015; Takahashi, Narayanan, Ghazanfar, 2013) as just one of the diverse components of language-ready brain that are differentially evident in different species of nonhuman primate. Response: I admit I got confused from the reviewer’s comment. The reviewer argues that turn taking occurs in gelada monkeys. The studies he cite however don’t mention such behavior. The reviewer then proceed to cite turn taking vocal behavior in marmoset monkeys, as an alternative explanation to how humans developed turn taking in conversations. The reviewer, however, cite studies that explore turn taking in the exchange of contact calls, which further support the discussed model. Figure 1 shows dual stream connectivity between the auditory cortex and frontal lobe of monkeys and humans. What can be said about the intersection of the 2 streams in VLPFC? And what can be said about the interaction of DLPFC and VLPFC? Response: In the paper I describe two pathways connecting the auditory cortex with the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is primarily ascribed with planning and problem solving. When detecting and responding to contact calls, the prefrontal cortex likely mediates high level processing, such as determining the best way to overcome an obstacle in order to reach the caller. In the present model, I attempt to demonstrate that the detection and production of contact calls occur in the same pathway as speech in humans, and on that account attribute a relationship between them. The role of the prefrontal cortex in such high level processing is not necessary for establishing this relationship and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. Figure 2 depicts the “From Where to What model” via three stages of neuroanatomical modifications. It might be useful to first provide a diagram focusing on VVS and VDS (initial V for Visual) and discussing the relation in both anatomy and function of these paths with each other. It might also be helpful to present pieces of the model along with the exposition of the related data, postponing this integrative figure until the pieces are in place….. In Figure 2, Poliva asserts: (i) “Approximately 2.5 million years ago, the Homo genus emerged as a result of [my italics] duplication of the IPS and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections” (a) Surely, many more changes led to the emergence of Homo. (b) At the end of Section 7, Poliva suggests the relevance of endocast data to this claim. Are there relevant data on apes that could help us assess this transition? (ii) “Since the auditory cortex targeted the more proximal of these duplicated parietal regions, a new pathway dedicated for auditory processing emerged (i.e., auditory dorsal stream; ADS.” But monkey data show an ADS, so what is the transition being suggested here? Picking up on the issue in (5), one needs to better understand the division of labor between ADS and subcortical mechanisms (as well as AVS, to reiterate Poremba’s point)…. In relation to 6(i), Poliva notes the dual role of the parietal lobe in sensory-motor transformation of both audio-spatial and verbal information, and proposes that during Hominin evolution there was a cortical field duplication, of the IPS with further duplication of its projections to the VLPFC which resulted in a pathway dedicated for audio-vocal conversion. How would this serve people who employ a signed language? (Of course, those who advocate a gestural origin of language must face the complementary question of how visuo-manual pathways came to support audio-vocal signals – which they must do because other primates lack vocal learning, let alone the use of syntax and semantics in either domain.) Response: I agree with the reviewer that in depth description of the visual streams and addition of evidence for the parietal duplication hypothesis could add more depth to the paper. However, reviewer 2 (Josef Rauschecker) argued that the section of the paper discussing the relationship between the auditory and visual streams is problematic, and overall disagreed with the parietal duplication hypothesis. Although I don’t entirely agree with his perspective, given that the paper is already rich in hypotheses and evidence, I chose to remove the sections discussing this topic from the paper. Possibly, the parietal duplication hypothesis will be presented in the future in its own paper. A valuable feature of Poliva’s model is its suggestion of how the response to an auditory call might initiate visual search as the basis for action (he emphasizes the mother emitting a call if the child is not seen; a related scenario would be movement toward the child if it were seen). This issue of integration of communication and action, which may (but need not) integrate audition with vision, is an important feature which too few studies take into account. My question is whether he unduly emphasizes cortical pathways involving the frontal eye fields and shortchanges subcortical interactions involving the superior colliculus (noting of course that these are open to cortical influences modulated by the basal ganglia) Response: I agree with the reviewer that area LIP in the intraparietal sulcus likely guides eye movements via projections to the frontal eye field and the superior colliculi. Such connections from the area LIP to the superior colliculi were described in tracing studies (Lynch et al., 1985). However, to the best of my knowledge no study so far demonstrated that this parieto-collicular pathway carries auditory information. It would also be very difficult to demonstrate that auditory influence on the superior colliculus occurs via connections from area LIP and not via ascending connections from the inferior colliculi. Given the lack of evidence of an auditory parieto-collicular pathway I chose at this point not to include it in the revised paper. Lynch, J. C., AMs Graybiel, and L. J. Lobeck. "The differential projection of two cytoarchitectonic subregions of the inferior parietal lobule of macaque upon the deep layers of the superior colliculus." Journal of Comparative Neurology 235.2 (1985): 241-254. Poliva claims to review “evidence for a role of the ADS in the transition from mediating contact calls into mediating human speech” but simply cites data correlating ADS impairment with disorders like speech apraxia. Response: In addition to the paragraph discussing the role of the ADS in speech production, I present throughout the paper many other studies that indirectly show a role of the human ADS in speech production, such as fMRI studies that compare speech production to the production of melodies (Hickok et al., 2003) and many studies that ascribe the ADS with a role in speech repetition (Hickok et al., 2007). Nothing in the data privileges contact calls over other vocal productions Response: Many studies have shown that the ADS (associated in human with speech production) has a special role in the detection and production of contact calls. For example: “Further corroborating the involvement of the ADS in the perception of contact calls are intra-cortical recordings from the posterior insula (near area CM-A1) of the macaque, which revealed stronger selectivity for a contact call (coo call) than a social call (threat call; Remedios et al. , 2009a ). Contrasting this finding is a study that recorded neural activity from the anterior auditory cortex, and reported that the proportion of neurons dedicated to a contact call was similar to the proportions of neurons dedicated to other calls ( Perrodin et al. , 2011 ).” Also: “Consistently, a study that sacrificed marmoset monkeys immediately after responding to contact calls (phee calls) measured highest neural activity (genomic expression of cFos protein) in the posterior auditory fields (CM-CL), and VLPFC ( Miller et al. , 2010 ). Monkeys sacrificed after only hearing contact calls or only emitting them showed neural activity in the same regions but to a much smaller degree (See also Simes et al. , 2010 for similar results in a study using the protein Egr-1).” – and, anyway, clear articulation is a far cry [sic] from mechanisms supporting the role of syntax and semantics in language production and perception. Response: I agree with the reviewer that arguing that the ADS processes speech does not necessitate that the ADS process more complex linguistic functions such as semantics and syntax. This is why in the paper I only present a model for the emergence of speech. More complex linguistic functions and possible evolutionary course will be discussed in the second paper. Poliva stresses that the ability to ask and answer questions is an essential feature of language use. I agree. Future work on language evolution should pay more attention to the challenge of explaining how this evolved. However the focus on modifying contact calls with prosodic intonations seems to me too narrow (I may be wrong, but more argument would be needed) and (as Poremba observed) the account of the transition remains too sketchy. Poliva cites “the ability of present-day infants of using intonations for changing the pragmatic utilization of a word from a statement to a command/demand (“mommy!”) or a question (“mommy?”),” but one must be careful to distinguish these infant “communicative acts” from the ability to deploy grammar to formulate an open-ended repertoire of commands and questions using the structures of a language – let along being able to marshal answers to questions of even modest complexity. Response: I agree with the reviewer that adults often use complex syntax to ask questions. However, given that children (and occasionally adults) can express a question with a single word using intonations, suggests, in my opinion, that such question asking method could have preceded syntax, and thus indicate of an intermediate stage in the evolution of language. A transition from a single word question to syntax likely occurred at later evolutionary stages, and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. I want to thank the reviewer for his positive review and for his insightful and constructive comments. Below are my responses: I endorse the key points of Amy Poremba’s review: (i) The dorsal auditory stream was over-emphasized at the expense of assessing the role of the ventral stream and how these streams are integrated. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article focuses on the ADS, and pay little attention to the AVS. I also agree that the AVS partakes an important role in the perception and production of human language, and that it interacts with the ADS. However, as I also previously responded to Poremba, in the present paper I propose a model for the emergence of speech and not language, and speech appears to be primarily or solely a function of the ADS. A possible course for the transition from speech to language and the role the AVS in such functions is discussed in detail in the second paper (mentioned in the article). Poremba notes the relevance of work from Mishkin’s lab on auditory memory – see, e.g., Fritz, Mishkin, and Saunders (2005) which “raises the possibility that language is unique to humans not only because it depends on speech but also because it requires long-term auditory memory.” I would add that Aboitiz and his colleagues have emphasized the expansion of working memory capacity as a key element in evolving a language-ready brain (see Aboitiz, 2012, for a recent review of this approach). Response: I agree with the reviewer that expansion of auditory memory (or its ability to sustain interferences as shown by Scott, Mishkin Yin, 2012) took an important part in the evolution of language. However, as I previously responded to Poremba, this change likely occurred after Hominins acquired volitional control over the vocal apparatus, and thus is beyond the scope of the present paper. This issue is also discussed in detail in the second paper. Scott BH, Mishkin M, Yin P. Monkeys have a limited form of short-term memory in audition. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2012 Jul 24;109(30):12237–41. The leap from contact calls to “individuals … capable of inventing new words and offspring … capable of inquiring about objects in their environment and learning their names via mimicry” is essentially unbridged….. In any case, it seems mistaken to place exclusive emphasis on the role of ADS in the transition – one might thus assess the hypotheses of Bornkessel-Schlesewsky and Schlesewsky (2013) on the roles of both ADS and AVS (and frontal areas) in speech comprehension. However, a companion paper is promised: “Discussing the transition from exchanging low-level distress contact calls into complex vocal language, however, is beyond the scope of the present paper and a model for such transition is discussed [at] length in a sibling paper titled ‘Vocal Mimicry as the Sculptor of the Human Mind. A Neuroanatomically based Evolutionary Model of The Emergence of Vocal Language’ (Poliva, in preparation).” Perhaps it would be better if less were said about this topic in the present paper so that the implications of the evidence on ADS function and evolution could be better assessed for their merits irrespective of the contact call hypothesis. Response: I agree with the reviewer that the article doesn’t delve enough into the transition from speech to vocal mimicry. As I responded to Poremba, and mentioned in the paper, this topic is discussed in detail in the second paper. As the primary concern of the present paper is the emergence of speech, I removed from the abstract and introduction any mentioning of the transition from speech to vocal mimicry based language, and limited its discussion to a short paragraph near the end of the paper. Since there are many monkey calls, it seems unclear why, if one is to use these calls as the core for evolving a brain with language, one should focus on contact calls alone. Including other calls might add more “evolutionary opportunities.” In this regard, note the argument of Seyfarth and Cheney that one may see the structure of language prefigured in the “rules” monkeys develop for social cognition (Cheney Seyfarth, 2005; Seyfarth Cheney, 2014). Response: The reviewer presents an interesting question when he suggests that contact calls might not be special. The paper he cites suggests that rule based alarm calls could serve as a potential precursor to human language. In my opinion, contact calls are a more likely candidate precursor to present day vocal conversation than alarm calls. Like present day vocal conversations, contact call are characterized with turn taking and require interaction between (at least) two participants. The content of contact calls is also similar to present day question answer dialogue (as if similar to the question ‘where are you?’ and the answer ’I’m here, Where are you?’). Alarm calls in contrast, although context dependent and thus likely under cortical influence, do not require vocal response and thus don’t resemble conversation. Moreover, as I present in the paper, converging evidence suggests that both human speech and contact call exchange in non-human primates are processed in the ADS. As far as I’m aware of, no study provided evidence that alarm calls are processed in the ADS. (Given its dependence on observing emotive stimuli, I would assume that expressing alarm calls occurs through processing in the visual ventral stream and amygdala, and response to alarm calls occurs through the auditory ventral stream and amygdala.) I suspect that further work in language evolution will reveal a “mosaic” of innovations, some of which are apparent in different monkey or ape species. One may hope that studies of the brains of different species will reveal diverse cues that illuminate, perhaps, the convergent evolution of different tiles of the language-supporting neural mosaic of the human brain. Consider, for example, the capability for turn taking in geladas (Gustison, le Roux, Bergman, 2012; Richman, 1987) and marmosets (Miller, Thomas, Nummela, de la Mothe, 2015; Takahashi, Narayanan, Ghazanfar, 2013) as just one of the diverse components of language-ready brain that are differentially evident in different species of nonhuman primate. Response: I admit I got confused from the reviewer’s comment. The reviewer argues that turn taking occurs in gelada monkeys. The studies he cite however don’t mention such behavior. The reviewer then proceed to cite turn taking vocal behavior in marmoset monkeys, as an alternative explanation to how humans developed turn taking in conversations. The reviewer, however, cite studies that explore turn taking in the exchange of contact calls, which further support the discussed model. Figure 1 shows dual stream connectivity between the auditory cortex and frontal lobe of monkeys and humans. What can be said about the intersection of the 2 streams in VLPFC? And what can be said about the interaction of DLPFC and VLPFC? Response: In the paper I describe two pathways connecting the auditory cortex with the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is primarily ascribed with planning and problem solving. When detecting and responding to contact calls, the prefrontal cortex likely mediates high level processing, such as determining the best way to overcome an obstacle in order to reach the caller. In the present model, I attempt to demonstrate that the detection and production of contact calls occur in the same pathway as speech in humans, and on that account attribute a relationship between them. The role of the prefrontal cortex in such high level processing is not necessary for establishing this relationship and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. Figure 2 depicts the “From Where to What model” via three stages of neuroanatomical modifications. It might be useful to first provide a diagram focusing on VVS and VDS (initial V for Visual) and discussing the relation in both anatomy and function of these paths with each other. It might also be helpful to present pieces of the model along with the exposition of the related data, postponing this integrative figure until the pieces are in place….. In Figure 2, Poliva asserts: (i) “Approximately 2.5 million years ago, the Homo genus emerged as a result of [my italics] duplication of the IPS and subsequent duplication of its frontal projections” (a) Surely, many more changes led to the emergence of Homo. (b) At the end of Section 7, Poliva suggests the relevance of endocast data to this claim. Are there relevant data on apes that could help us assess this transition? (ii) “Since the auditory cortex targeted the more proximal of these duplicated parietal regions, a new pathway dedicated for auditory processing emerged (i.e., auditory dorsal stream; ADS.” But monkey data show an ADS, so what is the transition being suggested here? Picking up on the issue in (5), one needs to better understand the division of labor between ADS and subcortical mechanisms (as well as AVS, to reiterate Poremba’s point)…. In relation to 6(i), Poliva notes the dual role of the parietal lobe in sensory-motor transformation of both audio-spatial and verbal information, and proposes that during Hominin evolution there was a cortical field duplication, of the IPS with further duplication of its projections to the VLPFC which resulted in a pathway dedicated for audio-vocal conversion. How would this serve people who employ a signed language? (Of course, those who advocate a gestural origin of language must face the complementary question of how visuo-manual pathways came to support audio-vocal signals – which they must do because other primates lack vocal learning, let alone the use of syntax and semantics in either domain.) Response: I agree with the reviewer that in depth description of the visual streams and addition of evidence for the parietal duplication hypothesis could add more depth to the paper. However, reviewer 2 (Josef Rauschecker) argued that the section of the paper discussing the relationship between the auditory and visual streams is problematic, and overall disagreed with the parietal duplication hypothesis. Although I don’t entirely agree with his perspective, given that the paper is already rich in hypotheses and evidence, I chose to remove the sections discussing this topic from the paper. Possibly, the parietal duplication hypothesis will be presented in the future in its own paper. A valuable feature of Poliva’s model is its suggestion of how the response to an auditory call might initiate visual search as the basis for action (he emphasizes the mother emitting a call if the child is not seen; a related scenario would be movement toward the child if it were seen). This issue of integration of communication and action, which may (but need not) integrate audition with vision, is an important feature which too few studies take into account. My question is whether he unduly emphasizes cortical pathways involving the frontal eye fields and shortchanges subcortical interactions involving the superior colliculus (noting of course that these are open to cortical influences modulated by the basal ganglia) Response: I agree with the reviewer that area LIP in the intraparietal sulcus likely guides eye movements via projections to the frontal eye field and the superior colliculi. Such connections from the area LIP to the superior colliculi were described in tracing studies (Lynch et al., 1985). However, to the best of my knowledge no study so far demonstrated that this parieto-collicular pathway carries auditory information. It would also be very difficult to demonstrate that auditory influence on the superior colliculus occurs via connections from area LIP and not via ascending connections from the inferior colliculi. Given the lack of evidence of an auditory parieto-collicular pathway I chose at this point not to include it in the revised paper. Lynch, J. C., AMs Graybiel, and L. J. Lobeck. "The differential projection of two cytoarchitectonic subregions of the inferior parietal lobule of macaque upon the deep layers of the superior colliculus." Journal of Comparative Neurology 235.2 (1985): 241-254. Poliva claims to review “evidence for a role of the ADS in the transition from mediating contact calls into mediating human speech” but simply cites data correlating ADS impairment with disorders like speech apraxia. Response: In addition to the paragraph discussing the role of the ADS in speech production, I present throughout the paper many other studies that indirectly show a role of the human ADS in speech production, such as fMRI studies that compare speech production to the production of melodies (Hickok et al., 2003) and many studies that ascribe the ADS with a role in speech repetition (Hickok et al., 2007). Nothing in the data privileges contact calls over other vocal productions Response: Many studies have shown that the ADS (associated in human with speech production) has a special role in the detection and production of contact calls. For example: “Further corroborating the involvement of the ADS in the perception of contact calls are intra-cortical recordings from the posterior insula (near area CM-A1) of the macaque, which revealed stronger selectivity for a contact call (coo call) than a social call (threat call; Remedios et al. , 2009a ). Contrasting this finding is a study that recorded neural activity from the anterior auditory cortex, and reported that the proportion of neurons dedicated to a contact call was similar to the proportions of neurons dedicated to other calls ( Perrodin et al. , 2011 ).” Also: “Consistently, a study that sacrificed marmoset monkeys immediately after responding to contact calls (phee calls) measured highest neural activity (genomic expression of cFos protein) in the posterior auditory fields (CM-CL), and VLPFC ( Miller et al. , 2010 ). Monkeys sacrificed after only hearing contact calls or only emitting them showed neural activity in the same regions but to a much smaller degree (See also Simes et al. , 2010 for similar results in a study using the protein Egr-1).” – and, anyway, clear articulation is a far cry [sic] from mechanisms supporting the role of syntax and semantics in language production and perception. Response: I agree with the reviewer that arguing that the ADS processes speech does not necessitate that the ADS process more complex linguistic functions such as semantics and syntax. This is why in the paper I only present a model for the emergence of speech. More complex linguistic functions and possible evolutionary course will be discussed in the second paper. Poliva stresses that the ability to ask and answer questions is an essential feature of language use. I agree. Future work on language evolution should pay more attention to the challenge of explaining how this evolved. However the focus on modifying contact calls with prosodic intonations seems to me too narrow (I may be wrong, but more argument would be needed) and (as Poremba observed) the account of the transition remains too sketchy. Poliva cites “the ability of present-day infants of using intonations for changing the pragmatic utilization of a word from a statement to a command/demand (“mommy!”) or a question (“mommy?”),” but one must be careful to distinguish these infant “communicative acts” from the ability to deploy grammar to formulate an open-ended repertoire of commands and questions using the structures of a language – let along being able to marshal answers to questions of even modest complexity. Response: I agree with the reviewer that adults often use complex syntax to ask questions. However, given that children (and occasionally adults) can express a question with a single word using intonations, suggests, in my opinion, that such question asking method could have preceded syntax, and thus indicate of an intermediate stage in the evolution of language. A transition from a single word question to syntax likely occurred at later evolutionary stages, and is thus beyond the scope of the present paper. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Rauschecker J. Reviewer Report For: From where to what: a neuroanatomically based evolutionary model of the emergence of speech in humans [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :67 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6619.r7964 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-67/v1#referee-response-7964 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 24 Dec 2015 Josef Rauschecker , Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience and Cognition, Georgetown University, Washington DC, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6619.r7964 This is an interesting contribution to the literature on language evolution. The first two sections ('Introduction' and 'Models of Language Processing in the Brain...') are a joy to read. Later sections are more controversial and contain serious flaws that have ... Continue reading READ ALL 