This manuscript provides nicely quantitative descriptions of the early steps of platelet attachment to either collagen IV or fibrinogen. As such, it will provide valuable information for the field and stimulate additional research in this area, e.g., concerning the regulation of filopodial activity during spreading. There are several aspects of this excellent study that would be strengthened by the addition of either limited amounts of new data or at least some additional discussion. This study focuses on platelet attachment to extracellular proteins absorbed to a substrate, presumably modeling the interaction of platelets with basement membrane or a blood clot. Although the interaction of platelets with fibrinogen has been studied extensively in solution after activation by molecules such as thrombin during the process of platelet aggregation, this study seems to focus on interactions with an immobilized substrate. In that regard, the authors might consider that fibrin rather than fibrinogen would be the more physiological substrate. The results of initial attachment and spreading might be different on fibrin, because it is known that platelets can interact via integrin receptors more effectively to fibrin compared to fibrinogen [e.g., see PMID 26867579 and also 29021578 1 , 2 ]. Although this reviewer does not feel it is essential, it would be quite interesting to see whether the key findings concerning platelet attachment to fibrinogen are different when the substrate is fibrin. Alternatively, the authors could discuss this point about the types of substrate in vivo. The differences in response to collagen IV and fibrinogen depending on whether they were in PRP or in a salt solution were extremely dramatic. One question that should ideally be discussed involves the physiological interpretation of the blocking of adhesion by von Willebrand factor. Does this mean that attachment to exposed collagen IV in damaged basement membranes in vivo is unlikely? Some additional discussion of these surprising findings would be helpful. The images of apparent surface receptors in Figure 5 are quite impressive. However, it is not clear whether the authors can call them “surface receptors” without some additional information. For example, were morphological differences observed consistent with the folded and open erect configurations of integrins before and after platelet activation? Minor comments: A. In Figure 2D, the figure legend refers to “detachment” over time, yet the heat map coding seems to refer to more or fewer attachment events, so how was detachment represented in this figure? B. In Figure 4, what were the substrates used for panel sequences A and B? C. In Figure 7, and the text, how was a “filopodia spread platelet” defined? D. Figure 9A, do the authors happen to have any information on which receptor was used by activated platelets to spread on collagen IV after the treatment with sn528? E. In the summary shown in Figure 10, although this is not at all essential, the authors might consider including information on the conditions used for their platelets, specifically PLT vs. PRP-PL; if not practical, this information should be indicated in the figure legend so that readers will not assume that the platelets were compared under identical conditions on the two different substrates. F. The dishes used in this study were presumably from MatTek rather than from MaTek. G. Very minor technical questions: Was the concentration of thrombin used actually 0.12 mg/ml? What was the purpose of the glycerol added to chemically fixed platelets? 