Despite the author indicating that he had addressed my concerns as a reviewer, the following was not addressed: Please note rotavirus nomenclature G1P[8]. This sentence is still misleading in light of the fact that rotavirus and norovirus were the only pathogens that the authors screened for "Rotavirus and norovirus are the major enteropathogens responsible for acute viral gastroenteritis among infants and children in Bangladesh, where 74% of the cases were caused by rotavirus only." This was raised in the previous review too. Please consider changing the the sentence to "Rotavirus and norovirus are major enteropathogens responsible for acute viral gastroenteritis among infants and children in Bangladesh, and in this study, rotavirus was detected in 74% of diarrhoea cases." Additional minor comments: Introduction - Please insert space between 2.5 million. Introduction - Of that, about half a million deaths are ... Introduction - On the other hand, noroviruses are ... Introduction - In the case of an emergency, ... Introduction - Developing such a kit may improve ... Introduction - ...the prevalence of norovirus and rotavirus is higher. Test methods - delete sentence, "The PCR is a molecular biology technique that allows for nucleic acid fragment from a complex pool of DNA" - unnecessary. Test methods - delete "by this kit" so sentence reads "To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of this IP-Noro/Rota test kits, all the 100 samples were tested for norovirus and rotavirus antigens following manufacturer’s instructions." Test methods - delete only so sentence reads "It took 10–15 min to obtain the result." Results - delete isolated so sentence reads "It was found that all the noroviruses belonged to genogroup II. Results - correct for clarity so sentence reads "On the other hand, G1P[8] rotavirus strains were prevalent among..." Results - correct for clarity so sentence reads "Of the 10 specimens positive for norovirus and the 74 specimens positive for rotavirus by RT-PCR, the IP-..." Conclusions - delete only so sentence reads "The rapid IC kit test is easy to perform at a low cost and it takes 10–15 min to..." 