Rollo et al . studied ganglion formation of ENS cells in vitro by using disaggregated cells from midguts of E5 and E8 quail and E9 chick embryos. Aggregation was investigated in cell-cell adhesion assays with HNK-1 fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). While the developing neurons (Hu-positive) sorted out to the centre of the aggregates, NC cells (SoxE-positive) stayed more peripherally. This sorting behaviour was consistent with a higher adhesion centrally and a parallely higher N-cadherin- and NCAM-labelling. This main result suggests that a differential adhesion mechanism of enteric neurons and NC cells controls the inner/outer layering of the ganglia with the ENC cell fraction limiting the size of aggregates. The merit of this careful and detailed study is that it tries to visualize quantitatively at a cellular level what cannot be observed in vivo in this way or only exemplarily with severe difficulties via 3D-reconstructions. I recommend indexation. I have a small concern and give a list of several minor comments below. Major concern Results and discussion p 5, section ENS ganglia undergo progressive morphogenesis in vivo : The size of the aggregates forming in vivo (see Fig. 2D) should be indicated here in this section, i.e. as much as one can recognize with the confocal studies used (diameter/cell number). Then this size and the in vitro size can be compared. Obviously the in vitro aggregates are much larger, similar to DRG size in vivo. This should be explained. The in vitro size of aggregates is indicated in detail on p 9. (see also minor comments 4, 8, 12). Minor comments Introduction : The authors might consider to move paragraph 4 starting with The final ENS cell population is enormous after paragraph 1. Introduction, paragraph 3: citation Teillet et al. 87 ; here 1-2 papers from R. Mayor could be added (e.g. Theveneau and Mayor, 2012 ; Kuriyama and Mayor, 2008 ). Introduction, paragraph 4 What is ? Last paragraph of Introduction : In particular we wished to explore why the ENS ganglia are similar and small in size If this is your wish you should add here 2-3 sentences about how your results are. How much bigger/smaller are your ganglia obtained in vitro compared to those on the slices cut from an in vivo specimen (Fig. 2)? Think also of and compare the in vitro -sizes of enteric ganglia to your previous work! Mat.+Meth.: Counts of myenteric ENS cells in wholemounts. One does not know what stands for and why is mentioned here but Sox-10 further down on the page (last line). Explanation of abbreviations here or before the paper starts? Cell dissociation . While a non-expert might imagine how a is removed, the skill that is needed to harvest DRG may be beyond his/her imagination. Add perhaps 1-2 sentences for explanation? The intestinal tissue pooled from 1560 embryos: why 15-60? Is this one of many similar preparations using between 15 and 60 guts? Otherwise you should indicate a fixed number. One gets no information about the proportion of ENS cells obtained from the myenteric and submucosal plexuses. Are the ganglia in both places equal in size and structure? At certain developmental stages there could be many more Hu-positive or SoxE-positive ganglia in the myenteric than in the submucosal plexuses because the latter are settled earlier. Section: Fluorescent labelling and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS): It is hardly imaginable that from such a broth obtained by filtering disaggregated tissue or single cells through a 30 m strainer cells were obtained that could form such beautiful aggregates as shown in Fig. 6. May be you can add a sentence about the consistency of the filtered cells? Results: Figure 2: Why are myenteric plexuses chosen and not submucosal ones? What is the final size of a ganglion in Fig. 2D (in vivo) compared to Fig. 6C ( in vitro )? Is the diameter range (63.8-98.7 m) and the cell number range (276-861) indicated on p. 9 (right column) comparable to the diameters/sizes of the in vivo aggregates ? ENS cell clusters in vitro are due to cell aggregation, not proliferation. This section is nearly too short to merit section status could it be subsumed somewhere else? Fig. 6D : is hardly readable. ENS cells are mobile within aggregates, allowing sorting out. I only wonder whether this initial mobility of ENS and ENC cells and their later sorting out and finally the outer placement of the ENC cells with restricting ENS cells is not all a little contradictory? Fig. 9: ..DRG..cell aggregates were similar in average size But the DRG would be definitely much bigger than the enteric ganglia ? If not, then your in vitro aggregates are much bigger than the in vivo ones! See again point 8 (above) and compare ENS aggregate sizes in Fig. 2d and Fig. 6C with DRG size in Fig. 9. May be you could discuss that at the very end of the paper? 