 Positive points The paper improved a lot from the last version. As I said before, this is a much-needed survey by MiRoR team, and I hope it gets fully published and indexed as soon as possible. The authors took care to respond to all the reviewers’ questions. However, there are still three points that were not adequately addressed, and I hope I can make some suggestions to help them solve these problems. I also found two additional problems that came up in this second version of the manuscript. From the 20 points I commented in my last report, the authors adequately responded/solved the problems in the items 1, 3-5, 7, 9-17, 19 and 20. Thank you for that. Below you can find comments on the remaining items (I used the same numbers as before to make it easier to locate them) and the two additional ones. 2) Sample. The authors explained that they purposely searched for editors experienced with reporting guidelines. As much as I don’t agree with this approach, at least it was clearly stated now. However, the explanation about the sample size as a study limitation still does not seem satisfactory. The authors added a comment in the discussion section attributing the sample size to a low response rate in surveys in general. But if the authors knew there was going to be a low response rate (and they cited very useful references for that), why did they stop recruiting? Why not try to approach other editors/journals? The authors should expand the explanation to respond to two questions: What were the constraints in increasing the sample? Why did you stop recruiting? Even choosing to use a “not representative sample”, can we trust that we should listen to the opinions of these 24 editors (a minority among the 99 invited) to say something is feasible or not, for example? What is the effect of this small sample size on the “take-home messages” of this study? These points were not addressed in the paragraph about study limitations, and I think they should. Also: who were the editors who did not respond? Do you have information about them that you could show in a table? If you can find and show a pattern of response (for example, editors from high-visibility journals would have less interest in responding?), then we can understand better this low response rate. 6) Figure 1. Figure 1 improved a lot, thank you. Now it shows outliers and the types of interventions are clearer too (I wonder if you could put these “nicknames” in Box 1 too!). However, it is still a bit difficult to read/interpret. I believe the problem is that you chose to show means when you probably should have used medians (more appropriate to scores and to data that is not normally distributed). I suggest the authors try to check for data distribution, try to generate this figure with means, and that they also describe this method in the Methods – Data analysis section. 8) The abstract improved, well done! However, the conclusions seem not to be conclusions at all, not based on your data. The first sentence is your (and even mine!) opinion, but it not supported by your data. The second sentence tells about your aims, not your conclusions. The same is valid for the conclusions at the end of the paper: they show valid comments/assumptions but nothing based on your data. Useful conclusions should be linked to your aims (to survey editors’ perceptions) and read like “the editors think that”... or “the perceptions of the editors are...”. 18) References : you fixed most of them, but there are still references incomplete. Please review # 23, 24 and 28 and add the URLs. Additional concerns: Regarding Data Analysis: I noticed you added text in this section about “excluding one questionnaire that was terminated early”. That called my attention: is this one of the 24 (and then we have 23 responded questionnaires) or was it a 25 th questionnaire? Also: how did you approach missing data? By excluding the participants? Was there any other case? Minor: Thank you for providing the names of the journals in Table 1. However, I suspect “Francis and Taylor” is not a journal name. Please, check (maybe there is a confusion with the publisher’s name “Taylor Francis”, but what was the specific journal?).