This commentary is well written, very well justified, and timely. While there are countless published papers on the myriad effects of lead in biological systems, the consideration of dose extrapolation from in vitro to in vivo studies and their relationships to the human condition often goes unappreciated. Indeed, since toxicology is driven by the dose of the poison, establishing environmental or occupational relevance of the dose is absolutely key to the relevance of the findings. This commentary points this out in a concise and evidence-driven fashion, and is worthy of publication. Below are a few minor comments to consider. Pg. 2, 1 st para: For arguments sake, … Comment: A caveat here might be that is known that the proportion of whole blood lead in plasma increases with increasing blood lead, so it is likely that the blood lead level that would produce a 1 uM plasma lead would be lower than 2,073 ug/dL, but this does not detract from the point the authors are making, which is a good and important one. Pg. 2, 3 rd para: Thus, the model proposed in this and other work… Comment: It is not clear whose work 'this work' is referring to - Chan et al ? Pg. 2, 3 rd para: To ensure that doses used in in vitro assays are complimentary to a target in vivo blood lead level of 20 μg/dL… Comment: This suggestion by the authors is reasonable, assuming that plasma lead reflects extracellular fluid lead, though it might also be worth looking at the relationship between blood lead and CSF lead levels (in the literature) to see if it follows an appx 1% relationship as does plasma to further substantiate this suggestion. Pg. 2, 3 rd para: …eliminate background levels from residual lead on glassware and other sources of possible contamination or confounding of the reported data… Comment: This too raises an important point in that the vast majority of studies do not make sufficient effort to reduce background lead levels in control cultures, so it is quite possible that here and in those other studies the control cultures, even with modestly elevated background lead levels will also be affected, requiring higher exposure doses to demonstrate a difference or 'effect' in the lead-exposed treatments. It is good that the authors pointed this out. 