First, thank you for the opportunity to review Javier Monzs article, First regional evaluation of nuclear genetic diversity and population structure in northeastern coyotes (Canis latrans ). I found this to be a well-written, engaging, and thoughtful manuscript with important contributions to the use of SNPs in studies of population structure and in elucidating the genetic structure of the northeastern coyote. The author adeptly targets a need for using multiple markers across multiple individuals for proper inference. The author furthermore supports the use of the canine SNP array in studies of coyotes, following the recommendation of vonHoldt et al. (2011) , while also asserting the need for addressing ascertainment bias prior to the use of SNPs in non-model organisms. I have no major reservations, rather a few minor comments regarding clarification of the methods along with some questions and considerations for future discussion and research. Methods: With such a large sample of high quality tissue available for the analysis, why were scats (n=6) included in the analysis? Were the scats important for adequate sampling across the study area? Fourteen of vonHoldt et als . (2011) coyote specimens were included in the initial selection of the 16 SNP panel used in subsequent analyses. Why were only 7 of vonHoldt et al.s (2011) samples included in the analysis of diversity and structure? Results: Using the SNP panel, the author reports the observed and expected heterozygosity for the three putative population zones identified by Kays et al . (2010; Table 2). It would be interesting to see the Ho and He for the population clusters identify by the current STRUCTURE analysis (i.e., K =2 K=3). What are the pairwise Fst values for two genetic clusters also supported by the STRUCTURE analysis? Discussion: There is ample evidence of genetic structure; however, Im not sure that I would agree with the authors suggestion that there is some geographic structuring, at least based on Figure 2c. The author does a thorough job of listing the factors and processes that may be involved in explaining a lack of geographic structure, as well as the discrepancy between the current nuclear analysis of population structure and the previous mtDNA analysis (Kays et al. 2010). A possible further explanation for the lack of geographic structuring could be that a SNP panel - with such high heterozygosity - may actually reflect older mutations that have had a longer time to move around the landscape via dispersal (see Morin et al. 2004 ). This might allow one to detect patterns of genetic structure without any obvious geographic patterns. The author also mentions, correctly, that based on the current state of knowledge, there is no sex-bias in coyote dispersal. I wonder if the authors data set could be used to investigate this by factoring in sex and rerunning the analyses presented in this manuscript. 