The authors have examined the effect of fresh gas flow rates on the wash-in and wash-out of a single volatile anaesthetic agent in two modern anaesthetic workstations under experimental conditions.The investigation is essentially in two parts. The first shows that wash-in and wash-out and flow dependent for both anaesthesia machines. As these are exponential processes, this finding is entirely predictable and rapid wash-in (or wash-out) will only be achieved at fairly high fresh gas flow rates, whatever the internal design of the anaesthetic machine. While it is still important to define optimal flow rates for new equipment, this part of the paper does not really provide any very new information. The second part of the study is potentially far more interesting and this is the comparison between the two systems. The authors speculated, quite appropriately in my opinion, that wash-in and wash-out would be faster with the Flow-i system due to its lower internal volume. However, they did not find this to be the case, especially with regard to wash-in where, in fact, the Flow-i was actually the slower of the two systems. What I find very disappointing is that the authors do not really address why they did not obtain the results they anticipated. Although their discussion mentions a few related points, there is almost nothing concerning the differences between the two systems studied or what the implications of these findings might be. The authors also seem not to have commented on the fact that differences between the two machines were not consistent between wash-in and wash-out and whether this provides any insight into the observed results. For me, this would be a far more interesting paper if these differences were explored in a bit more detail. I would also be interested to know if I needed to change the way I altered vapouriser settings and flow rates in practice were I to switch from one of these systems to the other. One possible explanation for the apparent differences has already been mentioned in a previous review, namely that there was not really a difference at all, but that using the in-built gas analysers of the machines resulted in apparent differences due to differences in sampling times/mechanisms/algorithms. I also wonder if differences in the vapouriser technology might explain the findings, at least in part. According to the Maquet user's manual, during controlled ventilation “a larger proportion of the fresh gas is added during the inspiration phase, also contributing to minimising agent consumption”. Our technical staff tell me that the Flow-i vapouriser only injects anaesthetic agent during inspiration and is inactive during the expiratory phase of the cycle. If this is correct, and if the Aisys delivers vapour continuously, like a conventional vapouriser, that might explain why wash-in to a test lung is slower than expected. It is also likely under those circumstances that the difference between the machines would be reduced if higher respiratory rates were used and might also be completely different during spontaneous ventilation. Do the authors have detailed knowledge of how the two vapouriser systems function? Although the Flow-i, unexpectedly, was slower than the Aisys, this was not consistently observed and again I think this deserves some discussion. For wash-in from 0–1 MAC, the Aisys was consistently faster, with times ranging from 64–79% those of the Flow-i. However, for wash-in from 1–1.5 MAC, the times were much less consistent, ranging from 109% to 40% those of the Flow-i. Neither was any pattern evident for the second stage wash-in, with the Aisys actually being slower at 0.3 and 1 l/min, but faster at 0.5, 2 4 l/min. Can the authors explain this at all? Could sampling error be enough to explain the differences? The wash-out results are even more confusing. The Flow-i was slower from 5 to 10 litres/minute, but the wash-out times were so fast that the differences are small and probably within the limits of sampling error. However, at 2.5 l/min the Flow-i was 70% faster. This faster wash-out is entirely consistent with the lower internal volume of the Flow-i (as hypothesised by the authors) and, to me, lends support to the concept that the unexpected observations during wash-in are probably related to differences in the function of the vapourisers. As the authors state, this was a test model study. However, the results are likely to be used to inform clinical practice. The problem is that the results are unlikely to be reproduced in clinical practice. As the authors used a test lung, there was no uptake of anaesthetic vapour from the breathing circuit. Adding a patient compartment is likely to delay the wash-in of the anaesthetic machine compartment due to uptake of anaesthetic. This should affect both machines to a similar degree, although if the Flow-i preferentially injects vapour during inspiration while the Aisys does not, it is possible that the addition of a patient may affect the systems differently. Wash-out will also be delayed by the addition of anaesthetic vapour to the breathing system from the patient’s lungs. This should affect both systems equally, but in this case will differ with the duration of anaesthesia delivery and hence the amount of agent taken up by the patient. Do the authors have any clinical data to indicate by how much their findings are actually altered in clinical practice? A few other comments: What determined the number of repeat measurements? In the methods it is stated wash-in times were determined “based on [the] mean of 3 repeated tests”, but in the statistics section it is said data are means “based on 3–5 repeats”. It is stated that data are shown as means and standard deviation. However, all of the tables and figures show only mean data. Standard deviations are only given for the data specifically highlighted in the main text. Without standard deviations, the degree of imprecision of the data cannot be assessed. Although a statistically significant p value is defined, the authors do not state the minimum size of differences which they considered to be clinically important. In a few cases, the differences are only a few seconds and of little consequences, but in quite a few cases, the differences are 100 seconds or more and represent quite large percentage differences between the systems. An indication of a minimal clinically-important difference, in association with an indication of the degree of variability, would greatly aid interpretation of the results. Statistical tests have been applied to the differences in wash-in and wash-out for both systems (combined) at high versus low gas flows, even though these differences are large in magnitude and highly predictable. However, statistical tests do not appear to have been reported for the far more interesting differences between the anaesthesia machines at each flow rate. 