This is an interesting and timely review of the issue of open access to scientific literature. The two other reviewers have highlighted specific issues that should be addressed in the revision of this article, and I agree with these issues. I've added other notes below. I think this review article would benefit from a re-write to correct potentially biased language in support of open access and to round out the review with further evidence of open access impacts on citation rates, altmetrics, scientific literacy / public engagement and research quality. Notes: The authors cite “fostering a culture of greater scientific literacy” as a benefit of open access. While this is theoretically a benefit, has more or less open access in particular scientific fields been tied to greater or lesser scientific literacy in those areas? Is this potential benefit supported by research literature? The authors should be clear on what the evidence-based benefits of open access are, and also what the potential drawbacks are. References to related research should be provided on this topic. The structure the authors use for laying out their evidence and the language they use (e.g. “[the] case for Open Access” ) appear to lean more toward the positive impacts / benefits of open access from the outset. The authors should be very careful to review the evidence first before making value-based statements or arguments about open access, even if the evidence-based benefits outweigh any potential drawbacks, or lack of significant benefits, in the end. Correct the typo in the following sentence: “[In] A longitudinal study Eysenbach (2006) compared…” The authors write: “One alternative explanation for the citation advantage could be that researchers choose to publish OA when a finding is more impactful, but empirical evidence contradicts this selection effect. Gargouri et al. (2010) compared citation counts within a cohort of OA articles that had either been self-selected as OA or mandated as OA (e.g., by funders). The study concluded that both were cited significantly more than non-OA articles. As such, these findings rule out a selection bias from authors as the cause for the citation advantage (Gargouri et al., 2010).” However, couldn’t funded research also have a tendency to be considered “more impactful,” because it was chosen in the first place to be funded and mandated as OA? The authors should discuss this, and whether there is any research that experimentally investigates whether open access provides a citation advantage. This could perhaps be suggested as future research. The authors should also discuss how/why some studies have found no citation advantage for OA papers. Related to social media mentions of research papers and citation counts, the authors might also consider citing Liang, X., Su, L. Y. F., Yeo, S. K., Scheufele, D. A., Brossard, D., Xenos, M., ... Corley, E. A. (2014). Building Buzz (Scientists) Communicating Science in New Media Environments. Journalism Mass Communication Quarterly , 1077699014550092. [ PDF ] In discussing the economics of OA, the authors should also discuss any evidence of potential drawbacks for various stakeholders, such as where funds for pay-to-publish fees will come from and how these fees may affect individual researchers. Pay-to-publish models of OA may also burden early career researchers and researchers working in fields where research grants are more difficult to obtain. The authors do not discuss the potential impact of OA on research quality or reproducibility (reproducibility is only mentioned in the context of open data). As this has been a controversial issue in the past (e.g. the mentioned 'sting' operations) the authors should discuss any research that has investigated the impact of open access on the rigor of peer reviews, research quality, presence of replication studies / reproducibility, etc. There has also been some discussion of whether open peer review (like that used by F1000Research) affects the quality of reviews, e.g. (Rooyen et al. 1999). The authors should mention this and/or subsequent literature when addressing open peer review. There have also been studies on scientists' / journal article authors' perceptions and attitudes toward open access, e.g. Schroter and Tite (2005; 2006). The authors might considering summarizing some of this research, as it gives context to some of the existing barriers to open access and perceived drawbacks among researchers. Summary: In summary, the topic of this review is important and timely. However, this paper falls short of what I would expect from a systematic review in terms of systematically summarizing previous research findings related to the impact of open access on scientific publishing, public engagement with science, science literacy and altmetrics. The authors should be careful to hold back value judgements / arguments related to the case for open access until having systemically reviewed the evidence-based benefits, drawbacks, and/or lack of significant benefits. The authors should also provide some discussion of how we might objectively weigh any evidence-based benefits with potential drawbacks for various stakeholders including researchers and especially early career researchers. The authors should avoid summarizing mostly the findings of previous studies that find positive impacts of open access on the various domains of potential impact they consider in their paper. The evidence already presented in the paper is rigorous and detailed. However, I would recommend a revision that rounds this review out with more systematic evidence. References 1. Liang X, Su L, Yeo S, Scheufele D, et al.: Building Buzz: (Scientists) Communicating Science in New Media Environments. Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly . 2014; 91 (4): 772-791 Publisher Full Text 2. van Rooyen S, Godlee F, Evans S, Black N, et al.: Effect of open peer review on quality of reviews and on reviewers' recommendations: a randomised trial. BMJ . 1999; 318 (7175): 23-27 Publisher Full Text 3. Schroter S, Tite L, Smith R: Perceptions of open access publishing: interviews with journal authors. BMJ . 2005; 330 (7494): 756 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Schroter S, Tite L: Open access publishing and author-pays business models: a survey of authors' knowledge and perceptions. J R Soc Med . 2006; 99 (3): 141-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Brown Jarreau P. Reviewer Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13291 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13291 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Suber P. Reviewer Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13430 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13430 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 18 Apr 2016 Peter Suber , Berkman Center for Internet & Society, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13430 The article is very well-done, unusually thorough and detailed. Here are a few ways to improve it. When I refer to page numbers, I mean the page numbers in the PDF of v1, April 11, 2016. http://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1 "You" refers to the authors. Apologies in ... Continue reading READ ALL 