 Visualising multiple sequence alignments (MSA) is of great importance, and has only become more essential in the wake of next generation sequencing (NGS) projects. The authors report on a new improved version of their software called JProfileGrid 2.0, originally published in BMC Bioinformatics in 2008 . In their new implementation, the authors add the possibility to view very large alignments by means of a profile abstracted from the alignment, such that the number of sequences (typically running into the hundreds or even thousands in the NGS era) is compressed to just 21 rows in a protein MSA, corresponding to the 20 amino acid types and a gap character. However, visualising a profile is an entirely different thing than visualising an alignment. The authors' claim, therefore, that they have 'solved' the alignment visualisation problem is unwarranted. They should adapt their title and main conclusion to reflect this fact. Profiles are an abstraction of an MSA, but losing quite a bit of information: for example, correlations between alignment positions, or specific subgroups discernible in an MSA are not visible in a profile. The authors could have opted for alternative ways to compress MSAs containing many sequences, for instance, by clustering the sequences based on sequence similarity, and selecting a representative sequence for each cluster group. The number of clusters could then be selected by the user, or even set automatically based upon optimality criteria concerning the clustering. Many techniques exist already for visualising profiles, such as the widely used SequenceLogos and related representations. As such, just representing the raw amino acid frequencies using a color coding scheme can hardly be considered novel. The authors could make their profile visualization more useful by using other frequency-derived schemes, such as the aforementioned SequenceLogo (entropy-based), or the log likelihood used in PSSMs calculated by BLAST. On a more general note, the authors should cite related work and software by other researchers in the field. Summarising, the authors have compiled a useful software package to visualise alignment profiles, but have not solved the MSA visualisation problem for large sequence sets. Further, they could enhance the usability of the software by implementing more profile scoring schemes as indicated above. 