This article is necessarily limited in scope as it presents results for just one trial sponsor, and we do not know if that sponsor is representative. However, as the authors are from just one institution, it is of course perfectly reasonable that they have focused on their own institution, so this is not intended as a criticism, merely as an observation. Coens et al have done a good job of presenting a more detailed analysis of the studies from their institution, and have shown convincingly that the estimate of their publication rate from the automated Trial Tracker was substantially inaccurate for their institution, by means of the gold standard of a manual search. They provide a sensible and balanced discussion of the limitations of the automated search algorithm more generally, pointing to some possible unintended consequences. While those unintended consequences are at this stage purely speculative, it does no harm to bear in mind what the risks are of an automated process such as the Trials Tracker. I have 2 suggestions for improving the paper. First, Coen et al state that only 29 of the 38 trials identified by the Trials tracker were "eligible studies", which they define as "completed since 01/01/2006, interventional phase II or III, led by EORTC". When I applied those criteria myself to the EORTC trials identified by the Trials Tracker, I found 30 eligible studies. As far as I could tell from the Trials Tracker data, all 38 studies were completed since 01/01/2016 and were led by EORTC, and 8 studies were not drug interventions. It would be helpful if Coen et al could be more explicit about why they excluded 9 trials from their analysis. Second, I think the finding that some trials were not identified as published by the Trials Tracker despite a publication that was clearly linked in the clinicaltrials.gov record deserves more emphasis. Although this is mentioned in the paper, a casual reader might miss it, and this is perhaps the most important finding in terms of a way in which the Trial Tracker could easily be improved.