 Rationale and research question The authors submit evidence from literature that supports involvement of the prostate in a high proportion of men with febrile UTI. These studies primarily used surrogate markers to identify prostate involvement such as elevated prostate specific antigen (PSA) or increased prostate volume by ultrasonography. When acute bacterial prostatitis (ABP) is diagnosed, treatment with appropriate antibiotics for 2 to 4 weeks would be needed. ABP typically presents with pelvic pain and voiding symptoms. If the prostatic involvement in febrile UTI is a subclinical ABP, this would need similar treatment. The authors tried to determine whether this subclinical involvement (evidenced by elevated PSA and prostate volume) had any association with short term UTI recurrence and clinical findings. The research question is not specified anywhere in the paper. It is suggested that a clear research question be added at the end of the introduction. Methods: The authors have used a prospective cohort design to address the issue. This is generally the ideal method to study and correlate variables longitudinally. The methods section is well written and describes the recruitment and follow up in great detail. The absence of an a-priori comparison group is a weakness, albeit minor. Instead the authors chose to analyze sub-groups from the single cohort of men with febrile UTI – those with features suggestive of clinical prostatitis and those without. A much better and internally valid design would have been the recruitment and follow up of 2 different groups in a similar manner. Results: The introductory paragraph on results has data pertaining to calculations based on 64 original participants, 50 finally available cases and a subgroup of cases where cultures were taken prior to antibiotics. The percentages provided therefore could confuse readers and hence it is suggested that authors clearly reframe the sentences to indicate the population from which these numbers and percentages were obtained. There were 25 patients with prostate tenderness; however, authors mention that only 8 could be classified as Acute bacterial prostatitis. It is not clear then under what banner, the remaining 17 patients fall? Discussion: The authors state that most men with febrile UTI had elevated PSA. From the results it is not clear what cut-off was used to determine elevated PSA. Since PSA cut offs are generally age based, it would also be interesting to note the effect of age of the cases on the PSA levels. A regression analysis could probably provide useful information in this regard. Moreover, the results section states that only 14 (22%) of the participants had PSA levels more than 4 ng/mL. The median PSA of the patients was 2.15 which is also well within normal ranges for the lowest age groups used for PSA cut offs. This disparity between results and the discussion section needs to be clarified. Authors noted a statistically significant drop in the PSA levels at baseline and at 3 months. Further, 94% of patients had more than 25% drop which was the predefined significant change. The predefined significant change occurred. However, the baseline PSA itself was not high. The authors need to discuss this in their limitations. It is possible that the 25% reduction considered by authors may not be the “minimal clinically important difference”. The other possibility is that these effects have been affected by the low baseline prostate involvement that was presupposed as 80% for sample size calculation. Overall comments : Well written except for minor modifications suggested. 