This manuscript describes interesting results obtained in the course of what of an investigation initially designed as a high school project undertaken in order to deduce whether AaegOBP1, an odorant binding protein of the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti , binds DEET and/or other known mosquito repellents such as icaridin, PMD and IR3535. The relevant experiments consisted of classical binding competition assays by the tested repellents against an AaegOBP1 pre-bound fluorescent reporter molecule, NPN, causing reductions in NPN-emitted fluorescent quenching with the latter serving as measure of mosquito repellent binding to AaegOBP1 resulting in displacement of the pre-bound NPN. While the experiments suggested that the specific OBP may only bind the tested repellents with limited affinity relative to NPN, they also produced results that could not have been predicted a priori . The first concerned an unexpected property of a mosquito ( Culex quiquefasciatus ) oviposition pheromone (MOP) that was used as positive control for binding to AaegOBP1. Thus, while titration AaegOBP1/NPN complexes by increasing quantities of MOP produced the anticipated reduction in NPN fluorescence, titrations with higher MOP doses led to gradual increases of fluorescence emitted by NPN accompanied by a wavelength shift toward the blue region of the spectrum. To explain this finding as well as the parallel observation that the same phenomenon also occurs at the same MOP concentrations in the absence of AaegOBP1, the authors have postulated the formation of MOP micelles forming a highly hydrophobic environment to which displaced and free NPN may bind. The second intriguing finding has been that at a low pH of 5.5 at which AaegOBP1 is unable to bind MOP, this protein binds NPN with higher affinity relative to a neutral pH, causing higher emitted fluorescence with a concomitant blue-shift in the emission wavelength suggestive of the formation of a higher hydrophobicity environment to which NPN is bound. Based on these findings as well as the crystal structures of CquiOBP1 and Anopheles gambiae AgamOBP1, both AaegOBP1 orthologs, in complex with MOP and DEET, respectively, as well as the complex of the honey bee AmelOBP14 with NPN, the authors postulate the possibility that NPN and MOP could bind simultaneously to AaegOBP1 at a neutral pH. In turn, this possibility suggests that caution should also be exercised for the postulated conclusion regarding the low affinity binding of DEET to AaegOBP1, because DEET binding to a separate pocket might not necessarily result in displacement of NPN. Suggestions: For the first set of observations related to the postulated micelle formation by MOP at concentrations of 12.5 M or higher, the hypothesized explanation is quite reasonable. A dynamic light scattering experiment using MOP in buffer alone could further strengthen the postulated hypothesis. Moreover, a NPN titration experiment similar to that shown in Fig. 5B but at a pH 5.5, which should result in protonation e.g. of the acetoxy-group of MOP, could reveal whether an increase in micelle size occurs or not. This latter experiment could also provide additional suggestive evidence for the postulated creation of a more hydrophobic environment for NPN binding in AaegOBP1 at the acidic pH. For the structural considerations presented in the conclusions, as the authors indicate, co-crystalization of AaegOBP1 with NPN, MOP or both, will be required in order for conclusive interpretations to be drawn. Nevertheless, it is not clear to us why in a case of simultaneous binding of NPN and MOP (AaegOBP1-MOP-NPN complex), NPN should move to a different binding pocket of higher hydrophobicity producing higher fluorescence emission and a blue shift, only at higher MOP concentrations and not at lower ones. If, on the other hand, the requirement for higher MOP concentrations is interpreted as indicative of the formation of AaegOBP1-MOP-NPN-MOP complexes, a docking model should indicate whether enough space exists in the L-shaped tunnel of the AaegOBP1 monomer for simultaneous binding of 3 molecules. For the low apparent affinity of AaegOBP1 for DEET, it is indeed possible that the binding of DEET and NPN to AaegOBP1 are not mutually exclusive, hence the low reduction in emitted NPN fluorescence in the presence of increasing concentrations of DEET. A docking model should indicate whether the possibility of nearby binding sites or even overlapping ones for NPN and DEET is predicted, which would lead to fluorescence quenching rather than reduction due to NPN displacement. Finally, the authors should provide a concluding statement as to whether and how these interesting findings relate to the contributions of OBPs in the mosquitos olfactory function under normal conditions. 