I am glad that Faes et al. have not fallen prey to these considerations and have mounted a fair and elegant, albeit brief, critical appraisal of the PNAS Stokes and Purdon (S/P) paper. Fael et al. have restricted themselves to nailing just three obvious crucial facts that may go unnoticed by the casual reader for whom the authoritativeness of a vehicle like PNAS may stand as a certificate of validity. The first point is that the S/P paper fails to mention how their VAR models were computed. My own AsympPDC package (The AsympPDC Package 3.0 is directly downloadable from http://www.lcs.poli.usp.br/~baccala/pdc/asymp_package_v3.zip . A preliminary version is also available through [7]. Visit http://www.lcs.poli.usp.br/~baccala/pdc/ for future version updates.) provides five different methods: the simplest naive and most popular approach, the least squares method, is the worst performer thanks to error propagation alone. It is important to stress that accurate VAR model estimation is crucial to whichever approach to GC is chosen. Faes et. al correctly supply an alternative method of estimation where no theoretically meaningless ‘negative’ GGC value is observed. The Faes et al. paper has the added obvious merit of including the actual value of GGC computed from the actual true model absentmindedly lacking in the original S/P paper. The second point raised almost in passing by Faes et al. is that the S/P paper may possibly induce its readers to completely disregard frequency domain causality descriptions while S/P mostly glosses over the alternative DC/PDC framework. This is a huge oversight since currently only DC/PDC estimators have statistical theoretically rigorous computable confidence intervals and objective null hypothesis threshold tests 1 - 2 which may be applied using the freely downloadable AsympPDC package. This fact alone sets the DC/PDC methodologically apart. In today’s internet era of information no more than a google away, this omission is unforgivable. The third point concerns the two time series case of Example 2. Indeed here is a point that Faes et al correctly argue that S/P fail to grasp. GC was conceived by Granger 3 to decompose pairwise relationships into exposing factors that aid predictability. This was later shown to be equivalent to detecting and characterizing the presence of feedback by Sims 4 . In this case, GGC, DC and PDC address the so called connection ‘detection’ problem by focusing on the connection. If some given influence is present and if an influenced subsystem is affected, how it responds resonantly or otherwise is its own business. Do the valid Faes et al. criticisms imply the S/P paper is worthless? Despite its many additional shortcomings, the S/P paper has the important merit of stripping bare some of the field’s reigning confusion, enough to call for added discussion. This only stresses the relevance of the present criticisms and the urgent need for clarification. Finally I would like to put forward some thoughts that may explain the present state of conceptual disarray regarding causality. The first issue is ignorance about time series estimation — of the ‘a little knowledge is dangerous thing' kind. One cannot expect correct and reasonable results by just downloading some package, pressing some buttons without knowing the precise limitations of each available tool - time series analysis still has some elements of an art. The second problem has to do with the notions of Causality - it is tempting to ask the methodology to provide a glimpse on actual mechanisms. Sometimes, on physical grounds, this desire may be fulfilled, but true (mechanical) causality determination requires observer intervention 5 - 6 ; what GC does is to allow the exclusion of some tentative mechanisms. Thirdly, even when it reflects actual mechanisms, but more than two time series are simultaneously examined, different descriptions, as is the case for the complementarity between DC and PDC, they reflect different system properties so that one must break the GC concept into more general ideas: Granger Connectivity and Granger Influentiability 5 - 6 . Last but not least, popular descriptions of large scale connectivity sometimes qualified as ‘effective’ versus ‘functional’ have further added to the present state of confusion due to their shear inconsistent application throughout the literature (se a discussion in 5 - 7 . I think we should thank Faes et al. for pointing out some of these problems. Perhaps this is a good opportunity to start clearing up these issues once and for all. 