The authors propose and evaluate a whole metagenome shotgun analysis via a low sequencing yield approach, using the Illumina platform. In general, the idea and hypothesis are good, but the experimental design itself lacks important controls and there are many variables that are not analyzed and that can potentially bias the results. My main concern is that the used samples have many variables and despite using a "replicate" for each case, samples within the same type were very different. Also the nature of each sample could have an effect in the DNA isolation, in particular for the vaccine ones. Also, regarding the vaccines, it is not clear to me, if what they are looking for is DNA of potential contaminants, since all viruses in the vaccine are ssRNA. That would be my guess, but is not clear from the text. The main problem is that to test the influence of the sequencing yield, it would be extremely important to know the initial DNA concentration of each organism in the sample. Therefore, a mock metagenome or controlled sample would be much better as a reference to compare real life cases. In real life cases, the presence of certain organisms detected by the presence of its DNA, is not necessarily an indicator of the availability of alive organisms. Depending on the case, the presence of just the organism DNA could be an indicator of contamination which in the case of vaccines could be really bad. However, in the case of food material, finding DNA of pathogens, has to be associated with microbiology tests. However, with low sequencing yield, is very probable that very DNA in low amounts will be missed, even if this is not changing diversity indexes such as Chao1 and Shannon. Finally, the main difference where low yield has a significant impact can be observed in the fecal samples. This is expected since among all the tested samples, fecal ones are the most diverse and sub-sampling will really affect them as observed in Figure 3. Since the composition of each sample is not known a priori , then there are some factors that can contribute to biases. As mentioned, the DNA concentration but also its integrity (fragmentation) will affect the library construction; the cited kit requires DNA amplification which will have a bias towards GC rich genomic regions; library size was not described and was not mentioned if the samples were pooled with other libraries with different insert sizes, which affect not only the sequencing quality but the yield. In terms of bioinformatics analysis, it will be required to put the parameters used for each program, in case someone wants to reproduce this. For Kraken2, it is important to know what is the kmer size to index the database. For MEGAHIT assembly it will be important to know the kmer and step sizes used. For the completeness assessment, the authors used BUSCO, but apparently they are using the whole assembly to assess the completeness. This is not correct, since they must first separate in bins which genomes they have really reconstructed and then they can assess the completeness of them. Probably they can report the an average completeness value for all the reconstructed genomes. By doing the binning they can have a better analysis of what was really reconstructed and how complete it was. The use of Krona in Figure 2 is not very convenient. The whole point of a Krona graph is that is interactive. If authors want to provide the Krona data to be downloaded it would be possible and recommended. Having said that, I recommend to use bar plots to represent the relative abundance and composition of the samples at a given taxa level. Again, the idea is very good but the work needs to be improved before indexing. 