This is an interesting attempt to link histaminergic changes in PPI during H1 receptor blockade with pyrilamine in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) with changes in H1 binding measured by autoradiography. However, I was left with several questions regarding the study population and presentation of the data: The study was conducted on 36 female rats, with no rationale provided for the exclusion of males. It would be helpful to consider in the discussion how this choice may impact PPI changes in light of steroid receptor interactions with both H1 and a7-nicotinic receptors. The association between decreased H1 binding and increased PPI is presented in the results as "R 2 = -0.15", which is not possible, so I assume that refers to the Pearsons R value. Thus the correlation was very weak, and although they report a significant result (p=0.05), that is hardly a strong effect. Examination of figure 4 suggests that the population may have divided into responders and non-responders, at least for the PPI measured at 77dB. Approximately 9 of the data points in figure 4 show negligible PPI even at the lowest measured H1 binding, which suggests that there may be other factors affecting this relationship. Cluster analysis of the data might be revealing in this context. No rationale is provided for testing only a single dose of pyrilamine, which is somewhat problematic given the very small difference between pyrilamine (+) and (-) animals in figure 3, which compares H1 binding in the anterior cingulate between treated and untreated animals. The description of this result as a "nearly significant trend" (p=0.058) is also unconvincing, especially as there is a possible outlier in the pyr (-) group. A Dixon test or similar approach could be applied to determine if this is a true outlier, in which case there would be virtually no difference between groups. It would be helpful to include in the discussion some consideration of the specificity of pyrilamine for the H1 receptor, and the possible consequences of the dosage applied on other receptor subtypes or classes. A number of recent reports are available which discuss the interactions of pyrilamine with nicotinic receptors in other contexts (e.g. Sadek et al ., 2015 ; Kim et al. , 2014 ), and these should be cited and discussed with respect to the present findings. 