This paper is an interesting attempt to simulate paternal age distributions and associated population level outcomes of interest, such as the number of de novo mutations and cognitive ability (IQ), over generations. The paternal age distributions themselves are only of instrumental interest, the core aim of the model is to shed light on the population patterns in the outcomes under certain assumptions regarding the links between the outcomes and paternal age. The simulations include effectively three steps, each increasing the level of complexity. The first step is to simulate the paternal age distributions. The second step involves linking paternal age to the number of de novo mutations. The third step calls for linking paternal age, or the number of de novo mutations, or both to the social outcome of interest, which in this paper is IQ. Each of the three steps involves decisions. The first step of simulating paternal age is in principle straightforward as only demographic input is needed. The authors appear to assume that paternal age has increased throughout the last century. This however runs counter to existing research. For example, Arslan et al. (2017) document that average paternal age has increased in Sweden since 1970, but decreased from 1930 to 1970 and is today still lower than in 1880. It is easily forgotten that although ages at first birth rise, people also have fewer children on average, stopping earlier. Based on the simulations, the authors find that average paternal age over 40 years of age would lead to population level declines in IQ, even if the so-called Flynn effect would continue. This indeed is a result of the simulation. However, an average paternal age of 40 years is currently far beyond observable levels, and it seems to be bold speculation what might happen once such levels were reached. The second step links paternal age to the number of de novo mutations. Existing research that is cited in the paper (Kong et al. , 2012) provides numbers that can be used for this, although newer, larger studies should also be considered (Sgurel, Wyman, Przeworski, 2014; Wong et al. , 2016). However, the authors do not cite work on evidence for contemporary evolutionary selection against genetic variants linked to education and presumably intelligence (Kong et al., 2017; Marioni et al., 2016). The third step is perhaps the most challenging one. The authors assume a model that links IQ to the number of de novo mutations, without explicit link to paternal age. Implicitly, via a simulated link between parental age and de novo mutations, the model delivers a monotonic negative link between IQ and parental age. This, however, does not correspond to what is observed in the data (Arslan, Penke, Johnson, Iacono, Mc Gue, 2014; Carslake, Tynelius, van den Berg, Davey Smith, Rasmussen, 2017; Myrskyl, Silventoinen, Tynelius, Rasmussen, 2013). Nor is the simulation code sufficiently clearly documented for us to understand how large a relationship with paternal age is actually assumed, and whether any non-genetic variation in IQ is allowed. Research has predicted negative effects of de novo mutations on intelligence, because of theoretical accounts that the interindividual variation in intelligence is upheld by mutation-selection balance (Arslan, 2017; Penke, Denissen, Miller, 2007) and empirical results linking de novo mutations to developmental disabilities (Deciphering Developmental Disorders Study, 2017) and rare genetic variants to intelligence (Hill et al., 2017). Although the authors cite Arslan et al. (2017), they do not implement in their simulations that higher paternal age is still linked to lower offspring fertility in all populations we studied. By modelling one force, mutation, but not the potentially countervailing one, selection, as shown for paternal age by Arslan et al. (2017) and for education by Kong et al. (2012) and Marioni et al. (2016), they can obtain the result that intelligence decreases dramatically. Further, although the authors seem to be aware of intelligence-mortality and intelligence-fertility associations, they do not incorporate empirical estimates (Batty, Kivimaki, Deary, 2010; Kolk Barclay, 2017) into their model. On a more technical side, the model either has some mistakes or is insufficiently documented. For example, it does not produce IQ values with a standard deviation of 15, as would be implicitly expected. Dead people seem to become female (this seems to be irrelevant to the results), and there is an oddity about age being linked to sex for unexplained reasons. Explicit and descriptive variable names, more comments, and making the simulated data available as a clearly labelled dataset would help with these problems. To summarise, we think demographic predictions such as these are important but require more forethought and modelling complexity than provided here, especially when extrapolated hundreds of years into the future. Previous attempts (Woodley of Menie Fernandes, 2016; Woodley of Menie, Sarraf, Fernandes, 2018) have in our opinion (Arslan, 2017; Arslan et al., 2018) also fallen short of addressing this complexity. While we think the current attempt should not be used to announce a future health and intelligence crisis, a revised and refined model could be useful. It should be calibrated with empirical parameters found in the literature and tested according to its ability to predict past time series of the intelligence distribution from parameters such as paternal age which both have been historically recorded in Scandinavian countries. 