The authors report on the case of a 66-year-old man presenting with subacute respiratory and constitutional symptoms. Interestingly the patient has a history of gastric lymphoma but little additional information is available for this very pertinent piece of his medical history. Following failure of empiric therapy for typical pulmonary pathogens and a misleading polymerase chain reaction (PCR) result showing Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTC) in the sputum (later found to be laboratorial contamination) the diagnosis of Mycobacterium chelonae infection is made. This was based on sputum cultures that eventually resulted positive for nontuberculous mycobacterium (NTM) six weeks after incubation. It is important to note that the authors mention that antituberculous therapy (ATT) was continued despite the results since the patient was improving clinically. Due to lack of radiological improvement a transbronchial biopsy was performed revealing a lymphocytic infiltrate positive for CD20, BCL2, CD23, CD10, CD5 and negative for CD3. This serves as the basis for the diagnosis of bronchial-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT) lymphoma in this patient. In my opinion this is the weakest link in the logical chain for this case report. No evidence of clonality was demonstrated by analysis of surface immunoglobulin light chain or IgH gene rearrangement. Testing for chromosomal translocations typically associated with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas such as t(11;18)q21;q21) or t(11;14)(p22;q32) was not performed. Although the absence of such translocations does not necessarily exclude MALT lymphomas, a positive result would substantiate the claimed diagnosis. As demonstrated by Ye and colleagues 1 , BALT lymphomas harbor the t(11;18) translocation in 38.3% of cases. Another useful test would be BCL10 staining, knowing that 26% of t(11;18)-negative cases will have moderate BCL10 expression based on results from the same cohort. In the absence of these additional tests the authors leave their claim for the diagnosis of BALT lymphoma exceedingly vulnerable to challenge. A reactive lymphoid infiltrate therefore cannot be excluded as a reasonable alternative diagnosis. The report progresses to describe that the patient was treated with oral cyclophosphamide (CTX) resulting in clinical and radiological improvement. The association between treatment with CTX and improvement however can only offer circumstantial evidence to support that BALT lymphoma was indeed the correct diagnosis. One could argue that response to specific therapy against M. chelonae was delayed and coincided with the initiation of therapy with CTX. Alternatively, one could also argue that the correct diagnosis in this patient is interstitial lymphocytic pneumonia (ILP) for which immunosuppressive agents such as CTX has demonstrated efficacy. The discussion is naturally built on the assumption that BALT lymphoma is the correct diagnosis in this case. Since this publication is largely targeted to the general audience I would suggest including a list of differential diagnosis for patients with suspected BALT lymphomas (preferably in tabular format). Another point to add in the discussion is the role of single-agent rituximab or radiotherapy in the treatment of patients with early-stage disease. In summary, given that the central hypothesis of this manuscript (diagnosis of BALT lymphoma) is supported by weak evidence I would suggest the following revisions before the manuscript can be considered for publication: Provide additional evidence for the diagnosis of BALT lymphoma by demonstrating clonality (minimum) and/or specific genetic lesions associated with MALT lymphomas. Consider another attempt obtaining more information about this patient’s previous history of gastric lymphoma. Should you be able to demonstrate that this patient had MALT lymphoma of the stomach this would open another set of questions such as: is the BALT lymphoma truly a primary event or is it a recurrence from the previously treated MALT lymphoma? Does this patient carry a genetic predisposition for this disease? Consider a list of differential diagnosis to be considered in someone suspected to have BALT lymphoma, possibly in tabular format for ease of read. Add to the discussion the role of single-agent rituximab or radiotherapy in early-stage disease. I would be happy to review the revised manuscript after changes are made. References 1. Ye H, Liu H, Attygalle A, Wotherspoon AC, et al.: Variable frequencies of t(11;18)(q21;q21) in MALT lymphomas of different sites: significant association with CagA strains of H pylori in gastric MALT lymphoma. Blood . 2003; 102 (3): 1012-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Villasboas Bisneto JC. Reviewer Report For: Case Report: Bronchial associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and Mycobacterium chelonae [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :90 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8376.r15259 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-90/v1#referee-response-15259 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bai C. Reviewer Report For: Case Report: Bronchial associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and Mycobacterium chelonae [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :90 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8376.r12305 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-90/v1#referee-response-12305 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 18 Feb 2016 Chunxue Bai , Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Fudan University School of Medicine, Zhongshan Hospital, Shanghai, China Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8376.r12305 Joana Neves et al. presented a case of BALT lymphoma. This patient was admitted with pneumonia and then his sputum was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex using polymerase chain reaction technology. However, there was no imagiological improvement after antituberculous therapy. ... Continue reading READ ALL 