The authors present a list of potential 2019-nCoV vaccine candidates based on an in silico prediction approach. Overall, they present 28 2019-nCoV-derived peptides that exactly match epitopes of SARS-CoV, and additional 48 2019-nCoV peptides that overlap with already known immunogenic epitopes reported in IEDB. The latter have been evaluated using immunogenicity prediction resulting in 22 2019-nCoV peptides with higher immunogenicity scores than their IEDB counterpart. Additional analysis of encoded 2019-nCoV peptides using HLA binding likelihood and immunogenicity scores predicted by NetMHCpan 4.0 and iPred, respectively, showed 13 additional vaccine candidates regarding prevalent European and Asian HLA-types. Finally, the authors modeled possible cross-reactivity of a well described HLA-A*02:01-NY-ESO-1-peptide-reactive TCR to 2019-nCoV peptides with predicted HLA binding affinity and found 19 hits. With this, authors provide a shortlist of potential candidates for development of a 2019-nCoV vaccine applicable to a broad population. The paper would benefit from clearer labelling of the figures and tables, and more extensive description of shown results in the figure legends. Column titles should be consistent among tables and figures, and ideally not consist of the internally used abbreviations but be self-explanatory. In Figure 1A, the axis labeling (Counts and Alignment Score) seems to be switched. 1B: Adding a note that these are non-exact peptides with alignment score =4 would be helpful. In Figure 2, 45 peptides are shown, but 48 peptides are mentioned in the text. Please clarify. General remarks: It would be better to use “encoded proteins” than the term “proteome”, as the data derives from 10 ORF sequences. The authors should indicate in the methods the employed thresholds of the used predictors to label a peptide a binder or immunogenic. These thresholds could also be shown in the figures where appropriate. As iPred only uses MHC binding likelihood and amino acid qualities to predict peptide presentation which is not very different from general NetMHCpan approach (which is also implemented in this tool), the authors should discuss why they used iPred instead of well described tools such as NetTepi or NetCTL and NetCTLpan. It does also not come across why an anti-NY-ESO-1 TCR should be cross-reactive to any 2019-nCoV peptide? 