This manuscript is overall well written with an appropriate title. The abstract provides an adequate summary and the design and explanation are sound. I believe the conclusions are justified and the data provided is adequate to support them. The subject is valuable to many researchers and provides an important service to researchers going forward. I have a few minor grammatical issues to report: The sentence "The pilot project has focused on a limited number of resources - antibodies, software tools/databases, and model organisms" should be "The pilot project focused on a limited number of resources..." in "accession number, as Genbank does for gene" should use "GenBank" For sentence "Over the minimum 3-month window, each partner journal would request that authors supply RRIDs in a standard format as a citation to indicate the use of any of these three types of research resources." In this context, what the "three types of research resources" are is unclear. The sentence "As these papers start to appear in PubMed Central where there is full text search, it should be possible to find papers for RRIDs through the National Library of Medicine." is a little confusing, maybe "As these papers start to appear in PubMed Central, where full text search is possible, papers utilizing RRIDs will be identifiable through the National Library of Medicine." is better? Yes, being overly nit picky, but I had to read it twice to get it. Verb tense should be reviewed throughout the manuscript to ensure consistency. Uses of dashes such as "...from vendors - both solicited and unsolicited - and at.." occurs throughout the manuscript. This seems nonstandard? In Figure 3, I could not see the pre-pilot bar. This could be due to something with my browser, but worth checking out. In the Discussion, the sentence "The pilot RRID project has been highly successful in demonstrating the utility of a system to aid in identification of these three research resources in the literature" should reiterate what three research resources it is referring to. Review the number of uses of the word "however" and how close to each other they occur. For example, "However, authors are encouraged in the citation format to include details about the particular instance of this antibody, namely, the vendor from which the antibody was purchased and the catalog, batch, and lot numbers. However, we..." And lastly, the link referred to here "A list of the participating journals is available on the Force11 website ( https://www.force11.org/RII/SignUp )." did not provide a list of the multiple immunology journals in the Elsevier family that are participating. The page just shows the Elsevier logo.