 The objective of the study should be re-examined in the introduction. The terms "reliability" and "validity" should be differentiated. Reliability refers to the degree to which the measurement procedure can be reproduced. Thus, if the objective is to study the validity of the hematological parameters to make a diagnosis, the methodology must be revised since these studies require a sample size that considers the prevalence and the expected sensitivity. Since this is a case-control study the objective should be consistent with this methodology. It must be specified what a case is; What are the signs and symptoms of uncomplicated malaria? It should be explained why 100 oil inmmersion fields were used as criteria to consider a thick blood film as negative. This does not correspond to international recommendations. The calculation of the sample should be presented with the elements of a case-control study i.e. case-control relation, expected O.R., frequency of outcomes in exposed and unexposed. RESULTS. If the clinical history is available, the time of evolution of the disease could be compared, which may lead to differences in hematological profiles. The results presented in the Tables 2 and 5 are confusing. It is not clear whether the averages or medians are compared and what was the statistical test of comparison. It is not explicitly stated which variables presented normal distribution. The presumptive diagnosis of malaria with haematological analyzers does not seem to be the appropriate way of solving malaria diagnosis problems in endemic areas. In this sense, it is not clear whether the study intends to contribute to the malaria diagnosis using a method that would be non-specific. The study contributes to show hematological differences between cases and controls and this should serve to identify early lesions, but clearly is no a useful method for malaria diagnosis. There is no relevant discussion about the findings. The reference values of the hematological parameters according to age and sex are not presented; the comparisons must take into account this variation. Some aspects related to platelet changes are analyzed but superficially. Leukocyte count and cell line analysis are neglected; no mention is made of the significance of alterations, monocytes and eosinophils are neglected. There are no correlations with parasitemias which is also a variable that can contribute significantly to the hematological alterations as a function of the greater or lesser inflammatory response. REFERENCES. Reference 1. Who are the authors? Ref 6 and 8 are the same. Ref. 16. The titlle is incomplete? The journal name? 