In this PNAS paper is is found that the first three principal components obtained from mouse and human gene expression data correlate with species and not with tissue. This is interpreted to imply that "tissues appear more similar to one another within the same species than to the comparable organs of other species". Gilad and Mizrahi-Man (the authors) downloaded all the data from this paper and reanalyzed it carefully. The majority of their F1000Research article is dedicated to describing, in full detail, how they analyzed the data. The choices made all seem sound and they are able to reproduce the figures of the original PNAS article. An important discovery made and reported by the authors is that mice and human samples were run in different lanes or different instruments. The confounding was near perfect (see Figure 1 ). The authors then apply a linear model (ComBat) to account for the batch effect and find that, after the correction, samples cluster almost perfectly by tissue (see Figure 3 ). They conclude that "Once we accounted for the batch effect by using ComBat, the comparative gene expression data no longer clustered by species, and instead, we observed a clear tendency for clustering by tissue. This is not surprising, as the sequencing batch, which we corrected for, was nearly entirely confounded with species." There are three issues I recommend the authors consider: As the authors suggest, with the observed level of confounding, if there is in fact a species effect, applying an approach that models batch as a linear effect will also account for species. Although pointing out that there is almost perfect confounding is an important contribution, I dont see why ComBat should be applied here. If a model that removes species is applied, it is no surprise that the data will no longer cluster by species. As mentioned, with the existing study design it is impossible to completely tease out species from batch. However, there is a relatively simple data analysis that can be performed to explore the possibility that instrument or lane are a large enough source of variability to overcome the tissue effect, which is know to be large. The analysis is: i) perform the same PCA analysis on the mouse data and compare the two instruments and then ii) perform PCA analysis on the human data and compare the two lanes. If in fact lane and instrument are a large sources of variability we should see it here. Of course, there is still the possibility that the instruments used for humans was very different to the one used for mice, while the two instruments used for mice were similar. Due to confounding we wont know for sure, but the analysis described here will at least give us at least a lower bound on how large these effects can be. There is a comment in the F1000Research article from the first author of the PNAS article describing a second experiment in which confounding with instrument or lane was not present. In this analysis species continues to be the first few PCs. In a second version of this article, the authors can perhaps comment on this, as well as some of the other comments that suggest other possible sources of variability that may be confounded with species. As a final remark, I am interested in reading the authors/readers thoughts on the biological interpretations that are being assigned to mathematical (euclidean) distance. Specifically, what does the word "similar" mean exactly. I understand what means in mathematics, but I am not sure what it means in biology when points are log (FPKM + 1) values for thousands of genes.