This article tried to answer whether the public-private mix approach increases TB case notification in different settings. Methods: Study setting: The authors should describe more on the PPM approach and the public sector approach especially for case finding and notification. Is there any difference in case finding strategy between PPM and public sector? If yes, it needs to be addressed in the discussion. For example, if the public sector is using active case findings and PPM is only passive case finding, case notification would be different. A table or diagram showing PPM model in Pakistan would be helpful to understand the context since different countries use different models of PPM. Data sources and collection: It is suggested to elaborate more about district reports; whether data from private sectors were included and completeness and proportion of missing data in reports and register. Results: It is necessary to clarify some findings especially for comparison between PPM and non-PPM and intra-district comparison. E.g. in the 2 nd paragraph of the results, Table 2 shows loss to follow up was less in PPM districts. But in the last sentence of the results, it stated that unfavorable treatment outcome was higher in PPM facilities. Clear description and comparison should be made. It is surprising to see 15% in PPM facilities and 85% in public facilities for case notification (Table 3) while 80% of TB patients in Pakistan attend private sector for initial diagnosis. Under-reporting from the private sector and incompleteness of district reports might be the reasons. These interpretations should come up clearly in the discussion session. Discussion and Conclusions: Other possible factors contributing to case notification and treatment outcomes need to be addressed and discussed. Caution needs to be taken for the conclusion saying that the public sector is contributing effectively to TB case notification and has better treatment outcome just by using programme data. Weakness in reporting and recording at PPM clinics and also the public sector may also need to be considered. Recommendations: The authors stated that the PPM approach needs stringent selection criteria. However, there is no evidence or findings related to selection criteria in the results section to support this recommendation. I have read this submission. I believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is acceptable. However, I would suggest this as a short report rather than a research article. I have significant reservations, as outlined above. 