This manuscript describes several transgenic fly strains and numerous behavioural assays that can be used to challenge students to understand connections between cellular activity and behaviour. The strengths of this approach are numerous and include the ability to observe rapid changes in fly behaviour following exposure to blue light. Thus, students are able to observe changes in behaviour within a single lab session or class. Another advantage of this approach includes the relatively low cost associated with conducting the proposed experiments. The authors describe how to make low-cost behavioural instrumentation, which is useful. In addition to these advantages, I have several questions and concerns, which are listed below. Title: In the title of the manuscript, the phrase “NGSS-neurons” is unclear. It could give the impression that NGSS is a type of a neuron. The authors state in the manuscript that NGSS stands for Next Generation Science Standards. Article content: This manuscript mentions several fly strains and numerous behavioural techniques that could be performed under a variety of conditions ( e.g. focused light, diffused light, pulsing light patterns) on various ages of flies. In addition, the strains listed have various subsets of neurons that are specifically stimulated by blue light, adding another possible variable. The combination of possible experiments seems nearly endless, which is exciting. While the number of possible experiments is impressive, it can also be confusing, particularly from the perspective of someone who is not familiar with Drosophila . Considering this is a pedagogical-themed paper, it would be very helpful if: 1) the manuscript could be re-organized with this comment in mind and 2) at least one or two specific lesson plans would be provided. The lesson plans could give the reader an example of a specific subset of techniques that could be used during one, three-hour undergraduate lab, for example. The authors state that experiments have been executed in an undergraduate teaching lab and in a high school setting. It would be extremely beneficial to share hand outs used during these lessons and/or instructors’ notes. Similar to other pedagogical papers, it would also be helpful if authors include specific learning objectives in the body of the manuscript. In this regard, some of the points addressed in the PowerPoint slides could be helpful if more detail was provided. In the introduction, it would be very helpful to include: 1) a description of the subsets of neurons ( e.g. type IV sensory neurons/pickpocket neurons, GABAergic neurons, etc..) that are activated in these proposed experiments, 2) diagram/explanation of the circuits that are tested in these experiments and how activation of these circuits induces behavioural changes and 3) explanation of optogenetics with a focus on the ChR2 model used in this manuscript. Data in Figure 17 could be used to demonstrate the ability of blue light to cause EPSP in specific subsets of neurons. The reader would benefit from learning about the neurons that are excited by blue light, where these neurons project and how ChR2 works in these fly strains. Some information that is currently in the introduction could be removed. Please provide additional explanation regarding tables, such as Table 2. There are two main points that could be clarified. First, why is “soda can” written three times in the table? What is the difference between “soda can” and the term “motor neuron” towards the top of Table 2 and the term “soda can” and “motor neurons” written approximately in the middle of Table 2? Similar questions arise for “focused light.” I understand that a soda can is used with an LED light to generate “unfocused light” while an eye piece of a microscope is used to generate “focused light.” However, I don’t understand why these terms appear multiple times in the tables, with similar subheadings, such as motor neurons. Secondly, it is not clear how students would complete such a table and how this data would be graphed and interpreted. For example, does a student write “CC” on the Table each time “continued crawling forward” behaviour is seen? Or is it a binary reporting system where one reports CC as occurring or not? What if multiple behaviours or seen? Are the numbers of behaviours recorded? It is not clear how data in Table 2 would be graphed, displayed or analyzed. The authors state the data could be graphed similar to that shown in Figure 4, but it is not clear where “CC” and other codes are represented in Figure 4. Is “CC” a kind of rolling behaviour? How was rolling behaviour occurrence calculated in Figure 4A? Please provide additional details. Similar questions apply to Tables 3 and 4. Data in Figure 4 reveal behaviours of transgenic flies subjected to blue light. How do flies without blue light or without ATR behave? Controls would clarify the impact of activating type IV sensory neurons on rolling behaviour. Similar questions regarding the need for controls arise for data in other Figures (such as 6, 7, 12 and 18.) It would be helpful to use and explain the importance of controls and the variety of controls available ( e.g. absence of ATR, vehicle (ethanol) only, absence of blue light without ATR, absence of blue light with ATR, etc…) in these experiments. The authors mention that the Arduino system can be used to control stimulation of light. A supplemental file with sample codes is provided under supplemental material. Please provide at least one example of how the Arduino system could be used in any of the proposed techniques. What are examples of light stimulation patterns that produce distinct behaviours compared to single light exposure? Which of the sample codes would generate distinctive rolling behaviour, for example? This manuscript could be significantly enhanced by including pre and post assessment of students . An assessment file is provided as a supplemental document, but was not used. In the discussion the authors state that students appear to be learning novel content, but this is not documented. An assessment piece would confirm the ability of this module to enhance student learning. The feedback from instructors was very limited. Additional feedback would prove helpful. Overall, the manuscript could be improved by writing in an active voice and fixing several typos and grammatical errors. Minor points: A few examples of typing errors include on page 3…. “neurotransmitter GABA (glutamate, serotonin and acetylcholine).” Why are three neurotransmitters listed in brackets after the term “GABA”? Do the authors mean to write neurotransmitters such as GABA, glutamate, serotonin and acetylcholine? In Table 2, the term “focuses light” and “focused light” are used. Perhaps the “s” in “focuses light” should be a “d” instead of an “s”? The same is true for other Tables. In Figure 3, the term “foe” is written instead of the word “for”. There are additional typos in the manuscript. Please address those. In the module overview, the description of: 1) all-trans-retinal preparation and 2) the preparation of the fly food supplemented with ATR, is very clear. However, the level of detail regarding the genetic crosses that are suggested should be elevated to match the level of detail of other techniques/procedures. References should be cited to document methods. Under “larval locomotion behaviour”, authors mention that asking students to conduct tests in dimly lit or dark rooms could be challenging. This seems to stem from a limited set of responses from teachers. Please address how this challenge could be addressed in the classroom to help teachers who wish to use this module. Please clarify how the % of movement was calculated in Figures 6 and 7. Is this the % of worms that were moving? Please clarify what time points images in Figure 18 were taken. The figure caption does not specify times points across the three images. Should all BWC data be displayed in sequential figures? For example, BWC data is shown in Figures 3, 10, 11, 14 and 15. It could be advantageous to present BWC data in sequential figures rather than in 5 figures spread throughout the paper. Please comment. Figure 17 demonstrates that blue light induces EPSPs in type IV sensory neurons expressing ChR2. This is convincing data that demonstrates the power of optogenetics and in particular, the efficacy of ChR2 in these sensory neurons. This could be powerful to show in the beginning of the manuscript to document that the blue light is causing EPSPs within the neurons, as predicted. This is the basis of why blue light induces a behavioural change in these flies.