This article describes a protocol of a study that aims to establish the cost-effectiveness of a glaucoma screening intervention compared with opportunistic screening (in cataract surgery camps) as well as with passive detection at secondary care settings in urban India from a quasi-societal perspective. The study design seems appropriate given the context and the protocol is written up well. However, the following weaknesses in this version of the paper need to be addressed. Simplify the title by saying, “Cost-effectiveness of glaucoma screening in cataract surgery camps vs. opportunistic and passive screening in urban India: a study protocol” Abstract: Reorganise as a structured abstract following CHEERS guideline or use standard structure, e.g. Objective, design, setting, participants, intervention, comparator, outcomes, methods (including perspective and time horizon), ethics, etc. Introduction and methods texts: clarify the decision rule for suspect detection. Is it one element of any test crossing the threshold or all elements of any test, or all elements of all tests? This is not clear. Also, state in the analysis whether you would look at efficiency in relation to what element of what test has the most predictive power and hence is likely to be cost-effective. Rationale: state clearly that it is helpful for policymakers to understand the rate at which the intervention becomes cost-effective; currently no such data is available. Include this ‘threshold analysis’ in your methods section too. Aim of the study: simplify this by changing the order, e.g. The aims of this study are to: (a) measure the detection rate of a glaucoma screening intervention in cataract camps in urban India compared with opportunistic and passive screening (usual care); (b) identify, measure and value the health resource use of the intervention; and (c) estimate cost-effectiveness by evaluating the incremental cost per case detected from a quasi-societal perspective over a year’s time horizon. Study design – this does not appear to be strictly a ‘cohort’ study as you are not following up those who are negative on screening and it is less clear whether you would follow up those ‘suspects’ who are negative on hospital examination (some of who may be false negative and false positives at both stages- less clear whether you are capturing those opportunity costs here). Clarify this in the texts. You may want to refer this design just as a ‘prospective study’. Sample design – inconsistent across the texts. 97 is the number of suspects and 1000 is expected numbers to be screened (Table 5 provides other numbers). Rewrite the texts to add clarity. Recruitment – what is the stopping rule? Would you stop as soon as you have 1000 th patient or you would continue until you get the 97 th suspect? Not clear. Costing methods: Please provide a statement confirming your costing method is consistent with ‘opportunity cost’ concepts. State explicitly that, for instance, optometrists who dedicate 5-6 hours in the intervention would do other work outside this time (hence your current assumption about including that part of their salary). Costing assumptions – rationalise these either by explaining or referring to earlier work/current practice, e.g. why 2.5 years and 3 years of life cycle; 29% overhead? Sensitivity analysis – please list all key assumptions here that would be subject to sensitivity analyses and justify. Long term costs and benefit – this was picked up by reviewer 1 and I have seen the author’s response to this. Modelling long term cost savings – I guess - would be a marginal effort with much higher anticipated return in terms of the value of this information to policymakers. This would be a missed opportunity – suggest you reconsider this if you can. Annexes – the costing template looks to be a good start but would benefit from adding specific details around types of health resource. Consider expanding this in the next version. Likewise, patient expenditure questionnaire would benefit from having close questions rather than open ended question on resource use. Perspectives – perhaps say quasi-societal as you are not capturing inter-sectoral costs and benefits? 