This manuscript examines male C57BL6 mice with thermocoagulation of the distal left middle cerebral artery occluded. Overall the study has several flaws. First the cohort size (5/group) is insufficient and this needs more replication (n = 10-15/group is typical, but larger may be necessary due to stroke variability) to detect behavioral changes. Second, the lesion site is not sufficiently characterized. Third, control measures of fine locomoter activity are not done. Fourth, the tests used are not effective in the strain or not appropriate to assess anxiety/depression. Fifth, only one test of depression test is done; ideally, 2-3 tests for each phenotype need to be done. Specific comments: One confound is whether multiple tests were done in the same day; this needs to be clarified: how many animals were used, what tests were done on each group, how many tests/day on each mouse? Fig. 1A: It would be important to show the size and location of the stroke at 24 hr. These strokes are notoriously variable, hence mapping the stroke is important. More details and quantification of the location (Bregma) of the incision and stroke need to be provided. Since the stroke is so large and variable (esp. at 24 h), additional studies to assess fine motor impairments are critical (e.g., ladder test, cylinder test, etc. Motor impairments can affect results in locomotor, anxiety and depression tests. Fig. 2: At none of the time points was any of the outcomes significant, only an overall significance. More data points are needed to test when there is impairment or recovery. Rearing is not specific measure for anxiety: validated tests need to be done (e.g., elevated plus maze, centre time in open field, etc.). Fig. 2: Marble burying was also maximal 20 marbles for all groups, thus may be to insensitive to detect motor impairments. Fig 3. In the sucrose preference test as performed, almost 100% of the mice show 100% preference for sucrose. This raises concern about the sensitivity of the test to detect anhedonia in C57BL6 mice: this strain of mice is unresponsive in this assay even after 9 weeks of chronic stress (Pothion, 2004). Hence the data are inconclusive. Fig. 3: The data for TS are not convincing; the error seems too high since N value is too low. The dashed line needs to show N, mean SE of nave mice: why are sham having more immobility than nave? 