Sharing research data is important and the authors provide some valid points for consideration by funders and researchers. The article could do with some revisions in order to better flow and understand more about the survey and interviews. The abstract doesn't state that two surveys and interviews were conducted and when - this would help bring paragraph 1 and 2 together. Also, the review of papers, was this a literature review/systematic review? The third paragraph could do with some revisions especially the first sentence. I wasn't sure what "Funders need to engage early with the researchers and related stakeholders to understand their concerns and work harder to define the more explicitly the benefits to all stakeholders." sentence means? What stakeholders? Introduction - improve what situation? I think this needs teasing out more in the first paragraph. Improving what - the quality of data to be shared, data sharing policies? What group of funders - who was involved? They framed this approach....Who framed? Highlighting that data collected specifically to answer a specific question in a trial for example, may not be sufficient to answer a different question, is important. Understanding why and how the data were collected, analysed and interpreted is important when reviewing secondary data. If this is misinterpreted, there are risks associated to the use of that data. Findings of the two surveys and workshop - Who was involved in the survey, how many people involved and what was the response rate? Were funders involved in this? (For both of the surveys) Why was the review from 2003, given that data sharing para from 2011? As expected the results of the review are low, so are these numbers from recent research? What is the time period of those that made access to data? Did you see a change over time, those identified are from 2015 onwards for example. Who participated in the workshop? Agencies from where? I think this would be important given the focus on low to middle income countries. How many people interviewed? And who were they? Was this semi-structured/structured interviews, and how did you interpret the transcripts? Providing some context will help determine the value of the comments and confidence about the interpretation of the interviews. Concluding section - Ethical issues may also need to be reviewed, are participants made aware at time of consent that the data collected for the specific study can later be used [secondary data] for other studies? Data sharing needs to be made aware to those who participate in the research. Transparency of use of data is needed at all levels, participants, researchers and funders. Funders have a role to implement and provide policies to ensure proper use of and sharing of data, and researchers have a role to ensure that they comply, acknowledge the use of the data and provide sufficient information about the data set and its intended purpose. In terms of publicly accessible data management plans, is this the role of the funder and/or the researchers? If research protocols are 'meant' to be in the public domain then data sharing and statistical analysis plans should be as well? All funders approach these areas differently, so caveats around this may need to be mentioned. Possibly further consideration of these policies and how they could be standardised across funders, although consideration of early phase research to phase three studies may be required. Is this applicable to industry and pharma? How does this relate to them considering the sensitivity of data? How does this relate to AllTrials? (http://www.alltrials.net/) How does data sharing fit into the wider agenda of transparency, accountability and credibility of research? Stating the larger viewpoint may strengthen the paper. 