 Summary: In this manuscript Chiarelli et al. assess preprints from the point of view of a diverse group of stakeholders. The authors perform an analysis based on 38 interviews with representatives of research funders, research performing organizations, preprint servers and service providers; and researchers (engaged and unengaged). Additional discussion is provided on the benefits and challenges of preprint posting, along with issues such as infrastructure and financial sustainability and the definition of a ‘preprint’ in different communities, and the impact this has on further uptake. This study provides a thorough investigation on an emerging and relevant topic, giving a platform to the opinions of under-represented stakeholders on the discussion of preprints: a key driver of the transformation of the scholarly publishing landscape. Comments: We would like to ask the authors to address the following: The introduction may benefit from additional literature to balance the many sections. For instance: 1. On Page 3: “However, skeptics have questioned the value of preprints and even suggested they may be dangerous – circulating versions of articles before they have been quality controlled by peer review may lead to unnecessary risk, particularly in disciplines like medicine (Sheldon, 2018).” The only negative note on preprints by Sheldon 2018 was well rebutted by at least 5 publications: Maintaining confidence in the reporting of scientific outputs - Sarabipour et al. (2018) 1 . Preprints are good for science and good for the public - Sarabipour (2018) 2 . Preprints help journalism, not hinder it - Tennant el al. (2018) 3 . Together scientists and journalists can spot poor preprints - Fraser Polka (2018) 4 . Preprints: recall Nature’s nasty past - Cobb (2019) 5 . Articles 1-4 above address the relationship between scientific reporting and journalism. Further to the authors remark on “unnecessary risk particularly in disciplines like medicine” - preprint servers carry a highly visible note on preprinted manuscript stating that these research products are not peer-reviewed. Regarding biomedical and medical preprints and risk to public: This is not a compelling argument since care is delivered to patients by physicians. MedRxiv was recently established and is accepting manuscripts to accelerate medical research. The server front page notes that: "Caution: Preprints are preliminary reports of work that have not been peer-reviewed. They should not be relied on to guide clinical practice or health-related behavior and should not be reported in news media as established information.” 2. On Page 3: “the current and potential future role of preprints as a vehicle for scholarly communication” - there are and will be many role(s) for preprints in the current and future of the scholarly endeavors and they are summarized here: On the value of preprints: An early career researcher perspective - Sarabipour et al. (2019) 6 https://asapbio.org/reading In praise of preprints - Fry et al . (2019) 7 . 3. On Page 4: “much of the literature is still to be found in editorials and opinion pieces rather than data-driven research” - the fact is that the number of data driven literature on preprints is growing rapidly and are noteworthy. Examples are: Tracking the popularity and outcomes of all bioRxiv preprints - Abdill Blekhman (2019) 8 . Releasing a preprint is associated with more attention and citations - Fu Hughey (2019) 9 . The effect of bioRxiv preprints on citations and altmetrics - Fraser et al. (2019) 10 . Comparing quality of reporting between preprints and peer-reviewed articles in the biomedical literature - Carneiro et al. (2019) 11 . 4. On Page 4: “Accessibility (4) is crucial, with a preprint normally defined as being (or assumed to be) openly available: it “can be viewed without charge on the Web” and “Therefore, the venue for distribution of preprints is often assumed to be a freely-accessible server of some kind”. It is a fact that all preprint servers are freely accessible to any human being that has access to internet around the world: free of charge to submit by authors, free of charge to read by all anywhere on the planet. 5. On Page 5: “To say that an output is “deserving” of dissemination is, of course, a value judgement and difficult to demonstrate for each deposit as it is made, but it is one that is implicit in much of the discourse on preprints.” - this is not entirely true. The value of preprints are well known/articulated/discussed at this point as preprints accelerate research and altmetric attention to scientific work: Please see references 8-11 above. Preprints have been deposited on arXiv for nearly three decades now and are invaluable to the physical sciences community. Other forms of pre-peer review material such as computer code and protocols have been disseminated open source and their value is well noted in various fields. 6. On Page 5: “dis-benefits of preprints” - unless the authors may provide any evidence of “dis-benefits of preprints” besides one note (Sheldon 2018), it is best to avoid using this word “dis-benefits” and consider rephrasing to “perceived dis-benefits”. Please see reference 1-5 above. 7. On Page 5: “Early dissemination can be useful to some particular members of the scholarly community, with early career researchers (ECRs)” - preprints and all other forms of scholarly pre-publication material are beneficial to ALL researchers not jut ECRs. Timely release of scientific results in the form of preprints and other forms such as code and data bases have already accelerated research by encouraging sharing of ideas, resources and as discussed in previously suggested references above. 8. On Page 5: “Perhaps the most prominent criticism of preprints relates to this last issue: the lack of quality assurance through peer review (Sheldon, 2018). As well as a general concern about lowering quality standards, lack of quality control has been seen as potentially dangerous as “reports that have not undergone formal peer review [organised by a journal] could be misleading” (Lauer et al ., 2015). Furthermore, uncertified science might be reported prematurely in the media and might even give rise to ‘fake news’ (Sheldon, 2018). Some insist that, at the very least, the opportunity to disseminate knowledge rapidly without peer review may encourage academics to produce low-quality outputs on fashionable topics (Teixeira da Silva, 2017).” The authors should declare that there are no evidences supporting all these bold statements. The Sheldon (2018) news article in fact explicitly states its speculative nature in the title which reads “preprints could promote confusion and distortion”. Please see references 1-5 above. 9. On Page 5: “Others have gone further and questioned the value of self-appointed reviewers, as opposed to those selected by journal editors (see the issue of “self-policing” highlighted by Harnad, 1998).” This is a misleading claim. Voluntary reviews of preprints are done by researchers in that field or community and are not self-appointed by the authors. The open access nature of preprints allows the potential assessment of manuscripts by more than 2-3 (more than journal reviewers) normally and there is no evidence on these reviews having different quality than journal peer-reviews. 10. On Page 5: “Preprint posting, however, is unlikely in any case to substitute for the valuable role played by selective journals in filtering content”. This is an unfounded claim as a system of preprint servers and overlay journals may very well replace the outrageously expensive and time-consuming system of for profit journal publishing in under a decade. Please see reference 12. A proposal for the future of scientific publishing in the life sciences - Stern O’Shea (2019) 12 . 11. On Page 5: “Whilst this convention has come under criticism and been withdrawn by some publishers, it still exists for some journals, e.g. in medicine and chemistry (Lauer et al ., 2015; Teixeira da Silva Dobrnszki, 2019)” - this sentence is misleading. In the current scenario, authors should consider changing “some” to “most” publishers. 12. On Page 6: “For example, it is not universally agreed when an output should be citable (in the literature, funding proposals or promotion cases)”. It is now becoming more and more agreed upon that preprints should be cited in articles and research grant proposals. Major funding bodies such as NIH, CZI and Wellcome Trust allow and encourage citation of preprints. Many journals allow citation of preprints and other research outputs (eLife and PLOS family of journals are examples). 13. On Page 6 and other pages: “Scooping”, and “a claim of precedence”: Scooping is a perceived concern of researchers and is unfounded. Many researchers present unpublished research at conference. Perceived preprint concerns and claim of precedence have been discussed in reference 6 above. 14. On Page 6: “or when it can be used to establish a claim of precedence” and “In disciplines where a preprint is not considered appropriate to establish precedence, it has also been suggested that making a preprint available may actually encourage research to be scooped by rival researchers who publish in a recognized journal before the preprint authors (the ‘flip side’ of the priority claim argument above) (Kaiser, 2017).”Regarding these repeated sections on scooping and priority claims: 2-3 papers published via preprints or journals in close temporal proximity of each other have all been projects 2-4 years in making so it is very difficult to assess who did it first. Who gives researchers priority? A preprint that is posted online has a date and that gives precedence to the work. In reality, as researchers we all know that priority is given to researcher by their field and their peers. Scientific research is often presented at conferences well in advance of preprints or journal publication. As we know what matters in research is scientific reputation and that is given to researchers by their peers and field during a career in scientific research. Multiple papers published via preprints or journals in close proximity of each other only show the reproducibility of one another are need to be celebrated not feared so repeated arguments on scooping and priority claims do not move a positive conversation on research forward specially for early career researchers and the future generations of researchers. 15. On Page 6: “Some have argued that initiatives such as Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), with its emphasis on the quality of the output rather than venue of publication, promote use of preprints (Polka, 2018)”. It is noteworthy that DORA has now become a major international initiative and is signed by over 1,400 organizations including major universities and other research institutions and 14,000 researchers. Other comments to the MS text: A) The Title: Authors could consider an alternative title “Preprints and Scholarly Communication: a preliminary/exploratory study on Adoption, Practices, Drivers and Barriers” B) The Abstract: “Our study is the first using empirical data to understand” - please change to: Our study uses empirical data… (See comments below highlighting other empirical studies on the topic). “The main concerns are related to the lack of quality assurance and the ‘Ingelfinger rule’.” Please change to: main perceived concerns. C) The Introduction: On Page 3: “key actors”. It is puzzling how the authors determined which the key stakeholders are in the preprints ecosystem. Authors should discuss why they did not incorporate “scientific journal publishers” as a relevant actor for this work. It is interesting that they incorporated “publishers” as node in Figure 1 as a stakeholder group but failed to incorporate “representatives” during their interviews. On Page 3: “(Car et al., 2017) .” Please delete the space. On Page 3: “The study is the first using empirical data”. Please see our comment on the abstract. On Page 3: “Zuckerberg Foundation“ - the correct name is the Chan-Zuckerberg Foundation (CZI). On Page 3: “The study is the first using empirical data”. Please see the comments on the abstract above. On Page 4: “…relatively small number of peer-reviewed studies focusing on preprints – much of the literature is still to be found in editorials and opinion pieces”. The authors surely know that in general opinion pieces published in scientific journals are also peer-reviewed. “Defining preprints. Key components. Table 1”. A relevant aspect of preprints that is not contemplated here is that preprints are published open access free of charge. Perhaps that important feature could be incorporated in component 4. Maybe this feature, highly relevant for unprivileged research communities, was neglected given the sampling strategy employed (see comment below). On Page 8: “The study adopted a heterogeneous purposive sampling approach, aiming to include a wide range of perspectives from actors in the area. Participants comprised senior representatives …”. If the authors selected senior representatives of each stakeholder categories, one could question how heterogeneous the sampling approach was. Moreover, authors mention the use of snowball sampling, which is linked to homogeneous sampling. In addition, participants correspond to only eight OECD High-income economies according to World Bank (half of them only from UK and Germany), which again appear to be more reflective of a homogenous sampling approach. Authors should also highlight the intrinsic limitations of quality coding in terms of reproducibility. On Page 8: “We undertook 38 semi-structured interviews”. Authors did not describe how sample size was determined. Authors should discuss how this small sample size might redound in uncertainty issues. The complete absence of statistical analyses of the data is striking. This affects the “empirical power” of the work, and one could question whether the described “trends” indicated in the manuscript are purely anecdotal, derived from sampling error and/or speculative. “Like many kinds…” paragraph. This important paragraph highlighting the limitations of the study should be moved to the discussion/conclusion section. D) The Results section in general: The reviewers wonder if the results section as a whole, which is relatively long in comparison to the rest of the paper, should be limited to Table 5 and its description and avoid the unending narrative of anecdotal specific responses. In case the authors feel the need to present all these quoted responses, perhaps they could be moved to the supplementary section. “Some participants…” “Many saw a preprint as…” “Other participants saw preprints..” “there were signs this…” and elsewhere. This vague and unclear wording could be avoided by the use of absolute numbers or percentages of total responses. Table 5: Please consider complementing the legend to provide definitions to “systemic” and “individual”. Table 6: Following Table 5 title, it would be more reasonable to entitle Table 6 as “ potential challenges of preprints”, or “possible” as depicted in the same table in Chiarelli et al. 2019. On Page 13: “One preprint service provider observed that only 10% of preprints received comments”. While this % is depicted as low in the text by the use of “only”, authors should contextualize this type of assertion. Peer reviewed articles published in journals are far less commented than preprints as reported elsewhere. On Page 14: “author might invite comments from people who are expected to be positive about their work”. Again, this and other speculative statements should be leveled when they are employed to contrast with traditional peer-reviewed journal articles. It is a common practice in an important number of journals to ask authors to provide contact information of potential reviewers, which could eventually lead to the same issues expressed in the preceding statement. On Page 14: “We note…”. This relevant paragraph, highlighting the limitations and anecdotal nature of the study, should be moved to the discussion/conclusions. E) The Discussion/Conclusion: As expressed above, some parts of the results section could be moved here as they reflect more speculative comments based on the interview responses. F) The References: This citation “Sarabipour et al .: On the value of preprints: an early career researcher perspective. PeerJ Preprints (2018)” Is now peer-reviewed and hosted as “On the value of preprints: An early career researcher perspective. Sarabipour et al. PLoS biology (2019)[. 