This manuscript aims to analyse the frequency of use of depression-inducing drugs in Alzheimers disease (AD) and APOE ε4 carriers. The author collected datasets from a commercial platform (uMETHOD health) that advertises that it combines big data, medical research, and advanced algorithms to enable personalized care. The manuscript picks up an important and highly relevant question but needs some major revisions since the way the data is presented, it does not allow for all the conclusions made. In the introduction, the only reference given regarding Alzheimers disease in any aspect is a publication on facts by the Alzheimers Association, no original research work is cited. In the 2nd paragraph of the introduction, the author writes that 35.6 million people worldwide have AD. This is wrong, the paper that is cited says that "..Currently, there are 35.6 million individuals with dementia worldwide..". It is crucial to understand and to state that dementia is not synonymous with AD. Also, no citation is given for the number of AD patients in the US, the number stated in the manuscript is not in reference 2 (that is given for the complete sentence). The 1st sentence in the 3rd paragraph of the introduction that starts with the words "Research now suggests" gives a reference that is 20 years old. References need to be updated. In the methods section (and table 1) it is not completely clear, why the overall number of 292 patients is given, but only for 284 information on medication is available. Apparently, percentages in table 1 refer to 284, which is logical. Also, the author states that patients were evaluated to determine if the had AD, but no numbers or results are given, not even the methods used are stated. At least the type of examinations that were used to exclude other forms of dementia should be listed. A major drawback is the lack of information on the severity of cognitive impairment. This can largely influence depressive symptoms - and measures for depressive symptoms, the author needs to state the values (total and z-scores) for the mentioned cognitive test for the cohort. It should be discussed if patients presenting with moderate dementia or worse should be included at all into this study. Results: Table 1 states that 84 patients or 29.58% of the population take antidepressants. Figure 2 states that 67.86% of the females and 32.14% of the males take antidepressant. How come the overall percentage is lower than the percentages in males and females? Please clarify. For Figure 2: How many patients do take DIDs because of a diagnosed depression? This number should be looked at and should be taken into consideration for all analyses, since depressive symptoms only improve slowly, and since antidepressant medication is counted as a DID, it is somehow clear - and misleading with regard to the main point of the manuscript - that people diagnosed with depression take antidepressant drugs. Discussion: The discussion picks up important points regarding the interrelations of AD and depression. What is puzzling me is the extreme focus on the software and the platform, paragraphs 7-12 discusses the software/platform. While topics discussed in these paragraphs are generally important, this is like a commercial for me and in my opinion, large parts have nothing to do with the scientific facts reported in the paper. 