The manuscript by Hejazi et al. describes a new R package, methyvim, which utilizes targeted loss-based estimation (TMLE) and causal inference approaches to estimate and conduct inference on the effects of exposures on DNA methylation. Overall, I found the machine learning/causal inference technical details to be sound and the arguments for using this TMLE based algorithm to be compelling; namely that it is a nonparametric, flexible approach that is computationally efficient and has asymptotic properties that allow straightforward point and interval estimation. The visualization tools are also very nice. However, for the reader who is unfamiliar with causal inference, generally, or TMLE, specifically, the manuscript can be a bit confusing. I also suggest that more guidance be provided to the reader on interpretation of results rather than focusing purely on what is outputted by the software. Some of the paper resembles software documentation (a manual on how to implement) rather than a traditional manuscript that describes a new method with intuition. A few comments follow that I hope the authors will find helpful in revising their manuscript: It would be helpful to have more description on variable importance measures (VIMs). VIMs are not commonly used measures by statistical geneticists or other researchers; however, they are integral to understanding the approach underlying methyvim. VIMs are described only very briefly in the Introduction. The Methods section is a bit choppy and could use better organization. Perhaps there could first be a section laying out the causal question and statistical approach, followed by implementation and operation. For those not familiar with causal inference terms, the definition of the ATE could be simplified by simply using expectations rather than psi. Importantly, it would be very helpful to provide comparisons of methyvim to other commonly used methods and software used for DNA methylation studies. This would provide more compelling evidence for why researches should use methyvim. Providing both a comparison of outputs and interpretation of results across methods would be useful for users. Review of Software Implementation: The package methyvimData is required to run the code example in the documentation for the methyvim function. If the package is not installed, the user gets an error. Please either make this package a dependency so that it will necessarily be installed, add a test to see whether the package is installed, and if not, install the package before loading, or at the very least add comments to the code example alerting users to the requirement that the package be installed. When trying to use the methyvolc function for a methytmle object with vim = “rr”, I get the following error: Error in param param_bound : comparison (6) is possible only for atomic and list types 3. Could an example be provided in the documentation for use with a continuous treatment? 4. When I run the code: methyvim_cancer_ate - methyvim(data_grs = grs, var_int = var_int, vim = "ate", type = "Beta", filter = "limma", filter_cutoff = 0.20, obs_per_covar = 2, parallel = FALSE, sites_comp = 250, tmle_type = "glm" ) as provided in the vignette, I get the following error repeated 13 times: Error in terms.formula(formula, data = data) : '.' in formula and no 'data' argument 5. I get slightly different results from those in the vignette. For example, I get the following row as part of the output: cg01782097 -9.229141e-03 0.0010232901 0.0112757216 2.736161e-05 8.449024e-01 6. Does the code have a stochastic component? If so, a seed should be set at the start of the vignette to ensure users get the same results as those in the vignette. 7. In the plot produced by methyvolc, what is the “0” color label referring to? Would this ever have multiple values? Could a label for the legend be provided? 