The manuscript entitled “The sedentary (r)evolution: Have we lost our metabolic flexibility?” by Freese J. et al. , has discussed an important issue regarding the molecular and evolutionary reasons behind increased incidence of modern life style diseases in human beings. The authors have cited interesting studies to corroborate their points and delivered a convincing molecular and biochemical outlook for Western diseases (WD). The article makes an interesting read for the commoners as well as the scientific community. As far as the deficit in the metabolic flexibility in the modern times, as opposed to prehistoric times, is concerned the arguments given sound rational and justifiable, especially the switch between the fatty acid oxidation verses glucose oxidation in the hunter and gatherers of early times, which the authors argue has been lost in the modern times due to 1., availability of high glycemic food; 2., lack of extensive physical activities; 3., chronic psychological stress. The authors have discussed the relationship between the organs and shift in the metabolic flux during the two different lifestyles, hunter and gatherers, and sedentary. The metabolic linkages with circadian rhythm during hunter and gatherers life style, and how it has got disturbed now, are well explained. However, there are certain points authors may like to connect to make it more explicable. Take an example where the transition of life style was not abrupt, the hunter and gatherers when became agricultural societies and started dwelling in the stable communities with no uncertainty in most of the life activities, and feast and famine were not as frequent. Did the biochemical changes in the metabolism undergo some adaptation to the relatively and progressively ‘sedentary life style’? The agricultural societies have now transformed into industrialized societies with modern amenities and energy-rich foods within arm’s reach. Evolution indeed is a progressive natural mechanism. Is it possible that the ‘thrifty genes’ that became advantageous during hunting and gathering era of human existence, has become a sort of burden and will be eventually eliminated from the gene pool? Probably a better adapted gene set, say ‘lean genes’ to these emerging trends would help humans survive the endemic ‘modern life style’. Are there any indication of such evolutionary tendencies in humans today? Can the modern tools such as CRISPER-Cas be utilized in near future to modify the so called ‘thrifty genes’ and to rewire the metabolic flexibility? This is especially important when the evolution depends more on artificial selection than natural! The life, and the metabolism that drives life, are flexible and would therefore evolve an alternate mechanism to handle the pressure of modern life style on human health and survival. What biochemical alternatives or shunts could be suggested to overcome the so called metabolic inflexibility. Authors may have suggested or postulated more credible ways to thwart the metabolic inflexibility than merely propounding ‘retrain all prescribed modes periodically’, where the term ‘periodically’ is clearly vague! At places the authors have mentioned about the satiety signalling, where they state that leptin resistance is a common scenario in the sedentary life style. Is there evidence that the satiety signaling involving leptin and ghrelin have evolved in favour with the progressing inactive lifestyle? The authors have well explained the brain reward system in feeding behaviour. Modern habits and lifestyle is inclined towards abnormal hedonic behaviour where there is an excessive intake of processed food with high glycemic index and low nutritive value, dissatisfaction to the brain drives such a behaviour leading to obesity. Could authors suggest ways or quote studies where balancing the nutritive value of the food has been attempted such that they regulate the hormonal homeostasis that controls the excessive eating behaviour in individuals? 