Zebrafish embryo xenograft model is a widely adopted method to study many aspects of cancer cell behaviour in vivo. A variety of protocols that differ by injection site, incubating temperature and down stream phenotype chosen, have been used in the field. So far, there is still a lack of a publicly available, detailed standard protocol, which new users could follow. The current methodology paper provides a very detailed, easy to follow protocol for xenograft fluorescent labeled cancer cells in the yolk sac and vein of Cuvier in 2 days old embryos and how to monitor cancer cell dissemination following the graft to assess their metastasis potential. This paper would be of benefit to anyone who wants to try out the zebrafish embryo xenograft model. The step by step protocol could include more details that would make it more user friendly for someone who is new to fish models. Material section: It would help if more details were given for the following reagents such as Cat number because there could be multiple products available under a similar name: Low-melting point agarose, Borosilicate glass capillaries, Ultrafine forceps. What size?, 96-well plate. Are these with a glass bottom? 3D printed mould to create imaging chambers – this is referred to in another paper without any details given. Perhaps they could expand on how they made it or obtained it? The imaging chamber is a key aspect and for this protocol to be “high through-put” more details would really help the reader. Protocol steps Once embryos transferred into imaging chamber, the authors indicate that the embryos will be maintained in 150 ml 1X E3 media containing 1.2 mM tricaine for 72 hours. This could have detrimental effects on embryos. The authors should comment on whether any adverse effects were observed and how to avoid them. One of the Optional steps: “Tracer beads can be used to label the original injection site and to distinguish active tumour cell migration from passive development associated movement that occurs when tissues and organs within the yolk sac grow.” To my mind it is very important for the initial set up of the model, as different cancer cell lines display different metastasis capacities and the tracer beads can be found expanding from the original injection site due to various reasons that the authors pointed out. So the use of tracer bead would help to set up a baseline index for passive expansion, true cancer cell invasion and metastasis that can then be evaluated according to the baseline parameter. The authors could perhaps comment more on their experience of using tracer beads in the main text of the paper. The main text of the paper In the main text the authors nicely presented three examples of what biological features can be captured using confocal imaging analysis following graft. It would be very helpful if they could elaborate more on each of the models, presenting more details on what parameters could be established from each model. Model 1 (figure 1 Cii) cancer cell dissemination. It seems that 2D distance is used instead of 3D and there is no mention of the size of each cell cluster that appeared to be metastatic growth. The authors should explain more extensively why they choose such a parameter and whether there are other potential parameters that one could measure to assess dissemination of cancer cells. Model 2 (figure 2) intravasation and distal metastasis are extremely rare events according to other publications ( Roh-Johnson M, et al ), perhaps authors could comment on how frequently they can capture intravasation or cancer cells within blood vessels? Perhaps provide some information on their experience with different cell lines in their intravasation capacity. Model 3 (Figure 3 A,B) injecting into the vein of Cuvier is similar to mouse tail vein injection where cancer cells are grafted directly into the blood stream. This allows for study of the capacity of cancer cell extravasion and proliferation in distal tissues to establish metastic growth. Data presented in (Figure 3 A, B) using fluorescent intensity as read out for cancer cell proliferation (same for C, D), which is quite a crude way of quantification. I wonder if it is possible to use more precise methods such as EdU incorporation or pH3 staining, ki67 staining or PCNA staining? Perhaps authors could share their experiences of make some comments on other ways of evaluating the cancer cell proliferation in vivo after xenograft. The authors focused on using the zebrafish xenograft models for metastasis analysis. Angiogenesis was one the first assays developed using zebrafish embryo xenograft model ( Nicoli S, et al ). As a methodology, the protocol presented here can be adapted for angiogenesis analysis. Perhaps they could comment on how their protocol could be adapted for evaluating angiogenesis in vivo. There are new developments of the zebrafish embryo xenograft model for angiogenesis such as ( Britto DD, et al ) perhaps they could refer to this work in the introduction or discussion, so as to guide the reader to other and more specific examples. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Partly Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 