This review reports on the effectiveness of malaria prevention interventions, worldwide. Whereas the subject of the efficacy of malaria control measures has been extensively assessed, the originality of this paper is to deliberately exclude efficacy studies (eg, randomized trials) and to focus on the protective effectiveness (PE) provided by control interventions under field conditions, such as case-control, cross-sectional surveys or cohort studies that are usually left aside. The context and the objectives are clearly laid out, and the methods are described in detail. Also, this considerable work addresses two important difficulties which have to be overcome, the high frequency of biases in non controlled designs, and the representativeness of such highly heterogeneous studies. Indeed, they relate to very different interventions or populations (especially age groups which are adequately adjusted for, although they should not be the only ones), rendering the overall effect on PE difficult to interpret, so the cautious discussion on the final results is particularly precious. My major concern is that the search does not include references published after June 2015. In particular, the statement (Results, 3rd paragraph) that the number of publications related to the PE of interventions decreased since 2010, considering that some major studies were published in the last two years, is not true when performing a quick search in the databases. Some important results have been published in the period 2015 - 2017, such as a study on malaria prevention measures on six Sub-Saharan African countries by Drakeley et al. 1 ; a complete issue of the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (2017, 97, issue 3 Suppl) with reports from several East African countries; a study on IRS in Northern Uganda 2 . All these studies should be included in the review, as they may change the results (or at least, significantly contribute). Besides, the final paragraph of the discussion claims that the PE of SMC (seasonal malaria control) implemented in six African countries has not been evaluated. It was probably true in 2015, but the evaluation has been done since, by Diawara et al. 3 in Mali, Ciss et al. 4 in Senegal, Tagbor et al. 5 in Ghana. These important results must definitely be included in the review, which would be incomplete otherwise. On the nature of the interventions that have been included, I agree that IPTp is a major intervention in the prevention of malaria and that IPTp studies in pregnant women should not be excluded from the review. However, the main outcome is generally different from parasitological or clinical indicators found in other studies, as it mainly consists in the measurement of the baby's birthweight (and the proportions of LBW babies). This particular outcome appears in the supplementary file 5, it should be more clearly specified in the text (results, and particularly in the methods where only two outcomes are mentioned). 