The study by Laetsch and Blaxter describes the workflow of BlobTools, an open source software package for the curation of low-complexity metagenomic assemblies. The work is well-written and clear, and the efficacy of the tool have already been demonstrated by many previous studies. Operational procedures and use cases laid out in the current work will likely be very useful to researchers who wish to rapidly screen their assemblies. I have two minor suggestions. The first one is about the following sentence: Anvi’o (Eren et al., 2015) partitions assemblies by clustering sequences based on the output of CONCOCT (Alneberg et al., 2014). This is not quite accurate. Anvi'o can employ CONCOCT to automatically partition contigs into genome bins, however, it is only optional. The default mode of anvi'o uses multiple aspects of data (including the differential normalized coverage of contigs across libraries --if multiple samples are available, GC-content, and/or tetranucleotide frequencies) to generate a hierarchical clustering dendrogram that can be used for the identification of distinct genome bins. My second suggestion is to include a citation to the study by Delmont and Eren, " Identifying contamination with advanced visualization and analysis practices: metagenomic approaches for eukaryotic genome assemblies " 1 as I believe it would make an appropriate addition to the introduction. The readers could definitely benefit from an appropriate discussion of the limitations and advantages of the 2D approach BlobTools promote in contrast to other ways to do it. 2D plots are inherently limited with respect to the number of layers of data they can display. After adding coverage and GC-content as axes to organize data points on an ordination, these displays are enriched with the use of colors (i.e. for taxonomy or any other single categorical data) and dot sizes (i.e. for sequence length or any other single continuous data). Besides the simpler attributes of data, the use of anvi'o in doi:10.7717/peerj.1839 1 brings into a single interactive display many additional perspectives, including the abundance of transcripts matching to contigs, the occurrence of contigs in different sequencing libraries, and horizontally transferred genes as claimed by others, that can benefit expert investigations of assemblies. That being said, it is important to note that the visualization strategy anvi'o relies on has disadvantages: it requires the computation of a hierarchical clustering dendrogram, and the computational complexity of this step limits the number of contigs that can be processed and displayed in reasonable amount of resources to about 25,000 . This creates a need for efficient and intuitive tools like BlobTools to rapidly process large metagenomic assembly datasets of low-complexity. 