The Virtual Colony Count was devised in the authors laboratory and has been in use for over ten years. It seems that this would be a very useful method for many applications as it can obviate the need for actual colony counting while still providing information about viability [although not per se]. It would be useful to better introduce the system with a short explanation of the method itself so that new readers can see its potential benefits. This paper is a careful demonstration of the source of contamination the production of aerosols which have occurred when, as in the original method, 50 microliters of cell suspension is delivered above the surface of 50 microliters of test compound in medium (although this was not problematic during the initial work). Not surprisingly, contamination, and by deduction, aerosols were greatly reduced when a smaller volume, 22.2 microliters, was pipetted below the surface of 200 microliters of medium. Is it known if the latter procedure leads to better initial mixing than the former, as might be expected? A set of 13 preliminary experiments was carried out to generate hypotheses about the origin of contamination seen in medium control wells, as outlined in the introduction. It might be useful to show schematics of the plate formats used since following the details in the introduction is a little confusing. The same is true for the two final experiments that were performed to test the ultimate hypothesis. Also the terms input and output controls could be defined better. The difference between the 2012-2013 and 2003-2004 results is ascribed to one or more clumping environmental factors (CEF). First, why abbreviate the name to CEF as it is only used twice in the paper? Second, is it possible that differences could be due to changes in the labware used, such as pipette tips, pipettors, microtiter plates? Even when purchased from the same vendor and ostensibly the same over time, it is possible that slight manufacturing changes could affect the results. For example, the 2013 set up might lead to less controllable expulsion of liquid. The experiments are well planned and the work is carefully done.