Thanks for the opportunity to review this manuscript. The study described has important strengths, such as the large sample, the use of well-validated assessment methods, and the sophisticated statistical techniques. I also extremely appreciate the fact that full data are made available, something that happens too rarely to the detriment of the field. The topic is certainly an important one, and one that historically attracts speculations that permeates popular beliefs on the nature and dynamics of callous-unemotional traits. I therefore think that the publication of (null) findings like this is imperative as to not fuel misconceptions on the topic. While I am therefore clearly positive regarding this submission, I also list below some issues that occurred to me while reading the manuscript, which I think may deserve further elaboration to strengthen the contribution of this study to the literature. I suspect that the writing was constrained by length limits, which could make it impossible to address my suggestions thoroughly, but I thought I would nevertheless mention what I believe could further improve this well-executed and well-written study. It is clear to me that the findings do not support the hypothesis that CU traits are related to risk taking. But I could not tell: who proposed this link, and whether this hypothesis also guided the present research. I think it would help situate the present study within the broader literature on CU if the manuscript could (briefly) refer whether the CU-risk taking link was just one that ‘makes sense’, or one that is central in existing theories of CU (e.g., in the opening of the discussion, it is stated that the present study rules out a ‘specific theory’, but it is unclear which theory is referred to). I think this is important because such theories would have to be re-considered in light of this null finding (as opposed to the scenario in which the CU-risk taking link is more of a popular misconceptions with no footing in scholarly work). Relatedly, as I find the alternative explanation (i.e., ‘a different method of valuing certain outcomes’) equally – if not more – compelling, I think it would be helpful to know whether this possibility was already acknowledged before the study was conducted, or followed the null findings that did not support the initial hypothesis. A second conceptual clarification that may be needed concern the overlap and dissociation between reward/punishment sensitivity and risk-taking. This seems relevant to understand specific abnormalities related to CU traits and what they can mean. Related to this – it looks like CU traits were also not related in punishment sensitivity, if I am not misunderstanding. If that is the case, how does this null finding aligns with existing theories of psychopathy such as the low-fear hypothesis or the response modulation model? For non-familiar readers (as myself), it may be worth expanding on how the Bayesian framework adopted allows for an interpretation of the null finding in a way that frequentist methods would not (also just a brief mention of why the overall fit can be considered strong evidence of null hypothesis). I cannot help but wonder what the results look like if the ICU is examined at a sub-scale level. I do not expect differences, but I think it is important to rule out that the overall null effect is not due to differential associations between ICU subscales and risk-taking. 