General Comment: The manuscript is on a very important public health issue, which is at the intersection between communicable and non-communicable diseases control. It is especially relevant because of the contextual issues of high TB and HIV burden in Uganda, the increasing burden of DM as a result of changing lifestyles and nutritional patterns, and limited resources in the country. Abstract: The abstract is well written and captures the essence of the paper. Introduction: The Introduction section is well written, supported with key epidemiological facts and figures on TB and DM, globally, in the Sub-Saharan African region and in Uganda. The authors concisely made a strong case for the rationale of the study, from the epidemiological and clinical perspectives and aptly noted the absence of policy on routine screening for TB and DM in health care settings as well as the paucity of evidence to guide the formulation of such a policy. Having created gaps in knowledge and policy that their paper will contribute toward addressing, the authors stated the objectives of their study. Methods: This section is, on the whole, well written, although it would have been useful to see a justification for the choice of only Kampala Capital City, especially because the research aimed to produce evidence for policy formulation for programmatic screening for TB and DM in the whole country, not just in Kampala Capital City. Results: This section is also well written. However, there are two issues of concern here. First, since this study was not just an academic exercise but a public health project, the authors should state measures they took, if any, to ensure that patients newly diagnosed with DM and referred to DM clinics actually reached and accessed care at DM clinics. Initial default is a major challenge in such referrals because some of the referred patients fail to go for the needed care. Second, it would have been useful to show the socio-demographic and clinical characteristics of all the patients versus those diagnosed with DM. This would have made this paper (the analysis, results and discussions) much stronger. Discussion: This is well written and acknowledged the limitation pointed out above about the non-collection and analysis of patient-level data. Conclusion: One key conclusion of the study is “Screening TB patients for DM in a primary health care setting in a resource-limited country with high HIV-associated TB epidemic appeared feasible.” This conclusion is apparently not supported by the geographical coverage of the study. The study was conducted only in Kampala City Capital. The inclusion of just one rural health centre, which is still part of the KCC is insufficient to be used to drawn conclusions regarding rural setting. The geographic spread and the socio-economic characteristics of the locations of almost all the health centres in the study therefore suggest that the conclusion should be drawn to Kampala City Council rather than to the entire country. Finally, the authors are commended for the effort in implementing this important research project. 