This is the publication of a protocol describing a much needed intervention study regarding the detection and treatment of AKI. This project is clearly described and is already very advanced and close to the completion stage. This project relies on a new technology to rapidly process patient data through the NHS England national algorithm for the detection of AKI. This technology then distributes AKI alerts, via an ‘app’ to a dedicated specialist multi disciplinary clinical team who will then act according to national guidelines. The aim is to improve outcomes of AKI. This project tackles a complex medical problem yet I feel is appropriately designed to try and provide answers to the following question; Does the provision of real time processing and delivery of patient data regarding AKI to the dedicated MDT of clinicians, allow the implementation of an intervention (AKI care bundles) that improves outcome. The main difficulty will be demonstrating that outcome has improved, as this in itself is very hard to define as a primary measure, and if it has not, where in the process has this failed. However, I think the methodology and the inclusion of a number of secondary outcome definitions is sensible, useful and achievable in the context of the clinical problem. There is only really one other study that, unsuccessfully, tried to answer similar clinical questions (Wilson et al ) so the authors have minimal literature to guide them yet there approach is sound. The analysis will incorporate a before and after side to the study at the intervention hospital but there is also a second site control which again adds strength to the protocol. This study cannot be replicated without access to the technology stream AKI app, however, should this trial show benefit, a wider distribution by the sponsor to a number of different hospital types for a multicentre study would seem logical. I would however ask the authors to consider on further outcome measure metric. The literature is clear that renal function measured by serum creatinine at discharge following significant illness can over estimate renal function (Prowle et al CJASN). This may confound the interpretation of success by a d/c creatinine being within 20% of baseline. A series of follow up creatinine measures at 3 and potentially 6 months would be a more robust measure of AKI treatment success as the long term effects of AKI on renal function is potentially the most important success of early AKI intervention. Finally, following recent media coverage in the UK in relation a court judgement regarding the sharing of patient data between the RFLFT and DeepMind, can the authors clarify for the benefit of all readers that this project remains legally and ethically sound. I very much look forward to the results of this important study. 