The paper entitled" Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV+kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases" by Camargo et. al . is a well-done study with contributions from a multi-disciplinary group of medical providers (Internal Medicine, Infectious Disease, Nephrology, Surgery). The findings add to a growing experience on the optimal management of HIV+ renal transplants including use of ART. Specifically, it provides statistical analysis demonstrating that PI-containing regimens are significantly associated with worse 3 year survival, 3 year graft function and severe infection rates at 6 months in a relatively large group of patients at a single transplant center. The results add further weight to our own findings at our center 1 about the preferential use of INSTI regimens in this population preferentially used pre-emotively before transplant. The study design is well explained and tables and figures are clear. The conclusions are balanced and justified on the basis of the data. My main question is that the outcomes are based on the ART regimen in the immediate post-transplant period (there were 33 patients on PI-containing regimen). However, the authors state that at 12 months post-transplant, of their available data, only 21 were on PI-containing regimen, due to switches made, in part due to concerns for drug-drug interactions. So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs? A few other questions to clarify the study would be helpful: 1) There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? 2) What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? 3) Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? References 1. Azar MM, Malinis MF, Moss J, Formica RN, et al.: Integrase strand transferase inhibitors: the preferred antiretroviral regimen in HIV-positive renal transplantation. Int J STD AIDS . 2016. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Villanueva M. Reviewer Report For: Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV + kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2893 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11220.r19166 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1#referee-response-19166 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 03 Mar 2017 Jose Camargo , University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, USA 03 Mar 2017 Author Response Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. ... Continue reading Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs Author’s response : Our data indicates that administration of PI-containing regimens at the time of discharge after initial hospitalization for kidney transplant is associated with worse 3-year patient and graft survival. Although it is true that the number of patients on PI-containing regimens decreased over time (in part due to ART switches made to avoid drug-drug interactions, and in part due to increased mortality in this group), and this data may not strictly reflect an on-treatment analysis, our observations remain valid, as the time-to-event analyses showed that most graft failures (4 of 6; 67%) and most deaths (5 of 6; 83%) at 3 years in this group actually occurred within the first year post-transplant, while patients were still on PIs. Even more, our observations are consistent with the notion that events occurring in the early period following renal transplantation are associated with long-term graft outcome and patient survival (1). (1) Woo YM, Jardine AG, Clark AF, et al. Early graft function and patient survival following cadaveric renal transplantation. Kidney Int. 1999;55(2):692-9. Referee’s comment : There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? Author’s response : Two patients died from septic shock, two from sudden cardiac arrest, and two died at outside facilities so we were unable to determine the cause of death. All of these 6 patients were on PIs at the time of death. Referee’s comment : What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? Author’s response: At our institution we resume ART early in the post-transplant period (i.e., as soon as patients are tolerating oral intake, typically in post-operatory day 1 or 2), and all ART agents are adjusted to renal function in coordination with HIV and transplant pharmacists. Except for TDF, all the analyses in this study were performed by ART class and we strongly feel that the association observed for PIs and poor outcomes is a class effect. Due to the size of our cohort we were unable to draw conclusions about specific ART agents within a given class. However, for transparency, these were the specific agents identified within each class in this cohort: NRTI (zidovudine, stavudine, didanosine, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF, lamivudine, abacavir); NNRTI (nevirapine, efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine); PI (fosamprenavir, lopinavir, darunavir, atazanavir, ritonavir); INSTI (raltegravir, dolutegravir). Referee’s comment: Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? Author’s response: Biopsy-proven acute rejection and CNI toxicity accounted for half of the cases of graft loss in patients taking PI in the present study. Cases of acute tubular injury and renal toxicity with PI administration have been described previously (2, 3). Other potential mechanism for the negative impact of PI administration on patient and graft survival is thru the inhibition of P-gp-mediated NRTI extrusion, resulting in an accumulation of NRTI drugs in the cell and mitochondrial toxicity, leading to the release of apoptogenic factors, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis (4). Some studies have also suggested a link between PI and increased cardiovascular risk, which could potentially account for the two cases of sudden cardiac death in this cohort (5, 6). (2) Rling J, Schmid H, Fischereder M, et al. HIV-associated renal diseases and highly active antiretroviral therapy-induced nephropathy. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(10):1488-95. (3) Shafi T, Choi MJ, Racusen LC, et al. Ritonavir-induced acute kidney injury: kidney biopsy findings and review of literature. Clin Nephrol . 2011;75 Suppl 1:60-4. (4) Petit F, Fromenty B, Owen A, Estaquier J. Mitochondria are sensors for HIV drugs. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2005;26(5):258-64. (5) Iloeje UH, Yuan Y, L'italien G, et al. Protease inhibitor exposure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients. HIV Med. 2005;6(1):37-44. (6) Rhew DC, Bernal M, Aguilar D. et al. Association between protease inhibitor use and increased cardiovascular risk in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: a systematic review. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;37(7):959-72. Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs Author’s response : Our data indicates that administration of PI-containing regimens at the time of discharge after initial hospitalization for kidney transplant is associated with worse 3-year patient and graft survival. Although it is true that the number of patients on PI-containing regimens decreased over time (in part due to ART switches made to avoid drug-drug interactions, and in part due to increased mortality in this group), and this data may not strictly reflect an on-treatment analysis, our observations remain valid, as the time-to-event analyses showed that most graft failures (4 of 6; 67%) and most deaths (5 of 6; 83%) at 3 years in this group actually occurred within the first year post-transplant, while patients were still on PIs. Even more, our observations are consistent with the notion that events occurring in the early period following renal transplantation are associated with long-term graft outcome and patient survival (1). (1) Woo YM, Jardine AG, Clark AF, et al. Early graft function and patient survival following cadaveric renal transplantation. Kidney Int. 1999;55(2):692-9. Referee’s comment : There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? Author’s response : Two patients died from septic shock, two from sudden cardiac arrest, and two died at outside facilities so we were unable to determine the cause of death. All of these 6 patients were on PIs at the time of death. Referee’s comment : What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? Author’s response: At our institution we resume ART early in the post-transplant period (i.e., as soon as patients are tolerating oral intake, typically in post-operatory day 1 or 2), and all ART agents are adjusted to renal function in coordination with HIV and transplant pharmacists. Except for TDF, all the analyses in this study were performed by ART class and we strongly feel that the association observed for PIs and poor outcomes is a class effect. Due to the size of our cohort we were unable to draw conclusions about specific ART agents within a given class. However, for transparency, these were the specific agents identified within each class in this cohort: NRTI (zidovudine, stavudine, didanosine, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF, lamivudine, abacavir); NNRTI (nevirapine, efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine); PI (fosamprenavir, lopinavir, darunavir, atazanavir, ritonavir); INSTI (raltegravir, dolutegravir). Referee’s comment: Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? Author’s response: Biopsy-proven acute rejection and CNI toxicity accounted for half of the cases of graft loss in patients taking PI in the present study. Cases of acute tubular injury and renal toxicity with PI administration have been described previously (2, 3). Other potential mechanism for the negative impact of PI administration on patient and graft survival is thru the inhibition of P-gp-mediated NRTI extrusion, resulting in an accumulation of NRTI drugs in the cell and mitochondrial toxicity, leading to the release of apoptogenic factors, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis (4). Some studies have also suggested a link between PI and increased cardiovascular risk, which could potentially account for the two cases of sudden cardiac death in this cohort (5, 6). (2) Rling J, Schmid H, Fischereder M, et al. HIV-associated renal diseases and highly active antiretroviral therapy-induced nephropathy. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(10):1488-95. (3) Shafi T, Choi MJ, Racusen LC, et al. Ritonavir-induced acute kidney injury: kidney biopsy findings and review of literature. Clin Nephrol . 2011;75 Suppl 1:60-4. (4) Petit F, Fromenty B, Owen A, Estaquier J. Mitochondria are sensors for HIV drugs. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2005;26(5):258-64. (5) Iloeje UH, Yuan Y, L'italien G, et al. Protease inhibitor exposure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients. HIV Med. 2005;6(1):37-44. (6) Rhew DC, Bernal M, Aguilar D. et al. Association between protease inhibitor use and increased cardiovascular risk in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: a systematic review. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;37(7):959-72. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 03 Mar 2017 Jose Camargo , University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, USA 03 Mar 2017 Author Response Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. ... Continue reading Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs Author’s response : Our data indicates that administration of PI-containing regimens at the time of discharge after initial hospitalization for kidney transplant is associated with worse 3-year patient and graft survival. Although it is true that the number of patients on PI-containing regimens decreased over time (in part due to ART switches made to avoid drug-drug interactions, and in part due to increased mortality in this group), and this data may not strictly reflect an on-treatment analysis, our observations remain valid, as the time-to-event analyses showed that most graft failures (4 of 6; 67%) and most deaths (5 of 6; 83%) at 3 years in this group actually occurred within the first year post-transplant, while patients were still on PIs. Even more, our observations are consistent with the notion that events occurring in the early period following renal transplantation are associated with long-term graft outcome and patient survival (1). (1) Woo YM, Jardine AG, Clark AF, et al. Early graft function and patient survival following cadaveric renal transplantation. Kidney Int. 1999;55(2):692-9. Referee’s comment : There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? Author’s response : Two patients died from septic shock, two from sudden cardiac arrest, and two died at outside facilities so we were unable to determine the cause of death. All of these 6 patients were on PIs at the time of death. Referee’s comment : What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? Author’s response: At our institution we resume ART early in the post-transplant period (i.e., as soon as patients are tolerating oral intake, typically in post-operatory day 1 or 2), and all ART agents are adjusted to renal function in coordination with HIV and transplant pharmacists. Except for TDF, all the analyses in this study were performed by ART class and we strongly feel that the association observed for PIs and poor outcomes is a class effect. Due to the size of our cohort we were unable to draw conclusions about specific ART agents within a given class. However, for transparency, these were the specific agents identified within each class in this cohort: NRTI (zidovudine, stavudine, didanosine, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF, lamivudine, abacavir); NNRTI (nevirapine, efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine); PI (fosamprenavir, lopinavir, darunavir, atazanavir, ritonavir); INSTI (raltegravir, dolutegravir). Referee’s comment: Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? Author’s response: Biopsy-proven acute rejection and CNI toxicity accounted for half of the cases of graft loss in patients taking PI in the present study. Cases of acute tubular injury and renal toxicity with PI administration have been described previously (2, 3). Other potential mechanism for the negative impact of PI administration on patient and graft survival is thru the inhibition of P-gp-mediated NRTI extrusion, resulting in an accumulation of NRTI drugs in the cell and mitochondrial toxicity, leading to the release of apoptogenic factors, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis (4). Some studies have also suggested a link between PI and increased cardiovascular risk, which could potentially account for the two cases of sudden cardiac death in this cohort (5, 6). (2) Rling J, Schmid H, Fischereder M, et al. HIV-associated renal diseases and highly active antiretroviral therapy-induced nephropathy. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(10):1488-95. (3) Shafi T, Choi MJ, Racusen LC, et al. Ritonavir-induced acute kidney injury: kidney biopsy findings and review of literature. Clin Nephrol . 2011;75 Suppl 1:60-4. (4) Petit F, Fromenty B, Owen A, Estaquier J. Mitochondria are sensors for HIV drugs. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2005;26(5):258-64. (5) Iloeje UH, Yuan Y, L'italien G, et al. Protease inhibitor exposure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients. HIV Med. 2005;6(1):37-44. (6) Rhew DC, Bernal M, Aguilar D. et al. Association between protease inhibitor use and increased cardiovascular risk in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: a systematic review. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;37(7):959-72. Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs Author’s response : Our data indicates that administration of PI-containing regimens at the time of discharge after initial hospitalization for kidney transplant is associated with worse 3-year patient and graft survival. Although it is true that the number of patients on PI-containing regimens decreased over time (in part due to ART switches made to avoid drug-drug interactions, and in part due to increased mortality in this group), and this data may not strictly reflect an on-treatment analysis, our observations remain valid, as the time-to-event analyses showed that most graft failures (4 of 6; 67%) and most deaths (5 of 6; 83%) at 3 years in this group actually occurred within the first year post-transplant, while patients were still on PIs. Even more, our observations are consistent with the notion that events occurring in the early period following renal transplantation are associated with long-term graft outcome and patient survival (1). (1) Woo YM, Jardine AG, Clark AF, et al. Early graft function and patient survival following cadaveric renal transplantation. Kidney Int. 1999;55(2):692-9. Referee’s comment : There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? Author’s response : Two patients died from septic shock, two from sudden cardiac arrest, and two died at outside facilities so we were unable to determine the cause of death. All of these 6 patients were on PIs at the time of death. Referee’s comment : What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? Author’s response: At our institution we resume ART early in the post-transplant period (i.e., as soon as patients are tolerating oral intake, typically in post-operatory day 1 or 2), and all ART agents are adjusted to renal function in coordination with HIV and transplant pharmacists. Except for TDF, all the analyses in this study were performed by ART class and we strongly feel that the association observed for PIs and poor outcomes is a class effect. Due to the size of our cohort we were unable to draw conclusions about specific ART agents within a given class. However, for transparency, these were the specific agents identified within each class in this cohort: NRTI (zidovudine, stavudine, didanosine, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF, lamivudine, abacavir); NNRTI (nevirapine, efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine); PI (fosamprenavir, lopinavir, darunavir, atazanavir, ritonavir); INSTI (raltegravir, dolutegravir). Referee’s comment: Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? Author’s response: Biopsy-proven acute rejection and CNI toxicity accounted for half of the cases of graft loss in patients taking PI in the present study. Cases of acute tubular injury and renal toxicity with PI administration have been described previously (2, 3). Other potential mechanism for the negative impact of PI administration on patient and graft survival is thru the inhibition of P-gp-mediated NRTI extrusion, resulting in an accumulation of NRTI drugs in the cell and mitochondrial toxicity, leading to the release of apoptogenic factors, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis (4). Some studies have also suggested a link between PI and increased cardiovascular risk, which could potentially account for the two cases of sudden cardiac death in this cohort (5, 6). (2) Rling J, Schmid H, Fischereder M, et al. HIV-associated renal diseases and highly active antiretroviral therapy-induced nephropathy. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(10):1488-95. (3) Shafi T, Choi MJ, Racusen LC, et al. Ritonavir-induced acute kidney injury: kidney biopsy findings and review of literature. Clin Nephrol . 2011;75 Suppl 1:60-4. (4) Petit F, Fromenty B, Owen A, Estaquier J. Mitochondria are sensors for HIV drugs. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2005;26(5):258-64. (5) Iloeje UH, Yuan Y, L'italien G, et al. Protease inhibitor exposure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients. HIV Med. 2005;6(1):37-44. (6) Rhew DC, Bernal M, Aguilar D. et al. Association between protease inhibitor use and increased cardiovascular risk in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: a systematic review. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;37(7):959-72. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 21 Dec 2016 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 1 21 Dec 16 read read Merceditas Villanueva , Yale University, New Haven, USA Kalathil K Sureshkumar , Allegheny General Hospital, 320 East North Avenue, Pittsburgh, USA Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Sureshkumar K. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 14 Feb 2017 | for Version 1 Kalathil K Sureshkumar , Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Medicine, Allegheny General Hospital, 320 East North Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA, 15212, USA 0 Views copyright © 2017 Sureshkumar K. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This manuscript is a retrospective single- canter analysis of the outcomes of kidney transplantation in HIV infected recipients stratified by anti-retroviral therapy (ART) used. The authors found inferior 3 year graft and patient survivals in patients on protease inhibitor (PI) containing regimens. Six month opportunistic infections were also high in patients on PI-containing regimens. ART with integrase inhibitors was associated with better outcomes. Integrase inhibitors such as raltegravir has minimal drug-drug interactions and are being increasingly used in ART regimens. Overall, the manuscript is written well and conclusions are supported by the study findings. I have following comments: Was there any difference in outcomes based on induction agents used? Any postulations as to why the observed inferior graft and patient outcomes in the PI group other than drug-drug interactions? Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 03 Mar 2017 Jose Camargo, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, USA Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : Was there any difference in outcomes based on induction agents used? Author’s response : All of the patients received the same induction immunosuppression regimen (consisting of anti–thymocyte globulin, anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody and methylprednisolone) precluding such type of analysis in this single-center cohort study. Your point is an interesting one, and other groups have addressed this question (1-3). (1) Kucirka LM, Durand CM, Bae S, et al. Induction Immunosuppression and Clinical Outcomes in Kidney Transplant Recipients Infected With Human Immunodeficiency Virus. Am J Transplant. 2016;16(8):2368-76. (2) Vivanco M, Friedmann P, Xia Y, et al. Campath induction in HCV and HCV/HIV-seropositive kidney transplant recipients. Transpl Int . 2013 Oct;26(10):1016-26. (3) Locke JE, James NT, Mannon RB, et al. Immunosuppression regimen and the risk of acute rejection in HIV-infected kidney transplant recipients. Transplantation. 2014;97(4):446-50. Referee’s comment: Any postulations as to why the observed inferior graft and patient outcomes in the PI group other than drug-drug interactions? Author’s response : Please see detailed response to similar question by Dr. Villanueva. We speculate that PI-induced acute tubular injury, increased cardiovascular risk and mitochondrial toxicity are other potential mechanisms affecting outcomes in HIV + kidney transplant recipients exposed to PIs. Elucidation of the specific mechanism(s) underlying this association requires further research. View more View less Competing Interests None reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Sureshkumar KK. Peer Review Report For: Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV + kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2893 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11220.r20186) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1#referee-response-20186 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Villanueva M. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 26 Jan 2017 | for Version 1 Merceditas Villanueva , Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA 0 Views copyright © 2017 Villanueva M. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The paper entitled" Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV+kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases" by Camargo et. al . is a well-done study with contributions from a multi-disciplinary group of medical providers (Internal Medicine, Infectious Disease, Nephrology, Surgery). The findings add to a growing experience on the optimal management of HIV+ renal transplants including use of ART. Specifically, it provides statistical analysis demonstrating that PI-containing regimens are significantly associated with worse 3 year survival, 3 year graft function and severe infection rates at 6 months in a relatively large group of patients at a single transplant center. The results add further weight to our own findings at our center 1 about the preferential use of INSTI regimens in this population preferentially used pre-emotively before transplant. The study design is well explained and tables and figures are clear. The conclusions are balanced and justified on the basis of the data. My main question is that the outcomes are based on the ART regimen in the immediate post-transplant period (there were 33 patients on PI-containing regimen). However, the authors state that at 12 months post-transplant, of their available data, only 21 were on PI-containing regimen, due to switches made, in part due to concerns for drug-drug interactions. So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs? A few other questions to clarify the study would be helpful: 1) There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? 2) What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? 3) Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? References 1. Azar MM, Malinis MF, Moss J, Formica RN, et al.: Integrase strand transferase inhibitors: the preferred antiretroviral regimen in HIV-positive renal transplantation. Int J STD AIDS . 2016. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 03 Mar 2017 Jose Camargo, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, USA Thank you for expert opinion and insightful comments on this study. Referee’s comment : So the conclusions regarding 3 year patient and graft survival may not reflect an on-treatment analysis. In other words, at 3 years, how many patients were still actually taking PIs Author’s response : Our data indicates that administration of PI-containing regimens at the time of discharge after initial hospitalization for kidney transplant is associated with worse 3-year patient and graft survival. Although it is true that the number of patients on PI-containing regimens decreased over time (in part due to ART switches made to avoid drug-drug interactions, and in part due to increased mortality in this group), and this data may not strictly reflect an on-treatment analysis, our observations remain valid, as the time-to-event analyses showed that most graft failures (4 of 6; 67%) and most deaths (5 of 6; 83%) at 3 years in this group actually occurred within the first year post-transplant, while patients were still on PIs. Even more, our observations are consistent with the notion that events occurring in the early period following renal transplantation are associated with long-term graft outcome and patient survival (1). (1) Woo YM, Jardine AG, Clark AF, et al. Early graft function and patient survival following cadaveric renal transplantation. Kidney Int. 1999;55(2):692-9. Referee’s comment : There were 6 deaths at 3 years: what were the causes of death? Infections? How many were on PIs at time of death? Author’s response : Two patients died from septic shock, two from sudden cardiac arrest, and two died at outside facilities so we were unable to determine the cause of death. All of these 6 patients were on PIs at the time of death. Referee’s comment : What were the specific antiretrovirals used? How was dosing altered post transplant? Author’s response: At our institution we resume ART early in the post-transplant period (i.e., as soon as patients are tolerating oral intake, typically in post-operatory day 1 or 2), and all ART agents are adjusted to renal function in coordination with HIV and transplant pharmacists. Except for TDF, all the analyses in this study were performed by ART class and we strongly feel that the association observed for PIs and poor outcomes is a class effect. Due to the size of our cohort we were unable to draw conclusions about specific ART agents within a given class. However, for transparency, these were the specific agents identified within each class in this cohort: NRTI (zidovudine, stavudine, didanosine, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF, lamivudine, abacavir); NNRTI (nevirapine, efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine); PI (fosamprenavir, lopinavir, darunavir, atazanavir, ritonavir); INSTI (raltegravir, dolutegravir). Referee’s comment: Can the authors speculate on what other mechanisms might explain why PI use (aside from effect on CNI or mTOR levels) could affect patient and graft survival? Author’s response: Biopsy-proven acute rejection and CNI toxicity accounted for half of the cases of graft loss in patients taking PI in the present study. Cases of acute tubular injury and renal toxicity with PI administration have been described previously (2, 3). Other potential mechanism for the negative impact of PI administration on patient and graft survival is thru the inhibition of P-gp-mediated NRTI extrusion, resulting in an accumulation of NRTI drugs in the cell and mitochondrial toxicity, leading to the release of apoptogenic factors, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis (4). Some studies have also suggested a link between PI and increased cardiovascular risk, which could potentially account for the two cases of sudden cardiac death in this cohort (5, 6). (2) Rling J, Schmid H, Fischereder M, et al. HIV-associated renal diseases and highly active antiretroviral therapy-induced nephropathy. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(10):1488-95. (3) Shafi T, Choi MJ, Racusen LC, et al. Ritonavir-induced acute kidney injury: kidney biopsy findings and review of literature. Clin Nephrol . 2011;75 Suppl 1:60-4. (4) Petit F, Fromenty B, Owen A, Estaquier J. Mitochondria are sensors for HIV drugs. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2005;26(5):258-64. (5) Iloeje UH, Yuan Y, L'italien G, et al. Protease inhibitor exposure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients. HIV Med. 2005;6(1):37-44. (6) Rhew DC, Bernal M, Aguilar D. et al. Association between protease inhibitor use and increased cardiovascular risk in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus: a systematic review. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;37(7):959-72. View more View less Competing Interests None reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Villanueva M. Peer Review Report For: Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV + kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2893 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11220.r19166) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1#referee-response-19166 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Click here to access the data. The problem Spreadsheet data files may not format correctly if your computer is using different default delimiters (symbols used to separate values into separate cells) - a spreadsheet created in one region is sometimes misinterpreted by computers in other regions. You can change the regional settings on your computer so that the spreadsheet can be interpreted correctly. How to fix it Save downloaded CSV file Open spreadsheet program (e.g. Excel) Click the tab at the top Click the From text icon (top left) Browse for downloaded CSV file, click Ensure radio button is selected, click Check one of the appropriate delimiter checkboxes (you can visualize the formatting by looking at the data preview below these options) Click Downloaded data do not display as expected? Download the data Dataset citation: Rosa R, Suarez JF, Lorio MA et al. . Dataset 1 in: Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV + kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases. F1000Research 2016, 5 :2893 (https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10414.d146717) Close Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Rosa R et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893",
 templates : {
 twitter : "Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV+.... Rosa R et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2893/v1"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV+ kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Research Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: Impact of antiretroviral therapy on clinical outcomes in HIV+ kidney transplant recipients: Review of 58 cases", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/10414/11220")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "11220");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "19394": 0,
 "19395": 0,
 "19396": 0,
 "18701": 0,
 "18702": 0,
 "18703": 0,
 "18704": 0,
 "18705": 0,
 "20186": 8,
 "19900": 0,
 "19164": 0,
 "19901": 0,
 "19165": 0,
 "19582": 0,
 "19902": 0,
 "19166": 14,
 "19903": 0,
 "19167": 0,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "a7b77760-6475-4d85-9dc3-2d01b3bbb6c9";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 