‘RATs’ is addressing an important problem: how to quantify changes in transcript isoform usage. Other tools, like ‘Sleuth’, address a related problem, which is differential transcript expression. Both RATs and Sleuth take advantage of the bootstrapping data that tools like ‘kallisto’ and ‘Salmon’ generate when quantifying transcript isoform abundance. By taking advantage of bootstrapping, such tools can estimate the technical variation within the data, to better look for differential changes. Transcript isoform usage is often linked to changes in alternative splicing or isoform specific decay rates (e.g. from NMD). Therefore, having a tool to accurately find changes in isoform usage is vital to our ability to address a range of biological problems. I have tried a version of RATs. I found that it was easy to install and easy to use. Being able to install bioinformatics software is no guarantee (Mangul et al. , 2018 1 ). A bonus of RATs is that several figures can be generated from the data within the tool. This was simple to do, but allowed for you to visualize your data in a straightforward but powerful way. This is one of the rare tools that just works and was relatively intuitive and well-documented. The paper uses sensible approaches to compare RATs to other tools, including ‘SUPPA’ and ‘DRIMSeq’ and the authors found that RATs performed at a similar or better level than the other tools. One minor point that could be better explained is how RATs uses the bootstrapping data. Does it use it to simply throw out highly variable genes (decreasing FP rate) or does it help get closer to the true rate of biological variation, thus increasing the true positive rate? In the methods, it would be good to see more explanation on how RATs does its pre-filtering. For example, if a transcript has zero expression in one treatment but a modest to high expression in the other treatment, would RATs keep this transcript or discard it? This would be of interest to people working on RNA decay pathways, such as NMD. One thing that I would love to see is a comparison of RATs to the DEXSeq/DRIMSeq approach used to address differentiation transcript isoform usage (Love et al. , 2018 2 ). This tool appeared to also perform well in the publication of this approach, where they used sim data. Therefore I think a comparison to RATs here, using sim and real data (human) would be appropriate. 