 Summary: This paper characterizes potential toxic effects of manganese oxide nanoparticles on intestinal epithelial cells. As the premise for this study, the authors make an important case that the increasing use of MnO nanoparticles may have unpredicted effects on intestinal epithelial barrier integrity. The authors found that manganese oxide nanoparticles (MnO NP) alone or in combination with lysates of the human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-associated E. coli , LF82, inhibited monolayer scratch wound healing of the mouse intestinal epithelial MODE-K cell line, enhanced the secretion of interleukin 6 (IL-6), and induced mitochondrial dysfunction. There are concerns with the use of only one cell line as well as the choice of a mouse epithelial cell line for studies involving challenge with a human isolated bacterium. Another substantive concern relates to the lack of a mechanistic connection between the key biological finding – delayed wound healing – and the observations of mitochondrial dysfunction. The paper addresses an important topic and could be significantly enhanced by some straight forward revisions. Comments to the Authors: The major biological finding of the paper with respect to a functional effect of MnO-np on the epithelial barrier paper relates to the delay in wound recovery shown in Figure 3. The other figures focus on mitochondrial effects of MnO-np while one figure shows an increase in IL-6 secretion. The paper is rather disjointed in that a clear mechanistic role for altered mitochondrial function, or the increase in IL-6 secretion, in the delayed wound recovery is not investigated. Testing the effects of a mitochondrial focused antioxidant as performed by other groups i.e. (Wang et al . 2014) 1 , would better integrate the observational findings of altered mitochondrial function with a potential role in delayed wound healing. It is also unclear as to the significance of the increase in IL-6 secretion relative to the delay in wound healing or mitochondrial dysfunction. The flow of the paper would likely be more compelling if the key biological finding – delayed wound healing – was presented first and was then followed by the analyses of mitochondrial function and cytokine secretion. It is puzzling as to why the authors performed this study with a mouse intestinal epithelial cell line vs. a human IEC line given that their choice of bacteria is a human rather than mouse-derived E. coli . The study also needs to be replicated with an additional cell line to confirm that at least some of the major observed effects are not cell-line specific phenomena (not all of the experiments need to be repeated with an additional cell line). A more biologically relevant technical approach to the analysis of cytokine secretion would involve the use of polarized IEC monolayers cultured on transwells so that cytokine secretion from the basolateral surface of the IEC monolayer could be measured. Culture of IEC monolayers on transwells would also allow a more formal investigation of the effects of MnO-np on epithelial barrier properties, an effect that is implied in the Discussion, but no actual data are provided to support this interpretation. Inclusion of the MnO dose response effect on cell viability would help the reader to understand the relationship of MnO concentration to cell integrity. The use of ROS inhibitors/scavengers would help to validate the suggestion that despite no significant increase in mitochondrial ROS production (Fig 1), that ROS are likely involved in the biological effects of MnO-np observed in MODE-K cells. Figure legends 2,3,5-8 should clearly state what treatment comparisons are designated by the individual letters denoting statistical significance. Minor comments: In the final sentence of the description of data in Figure 1 (page 6), “this data” should be changed to ‘these data’. In the description of data in Figure 2 (page 6), the sentence “However, a significant in IL-6 secretion was detected” should be changed to a ‘However, a significant increase in IL-6 secretion…’ 