The authors are to be complimented for having conducted this study. Proper handling of AEFIs is very important if we are to maintain trust between public health vaccinology and the community. However, I am missing the authors’ specific suggestions for how to improve the situation. As discussed below there are also details of presentation which could be improved. There is a rather detailed description of the changes in the definition of causality in relation to the current concept of AEFI. However, I am missing some presentation of where is the AEFIs concept coming from historically and what is the underlying theoretical biological model of why AEFI might occur and how does that affect how AEFI are observed, reported and used. Furthermore, what are the regulators requirements? Apparently the dominant thinking is that vaccines only induce disease specific memory. Presumably genetic variability may in rare cases affect how this biological process takes place and this could cause specific AEFIs. What else are the causes of other AEFIs: co-incidental infections or chronic disease, co-administration of drugs or other vaccinations? Most of such events can presumably be rejected as not “caused” directly by the vaccine. However, the concept of vaccines may be changing. WHO experts have recognized that vaccines may have non-specific effects (NSEs) with consequences for child survival 1 . Apparently, through epigenetic and metabolic changes, vaccines can reprogram the immune system and upregulate or downregulate both the innate and the adaptive immune system 2 - 5 . If that is the case there is room for both beneficial and deleterious unexpected events following immunization (UEFI). Proper monitoring systems should also be able to detect beneficial UEFIs; for example, we have found that BCG reduces the risk of neonatal sepsis in low-birth weight children 6 . On the other hand, DTP consistently increases female relative to male mortality, also in societies that have no sex-differential treatment 7 . This is “unnatural” since there was no excess female mortality in the pre-vaccination era in West Africa 8 . This being the case there should be room not only for the short-term AEFI as in the current system (14 days?) but also for much more protracted biological processes being classified as AEFI/UEFI. This would require new standards for how UEFI/AEFI are observed and registered. Parallel with the description of the changes in the definition of AEFI, there is a series of examples where the authors apparently think there are real differences in mortality/safety issues between different vaccination groups. I have noted at least: Pentavalent vaccine and congenital heart disease; MMR and autism in African American children; Hexavac; Rotavac; HPV and chronic fatigue syndrome; Pentavalent vaccine vs DTP for SIDS. Sometimes these safety issues are mentioned in passing as examples in the discussion of the processes related to AEFI assessment. I found it sometimes unclear whether these example were presented in their own right as safety issues or whether they were only meant to illustrate problems in the assessment of AEFI, e.g. safety reports not forthcoming, etc. Sometimes the presentation was too short or unclear to be really convincing; for example, I had problems with the ROTAVAC story (box 5). It is unclear why it is said in Box 5: “Other rotavirus vaccines that do not reduce incidence of diarrhoea or increase the incidence of diarrhoea instead of decreasing it, have been published (b)”. The paper which is referenced apparently reported a 40% reduction in rota-diarrhoea. If the problem is that overall diarrhea was not reduced I think this can be present more clearly. I think the paper would be stronger/more convincing if the safety-issues that the authors believe have been documented as safety concerns were presented as safety-case stories in specific boxes; the effect of Pentavalent vaccine on SIDS is apparently such a concern. Then the text on the changes in the assessment of AEFI could refer to this or that AEFI problem which was illustrated in the safety-case stories. On the other hand if the story is about mismanagement of the assessment of AEFI, then the cases should be presented as such without implying a causal link between vaccination and AEFI; for example box 3 is an example of poor public communication but it has hardly been documented that MMR causes autism. Abstract: It should not be assumed that ”Of course, vaccines that caused deaths in the control-trials stage would not be licensed.” RTS,S malaria vaccine was recently approved by EMA but the trial data indicate that RTS,S compared with control vaccines was associated with 2-fold higher mortality for girls 9 , 10 . Neither the authors nor EMA apparently analysed the mortality data, overall or by sex. The example with cardiac failure in children is not presented in the paper and should therefore not appear in the abstract unless it is fully described in the paper. The case might well warrant further presentation in the paper itself. Introduction Being presented with the Sri Lanka and Vietnam cases in the first paragraphs, the reader is left wondering what was the implications of the WHO experts’ classifications. Was the pentavalent vaccine (Penta) reintroduced in the countries and how did that decision come about? Causality assessment In the long description of changes in the manual for AEFI assessment, it would be good to have an explanation of WHO’s own justification for these changes. Sometimes the text appears to have been written some years back but have been maintained unchanged in in the current 2018-version. For example in Box 3 it is said that “Thomson has now been granted whistleblower status by the Obama administration”. By now this sentence should probably be: “Thomson was granted whistleblower status by the Obama administration”. Similar in the conclusion it is said that if the debates among Republican presidential aspirants “are anything to go by”. By now it can no longer be “are”. Box 10: this sentence has problems: “In fact combined DTP-Hepatitis B-Hib vaccine causes more there were more local reactions and it is less effective than when they were administered separately.” Page 10: Biological plausibility. There appears to be an increasing trend to dismiss “unexpected observations”/unpleasant observations with the argument that there is no “biological plausibility”. This was one of the arguments used by WHO experts to dismiss that high-titre measles vaccine (HTMV) could be associated with excess female mortality 11 . There can obviously not be biological plausibility for a pattern just detected, that no one has ever thought about. The only relevant question is whether a pattern is repeatable – arguments about biological plausibility should not be allowed to dismiss observations of potential AEFIs. The excess female mortality was repeated in subsequent studies and WHO eventually withdrew the HTMV (1992). I found this sentence strange: “Slate investigated of the randomised trials of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines and found that potential side effects were collected for only two weeks in the year long study.” Page 13: “PV” has not been defined as the abbreviation for pentavalent vaccine. The comparison of DTP and pentavalent vaccine is frightening. Please indicate whether it is SIDS death or all-cause deaths when it is said for example: “The odds of death after pentavalent vaccine was doubled”. Since it is your study I would have indicated that to the readers: “To examine if deaths following Pentavalent vaccine (PV) were merely coincidental SIDS deaths, we undertook a study of 45 million infants given DPT vaccination and 25 million who received PV”. Given the scary character of this report a bit more information on methods in data collection and analysis would be appropriate. Any hypothesis of why there would be a two-fold difference in SIDS (?) mortality? Did the patterns differ for boys and girls? We have found that DTP and Penta are both associated with much higher female-than-male all-cause mortality rates 7 , 12 . Conclusion I do not think the conclusion is really a conclusion to the content of the paper. How do we proceed from here? How can we built a better system that finds even the AEFIs we do not want to see and had not expected – and at the same do not create mistrust in the vaccines (BCG, measles vaccines, OPV) which are associated with major reductions in child mortality in low-income countries. What time-frame should be used? AEFI should always be presented by sex. If there are sex-differential patterns of AEFI it might enhance the credibility of this patterns as a true AEFI since we have found sex-differential effects on mortality of most of common vaccines. Biological plausibility should not be used to dismiss any new and unexpected pattern. There is now evidence that vaccines may reprogram both the innate and the adaptive immune system epigenetically with effect on general susceptibility to non-targeted infections 2 , 5 . Hence, the starting point should be that unlikely effects are likely because we have never examined the possibility. It is standard practice in small safety study with deaths to dismiss them because we cannot see a connection. However, deaths following vaccinations should always be classified as potential-even-though-unlikely AEFIs. Otherwise we cannot accumulate the data and detect patterns we had not imagined. For example, when DTaP was tested in an RCT in Sweden there were 4 deaths among 2847 vaccinated children but none among 954 controls 13 . Though the authors recognized that 4 deaths was too high and would have been significant if the whole Swedish population of eligible children had been used as controls, the study could find no link between the vaccine and the deaths. All properly conducted studies from low-income countries have found DTwP to be associated with increased child mortality 14 - 16 . 