The goal of the authors was to document any impediments to the commercialization process at the University of Kentucky. The study was spurred by the findings that UK significantly underperforms when compared to peer institutions of similar size. A previous study was published in 2013 regarding this same topic at UK for the commercialization of cancer research. In this study, similar surveys were conducted with 3 entrepreneurial respondents as opposed to a larger cohort of cancer researchers in the previous UK study. The updated information from 2 more respondents is appreciated, but ideally it would be nice to have a larger group than 3. Getting information from those that had a positive and a negative experience is helpful to make changes to the system. If the ultimate goal is to provide this feedback to the UK TTO in order to institute changes, more details would be helpful. Some aspects that I think would benefit from further detail are the following: Interviews of the actual TTO employees? What is keeping the University from making any changes? Some background information on what other universities have done to rebrand their TTO. There have been many stories regarding offices doing an overhaul and rebranding and trying new things. Table 5 is a good start in figuring out some areas that need more improvement. A section that details what other offices have tried would be useful to people in technology transfer. The suggestions listed in table 5 are fairly standard practices that TTOs must consider. Can you include suggestions of how other universities have for instance increased links to industry or how they have offered more information to researchers teaching them how to commercialize? What are the policies or regulations that are restrictive at UK? Would utilizing more interns/students/post docs as staff help in bringing in more disclosures or provide more hands to evaluate inventions? Overall the authors claim that the goal is to present this data as a guide to the UK TTO to make changes. It would be helpful to provide suggestions rather than telling them these results which they likely already know and realize are a problem. It will be more useful to also provide some options that have been tried by other universities rather than just pointing out the failures. With these additions I think the article would be much stronger and more useful to other TTO offices.