The authors present the R package rancapa that implements an interactive shiny web app available at https://gauravsk.shinyapps.io/ranacapa for exploration of environmental DNA characterized by amplicon sequencing. This app facilitates many of the standard tests and plots done for metabarcoding data. The app requires two dataset to run, namely a taxonomy-by-sample matrix file and a simple metadata file with descriptive information on the actual environmental samples. This package is particularly useful to anybody interested in exploring biome diversity but lacking extensive computational and bioinformatics skills. We appreciate the focus on open-source code and accessibility, in particular testing the app with Ubuntu and using the color-blind friendly viridis color palette. There are some minor changes in the style of plots and wording we would like to see, but these are a matter of opinion and do not affect the validity of the results. The authors admirably point out flaws and potential pitfalls in the analysis that often go unmentioned (e.g. the drawbacks of rarefaction). Although there is always room for improvement, we feel this app is quite useful as is and it is described well in the associated article. We suggest many improvements that could be made, but most of these are intended as constructive suggestions. Specific comments: keywords: include “R package” Introduction The sentence “A key ingredient to promote sustained success of such programs is that community partners should be able to engage across multiple stages of the research project, not only in sample collection” is a bit awkward. Perhaps something like the following would be more clear: “Such programs are more likely to succeed if community partners are able to be involved in multiple stages of the research project, not only sample collection” End of paragraph 2: “let alone for the non-technical audience of some community science programs.” We suggest “audience” be replaced with “members”, “partners”, or “collaborators”, since they are involved in the project. Implementation Paragraph 1, sentence 1: The command “ranacapa::runRanacapa()” does not work. Should it be “ranacapa::runRanacapaApp()”? Figure 4: It would be nice if the results of the Tukey’s HSD test be included on the graph using letter codes. Sequencing depth, sentence 2: “Users can rarefy the data set to a sampling depth, or can proceed through the rest of the app without rarefying samples.” It's nice to have the option, but if sequences are not rarefied, perhaps they should be converted to proportions? The taxon abundance plots (e.g. the heat map) is biased without some correction for sampling depth and proportions would avoid the loss of data associated with rarefaction. While converting to proportions will not remove sample-size bias for alpha and beta diversity analyses, it will remove the bias for taxon abundance analyses for the most part. The conversion to proportions could also be an option in just the taxon abundance analyses. Beta diversity plots, sentence 1: “Introduces the concept of beta diversity as the turnover in species composition across habitats (or samples).” The word “turnover” seems to imply a change over time, rather than a comparison between communities. Perhaps something like: “Introduces the concept of beta diversity as a way to compare community composition across habitats (or samples).” Beta diversity statistics, sentence 1: “Shows results from two statistical tests of species turnover across sites.” See comment above on “turnover”. Suggestions on the software Exploring ranacapa at https://gauravsk.shinyapps.io/ranacapa shows the interactive tools. We suggest that screenshots from the actual shinyapp be presented as figures as they provide the context for exploring the data. For example under Figure 2, the legend states that users can also select or deselect individual taxa’ but the figure 2 in the manuscript does not show this. This is confusing. We also suggest giving explicit examples for executing the shiny app on a desktop maybe right after the installation instructions. Data import The proper format for input data is described in the article, but it would be nice if it was repeated in the “data import” section of the app as well. You could also include tips to convert common formats to the needed format here. Sequencing depth Second paragraph, first sentence: “In eDNA sequencing, such variation in how deeply a given sample is sequenced can happen for a variety for reasons-”. Should the “-” be a “:”? Third paragraph, first sentence: You use double quotes for “deeply” in the first paragraph, but single quotes for ‘rarefy’. Add proportions as an alternative to rarefaction instead of “none”? The rarefied samples plot is a good idea, but hard to read in its current state. Perhaps change the faceting settings so that there is one column of plots or have a option to choose the sample shown? Taxonomy bar pot: The number of similar colors make this hard to read without selecting individual taxa. We know this is a limitation of stacked barcharts, but it might make it more readable to sort the taxa by average abundance and then stagger the colors like so: For example, if there are 30 taxa, then the first 10 get colors 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 28 (seq(1,30, 30 / 10)). Also have the most abundant taxa be the lowest on the stacked bars. That way adjacent colors can be differentiated and the colors of rare taxa won't be confused with the colors of the abundant taxa. Taxonomy heatmap How about faceting by sample metadata or clustering samples by similarity? You could use the results of the Ward’s Hierarchical Clustering like you do in the beta diversity section. Can you make the height of the plot depend on the number of samples plotted? Also, making the “Select taxa to visualize” box taller would be nice. Alpha diversity plots You use the term “species richness” without explicitly defining it, although you implicitly define it. It might be a good idea to point out that “observed” is the same as “species richness”. Plotting the results of the Tukey’s HSD test on this plot would be great. Actually this tab could probably be combined with the “alpha diversity stats” tab. The color and the different point shapes are not needed, but that’s just a question of style. Alpha diversity stats You say “ANOVAs only work when each group is represented by a few samples”, which is great to point out. How about just not allowing for the ANOVA and Tukey’s HSD if there are not multiple samples per treatment? How about not showing the Tukey’s test result if the ANOVA p-value is more than 0.1? You do say “the following results are meaningful only if the ANOVA table above suggests that sites are in fact unequal in terms of their diversity”, but it's very tempting to look at the results of the Tukey’s HSD test anyway. Alternatively, you could add a warning above the Tukey’s HSD results if the ANOVA p-value is more than 0.1. How about using the DT package to make the Tukey’s HSD results table sortable, like you do for other tables? The first thing most people will want to do is sort by p-value. Beta diversity plots You say “samples that are distant in this plot have very different species lists”. That is not exactly true. Samples that are more distant from each other are more different from each other, but they all might be quite similar in terms of the species present; The PCoA will always show differences, no matter how small. An explanation of how to interpret the percent of the variation explained by each axis would be nice. How about confidence interval ellipsis for the sample types? How about allowing exploration of other dimensions (maybe in a 3d plot as well)? In the clustering dendrogram, how about coloring sample names by sample type? Ideally, it would be the same colors used in the PCoA plot, so you would not need a second legend. Beta diversity stats How about displaying the results of the Adonis analysis in a table instead of a printed data.frame, like how it is done in the “Homogeneity of Variances” analysis? Tables from the DT package would be nice, so we can sort by p-value. Data export It would be nice to provide an option to export the data in the taxmap format from the taxa package 1 . Zach Foster can help implement this. 