The study reports original and remarkable findings in increasing methane emissions from triple cropping of rice. Although it is not clearly stated in the manuscript, there are very few studies that reported methane emissions from triple rice cropping. In addition, the major finding of this study, that is the increasing methane emissions in the 2nd crop relative to the 1st one, and further in the 3rd crop, in response to the accumulation of rice residue from the preceding crops, is a remarkable fact for understanding the intensity of emissions, as well as designing options for climate change mitigation. Therefore, the research is recognized to be valuable in reporting in an international scientific journal. However, at the same time, I have to report that current manuscript has substantial lack of basic components and requirements as a scientific paper at each section throughout the manuscript, even though this paper has submitted as a Brief Report. Note that filling those lack of details is essential as a scientific paper to make sure that readers have enough information to understand the description of the work. The specific points of problems are listed below. As a result, I can approve the manuscript only after it was revised by responding to my comments in an appropriate manner. Introduction: Background (the need for this study) and objectives of the study should be clearly presented. Why did you study methane emissions from paddy fields? What gaps of knowledge did you try to approach? What are the objectives of this study? Methods: The major finding of this study is the importance of straw incorporation into the soil after harvesting rice for increasing methane emissions in the following season. From this viewpoint, it is requested to report management of rice straw after every harvest more quantitatively in detail in the Method section. It is required to provide the amount of rice straw (and preferably that of stubbles and roots) returned to the fields from previous harvest, because it is essential to discuss the increase in methane emissions. Otherwise, it is vague to discuss the emission pattern in Discussion. Data analysis: The statistical analysis for judging the differences in methane emissions among the seasons is insufficient, because no statistical analysis was made for the data in Figure 1. As a result, it is difficult to conclude the differences in methane emissions among the seasons. Results: In this section, the results of experiment should be simply presented. Information of previous studies and discussion with them should be presented in Introduction or Discussion sections, respectively. From this, the sentences in Line 1–6 of ‘Emission level’ part and in Line 1–11 of ‘Emission pattern’ part should be moved. Data presentation: The amounts of total seasonal methane emission should be numerically presented, at least those of five-year average for each crop with the values of interannual variation. Discussion: There is fundamental lack of discussion with referring to previous studies by other researches who reported methane emissions from paddy fields. A sweeping revision is necessary in this section. In addition, some minor comments are listed below: Throughout the manuscript, the term ‘natural flood’ or ‘annual flood’ should be corrected to ‘fallow flood’ because it is confusing. ‘After natural (annual) flood’ can be ‘during the fallow flood period after harvesting the 3rd crop’. Abstract, Line 2: The statement that ‘these emissions are not well studied’ is incorrect. A number of field measurements for methane emissions from paddy fields in the Mekong Delta have been published, such as Vo et al. , 2018 (already cited in this paper), and references cited in the paper. Introduction, 1st paragraph, Line 9: The statement that ‘this has not been well studied’ is incorrect. IPCC Guidelines provides the quantitative effects of rice straw incorporation on increasing methane emissions as a scaling factor based on a number of field measurements including those in the Mekong Delta. Introduction, 3rd paragraph, Lines 6–8: The reference that shows effectiveness of the strategy should be cited. Methods, Site description: It is suggested to report the type of soil and its characteristics, because the information is essential for discussing the intensity of methane emissions from paddy fields and is not presented in the previous paper. I would suggest to report, at least, soil texture, organic carbon content, and pH, all of which are recognizes as the major factors controlling methane emissions. Figures 1 and 2: The period of data ‘Flood’ is confusing. It is recommended to correct it with ‘Fallow flood’. Results, Emission level, Lines 9–11: The emission level doubled in the 2nd crop, and tripled in the 3rd crop, compared with that in the 1st cro p, then reset after the fallow flood. Same correction should be made at Discussion, Emission pattern, Lines 1–3. Results, Emission level, Lines 13–: The total emission during the fallow flood should be higher … Results, Emission level, Lines 13–15: Why the result was not consistent to the ‘previous’ report. Please discuss it. Results, Emission pattern, Lines 1–11: This statement is not the results in this study. Therefore, it should be moved to Discussion. Also, the difference of data in ‘previous’ study and this one should be clarified. Understanding from the ‘previous’ paper (Oda Chiem, 2019), the ‘previous’ study reported the results of experiments during 2016 and 2017, whereas this study during 2011 and 2016. If it is correct, using the term ‘previous’ is not appropriate. Discussion, 2nd paragraph, Line 6: no methane emission - little methane emission 