The present manuscript discusses an important issue in the current epidemiological scenario: the importance of arboviral diseases as a health problem worldwide. Despite the important of the recognition and knowledge of certain diseases in this group, they present quite a heterogeneous public health challenge to sanitary authorities, both as a medical problem for healthcare professions, and a risk to the health of the general populace. While dengue and, more recently, Zika and chikungunya, reached a high level of recognition, priority, "notoriety", Oropouche fever, certainly, does not appears to be part of this group. The subject of this paper is an interesting insight regarding how much Oropouche is also potentially put down as an object of study and interest of research. Additionally, it identifies where the hotspots of scientific production are, who are potential partners for scientific cooperation projects and what the main databases for bibliographic revision are. Some questions, however, must be addressed: - In the introduction, authors included West Nile, besides dengue (as an example) as a long-term circulating virus. Not in Latin America, especially if considering the South America. - Why not include other indicators as to the patterns of study design (review, case series, case report ...) and the journals impact factor. - It would be interesting to correlate/compare, by country and year/period, the number of described/reported cases in the papers with those reported/notified (or not) found in the official databases. - In table 1, it would be recommended to include a "Total" in the last line and a "%" column besides "number of articles" column. - It is potentially confusing to have "geographical representation of major international research networks" and "research trends" in the same figure (figure 1). - As a suggestion, in the discussion there is a lot of text on a single example, at Peru. It would be more interesting and illustrative to describe the occurrence along the time of first cases and, specifically, outbreaks in Latin American countries. 