Gene Regulatory Networks describe the causal relationships, in space and time, among transcription factors and signaling events that drive processes under genetic control. The most frequent application of GRNs is to describe developmental processes, such as the specification of germ layer fates in the sea urchin embryo. This article describes the general functionality of BioTapestry, in use since 2005, and its usefulness in describing the dynamic architecture of gene regulatory networks. In particular, improvements the tools used for drawing the connectivity in a network are described. The drawing tools are useful and intuitive and the authors justify the use of a "stacked layout strategy" to break down a large network into sets of functionally important nodes. Changes to the software are detailed as they apply to versions 6 and 7 of BioTapestry. Improvements include updating the software to run in a browser. For specific details about usage and installation, users are referred to online tutorials. By way of example, instructions are included for using the 'network overlay-driven' layout. Migrating to a newer, interactive web-based platform presents itself with a number of logistical issues which are described in the article in detail, with a view toward eventually migrating BioTapestry to a web-based, collaborative platform. Logistical issues include the separation of functions to the server or the user's desktop, and cross-platform consistency in font and line rendering. The text itself is well-written, and contains active links to many applications in context. Comments: The simulated GRN set is useful for demonstrating the modeling diagrams, but it could be made much simpler if it had fewer downstream targets, i.e. to simplify Figs. 4, 7, 8. Some parts have a bit too much detail regarding how the authors dealt with specific problems, but these are not too distracting. The Microsoft browser is now Edge. Edge seems to support the web-based viewer for the networks available via http://grns.biotapestry.org . This could be indicated in the first paragraph of the 'Operation' section. As a final comment, while the authors consider evolving web technologies, they may also consider creating an "App" that can be installed on tablets and portable devices. This might be easiest to develop for the Android platform as this uses Java. The authors have presented a very nice article that informs readers of updates to BioTapestry, which continues to be a terrific tool for visualization of gene network interactions.