The TIM-1 protein has been implicated in regulation of T cells, NKT cells and regulatory B cells. Here, the focus is on mast cells, where Tim-1 has been shown to be constitutively expressed and is believed to have a co-stimulatory function for NF-kB and NFAT/AP1 transcription and cytokine production. A few points would be helpful to address in the final version of the manuscript. Prior work has shown that Tim-1 recognizes phosphatidylserine on apoptotic cells and that the mucin domain is important for this binding. Since the data presented here show that annexin-binding (which detects PS) is upregulated as a function of mast cell degranulation, the Tim-1 mucin domain might mediate homotypic interactions between recently degranulated cells. Is there evidence that this occurs (microscopy images or flow-based measures?) If this is a mechanism to cluster Tim1 for activation, it will be in a “synapse”-like setting and would support a post-degranulation, delayed co-stimulatory signal. As mentioned below, Tim-4 mediated activation in vivo is probably in a synapse setting too, so there seems like a missed opportunity here. This study relies a lot on exogenous agents (Tim4-Fc, antibodies) to make conclusions about the role of Tim-1 signaling. This is fine as an experimental approach, but can confound the conclusions reached about the role of the mucin domain. In other words, if one bypasses the mucin domain by activating with Tim4-Fc, it does not necessarily mean that ligations mediated via the mucin domain does not mediate signaling in another setting. I find, in general, that the emphasis on this result is overstated/over-discussed as a physiological relevant finding. It provides more insight on the structural features of Tim-1, which can apparently be activated by crosslinking (ie antibodies) or by binding to another Tim (Tim4) presented on another cell… and possibly when PS, presented on another mast cell or an apoptotic cell in the inflammatory microenvironment, clusters Tim-1 via the mucin domain. In keeping with this, I think the discussion could be shortened and simplified. For example, this text could be omitted or reworded: “Thus, we examined whether the Tim-1 mucin domain regulates mast cell activity, particularly in the context of Tim-4 treatment. Contrary to the effects seen in B and T cells, the Tim-1 mucin domain is dispensable for mast cell activity, as mast cell degranulation and cytokine release remain intact in the absence of the mucin domain. It is worth noting that Tim-1 [] mucin BMMCs were actually able to secrete more cytokine than WT BMMCs in some instances. However, after testing six different batches of WT and Tim-1mucin BMMCs, it appeared that any differences observed were due to the maturation status of BMMCs and their Fc[epsilon]RI surface expression, rather than any direct effect of deletion of the Tim-1 mucin domain.” This group has opted to use SPE-7 (anti-DNP) IgE to prime the BMMC. Since this is a cytokinergic IgE, it could be good to confirm that the essential findings of co-stimulation also occur when using a non-cytokinergic (anti-DNP) IgE …perhaps the Liu IgE. 