Your paper is interesting and relevant, but there are a number of areas that should be attended to, in order to strengthen its content readability and therefore its research value. I outline these here, in the order of reading: 1. You should state upfront that this is a pilot study and you are using child participants from affluent backgrounds, with the assumption that the results should be more valuable if applied to children from poorer backgrounds. You should provide some evidence of why you have this assumption - e.g. academic studies. Currently it is confusing as you introduce the idea of the pilot study further into the paper, and, even later, you admit that your subjects are from wealthy backgrounds and you recommend repeating the project with poorer children, since this could/should yield more positive results. 2. In your introduction you should more obviously credit the 2 models in Figs 1a and b. The way it is currently presented makes them seem like your own. 3. The paragraph in your intro starting 'Previous works...' is inelegantly written and not well linked to the topic of this paper. I recommend you reduce its length and more strongly connect it to your project in terms of your chosen focus (i.e. informal outside education). 4. It feels that there is a lost opportunity in this paper with regards making more of the youth leader role. This is an excellent example of 'peer learning' and reference to the literature on this (under children's participation) would give greater depth to your research and also extend the learning potential of your project. An example reference is Harry Shier's 'Pathways to participation' revisited: Learning from Nicaragua's child coffee workers 1 . 5. The second to last para of your intro, beginning 'At the same time ... the cost of light...' What do you mean by the cost of light? You then write 'This study was followed...' This sentence needs clarifying and more detail provided. For example, you might say 'A similar study from Sri Lanka found ... due to lack of awareness and poor self-confidence'. The word 'populations' should have the 's' removed. 6. In general you don't have enough references to the qualitative aspects of your research. More background on this will strengthen your argument considerably. 7. Your sections on 'Battery Performance Evaluation' and 'Electrical Production' sit very awkwardly in relation to the context of your research. I question what is the relevance of these sections? If it is important to your paper to produce these figures, then you need to put them into context and explain why they are relevant to your paper. 8. The information about the youth guides on P.5 is a little ambiguous as to whether the whole section just refers to them, or also to the other child participants. Perhaps give this a section heading e.g. 'Youth Guide Training'. 9. Also P.5 - I think you mean 'fertiliser', not 'fertilisation'. 10. 'Results Discussion' - the sentence about the longest battery should be changed to 'longest battery assembled by children' - to make sense. 11. There are a number of places where the English is not quite correct and the whole paper needs close editing for this. For example, where 'can' should be replaced by 'could'. 12. Is Fig 4 really of value to your paper? I am not convinced it is. Overall, while your paper about the pilot study has some valuable outcomes, there are some significant issues with the number of assumptions you make, without evidence to support your rationale. Strong evidence of the benefits to children's education about alternative power sources and the viability of this method as a way of generating bio-energy (e.g. a whole lot of cooked potatoes presents a space and hygiene problem) seem to be rather absent from your paper. The observation that the 41% of participants that mentioned potatoes as an energy source, probably guessed this answer from inferences already made to them, sort of sums up the inconclusiveness of your results. This is reflected in your very brief conclusion. The paper needs to gain more substance through reducing some of the current content (as suggested) to allow space to focus more strongly and clearly on the background to children's learning by this method, linked through to your results. Currently there are too many loose ends. I also recommend that if you do any follow-up research, that you include the voice of the youth leaders and questions asked of the child and youth participants about how this way of learning compared to learning from adults. 