This article by Marsh et al assesses patient preferences regarding the important medical decision about whether to undergo traditional surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) versus the newer transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) for aortic stenosis. This is an important effort to understand what attributes of benefit and risk from aortic valve replacement are most important to patients and understand how patients tradeoff those attributes in deciding which therapy to choose. With shared decision-making becoming increasingly used as our US healthcare system evolves to be more patient-centric, studies such as this one are important to expanding our understanding of how best to provide the information needed by patients to make informed decisions about their care. This study confirms a belief that many clinicians have that most patients prefer TAVR to SAVR because it is less invasive, providing evidence that about 75% patients prefer the less invasive approach. These patients are willing to tolerate a somewhat higher risk of stroke, pacemaker placement, and dialysis, and less evidence of long-term duration for the benefits of less invasiveness. It also identifies that younger patients (60 yo) perspectives may differ from those of older patients (60 yo) somewhat, although both groups generally prefer the less invasive procedure. I support the publication of this study. While this study is not perfect from my point of view, it is an important contribution to the literature, both about how to treat aortic stenosis and about patient preference assessment more generally. Understanding what treatment attributes are most important to patients and how patients trade off benefits and risks is important to understanding how best to inform patients about their treatment options and help them make decisions that best reflect their individual preferences. As the paper notes on p. 11, there has only been one other, more limited study of patient preferences in aortic stenosis, so this study is an important expansion of our understanding of patient preferences that clinical area. Additionally, from a methodological perspective and as also noted in the paper, there are only a few other studies that use adapted swing weights (ASW) to assess patient preferences. Swing weighting is one of only fourteen methods identified in the Medical Device Innovation Consortium (MDIC) review of preference assessment methodologies. (See: MDIC Patient Centered Benefit Risk Project Report, Appendix A: Catalog of Methods for Assessing Patient Preferences for Benefits and Harms of Medical Technologies, May 2015, available at: https://mdic.org/resource/patient-centered-benefit-risk-pcbr-framework/ ). This study is an important contribution to the literature about swing weighting methods, and should allow comparison to studies of patient preference using other methods to help researchers and clinicians better understand how best to assess patient preferences. This study does have a few issues that should be highlighted to help put the results in context. I also note an area for further assessment of the data as well as areas for future research focus. Please note that I come at this study as someone with an interest in patient preferences from clinical and regulatory policy perspective, and do not have the expertise to comment on the specific methodology or statistical analysis, which I will leave to experts in those areas. Major concerns: 1. The mixing of treated and untreated patients in the participant population: In Box 1 on p. 6, the inclusion criteria describe that patients in the study could have already had a procedure within the last 10 years or could be untreated. From a shared decision making point of view, patients express their preferences prior to treatment – so it is most important to understand the benefit-risk attributes that are most important to patients not yet treated and how such patients trade off such risks. The mixing of both untreated and treated patients may make it hard to understand how the pre-procedure patients view these issues. Prior treatment could significantly influence a patient’s preference for one treatment option or another, but it his hard to know a priori how treatment would influence a patients preferences. Prior treatment may introduce a confirmation bias that patients tend to prefer the procedure that they chose to have, and therefore require much greater benefit or much less risk from the alternative procedure compared to treatment nave patients. Alternatively, if patients had a negative experience with their prior procedure, they may find the benefit/risk profile of the alternative procedure much more attractive than that of the procedure that they had. Additionally, their experience of specific benefits or risks from their procedure may skew their weighting of those specific attributes compared to other patients. For this study, it would be important in Table 4 to add a breakdown of the patient treatment history, specifically the number and percentage of patients that have had SAVR, TAVR, or were untreated. Additionally, it would be helpful to add a comparison of the preferences of patients in each of these categories to show how prior treatment affects the MIR/MRB for each attribute, perhaps in a table similar to Table 5 except substituting treatment category for age. One concern is that with a sample size of 93 patients, sub-categorization by treatment status may result in too few patients in any one category to have confidence in the results. If this is a problem, it should be acknowledged that future studies may be needed to better understand the effect of prior treatment on preferences in aortic valve replacement. 2. Representativeness of patients involved in member organizations: The study recruited participants from two member organizations (Heart Value Voice and Mended Hearts). While it is understandable why the membership of these organizations facilitated identifying patients with aortic valve disease. However, patients who are motivated enough to join such organizations may have different preferences than the broader population of patients with the disease eligible for treatment of their aortic valve disease. There is no way to assess this potential difference in this study, but the authors could acknowledge this potential source of bias in the sample population in their discussion of the results and encourage future study in one or more different aortic valve disease populations. 3. Lack of clarity in the attribute of “Time over which the procedure has been proven to work”: From the definition of this attribute in the paper, it is difficult to know whether patients interpreted this attribute as a measure of how long they could expect benefit, i.e, duration of effect, or whether patients also viewed this as how much clinical experience there was with a treatment, i.e., uncertainty in the knowledge about the effect. (See section 2 of the MDIC Patient Centered Benefit Risk Report for a nice discussion of uncertainty and how it relates to patient preferences.). This ambiguity raises the question about whether this attribute as described elicited preferences about expected duration, or elicited preferences about patient tolerance of uncertainty about the effect of TAVR, or some combination of the two. Showing an example of how this “proven to work” attribute was shown to patients akin to Figure 1 might clarify this ambiguity. Future studies might try to separate these attributes, particularly comparing an established therapy like SAVR with a newer treatment like TAVR. Minor issues and typos: Introduction, last paragraph of left column, p. 3: the beginning of the second sentence is awkward: “However, little is known about the weights that patients assign to which attributes, . . . . “ I would suggest “However, little is known about the weights that patients assign to each attribute. . . .” Methods, Attribute selection, last sentence (p.3): note “was were”. I would remove the were. Table 1, p. 4: Disabling non-fatal stroke: in the description, first sentence, note the “one 1” – should be “one month”. Table 2, p. 4, description of “independence” attribute: the description of the measure of this attribute does not mention that this is measured at one month, whereas all the other measures note the time frame of the measure. Analysis, p. 6, top right column, first paragraph: there looks to be a calculation error in the next to the last sentence. 4.8%/2% = 2.4, not 1.4 as written. Comparisons of TAVR and SAVR, p. 7: right column, top paragraph – “In each case, patents. . . . ” should be “In each case, patients. . . .” Figures 2 and 3, p. 9: Each x-axis should be labeled with what the unit of measurement is. This will help the figures be more self-explanatory. I hope that these comments are helpful. Given my interest in the use of patient preferences in the FDA regulatory process and increasing shared decision making in medicine broadly, I am pleased that the authors undertook this study to better understand patient preferences in aortic stenosis treatment, and I support its publication. It should be a nice addition to both the aortic stenosis treatment literature and the patient preference literature. 