The authors report on the use of a relatively novel method to determine capillary density during acute and chronic exposure to hypobaric hypoxia. Previously reported results of an increase in capillary density during acclimatization are confirmed, but it is for the first time demonstrated that upon immediate descent some changes persist. Overall, this is a well-conducted study that adds to the current knowledge base of microcirculatory changes during adaptation to hypobaric hypoxia, and provides an innovative approach to vessel density measurement. Specific comments: Introduction In the introduction the absence of neovascularization in muscle samples during adaptation to high altitude is discussed. It is however also known that mitochondrial density increases during this process (PMID 26339730). The authors may want to include this in the discussion about capillary-to-fibre ratio, the mitochondria arguably representing the circulation's endpoint. Methods The KTM time point seems difficult to me for use as a “post-hypoxia” measurement, since it is not comparable to the LON baseline. This is not a severe limitation since “immediate descent” was one of the study endpoints rather that a comparison to the initial (LON) baseline. I still suggest mentioning this in the limitations. Microcirculation capture time is very short (1 sec). I am not sure if the analysis in four subjects given in table 3 is sufficient support for the use of much shorter capture intervals than recommended by current consensus guidelines. This could be discussed in more detail in the limitations. Hb and Hematocrit values, as well as SpO 2 were determined “on the same day as microcirculatory imaging was performed”. Given the influence of hydration status changes throughout a day, especially in a mountain setting, either specify the time frame more clearly or mention this time relation in the limitations. Results Figure 2: It is unclear to me what the results of the Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA described in the methods section were for vessel density measurements, consider mentioning these in the results section. Further, are the P values given in the text references to Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests as mentioned in the methods section? Consider describing these tests as post-hoc analysis for the non-parametric ANOVA. And if so, was a correction for multiple testing applied (Bonferroni, or one of the newer algorithms)? Please describe this more clearly. It is mentioned that at each altitude there was no correlation between vessel density and Hb, Hct or SpO 2 . In the methods section it is stated that Spearman's rank correlation coefficient was calculated. Consider adding correlation coefficients and P values to the results section to provide the readers some insight into the data. In addition to Hb, Hct and SpO 2 given in Table 2, it would be of interest to know more about the subjects' physiologic parameters, such as blood pressure, cardiac output and even RV/RA – including a discussion about the changes in macrocirculation in relation to the changes in microcirculation. Discussion Given borderline significance (p=0.069) for a decrease in vessel density from EBC-late to KTM and the lack of a power calculation, as well as the lack of real comparability to the initial (LON) baseline it is somewhat difficult to argue that there really was no change between EBC-late and KTM. This is discussed in the discussion to some extent, but it should be stated more clearly that a verification of these results is needed in the future. The method for vessel density estimation used in this study differs from the effective calculation of total vessel density (TVD), being the total length of small vessels divided by the surface area covered in the recording, that is recommended by current consensus guidelines. Please discuss the relationship between vessel density as measured in this study with vessel density as assessed by TVD, and potential confounders.