This review and meta-analysis of previous studies on the effects of vitamin D supplementation on vitamin D status and on blood pressure in the elderly is a topic of importance for population health since hypertension and vitamin D deficiency are both so common in elderly people globally, including isolated systolic hypertension. This manuscript has already been assessed by earlier peer review as being appropriate in design and analytical methodology. The present comments, therefore, are mainly directed at presentation, readability and the additional information requested by the previous reviewers. It is unfortunate that only 8 of the many RCTs considered for this study were suitable for meta-analysis. The use of Individual Participant Data, if obtainable, could be more revealing on the question of whether supplementation is more effective for reducing BP in older people in deficiency than in repletion, as suspected in other health problems and as the present data suggests. This would be a valuable follow-on study if it were to be possible. General comments: The English language usage is often awkward, which distracts from the readability of the text. Simple editing by a native English language speaker with a scientific/medical background would greatly improve the readability of the text throughout. Vitamin D was not measured in any studies analysed, but 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25OHD], and this term should be used throughout. Lab data reports ‘concentrations’ not ‘levels’ and this term should be used while ‘levels’ is good for cut-offs and definitions. Specific comments: Table 2, the heading ‘vitamin D’ would be clearer saying ‘baseline vitamin D status’. Page 10, column 1, line 2, do you mean decreases by 75% or decreases by 25% - please clarify; line 3 , ..have..; 2 nd column, line 6 , do you mean ‘…reduce renal activation, [though not that in other target tissues], but such problems were amongst the exclusion criteria’? Page 10, 2 nd column, para 2 , the last sentence reads as if this is the 1 st study to assess the effects of supplementation on serum 25OHD values but this cannot be true either for this submission or for the ‘newer’ meta-analysis mentioned in the previous sentence that needs a reference. These comments should be corrected - maybe you mean ‘...in elderly people for both vitamin D status and effects on blood pressure’? Page 11, 1 st column, line 15 , 'adjunctive' might be a better word than 'supportive'; Para 2, line 4 , ‘....have confirmed the association’ might be better than proven ‘ ….however associations are not proof of causality …..; column 2, 1 st para, lines 6/7 are obscure, this section reads as if deficiency lowers blood pressure, which is not what is meant - maybe say, re. ref 24, ‘ ...because they were not vitamin D deficient’. Re ref 22 comment , it would be better to say that circulating renin concentrations are not raised in the elderly and not the other way around as renin raises the BP and is suppressed by vitamin D, [if you are sure that this is a general finding]. Para 3, do you mean that supplemental doses were heterogeneous or that treatments for hypertension were heterogeneous, or, as I suspect, that both of these were heterogeneous? Please clarify. Page 12, para 1 , is unclear, if you mean that studies homogeneous for duration, etc, need to be carried out, please rephrase for clarity, perhaps concluding, ‘...so as to identify optimal treatment regimes for hypertension in the elderly that may need to include correction of vitamin D deficiency’? 