This is a very interesting paper which provides very useful information for researchers in the field of terrestrial bioacoustics, especially those involved in remote passive acoustic monitoring efforts. General comment: The English in the present manuscript requires improvements. Please carefully proof read and spell check the manuscript to eliminate existing grammatical errors. For example, “ As transducers of mechanical energy into electrical signals ” is not proper English. Another example is “ Commercial microphones are relatively expensive, specialized on particular taxa, and often have opaque technical specifications. ” Specialized on should be replaced with specialized for. Also, technical specifications cannot be opaque. This sentence needs to rephrased. For example: Technical specifications on the microphones are often not publicized. Language issues like these exist throughout the manuscript and need to be addressed. A few detailed comments: Which MEMS type is being used in the recommended designs? Sounds like the Bufo is based on the Vesper 1000 MEMS but it is not mentioned which MEMS was used for the Otus and Myotis. What really should be included in the manuscript are frequency response curves for the various designs indicating the sensitivity across the entire frequency range of interest. For example, the gain of the horns will be frequency dependent and alter the frequency response of the actual MEMS. A single frequency test is informative but doesn’t provide enough information. This is especially true for frequencies in the 50-100 kHz range. The authors emphasize the importance of the microphone’s SNR. The MEMS mics used in the designs feature SNRs between 60 and 70 dB. However, most of the recording system listed in Table 1 feature mics with a SNR of 80 dB. The authors should include talk about these differences in the discussion section. In addition, microphone sensitivity is also an important parameter. How do the selected MEMS mics differ in sensitivity (and compare to the mics listed in Table 1)? Again, a comparative frequency response curve would answer many of these questions. Most MEMS these days can be wired differentially or single-ended. Differential outputs are typically lower noise and in case of the MEMS and increase the sensitivity. Is this something which could be accommodated in your design? Should this be considered? Many autonomous systems aim for low power consumption. How do MEMS compare to traditional mic designs in that regard? BTW, TDK recently released the ICS-40730 MEMS with a SNR of 74dB. To my knowledge this is currently the MEMS with the best SNR. 