 The manuscript presents a very interesting subject: the current general practitioner consultation room layouts in several countries. The study is based on an internet-based questionnaire. There are some aspects that require some clarifications. For instance, the concept of "health clinic design" is not clear enough. It seems advisable to use another terminology such as "consultation room design" or "healthcare settings design". The authors mention that the aim of this study was also to describe any significant differences among consulting rooms around the world; what do “significant differences” mean? In terms of? Please specify. In the introduction, what does “the power relationship” sentence mean? It should be clarified. In the methods section the sentence “A specific questionnaire exploring this topic was not found” is stated. How did the authors arrive to this conclusion? Please, review this sentence: “there was a section for questionnaire feedback in order to allow for future improvements.” There is some information missing in the methods and results sections: the sentence “distributed by email to several worldwide rural medicine social media groups” is mentioned, please specify in which social media groups or platforms they were distributed or the criteria for selecting them, the number of questions, the fact that among them 296 respondents described their practice as public and 184 as private and that means there were some respondents missing. The number of countries that participated in the study, why are Asia and Australia are included in the same group? Apart from the graduation year, the age of participants is not included, and it would have been of interest to have a more complete respondents’ profile. In the discussion section the authors mention that “The position of the chairs and desk can directly affect the doctor-patient relationship”. This statement should be supported by several references. In the conclusion section we read that “Modifying current consulting room designs opens up new opportunities for interaction between GPs and their patients…” What kind of modifications are the authors referring to and in which of the scenarios described? What kind of opportunities? It seems that it is of great interest to describe these points even briefly. 