Molgaard et al. have investigated the suitability of various commercially available antibodies for the identification of GABAergic interneurons in mice. Among 13 tested antibodies against calbindin (3), calretinin (4), parvalbumin (4) and somatostatin (2), the authors found 1-2 antibodies per each marker that produced high quality, sensitive and specific staining in mouse brain sections and cultured hippocampal neurons obtained from P0 mouse pups. Their findings remind us about the tediousness of immunostainings in general and challenges about the identification of proper antibody and antibody conditions suitable for high quality research. Although the antibodies have not been investigated in all possible experimental conditions (e.g. fixation protocols, dilutions), the study provides very valuable reference information for researchers aiming to investigate GABAergic markers in mice. In general the manuscript has been written and constructed well. Abstract nicely describes the summary of the study. The introduction provides very good background knowledge for the reader (incl. relevant citations). The methods section is described in a manner that allows scientific reproduction efficiently. Tables are clear and useful. Overall the representative figures are good but the paper would benefit with more comprehensive set of immunostainings (as main figures). I have few minor comments/questions: GABAergic interneurons are considered as small neuronal population in the text. In respect to glutamatergic neurons this is indeed the case, but overall I consider 20% quite a significant fraction (cf. monoaminergic neurons). The authors could have clarified what is in the abstract. In the Introduction the authors state that breakdown of cortical network rhythms underlie neuropsychiatric disorders. I would rather say that alterations in cortical network rhythms in specific brain networks may underlie neuropsychiatric disorders. The authors could have explained that glutamate decarboxylase is expressed in GABAergic neurons and it synthesizes GABA (Introduction, first and second paragraph). The authors could have described the gender and amount of adult mice used for the study. Moreover, where all the antibodies tested in specimens derived from same conditions (e.g. same animal). I would have used rather than throughout the paper. Table 2. would be even more clear if the antibodies against the four different markers would have been divided from each other more clearly (e.g. using different background colors). Why there appears no Hoechst staining in some of the unspecific stainings? Why the authors choose not to show the representative figures from spinal cord? The authors could have emphasized that the quality of polyclonal antibodies is significantly determined by the lot/batch. This should be kept in mind when reproducing the findings. Figure legends should have been clearer. In optimal case, the reader understands the figures thoroughly without the main text (e.g. age of cultures). It would have been very useful to test, at least selected, antibodies in rats as well (brain sections, culture) 