 Comments by Sue Kenwrick, Principal Genetic Counsellor The author sets out some of the potential implications for families with a child affected by a developmental disorder who are undergoing broad genetic testing such as array CGH or exome analysis. She proposes an increased role for genetic counsellors (GCs) in helping families adapt to genetic test results and proposes a model where GCs hold clinics prior to genetic testing to help manage patient expectations and to identify individual family needs. The background overview of the impact of having a child with a developmental disorder, the search for a diagnosis and research into factors that help or hinder adjustment is thought provoking and well structured. The author should also mention large projects doing whole genome as well as exome analysis for completion (such as 100,000 genome project). She sets out well the complex needs of families in these situations and the need to pay attention to emotional needs (counselling) as well as educational needs (teaching) of parents going through testing. In particular, she highlights the need for management of expectations surrounding a test and a need to signpost/refer parents to additional resources/support groups that may further facilitate adjustment and coping. Clearly, these families would benefit from incorporation of more of the ‘counselling’ aspect of their consultations in order to optimise their adjustment. However, there is more than one way this could be achieved. Personally I think the idea of introducing a ‘preconsultation’ with a GC prior to broad genetic testing by another clinician (as suggested in the authors model) is a retrograde step for the profession. I think this would be a great strain on limited GC availability at a time when we are taking steps to deal with increase in referrals by doing more genetic counselling by telephone. For many genetic services models already exist for pregathering of information by family history questionnaire for certain conditions and some of this is done by coordinators that are not trained in genetic counselling. This non-GC workforce would not be equipped to ask about family coping strategies or perceived control as seems to be implied in the authors model (under initial contact). While it is valid and laudable to highlight GC input and support for families with a new diagnosis or uncertain result, I don’t think this shift in service provision provides the answer. Rather, any provider (whether Clinical Geneticist or GC) offering a genetic investigation should be equipped to discuss managing expectations and support the family by signposting to resources or offering additional consultations, or referrals as required. Depending on the centre, It is already common for GCs to see families after a ‘genomic’ result to facilitate understanding and assess the families further needs and this could be an open offer or case by case. Additional training is something that might be required for some providers. Another part of the solution could be multimedia resources that facilitate the process of testing and follow-up (e.g. online videos about having a genetic test and how it doesn’t always give a clear answer or improved follow-up literature for families). There is no doubt, however, that, as the author points out, GCs are skilled at managing the psychosocial aspects of genetic counselling and there will be a need to increase the workforce as more complex genetic investigations and results are provided. For readers outside clinical genetics services, I think the author should distinguish between the terms genetic counselling and genetic counsellor, as this can be confusing for those in other specialties. Genetic counselling is done by different types of provider (Clinical Geneticists, GCs and, in some specialties, by specialist nurses who have had genetics training). Genetic counsellors, however, are a body of allied health professionals from science or nursing background, ‘usually’ not MDs, who are trained in genetic counselling. Overall, as this is an opinion piece and raises interesting issues surrounding broad genetic testing. I approve publication with reservation based on a limited exploration or potential solutions and significant reservation about the model proposed. Comments by Vicki Wiles, Consultant Genetic Counsellor This review and opinion piece by a Genetic Counsellor from the Wales Genetic Counselling service raises interesting questions about the use of Genetic Counselling resources. The support and counselling issues for families with children with disorders of developmental are well described and the summary of research papers supports the argument that Genetic Counsellors are well trained in counselling skills, with an understanding of genetic concepts and testing and are therefore equipped to help families with children with undiagnosed disorders. I would agree that there is often a need for support that a GC can provide but this support might also be provided by the family Health Visitor, a paediatric Clinical Nurse Specialist or the Consultant Geneticist working with the family. I would have liked to see more discussion on how genetic counselling varies across England and the devolved Countries, with an acknowledgement that some services have continued to do pre-clinic work sometimes including home visits, with longer term involvement, while other services have moved to more autonomous working for Genetic Counsellors focussing more on genetic testing where there is known diagnosis in the family. Funding and workforce differences in England have influenced the type of work that genetic counsellor’s focus on and I would have welcomed reference to this. The article would benefit from a broader health resources overview to set the author’s views in context including the financial side to her argument, which might well underpin her views. As genomics moves more into mainstream medicine there will be many, possibly conflicting, demands on genetic counsellor’s time with patients and so this article is timely and merits publication to stimulate debate. 