This is a new paper in a series of exciting papers about phenotypic evolution, based on models of genes genetic regulatory networks, and phenotypes. There are many technical details in the paper that most biologists will find difficult to follow – I would put at least some of these items into an Appendix. Also, I am wondering how many (even theoretical) biologists would readily grasp the meaning of the K-SAT problem as defined. A more accessible formulation (in addition to the strictly technical one) could do a lot for easier understanding (one of the papers by the authors contains a didactive figure, for example). I consider this paper a serious attempt at broadening our views of the role of learning dynamics in evolution, but I think the message could be made a lot clearer. The punch line in a way is in the Discussion that I find both intriguing and baffling. First, as it is portrayed in this paper, the effect of genes is filtered through a genetic regulatory network. It seems that, just like in Ref 40 1 , that this filter itself does not evolve, or at least the dynamics is not given. In other words, how do the weights in the network evolve? Note that in the Watson-Wagner paper in Evolution 2 it was the evolution of the weights that was related to Hebbian dynamics. So, how do we stand on this? Second, in this paper the genetic control of the thresholds in also kept implicit, but the evolution of threshold values does play an important role in the Goldschmidtian argument. Is the change in thresholds genetic or epigenetic? If the latter, then it ought to be part of the regulatory network. I guess this is what the statement “gene regulation detects that increase to change the threshold according to simple rules”. How these rules would be implemented in mechanistic terms remains obscure. And how would they arise in evolution? The simple rule implies feedback from expression levels to threshold values. Third, do I understand it correctly that here, in contrast to Ref 40 1 , thresholds can be negative? But a large negative threshold value would mean that expression levels will increase, since negative times negative is positive (Eq. 2.4). If the statement “take three values: a large negative one, a neutral value close to zero and a large positive one” instead refers to gene expression levels rather than threshold values (the latter would in this case be nonnegative) then I do not understand the thought example. Increasing the threshold would reduce the expression level that was selected to go up in the first place! These points seem to me crucial, so their clarification is badly needed. I would appreciate a few numerical examples along with at least hints to answers to the more conceptual questions on the dynamics. Also, according to the cited Nagylaki dynamics 3 the population evolves almost as if it were in linkage equilibrium – which cannot hold for the asexual population considered by the authors. There are also some minor issues in the paper: in Eq. 2.4 “s” should be replaced by a sigma, and there are also examples where plurals and singulars in the same sentence do not match. 