Gupta et al. report a web-based application, Onco-Yeasti, to identify human homologs of yeast genes and link to information from The Cancer Genome Atlas through cBio portal. While the concept of the software is reasonable, there are serious limitations to the approach. The core function of the web app is to provide links to information in cBIO portal based on a homologous yeast gene. There are significant issues with how the homology with human genes is determined and it is unclear whether this direct linking to cBIO portal is an advantage compared to initiating a query directly in the cBIO portal interface. The main problem with the approach taken in Oncoyeasti is that gene orthology between organisms as diverged as yeast and humans is difficult and there does not seem to be a systematic approach to this core function of the software. There is not a single way to accomplish the task of identifying orthologs as evidenced by the multiple algorithms and databases available, such as InParanoid, Orthofinder, Ensemble compara, etc. There are distinctions between orthologs (same gene in a different organism), paralogs (duplicated gene either within or between organisms), and functional orthologs (different gene that plays an orthologous role in another organism). It is not at all clear how these issues are addressed by Oncoyeasti. My understanding from the manuscript is that the homologs are taken from a static list provided by the Saccharomyces Genome Database . If so, then the details of how that list is derived and curated needs to be stated. On the other hand, based on the comments section of F1000, it seems as though homology is now acquired from ENSEMBL. Details of this approach would need to be similarly defined and cited in the manuscript. In any case, there are some strange calls of orthologs. For instance, Oncoyeasti shows that the yeast genes RAS1 and RAS2 have the Human GTPase REM2 as the ortholog. How was this call made? I doubt that REM2 is a better choice of ortholog than H-RAS , K-RAS , N-RAS , RRAS or RRAS2 - especially considering that H-RAS is capable of complementing the inviability of a ras1 ras2 double mutant yeast 1 . Nevertheless, there are already good web resources for identifying orthologs. Queries of yeast genes in the Alliance of Genome Resources web site (Stanford) compares multiple orthology methods such as PANTHER, InParanoid, etc and ranks orthologs in multiple species based on an aggregate of the methods. A useful extension of this approach might include functional orthologs as well as evidence of complementation between human and yeast genes 2 , 3 as part of the scoring metric. The second issue with Oncoyeasti is whether the links it generates to cBIO portal are more useful than querying the cBIO portal website directly. Part of this is a design issue, the row and column labels for the the genes and cancer studies scroll off the page and the site becomes difficult to use. More importantly, I am not sure that a direct link to the cBIO portal oncolinks page is the best approach. For instance, the yeast MMS2 gene is correctly identified as human UBE2V2 and following the link for breast invasive carcinoma calls up the cBIO portal oncoprint showing the modifications in the different breast carcinoma studies. What this does not indicate is that there is significant sample overlap in these studies and the resulting value for percent altered does not automatically remove duplicated samples possibly leading to erroneous conclusions. Making the same query in cBIO portal warns the user of overlapping studies up front. This does not happen in Oncoyeasti. In summary, since the core function of the software is identifying orthologs, and it does not seem to do this in a systematic way or offer an improvement over existing methods, I cannot approve this manuscript. 