 Overarching comments: This article describes the results of a cross-sectional study that used a self-administered survey to explore the perception of riskiness of medical marijuana in comparison to paracetamol and sedatives among a sample of medical students in a single medical school in northeast Mexico. The study addresses an important and timely topic given the current movement towards legalization of medicinal marijuana in North America. Also, provider perception of risk associated with medicinal marijuana has not previously been reported. However, in its current state, the manuscript is unfit for publication. The introduction is insufficiently supported by evidence, and contains several grammatical and structural mistakes that make it very difficult to read. The aims and objectives of the study are not clearly stated. The methodology has several gaps and generally lacks in rigor. Specifically, the question asked to study participants is unclear (“What is the level of risk associated with medicinal marijuana”) as participants are not told what type of risk we are concerned about. The discussion section also has several grammatical mistakes, includes several statements that are not supported by evidence, and does not adequately explain the significance of the findings. Also, the authors fail to underline key limitations in their study. Finally, the conclusions are not appropriately related to study data and lack in clinical relevance. All in all, the authors have attempted to research an important issue, but the level of rigor in their investigation is insufficient. The survey designed by the authors fails to ask a clear question to study participants and the very high number of grammatical mistakes in the manuscript severely impacts readability. We recognize the effort that was put into this study, and congratulate the authors for selecting an important and timely topic, but cannot recommend publication of this manuscript. Detailed comments: Consider changing the term medicinal marijuana to medical marijuana (this term is more commonly used in North America). Abstract: In the results section, the authors should clearly state that students who used alcohol or cigarettes had a lower risk perception of marijuana. Also, authors need to specify the units of the risk perception scale of put it into context. The conclusions need to be rephrased. A score of 4.22 on a visual analogue scale does not have any clinical or practical significance in and of itself. Introduction: The text has several grammatical and syntactic mistakes that make it difficult to read. Several statements in the Introduction are not supported by a reference. This needs to be addressed. The second paragraph is very difficult to read and needs to be rewritten. In the third paragraph, the authors appear to support the recommendation of medical marijuana for patients (“…so that they can rationally recommend the use of MM…”). Authors refrain from making recommendations based on personal opinion or rewrite this sentence so that it appears neutral. The aims and objectives of the study are not clearly stated and should be clearly described. Methods: The first sentence is grammatically incorrect and needs to be revised. Participants: The reason for exclusion of participants with incomplete data is unclear (this data needs to be reported). The sentence where this is stated is ambiguous and grammatically incorrect. Authors need to detail who obtained consent and who was providing supervision while participants were filling in their surveys as this could be a significant source of bias. Also, was privacy respected? This is a critical point. Were surveys administered anonymously? This needs to be stated explicitly in the manuscript. It is unclear why the authors refer to the Declaration of Helsinki, this should be removed. Instrument: It is unclear why the demographic section was optional. This highly impacts the results of the study. It is unclear why the authors asked participants about having a disease. Authors should say more explicitly how they asked the question on perceived riskiness of medical marijuana (this should appear in the methodology section). Results: In Table 1, authors need to be more specific about how much data is missing as this could introduce a source of bias It is unclear what the response rate represents. Is it referring to the proportion of students who were offered to participate or is it the proportion of medical students at the medical school? In Figure 1, authors state that paracetamol is safe and that sedatives are risky. This should be supported by evidence. Table 2 would benefit from more detail in the row headers as they are hard to interpret. Also, authors should include interquartile ranges in Table 2. Finally, it is not clear what the p-values for the rows in Table 2 are comparing – highest to lowest values would mean comparing paracetamol to sedatives – presumably that is not what authors mean. The term “control” is inadequate in this context. While there is no statistically significant difference between semester of study, it looks like there could be a difference between students early in their studies (1-3) vs 4 if the data were dichotomized in this way. That could be interesting because it might suggest that as students learn more in school they become more aware of the risks of marijuana use. Discussion: The first sentence of the discussion should summarize the authors’ research findings. Authors should acknowledge that there is a high level of controversy around the use of medical marijuana. The authors compare the results of their study with results from other studies. This comparison needs to be detailed. Were all the studies asking the exact same question? The comment in the discussion that the “risk is too low and should be closer to 6” seems to have no justification, and should be removed (if the manuscript is to be edited). This is strictly the authors’ speculation about a scale that has even been validated for this type of experiment (or has it? If it has been this needs to be mentioned in the manuscript) – in other words we don’t even know what a 6/10 means, nor is there any evidence that the scale is anything more than ordinal. If the authors have more data about the scale and its validity they should include it. The authors fail to recognize several methodological limitations in their study (ie: missing data, mode of recruitment, one single medical school...). The authors’ explanation of why the fact that students who use alcohol or cigarettes have lower risk perception is an interesting finding is incoherent. The authors appropriately recognize opportunities for education but could make better use of study data to support their point. Ex: mention that the risk perception of MM does not change with the number of school semester, suggesting a potential missed opportunity in medical education, as students should become more aware of the risks of recommending MM if taught about those risks. The authors appropriately recognized that the study findings might not be generalizable to other countries, but should also acknowledge that they have surveyed students and not healthcare providers. In general, the discussion lacks in depth and clinical relevance. Finally there is no sense of the relevance of this data. Are higher risk perceptions associated with less frequent recommendations for other substances or are they associated with some other meaningful impact on provider behavior? Without this, the data is decontextualized and not easy to meaningfully interpret. Conclusions: Conclusions lack clinical relevance and are not appropriately supported by the research data. 