The paper by Crusio, Rubino and Delprato, appropriately titled: “Engaging high school students in systems biology through an e-internship program”, provides a description of a research education program at the high school level. The authors have developed an online research training program that uses public access genomics and neuroscience data bases to train students in behavioral neurogenetics. Students exercise a substantial amount of autonomy (“are able to choose their own projects”, “proceed at their own pace”). Students were mentored through the process of identifying their projects, conducting their research and preparing a capstone poster presentation by the co-author, Dr. Anna Delprato. According to the website for the program, all students who participated in the project successfully submitted their capstone posters which appear to be of a very sophisticated nature. One student even accomplished to co-author a research paper with the first author of this paper. Unfortunately, the viewing option online (at least for this reviewer and her mac computer; maybe I need tech help??) made it impossible to read the details of the posters and after download, the image quality was insufficient, when enlarged, to see much. Survey data indicate that the participants were, with few exceptions in year 1, very satisfied with this learning opportunity which had two iterations so far. This online training/mentoring model offers a very exciting possibility for (global) distance learning. It is currently based on a very small students sample (5 year one and 10 in year 2) from just a couple of high schools located in New England and on limited assessment. It would have been helpful to know the demographics of the student population involved as well as the graduation rates at this school and how many graduates typically attend college. It would also be helpful to know how many hours, on average, Dr. Delprato spend with each student/student group over the course of the summer. I hope that, as the authors continue their model, they will follow their participants’ future educational and career decisions to assess the impact of the training experience. There is a lot of potential in this model to be implemented within the context of course based research, at the college level as well as for integration into federally funded existing training programs in the US. I would like to encourage the authors to prepare a publication on the specifics of their curriculum in near future, if they are interested in having others adopt this model and implement it in different settings. In conclusion, although this is a very preliminary and descriptive account of a summer research training experience its novelty merits publication even at this early stage. The paper provides sufficient detail to engender ideas for others to attempt to replicate the model, although a more detailed description of the curriculum, and follow up analysis with a larger data set, should be encouraged.