This manuscript introduces an enhanced Cytoscape plugin, called ReactomeFIViz, which enables researchers to visualize drug-target interactions according to strength of supporting binding assay evidence, visualize drug-target interactions in the contexts of pathways and functional interaction networks, and to perform Boolean Network modeling to investigate the impact of drugs on pathways. This seems like a highly useful tool for the community, and I have only a couple of comments on how to improve the manuscript, as well as a few suggestions on potential future versions of ReactomeFIViz. There are several drug-target interaction network visualization and drug repurposing analysis tools available as web-based software implementations, for instance, those reviewed in our recent article 1 . Please cite those that are relevant for the present work, and also describe the added value of ReactomeFIViz in the context of precision medicine applications. Cancer Targetome aggregates drug-target data from various databases in different formats; for example, DrugBank simply reports binary drug-target interactions and does not provide quantitative bioactivity measurements (i.e. IC50, Kd, Ki). Similarly, IUPHAR/BPS Guide to Pharmacology reports median bioactivity values in negative log. Please describe how these data were combined? It remains unclear how the evidence from multiple bioactivity assays (e.g. Kd, Ki, EC50, IC50) are summarized into an interaction strength for pathway analyses (as shown in Figure 2 and Table 1). This is important especially when there are multiple, perhaps contradicting evidence from multiple assays for the same drug-target pair; which assay is considered most informative in such cases? We have initiated an open-data platform, called DrugTargetCommons (DTC), with aim to annotate bioactivity data with assay information to enable more harmonized compound-target analyses. This community-based effort involves both approved drugs and investigational compounds, and perhaps something the authors would like to consider in the future version of ReactomeFIViz. The drug-target interaction network analyses shown in Fig. 7 are interesting, but it remains unclear whether the extracted drug-target information includes also mutant targets, or is the visualization based only on wild-type targets? Selective targeting of the mutant protein (e.g. oncogene) often leads to better efficacy and less side effects, especially if the protein is essential in healthy cells. For instance, DTC includes more than 200 mutant targets with binding affinities for hundreds of drugs. Introduction mentions several current challenges in precision medicine, such as identifying biomarkers to guide treatment decisions, rationally designing combination therapies for improved efficacy, reducing therapeutic toxicity and side effects, and managing both intrinsic and adaptive drug resistance. The authors should summarize in Discussion which of these challenges ReactomeFIViz can currently address, and how, and which will be topics of future research. Specific comments: Figure 1: the text is so small in the panels that it becomes unreadable. Figure 2: several targets are marked with same colors, can you redefine coloring based on pathways? 