This study aimed to test whether H3K27 acetylation depends on the properties of the target sequence itself, or rather defined by the surrounding genomic context. To assess this question, authors translocated sequences with different CG% and CpG content, to the same beta globin locus, and then tested their H3K27ac in the new location. As three tested highGC-highCpG sequences lost their H3K27ac in the new location, authors conclude that the context is more important that GC or CpG properties of the sequence itself. At the same time, two other sequences actually acquire H3K27ac in the same new location, and only one of those can be possibly explained by the antagonistic H3K27me3 mark. Authors describe their methods with all the details which should be sufficient for reproducibility of their main results. I had, however, some minor technical questions regarding their plasmids construction procedure. For example: 1) From the sequence of T2A oligos they provide, peptide sequence seems to be PSPLPSPCLLTCGDVEENPGP, not GSGEGRGSLLTCGDVEENPGP. The latter one would be present in the original pX459 plasmid, but not in the constructed one. 2) To my understanding, annealing of T2A(+) and T2A(-) oligos will produce a hybrid with only 18bp double-stranded overlap - for further digestion with NheI, its single-stranded ends need to be built up with some polymerase; I don't see this step in the Methods. 3) I don't see XhoI site in the T2A-NeoR fragment, and don't see any other potential site compatible with SalI of HSVtk fragment. In addition, it is recommended that all the source plasmids used should be properly referred - either by their original publication, or by the sequence reference in any available repository (Genbank, Addgene, etc); referring as "pHSVTK-Neo (a gift from E.P.) " is not sufficient if the plasmid's sequence cannot be explicitly found by that name. Finally, authors should double-check their text for typos in the names of all constructs and genes (for ex., GAPGH), be sure to use all the titles exactly as they are originally defined (for ex., PX459 instead of pX-459, etc). All these issues, however, are minor and do not distort the main content of the paper. From the technical point of view, the only question I had is about the final readout for H3K27ac: authors perform nested PCR followed by visualization of the PCR products on the gel. I am wondering this method was chosen and not qPCR (as more quantitative) or ChIP-seq (as more unbiased). One of my main concerns is about the reproducibility of the findings: authors do not report any biological or technical replicates which makes the results potentially questionable. Talking about the interpretation of the results, I am not sure how strong can be the conclusion based on only 10 tested sequences, and even more so, only one genomic context. Even with this limited number of tests, some results cannot be easily explained (for example, acquired H3K27ac for sample #5), so in future it would be necessary to expand the panel of both sequences and contexts. Besides above-mentioned questions (hopefully authors can address at least some of them in the revised version), I think the paper is clearly of scientific interest and adds important piece of knowledge to its field. 