This paper is shows how to apply the SAS "MIXED" procedure to FMRI data from ROIs, presents some data from this application, and discusses some of the options and diagnostics that this command provides. The idea is to do what other packages would call an FIR analysis. You first decide on a time-bin width, typically one scan, but sometimes more. Call the time bin width B seconds. Then the scan data is labeled according to how many time bin widths it is after some event onset up until a cutoff of N time-bins. Usually N * B is equal to the length of the event plus 20 seconds or so to let the hemodynamic response drop back to baseline. Then the fitting procedure calculates adjusted means for each for the N bins, giving an evoked response time-course that can simultaneously adjust for other effects in the data, fit in the regression model. In what follows, I confess I know SPM much better than the other packages, so I'll mainly compare to SPM. SPM is rather general, but it does have this capability. The standard procedure would be to fit an "FIR" model to each subject, giving an estimated signal for each time bin in beta images, with one beta image for each bin. You then take these time-bin beta images into your second-level model, where you can adjust for variance covariance effects such as correlation between time-bin values within subjects, different within-subject variance, and so on. As you say, using these methods in SPM can be moderately hard, but I'd argue the complexity is comparable to switching languages from MATLAB to SAS and using SAS to calculate things like adjusted means, residuals and so on. How would you expect the results of using the SPM interface (I guess within marsbar) to compare to the results of using the SAS methods you have here. I was expecting to see you using either MATLAB or R to do this; MATLAB because SPM already requires MATLAB, and it's a general programming language, R because it has a variety of procedures for fitting repeated measures models (see for example http://www.r-statistics.com/2010/04/repeated-measures-anova-with-r-tutorials/ ), is free, open-source, and, in my experience, is more widely used than SAS in research communities, including neuroimaging. I'm afraid I haven't used SAS since the 1980s, so it's hard for me to comment on the details of the SAS commands. I found myself skip-reading the actual SAS commands, I don't know how useful they will be for someone not experienced with SAS. Maybe in-line comments would help? At various points you recommend options for diagnostics and outlier detection. It would help to have more detail as to why you recommend those options over others. Description of procedure, first paragraph "Proportional scaling" is a technical term (at least in SPM-land) for dividing each scan voxel value by the calculated in-brain mean across voxels for the same scan. That is now very rarely used SPM, and was never widely used for FMRI. The standard SPM scaling involves multiplying each scan in a run by the same scaling factor, that brings the mean of in-brain mean voxel values to 100. Assumptions, diagnostic checks, and limitations, first paragraph: Could you expand on "Violations of independence produce a non-normal distribution of the residuals"? Options if diagnostic tests fail, first paragraph "but for smaller numbers the model is likely to be robust for no more than a small amount of skew.". Could you rephrase to something like "For small numbers, even a small amount of skew will make it unlikely that the model is robust.". For some reason I found your original sentence a bit difficult to parse. Disadvantages of RMANOVA, third paragraph: You mention that "Temporal autocorrelation between repeated measures is not accounted for". Could you elaborate? I guess you mean that repeated measures variance / covariance adjustments in MIXED are for the estimates across time bins, not for the autocorrelation between scans. In that case, are you expecting something like SPM to do better, given that it does adjust for autocorrelation at the first level?