The web based utility is well assembled and easy to navigate and have very nice layout and graphic capabilities. A large spectrum of RNA microarray human placental sample sets have been assembled. Reservations are: The verification of the datasets using CSH1 and PLAC1 is rather minimal. Can you verify the differential expression observed in the originating manuscripts? At least in a couple of examples, such as one smoking and one preeclampsia/IUGR. Figures with examples graphics from these validations could be helpful. In many sample sets there exist batch effects. In some cases the depositors have identified the batches, but have not corrected for these, in other cases batches can be observed even when not formally identified by the depositor. For maximum utility these effects should be removed or a tool supplied to identify and remove them. Further to the need for batch correction, viewing a gene across multiple uncorrected/non-normalized data sets is not very informative. The web utility was frequently unavailable during the review process. A more stable platform or redundant server system should be established to limit the down time of this application. What user load can the server handle, how many concurrent users can the server handle? Only transcription arrays are used in the assembled data sets, there are numerous data sets involving DNA methylation, microRNAs and protein. Incorporation of these data sets would create a true systems level database of the human placenta. Improved utility would come from enabling merging of multiple datasets to perform meta analysis of aggregate analysis. This would require the installation of a batch corrections scheme or method/s. There is also a growing resource of sequencing based data sets that have been neglected in this application/manuscript. Once converted into a table of gene expression/counts, it should not be too challenging to incorporate these datasets as well. User training could be improved with additional figures to support descriptions of the utility and data sets. Better would be a vignette containing worked examples of the different types of analyses to generate the table and figures discussed in the paper. Similar worked vignette examples are frequently found in R libraries.