Internship is a time of rapid professional and personal growth. Instruction which meets the practical needs of the learners and delivered in ways concordant with the practice environment can be more likely to viewed as successful. This manuscript describes a year long program (11 modules of 4 weeks each) developed for interns to address common clinical situations and diagnoses. Overall, this was a well thought out and delivered program. The authors sought ways to engage the learners including basing the instruction on active learning techniques. Title: Turning interns into clinicians is the goal, but the program only brings the interns part of the way to that goal. The title may overstate the scope of the program; however, the authors note this was a pilot program. Abstract: Provides an adequate summary. Study design, methods and analysis are appropriate. The goals of the study as stated were to deveop a reproducable chief led program that applied active learning principles to a clinical reasoning seminar (done by survey). A secondary goal was to present preliminary data to evaluate efficacy (done by pre-post scores). Discussion and conclusions. The authors appropriately discuss the findings, limitations and conclusions; the curriculum was well received and post test scores improved for most of the modules. Replication: the authors have supplied their surveys, and example of the crossword, the topics and the format within the residency program to allow for replication of the process of the program. Comment: to follow this study on to further assess the process of turning interns into clinicians, it would be of interest to assess their clinical performance. One approach could be a review of their patients (inpatient and outpatient) for diagnoses addressed and patient outcomes. Another approach is development of an Entrustable Professional Activity around these key areas, and to assess housestaff performance in the relevant venue (eg: shock in the ICU or jaundice in the hospital). I liked the use of the concept map that the learners developed for each module: one way to potentially assess that is to select cases for case conference or morning report, had have the interns use their concept map in the discussion of that case. 