 Review of: The deep(er) roots of Eukaryotes and Akaryotes Jacob S. Berv and Stephen A. Smith Introduction In the present article (Harish and Morrison, 2020), Harish and Morrison argue that prior work (Williams et al. , 2020 1 ) to elucidate the structure of the deepest branches of the tree of life, was misled by reliance on particular data types and models which are unsuited to the task. In general, we agree that Harish and Morrison has merit as a scientific contribution, and represents a valid perspective. However, we are nonetheless cautious as to their conclusions. The debate at issue concerns several hypotheses concerning the monophyly and placement of archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes. Williams et al. ’s rigorous phylogenetic analysis of “redundant” characters, like nucleotide or amino acid sequences, converges on a solution that places eukaryotes within the archaea, and as sister to bacteria – in a two-domain tree of life. This paper garnered significant attention at the time of publication earlier this year, and given the implications of their result, it is fair to subject it to additional scrutiny. The present article by Harish and Morrison, therefore, constitutes a rebuttal to Williams et al. , which itself is in part a response to earlier work by Harish et al. (Harish, 2018; Harish and Kurland, 2017a, 2017b, 2017c) 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 . Before we can have confidence in understanding the branching pattern reflecting at the root of the tree of life, it seems important to acknowledge that there are several key questions at play that are frequently confounded, as rightly emphasized by this and prior work by Harish et al. : 1) What is a domain? 2) How many domains are there? 3) What are the relationships of these domains to each other? Clearly articulating and answering these questions will require addressing two issues that have plagued prior studies of the origins of crown-group life. The first involves the information content of particular data types and identifying which data types are most likely to contain information relevant for discriminating between particular phylogenetic hypotheses. There is significant literature on this front, both from theoretical and empirical perspectives (e.g Dornburg et al ., 2019; Reddy et al. , 2017; Townsend and Leuenberger, 2011 6 , 7 , 8 ). The second key issue concerns the rooting of the tree of life, which presents several difficult challenges that may require addressing fundamental epistemological choices (below). In our review here, we will briefly outline these two issues and discuss the arguments presented by the article by Harish and Morrison. Information content Harish and Morrison argue for a two-domain tree of life that places a clade of archaea and bacteria (together called Akaryotes) as sister to Eukaryotes. In particular, Harish and Morrison argue that phylogenetic characters derived from the presence/absence of protein domains are more suited to the task of elucidating the deepest roots of the tree of life than more traditional phylogenetic characters advocated for by Williams et al . Protein structural domains, which are ~200 amino acid or ~600 nucleotides long, each with unique structure and function (Harish, 2018), have been the focus of prior work by the authors, and we find the authors’ arguments in favor of their application to be justifiable. These data types, at the very least, serve as complementary to other data types used for phylogenetic reconstruction and offer some compelling properties relevant for deep phylogenetic reconstruction. Harish and Morrison point out that unlike traditional nucleotides and amino acid characters, structural domains may be relatively homoplasy free and therefore useful for clarifying the extremely difficult problem of the root of the tree of life. Using such characters for phylogenetic inference recognizes homology of structure that may be lost at the sequence level. Structural domains also exhibit compositional variance that isolates species into taxonomic clusters, whereas clustering of amino acid data generates clusters that reflect gene families, and not clades (Figure 2a). While there may be lineage specific compositional heterogeneity of amino acids within gene families, models that assume amino acid composition to be consistent across gene regions may be a poor fit to data. One issue not addressed by Harish and Morrison but that we feel warrants comment regards branch lengths. A qualitative comparison of the branch lengths reported from prior work by Harish et al. , (relying on protein domain characters), and the branch lengths reported in Williams et al. (relying on amino acid sequences), is strongly suggestive of the hypothesis that the trees reported in Williams et al. may be influenced by saturation artifacts. In Figure 2a and of Williams et al , the branch lengths connecting bacteria and eukaryotes to their respective positions in the unrooted tree of life are much greater than 1 substitution per site. This suggests that there are few to no sites in the alignment that are not variable at edges separating major putative clusters in these data. In other words, there may be no detectable homology between these clades and the rest of the data. This is a very high rate of evolutionary change in the context of divergences that occurred billions of years ago. Williams et al. discuss that the reason these branches may be so long is that the CAT+GTR+G4 model is better able to identify convergent substitutions on these branches (as validated by posterior predictive simulation). While this may be true, an alternative interpretation is that there is simply no information in those amino acid data directly relevant to this question, and different models are reflecting statistical differences, and not necessarily different signals in the data. In comparison, the branch lengths reported by Harish (2018) (for instance) seem to indicate much more realistic values (Figure 6 in Harish, 2018) indicates all branches are much shorter than 1 substitution/site). These observations, at the very least, suggest caution in interpreting the Williams et al. result without further analysis of the adequacy of the model to fit these data with so few shared characters, and would seem to argue in favor of more slowly evolving (but nonetheless apparently very informative) characters like protein domains employed by Harish et al . The rate of evolution across characters is an important consideration in addition to the rate of evolution of the locus when examining the utility of a particular data type for resolving a phylogenetic question (Dornburg et al., 2019). While the branch lengths of Williams et al. may give one pause, some relationships in Harish and Kurland (2017b) also warrant discussion. The rooted analyses that place Eukaryotes sister to Akaryotes result in several relationships that would be considered unusual as compared to most other analyses that focus on the resolution of early Eukaryotes. For example, the resulting analyses have plants as paraphyletic with strong support. Other relationships, while perhaps less egregiously different than other analyses are still uncommon. These results might call into question the quality of these data and analyses for resolving other relationships. Rooting Harish and Morrison argue that “non-redundant” protein domain characters provide a key advantage which allows them to aid in directly estimating the position of the root of the tree of life, using non-reversible models. The issue of rooting cannot be overstated, and its lack of consideration by Williams et al. is an oversight. An unrooted tree does not describe phylogenetic relationships including monophyly. While typical phylogenetic analyses include an outgroup on which the tree can be rooted, the root of the tree of life presents distinct challenges. Harish (2018) discusses why rooting the tree of life is perhaps the most difficult phylogenetic problem: in the absence of outgroups or fossils, the typical approach has been to root the tree on bacteria, but of course, “the nearest neighbor in an unrooted tree need not necessarily be the closest relative” Harish (2018). We reiterate these sentiments – identifying support for the existence of a particular monophyletic clade does not constitute evidence of its relationships with other monophyletic groups—indeed, with an unknown root position, many alternative topological optimizations can be generated by attaching the root to different branches among the three domains a posteriori, which each fundamentally altering our understanding of the origins of crown-group life. The common practice of rooting the ToL with bacteria is unsatisfying as it enforces a strong assumption, and we, therefore, agree with Harish and Morrison that directional models of character evolution may be a useful way forward. The KVR model (Klopfstein et al. , 2015) 9 Haris and Morrison advocate for assumes that the root possesses a different character composition than descendants, and since independent convergence of protein domains may be very rare, the KVR model may be informative in optimizing the position of an unknown root. Williams et al. investigated this proposal by Harish et al. through simulations and found that with simulated datasets that allowed protein fold compositions to vary over the tree, the KVR model often fails to find the correct root. They note that the root position appears to systematically converge toward branches that represent a majority of the compositional variance, which can be controlled by including or excluding taxa from within subclades. Harish and Morrison argue that the simulations employed by Williams et al. do not accurately capture important features of the empirical data, and so are of limited relevance. They note that their own experiments, which reduce the eukaryote sample by or ⅔ still recover a stable root position between Akaryotes and Eukaryotes. These perspectives suggest a strong disagreement over what may be the most critical aspect of a larger problem. It seems to us therefore that continued development of approaches to objectively identify the position of the root may be helpful in making progress, whether or not the topology advocated for by Harish and Morrison is correct. In sum, the present work by Harish and Morrison serves to emphasize that there are still a number of unresolved challenges in understanding the deepest roots of the tree of life. The development of tools like posterior predictive simulation may help us understand how well our models capture specific aspects of our data (e.g. Brown, 2014; Foster, 2004) 10 , 11 , but it will also be important to consider the likely signal of homology that may be present in different data types, as well as how best to objectively identify the position of the root of the tree of life. 