Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting article. It is wonderful to see research on basic science addressing questions which are often taken for granted in clinical practice. We do have a few questions: What is the clinical value of comparing sevoflurane and desflurane at the same MAC, if just the machines are of interest (and the solubility and clinical effects are negligible), would it not have been better to use the same vol%? There are only two factors influencing wash-in to the circuit, and those are circuit volume and fresh gas flow. Setting aside the patient at the end of the anesthesia machine, this study evaluates the wash-in/-out of the total apparatus dead space. To better compare the measurements from the Aisys and the Flow-I, it would be necessary to reference the volumes (bag/volume reflector, internal tubing, respective soda lime canister etc.) of both machines up to the y-piece. We presume they were not identical, but by how much do they differ? The wash-in time plateaued at around minute ventilation, which was to be expected, as both systems could be considered almost closed, with only minimal leakage. For the wash-out, the lowest FGF that eliminates rebreathing should indicate the plateau. Whereas with sevoflurane there is no apparent difference between the machines, reflecting the relationship between circle volume and FGF, the difference with desflurane is quite interesting. Could some materials used in the Flow-i have absorbed desflurane – We are thinking of the volume reflector or valves? We cannot completely follow the data files: if the main stream sensor was placed after the y-piece, the high data points reflect Fi of the agent. Why was this position chosen and not the proximal (to the y-piece) end of the expiratory tube. This could have eliminated inspiratory/expiratory mixing in the acquisition, as the values were not recorded synchronized to the breath cycle. An illustration of the experimental setup could enhance understanding for the reader. The information of Figures 1 and 2 are redundant – they are repeated in Fig 3. 