The authors describe an R package that allows users to store, organize, manipulate, and intersect pairwise chromosomal interactions. The package is written for use with HiC and ChIA-PET style data sets but could be used for a variety of pairwise interactions. While there exist a plethora of tools for the storage, manipulation, and analysis of single genomic elements, equivalent tools adapted for pairwise genomic interactions are limited and still greatly needed. The paper is well written, simple, and accurately describes the package itself. I have downloaded and tested the package and both download and usage went smoothly. It behaves similarly to some of the packages that it builds off of such as GenomicRanges. And those familiar with GenomicRanges will be at home when using InteractionSet. In addition to simply storing and organizing pairwise data, InteractionSet includes a lot of handy features that will be of great use to the community. These include simple functions that organize pairwise genomic interactions such as swapAnchors that assures that the first of the two paired regions is always on the lower numbered chromosome or upstream (with regard to Watson strand) and more complex functions such as findOverlaps that allows users to overlap sets of pairwise interactions in a variety of ways. This package is very useful and powerful and provides a valuable resource to software developers and advanced users. The GenomicRanges-style organization of the data, that InteractionSet adopts, is often too complicated for casual R users to learn. In many cases simply reading files from BED, BEDPE, or sam format into data frames is easier and faster for simple tasks. However, developers will prefer this more standardized format for improved stability of their packages. And advanced users may prefer the standardized yet flexible approach to data organization and the powerful built in tools. Importantly, the package is accompanied by a detailed and clear online tutorial which clearly demonstrates how to use the classes and functions. In summary, this paper is succinct and clearly written and accurately describes an R package that will be of great use to the scientific community.