 The manuscript reports the effect of silver nanoparticles incorporation in the self-etch adhesive system on its antibacterial activity and degree of conversion: an in-vitro study. Overall the experiments are performed well and also the manuscript was well written, I recommend this research manuscript is appropriate to be indexed with minor revision mentioned below. Avoid using words such as we, he, she, them, their, etc. Language is good, but, proof reading by a native speaker would avoid the minor errors. Please concrete the keywords and make it formally and academically. Regarding the Introduction section, to make the reading more clear and smooth, it should be organized according to the following items: i) present state of the art; ii) literature review; iii) motivation and objective of the study proposed; iv) innovative contribution in terms of methodology developed. The authors are suggested to read the following articles and cite them in the appropriate places. The introduction must be revised to enhance readability i.e. I would also like to see following references in the revised version: Shanmuganathan et al. (2019 1 ). Jacob et al. (2019 2 ). Saravanan et al. (2018 3 ). Pugazhendhi et al. (2018 4 ). Shanmuganathan et al. (2018 5 ). Saravanan et al. (2018 6 ). Samuel et al. (2020 7 ). Typographical errors are present throughout the manuscript. The authors are required to pay keen attention to this. In the materials and methods, divide them into nice sub-sections. Provide the details of all the equipment’s, instruments used, their model number, company of manufacture, country, etc. In the introduction section, write the novelty of the work and the problem statement clearly. 70% of the references should be from 2017, 2018 and 2019. Kindly do a careful literature review. The results and discussion section is only to write your results and facilitate scientific/technical discussions. Provide mechanism-based reactions and refer to important/recent literatures in the results and discussions. Conclusions (100 words) should be in line with the specific objectives of your work. Do not repeat the results and the methodology here. Delete unwanted old references. Refer to references from the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. Figure numbers must be rearranged in this manuscript. The authors must compare more results with previous publications mainly in characterization parts (Results and discussion). Only few previous publications in discussions. Why did the authors not compare the current results with previous publications? The authors are required to re-write the conclusion. The authors must check the manuscript carefully before submitting to the journal. Because the manuscript still has grammar mistakes and some words are joined with some other words. The authors must show good results in the abstract section to enhance the readers' understanding. g/ml or gm/ml. Check the full the manuscript. The authors must use any one format throughout the manuscript for example minutes must be as “min”; “ml” must be as “mL” and hours must be as “h”. throughout the manuscript. Please avoid reference overkill/run-on - do not use more than 3 references per sentence. If you need to use more, make sure you state the key relevant idea of each reference. Many sentences could be seen without enough evidences or justifications - you need appropriate references to justify your arguments. Additionally, please pay attention to revise/check the following: English language throughout the manuscript. Please ensure to have a proof reading to your manuscript. Similarity index shall not exceed 15% with no more than 1% from any source. Citation of references with latest publications on the topic. Please also cite some relevant papers from F1000Research. Manuscript shall have an adequate number of Figures and Tables. Figures must be in high quality format. Please ensure also to submit a high quality Graphical Abstract representing a summary of your study. 