This article is a valuable resource for the metagenomics field. The thorough examples of several statistical analyses of metagenomic data will help both the novice and expert in analyzing their own data. Additionally, this paper sets a standard in the field for documenting analyses. Both DADA2 and PhyloSeq have much to offer. DADA2 identifies OTUs, which are termed in this paper ‘Ribosomal Sequence Variants,’ reflecting the extra granularity with which DADA2 is capable of resolving OTUs. The RSVs identified by DADA2 offer the ability to conduct higher resolution analyses on 16S data. PhyloSeq is comprised of numerous capabilities to analyze metagenomic data, making it quite easy for a user to load and analyze their data. Below I make a few suggestions for clarification purposes. I enjoyed reading this article and have already benefited greatly from using DADA2 and PhyloSeq in my own work. Minor critiques and suggestions: A very attractive feature of DADA2 is its ability to resolve RSVs. I wonder if the authors could expand more on the findings they have made with the higher resolution OTUs found by DADA2. This would highlight why DADA2 is such a powerful tool. I wonder if the examples that the authors provide could be more biologically motivated. For example, could the authors explain the mouse data set in greater depth in the introduction? What did Kozich et al. 2013 and Schloss et al. 2012 find in these data sets? Were DADA2 and PhyloSeq used to analyze the data in these two papers? If not, are the findings different? I enjoyed reading about the different metagenomic properties of mice of different ages. More description along these lines in the introduction would make it motivating to understand why the various preprocessing steps are done and an overview of what is to come. Page 4 – it could be helpful to illustrate some of the properties of the software with numbers and data. For example, DADA2 has the ability to infer OTUs from pooled or unpooled data. Could the authors illustrate the number of RSVs found in the two scenarios? Figure 2 -- Could the authors explain on Page 4 what sequencing error rates are being inferred (i.e. transition and transversion errors)? Which parameters are inferred to come up with the solid black line? An explicit reference to Figure 2 in the text could help. Additionally, headers indicating Forward and Reverse reads in Figure 2 could help to distinguish the plots. Page 6 – Is the multiple sequence alignment feature capable of multiple methods? If so, do you advocate for using ClustalW for metageonomic data? Why? Page 6 -- Could the authors define what a GTR+G+I model is? I wonder if the authors could give some more guidance on how to construct the PhyloSeq object from scratch without relying import functions. For example, I tried making a PhyloSeq object using Metaphlan2 output. Unfortunately I could not figure out how to merge Metaphlan2 biom files for each sample, and so I had to fiddle with Phyloseq for sometime to manually create the OTU, sample, and taxa tables for multiple samples. 