This is a very important field of research, due to the fact that randomized controlled trials on people with severe mental illness showing aggressive behavior is still scarce and data for improving safety of this patient group is urgently needed. There are many positive points in the study design that should be highlighted: First, the opportunity for highly disturbed patients to give/withdraw informed consent for study participation after randomization to ensure that these patients are not excluded systematically and the organizational efforts that are made to keep the study recruiting even during night/weekend duty. Second, the blinded rating before the administration of the drug. Third, the 2 hours and 24 hours follow-ups which are missing in some of the rapid tranquilization studies guidelines have to rely on. And last but not least, the consideration of gender issues and the fact that patients who are not eligible for the study are also recorded. For this is a study protocol, it would have been better, to have it published before starting the recruitment process. Due to the fact, that the recruitment process is already completed comments or suggestions for improvement from the reviewers cannot be taken into account anymore. I would like to name some of these flags anyway: The evidence for the combination of haloperidole and promethazine is already quite good (evidence level 1a). Despite this high quality evidence, guidelines at least in Europe are constrained in recommending this combination due to safety reasons (especially QTc prolongation). At the moment, clinicians face the situation that a combination that is favored by international evidence and at least some clinical practice guidelines is not approved by the agencies. Adding a third active ingredient makes the adverse events and interdependencies even more unclear (e. g. chlorpromazine plus haloperidole and the risk for seizures). Against the background of this discussion and the recent discussion if the tranquilizing effect of a drug combination could also be achieved by a higher dose of one drug as monotherapy, the study design with a two- and a three-drug-combination and even the doses of these combinations left at the discretion of the clinician seems questionable. Especially, when rating the effects of the drugs at the follow-up points dosages and additional drugs should be analyzable per patient. It stays unclear if these longitudinal assessments are possible within the scope of the study. One sentence explaining the SPIRIT checklist would have been helpful. Concerning protection of data privacy, it would be interesting how the abbreviations for the patients were built up and which data was exchanged via the Whatsapp group. (Note to my "partly" answer on the last question: I missed the sheets that had to be filled in by the doctors. I did not understand why the form "Dr. Stopwatch" and "TREC-Lebanon main data collection form" only were present in the HPC- and not in the HP-envelope.) 