The author suggests that the 2018 WHO algorithm for causality assessment in cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) may be overly mechanistic and may not do justice to the complexity of biological systems and the possibility of multifactorial causation. He sets the scene regarding bio-complexity with reference to complex disease causation, the complexity of the immune response (including the genesis of autoimmunity), the role of genetic variants in modulating immune reactions, and the role of the microbiome. He then examines the 2018 WHO algorithm considering four steps in some detail. The first step in WHO's causal algorithm asks if there is 'strong' evidence for an alternative cause of the event. The author suggests that this either-or question precludes consideration of the possibility of an interaction between the alternative cause and the immunisation event. The second question raised concerns the significance of temporal association (between immunisation and adverse event) in determining causality. The author argues, drawing particularly on immunopathology, that some pathways of causation could operate over weeks and months rather than hours and days. The third element of the algorithm which the author questions concerns the exclusion (with respect to causality) of cases where there is 'strong' evidence against a causal relation. The concern raised here concerns the meaning of 'strong' evidence in relation to the methodological limitations of such research. The fourth element of the algorithm in question concerns the final classification of 'consistent with' or 'not consistent with' causality. Here the author returns to his concerns about the either-or logic upon which the algorithm rests and the need to properly accommodate multifactorial causation. In concluding his review the author proposes further development of the WHO algorithm to better accommodate multifactorial causation. He also comments on the links between AEFI causality assessment and access to compensation for people who have experienced harm after immunisation. He suggests that the appropriate standards for causal inference for compensation purposes might not be same as those for regulatory purposes. Finally the author returns to multifactorial causation, highlighting in particular, genetic influences and the need for further research including regulatory monitoring of genetic factors (and perhaps microbiomic factors). He suggests that closer attention to the interplay of these (potentially) contributory factors could contribute to more evidence-informed decision-making regarding exemptions from mandated (or highly recommended) immunisations. This is a very thoughtful and well informed contribution to the continuing discussion of causal assessment in cases of AEFI. The author has presented a 'strong' case for closer attention to complexity and multifactorial causation in causality assessment of AEFIs. The distinctions he makes between the different contexts and purposes of causal assessment (regulation, compensation and exemption) are useful. 