Brenneman et al. present an observational study on a cohort of patients with DICER1 Syndrome. The analysis of 124 probands in combination with available familial data increases the understanding of penetrance and variability of mutations in DICER1 and the effect of these mutations on phenotype. Their identification of additional mosaic, germline and sporadic mutations helps to further elucidate phenotypic differences between these groups and provides insight into disease pathogenesis. Their proposed temporal model of mutation acquisition correlating to disease presentation is supported by the data. However, the following points need clarification: Abstract: On page two the authors state: A final category of patients lack predisposing germline or mosaic mutations and have disease limited to a single PPB tumor bearing tumor-specific RNase IIIb and LOF mutations. Cases with a single PPB tumor should not be included under the umbrella of the DICER1 syndrome. A single tumor bearing a causative mutation does not merit inclusion as syndromic, which requires wide spread distribution of mutations in that same gene. This classification is not accurate as these patients simply represent a sporadic neoplasm. Subjects and Methods: Mutation Testing On page three the authors state: Initial sequencing of blood and saliva DNA samples was by standard Sanger methods described previously or by a commercial laboratory (Ambry Genetics, Aliso Viejo, CA). Low-frequency variants were detected and quantified by targeted next-generation sequenc- ing (NGS) using a custom multiplex PCR panel for DICER1 coding regions (Ion Torrent Ampliseq, Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA). NGS was performed on an Ion Torrent 318 v2 chip (ION PGM Sequencing 200 kit v2, Life Technologies) with an average of 6 samples per chip, to achieve an average depth of coverage of 3000 filtered reads. Did the authors use the Ion Torrent PCR panel for the analysis of the isolated tumors? This is not mentioned in the methods section. The data presented in Table 2 displays a large distribution in read numbers, which may have implications for data analysis. Can the authors provide an explanation for the wide distribution of read coverage in this table, particularly in the disparity of reads between blood and tumor samples? This should be included in the methods section. Annotation of sequence variants and the spectrum of possible mutations  On page three the authors state their methods for annotating variants identified: For variants assayed by NGS, allele frequencies were calculated from filtered read counts. The SIFT algorithm was used to assess potential significance of novel missense mutations. It would be helpful, and strengthen the authors argument that these mutations are pathogenic, to include an analysis of the frequency of loss of function (LOF) and hotspot mutations in the population by determining their minor allele frequency (i.e. using ExAC or 1000 genomes). NanoString genomic copy number assay On page four the authors state: Genomic DNA was fragmented and hybridized using the nCounter Prep Station, and hybridization signals quantified using the nCounter Digital Analyzer, according to NanoStrings recommendations. It is stated in this section that hybridization signals were quantified. However, in table two many of the second hit LOF mutations are simple listed as allele loss and not quantified. Can the specific allele region and its quantification be provided as a percentage of allele loss abundance (as was done in table S8 for Informative SNP in cases 91,111,112)? Without this data it cannot be determined why the hot spot variant and the allele loss are unequally distributed (cases 104 and 105). Furthermore this would confirm the tumor purity estimates provided as normal cells should not have loss of the second allele. As tumor purity increases so should percentage of allele loss if these mutations are in fact required for tumor formation. As the table reads now it is implied that the second allele loss is complete (50%) in the tumors where it was observed. If this is not the case we ask that the loss be quantified and included, otherwise the should be replaced with (not measured). Were any positive controls run to confirm the ability to specifically detect copy number events using the Nanostring assay? For example, isolating DNA from preserved tumor samples often yields sheared fragments varying in size, which may hinder probe hybridization across fragments. This may yield false positive allele loss results. Results: Most predisposing DICER1 mutations are inherited loss of function (LOF) mutations  On page four the authors state: Our overall approach to detecting and categorizing predisposing DICER1 mutations in PPB children is shown schematically in Figure 1. We identified germline, heterozygous DICER1 mutations in 90 of the 124 probands in our cohort (72.6%; Table 1, Table S3). Are the identified LOF variants observed in the general population (ExAC, 1000 Genomes)? On page four the authors state: In all, 84 of 90 germline DICER1 mutations discovered in patients (93%) truncate the open reading frame before the end of the critical RNase IIIb domain, and are thus predicted to result in complete loss of DICER1 protein function even if the message escapes nonsense-mediated decay. There is no mention of potential alternative splice isoforms of DICER1, which may be translated despite the presence of early stop and/or frameshift mutations. This is an oversight especially as there is an emerging role for a specific splice variant DICER1e (a splice variant composed of only the RNase IIIa, IIIb and dsRBD domains) in neoplasms. This isoform may utilize a distinct promoter as has been observed for the glucocorticoid receptor gene ( Russcher et al. , 2007) and not rely on faithful sequence integrity of upstream exons. Two independent reports ( Cantini et al. , 2014 and Hinkal et al., 2011 ) have shown increased DICER1e isoforms in oral cancer cells and breast cancer cells respectively. This may be an important factor in discerning potential sub categories of LOF mutations. If in fact DICER1e plays a pathogenic role it is possible that alleles bearing early stop and/or frameshift mutations upstream of the RNaseIIIb domain, which in this study account for 93% of the mutations, are still able to code for this isoform and contribute to disease. The mechanism for oncogenesis may not require a true loss of function first hit but the presence of a modified isoform which in combination with a hot spot mutation would lead to a neomorphic phenotype associated with tumor formation. The authors should acknowledge this possibility in the manuscript. Approximately 10% of predisposing DICER1 mutations are mosaic rather than germline   On page six the authors present table 1 Clinical and Pathologic Features by Predisposing DICER1 Mutation Category. In table 1 there is a single case reported of a germline LOF mutation and a Wilms tumor (WT). Could the authors speculate on the rarity of WT in their large cohort given the described association of both single hot spot and biallelic mutations in DICER1 with this tumor type ( Klein et al. , 2014 ; Wu et al. , 2013 )? On page eight the authors state: NGS of tumor tissues from these children identified somatic LOF mutations or allele loss in some but not all specimens, with the caveat that allele loss can be difficult to detect in specimens with low tumor purity ( i.e. , PPB Type Ir, CN and NCMH). If the second hit LOF mutation is indeed a mutation of neoplasm one would expect those mutations to occur early in tumor formation and then clonally expand and be present in a majority of tumor cells. The very difficulty to detect these second hit LOF mutations argues that these tumors are in fact genetically heterogeneous; suggesting that these second hit mutations may represent passenger or modifying mutations but not drivers. The caveat mentioned supports both the authors and the alternative hypotheses and this should be included as a possible mechanism of pathogenesis. On page eight the authors state: Four of the five children with mosaic DICER1 hotspot mutations presented with cystic PPB (type I/IR) rather than sarcomatous disease (type II or type III) and all five have survived to date. It is surprising that none of the mosaic hot spot cases present with PPB type II/III compared to two thirds of the germline LOF cases. This is not consistent with the more complicated clinical course and numerous neoplasms observed in the mosaic cases. Is it possible that the distribution in the tissue ultimately dictates the severity of the PPB? The authors should discuss as part of their disease model why the mosaic cases have a more complex clinical course while having more benign lung pathology. On page eight the authors state: Though all five hotspot mosaic children are alive, their clinical experiences have been complicated and arduous (Figure 3). As the authors state, cases with mosaic DICER1 hot spot mutations present with a complex clinical course. Therefore, including a more detailed clinical description of the five mosaic cases, specifically paying attention to their phenotype, would strengthen this statement. For example, including growth parameters as well as developmental and physical exam findings may help to define this subgroup of the DICER1 syndrome. On page 14 of the supplement a footnote to table S9 mentions This data set is limited, pursuant to concerns for potential identification of study participants based on particular combinations of clinical and pathologic features. Qualified investigators with specific questions about the study not answered by the data in these tables are invited to contact the International PPB Registry. The Registry will try to accommodate requests for additional data while preserving protected health information. This concern may be the very reason why more detailed phenotypic data is lacking. However this limits the ability for the reader to draw genotype-phenotype correlations and to compare these cases to those already reported in the literature. We request that at least common clinical findings shared by mosaic cases (if any) are presented in a table without reference to individual cases. This should limit the risk of potential identification of study participants. Table 2 On page eight the authors state: We categorized a DICER1 mutation detected by NGS as mosaic when the following criteria were met: i. The mutation was evidently not a constitutional, germline allele because it was present at sub-heterozygous frequency (arbitrarily taken as below 35% of reads) in peripheral blood and/or other normal tissue samples. ii. The mutation was evidently not specific to a tumor, because the same mutant allele was detected in one or more normal, non-neoplastic tissue samples, OR, the same mutant allele was detected in multiple primary tumors arising in different organs. It is possible that low abundance mutations detected in blood are not present in a blood cell lineage but may represent metastatic disease (for example in case 102 where the brain tumor is a metastatic event that originated in the lung PPB)? Furthermore cases 102, 103, 104, and 105 have very low mutation abundance in blood with cases 103-105 carrying less than 0.3%. These low numbers are perhaps evidence of unrecognized metastatic disease in these patients, the detection of which has been previously described ( Haber and Velculescu, 2014 ). Testing of more tissues is needed for fulfilling the mosaicism criteria as proposed by the authors. It is more likely that the cases in table 2 have lower levels of mosaicism limited to a small number of tissues in contrast to other cases with more widely distributed hot spot mutations (Klein et al. , 2014). Additional phenotypic clinical data for these cases (as requested above) is needed to properly make a comparison. Tumor purity is very low in mosaic cases samples (Table 2), and this is used as an argument for why second hit mutations are lower in abundance. However, it is also possible that the second hit mutation is unequally distributed throughout the tumor and in fact absent from some regions of the tumor. This possibility should be mentioned in the manuscript. Tumor-specific, biallelic DICER1 mutations account for about 10% of PPB cases  On page eight the authors state: In twelve children, we identified biallelic DICER1 mutations present at high allele frequencies in a PPB tumor, but not detectable in blood even with the benefit of high-depth NGS (Table S8). These cases likely represent sporadic neoplasm mutations. We question if these cases should be classified as having the DICER1 syndrome. A more clear distinction between isolated PPB and the DICER1 Syndrome should be included. Currently unresolved cases On page eight the authors state: Twelve PPB probands in our cohort are negative for predisposing DICER1 mutations detectable in blood DNA by Sanger sequencing or NGS of coding exons. The authors include an additional 12 unresolved cases (Table S9). We suggest that a potential etiology for cases in which DICER1 mutations are absent would be caused by mutations in DROSHA or other genes involved in the microRNA processing pathway. It has been established that at least in the pathogenesis of sporadic Wilms tumor RNaseIIIb mutations in DROSHA phenocopy those in DICER1, although possibly by distinct mechanisms (Rakheja, 2014). While the authors pursued DROSHA testing via Sanger sequencing exclusively in blood (Table S9 Footnote: Sanger sequencing in blood DNA for DROSHA, XPO5, and the DICER1 promoter region) this approach might have missed low abundance mosaic mutations. Furthermore, some of these cases (121, 123 and 124) have been identified as carrying hot spot mutations in their tumors without the presence of a second hit. This may illustrate that the hotspot mutations alone may be sufficient for tumorogenesis. On page 5 the authors present Figure 1 Study Design After reviewing this cohort we call into question the designation of in one case. We would like to propose that case 123 is actually mosaic due to the presence of the same hotspot mutation in two distinct disease foci. This case cannot be excluded as mosaic based on the absence of the mutation in blood as it is similar to case 105 where the sequencing from blood is not above the error threshold. Case 123 should therefore be moved to table two, and the study design/mosaic criteria amended to classify case 105 and 123 as mosaic even in the absence of the hotspot mutation in normal tissue. The absence of a LOF second hit in the presence of a mosaic hot spot mutation should represent a distinct subset of mosaic cases and not classified as Discussion: Genotype-phenotype correlation of predisposing mutations in PPB-DICER1 syndrome  On page ten the authors state: All germline DICER1 truncating mutations are predicted to be essentially equivalent in their effect: complete loss of function in miRNA processing. As mentioned above this conclusion must be tempered by the possibility of an alternatively spliced variant of DICER1 that could be expressed despite a truncating mutation upstream of the RNase IIIb domain. On page ten the authors state: Neomorphic RNase IIIb domain function (skewed 5p/3p miRNA production) is a recurring feature of DICER1 tumors, and it is plausible that loss of all wildtype RNase IIIb function is required for it to become tumorigenic. The statement loss of all wildtype RNase IIIb function is required for it to become tumorigenic does not apply to all categories of the DICER1 syndrome. From the data as it is presented in this study the only category where this can be concluded is from the sporadic tumors, which are distinct from the DICER1 syndrome. In these tumors it is clear from the data in table S8 that all hot spot mutations are accompanied by LOF mutations with corresponding abundances, which are certainly a characteristic of these aggressive lung neoplasms. However, we cannot conclude causality for the second hit mutations in all DICER1 tumors since (1) in the mosaic hot spot cases (Table 2) the observed abundance for the second LOF hit mutations is always less than the hot spot mutation and (2) there are cases of tumors in this report that lack a second hit (Case 105: NCMH, Case 123 CN and PPB). A main objection to the analysis and interpretation of these results is the lack of an explanation for the differences in mutation abundance between LOF and hot spot mutations within a tumor and the presence of tumors without a second hit. This raises questions as to whether the LOF mutations are in fact drivers of tumorigenesis or passenger mutations. Although tumor purity could be partially responsible for these inconsistencies, the data on its own does not sufficiently establish that these LOF mutations are required for tumor formation in non-sporadic tumor cases when they are not present in all neoplastic cells. In the model as it is proposed by the authors, cases that are mosaic for RNaseIIIb mutations display no clinical findings until a second LOF mutation occurs which drives and is essential for tumor formation (Page 11, last paragraph). We believe there is the possibility for another explanation. A single RNase IIIb mutation alone could have a pro-onocogenic effect on distinct cell types at specific developmental stages. As tumorigenesis proceeds, a LOF mutation in the other allele may arise as the tumor drifts, further aggravating the 5p/3p imbalance in a sub population of tumor cells. Supporting this alternative model, cases 105, 121, 123 and 124 are reported to have neoplasms with no second hit detected. If this second hit is essential why do these tumors lack the LOF second hits? In aggregate there are 4 mosaic cases (2 in this report and 2 in the literature), which, in combination with the absence of germline true heterozygote hot spot mutations, support the alternate model that mosaic hot spot mutations are likely pathogenic on their own and the authors should expand their model to include this alternate explanation. Supplemental Data Table S5 Clinical features of children with germline DICER1 mutations Can the authors comment on why mortality is higher in germline LOF mutation carriers than it is in the mosaic hot spot mutation carriers even though the latter have a more complicated clinical course? Could this be due to the association of PPB type I/IR with mosaic cases and PPB type II and III with germline LOF cases? Minor Changes The authors should include appropriate references to any manuscripts in which any of these PPB registry cases have been previously reported. While not essential, it would be informative to include any affected siblings for the 10 identified de novo LOF cases to support or refute potential germline mosaicism in the parents (Page 4)? Table 1 includes a single case of a germline LOF mutation and a Wilms tumor (WT). However, little else is described about this case. Furthermore there is no mention of this case in the supplementary materials. Please include mutation analysis and additional phenotypic information for this case. 