The studies described herein by Masaki et al ., extend earlier in vitro modeling of M. leprae - Schwann cell interactions by this group that may be at the crux of neurological changes and various pathogenic elements in leprosy. Specifically, this work describes phenotypic and transcriptome changes associated with SC reprogramming following long-term M. leprae (ML) infection that are associated with retention, or loss of retention, of ML in coculture with fibroblasts. The loss of retentive behavior is measured by the accrual of ML in fibroblasts placed in coculture with ML-infected normal or reprogrammed SC’s. These studies attempt to recapitulate events occurring in vivo and must always be appreciated within the view of what is observed in the disease both at the clinical and histopathological level. To that end it would be helpful for the authors to: Place the phenomenon of “fibroblast infection” within the context of what is seen in clinical disease with a few pertinent references. Broaden the Discussion section to include how the author’s hypothesis of early dissemination of ML from infected pSLC (intraneural compartment) fits with histopathological observations in lepromatous leprosy infections (man and armadillo) which demonstrate a much higher bacterial burden in the extraneural compartment as compared to the intraneural compartment. Finally, since fibroblasts can take up M. leprae in culture and infected fibroblasts have been demonstrated in tissues of infected individuals and animals, I’m wondering whether the investigators did studies with ML and fibroblasts alone. Depending on the outcome of these studies, some light might be shed on whether the transfer to fibroblasts is actually an active process (e.g., cell-to-cell contact required) or passive in nature. If data of this nature is available, it would enhance the investigator’s assertion that the reprogramming of SC’s and loss of bacterial retention is an acquired property that leads to efficient bacterial transfer to fibroblasts. Please expand on your position in the discussion to clarify.