In the article “First draft genome assembly of the Argane tree ( Argania spinosa )”, the authors present the draft assembly of the Argane tree using a combination of Illumina and PacBio reads. An argument for the importance of the Argane tree to the agriculture and economy of the endemic region is given. The assertion that “the genome may enable genome-assisted cultivar breeding, and provide a better understanding of important metabolic pathways and their underlying genes for both cosmetic and pharmacological purposes” seems reasonable based on the use of previous genome sequences for important agricultural resources. This article does not claim much beyond providing a reasonable draft genome for A. spinosa . The primary evidence for reasonable quality is three-fold: a k-mer analysis of genome size using Jellyfish, 94% of Illumina reads mapping back to the assembly, and a BUSCO analysis showing 89% full length and 4.3% partial length gene matches for these single copy genes. This is probably sufficient to claim reasonable quality and the usefulness of the genome for downstream research given the contiguity shown by the N50 contig size. The authors do miss an opportunity to look more closely at the haplotype separation that may be occurring as they speculate possibly leading to a somewhat larger genome size than indicated by Jellyfish. I’m not sure why the number of BUSCO genes with more than one full or partial length match was not given – perhaps there were none? The implication that heterozygosity is uniform “The double peak of k -mer distribution indicates heterozygosity whose rate is estimated to be 1.58%” seems unfounded without more evidence nor is it clear that is the model resulting in this estimate. Lastly the grammar would benefit from editing. For example, “A reliable annotation is highly dependent on transcriptomic research, and sequencing of Argane transcriptome analysis of different parts and developmental stages or the plant is ongoing.” Might be better as “A reliable annotation is highly dependent on transcriptomic data, analysis and research. Sequencing of different parts and developmental stages of the Argane transcriptome is ongoing.”. 