The article reviews and synthesises quantitative and qualitative findings on disciplinary OA publication practices and uptake over time. The article extensively reports figures on OA levels from former studies (selected based on a set of criteria) and discusses factors influencing disciplinary publishing cultures based on a framework of analytical dimensions. Overall, this creates a useful comprehensive overview and reference point. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? A few references should be reconsidered, e.g. on p. 11 the authors cite Kling and Kim (2000) for a statement that “social and cultural factors are believed to be of less or no importance in explaining the emergence of OA”. This does not seem justified as Kling and Kim’s study adopts a social shaping perspective, in order to analyse field differences in the use of electronic media. Some references are certainly not the most authoritative, e.g. websites that summarise disciplinary attitudes (e.g. reference 52). For further comments on references see the list below. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? The authors search and selection criteria for studies on the uptake of OA are sound. However, in some cases that leads to limitations as several studies, in particular the earlier ones, only provide little information about the status for certain disciplines, e.g. the humanities. In such cases it would have been good to further amend the data by taking into account disciplinary studies. The authors note that there is little consistency in the reported uptake of OA, however, this should be discussed earlier and in more detail in the study. Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? The description of methods on how studies were retrieved and selected as well as the framework of the analysis seem sufficient. However, too little attention is given to major differences of the considered studies, in particular the definitions of OA used, the data sources (including how was OA identified), and how the limitations of the studies should be considered in the comparison of study results. The authors’ definition of the different OA routes is certainly not homogeneously applied by all selected studies, as they mainly follow Piwowar et al.’s (2018) 1 approach to define OA as exclusive categories. More commonly, “green OA” is defined as “self-archiving” of peer-reviewed works in OA repositories, i.e. green OA overlaps with other OA routes. Another deviation is e.g. the study by Archambault et al.(2014) (reference 10) which considers green OA as “OA provided before or immediately after publication by author self-archiving” while focusing on deposit in “institutional repositories and some thematic repositories listed in OpenDOAR and ROAR” (Ibid., pp. 4 and i), e.g. arXiv.org was included; PubMed Central was considered under Other OA. In particular, it can thus be expected that in this case preprints have been included. There are also a number of results in some of these studies which deserve further attention – and if possible explanation – in particular, if these have not been observed in other studies: e.g. the high rate of hybrid OA for Mathematics and the Humanities reported by Piwowar et al.(2018) 1 . Another example are the surprisingly high gold OA figures found by Jamali and Nabavi (2015) 2 , please make explicit how gold OA was defined. If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? There is no statistical analysis across the selected studies, the authors mainly provide an overview of the reported levels of OA, and organise these in three phases. In general, the authors report all available figures of OA uptake by discipline but do not provide any comments on the sometimes vast differences of these figures. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? The authors have created summary tables of relevant studies and their framework for the further analysis. Regarding the uptake of OA the authors refer to data in the selected studies but have not created additional comparative data. All additional information which was used in the narrative review of mechanisms and factors shaping OA publishing is disclosed through the list of references. Some of the considered studies are not reproducible based on the chosen methodology (e.g. often a web search for an openly available version of a research article was applied, which may change over time). Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? Yes, overall the main conclusions are adequately supported. There are in addition a couple of other issues and small errors which I would like to point out: Typos: “66 for publication years…” - use %; replace “SEM” by “STM” for “Science, Technology and Medicine”; replace “PLoS” by “PLOS”. p. 4: The conclusion regarding the comparison of OA levels for medical research areas and the humanities is not quite convincing as only one figure for the humanities (based on Gargouri et al., 2012 (see reference 9)) is provided. Table 2: Consider adding more information on the definition of OA or a specific column which explains how the study deviates from the definition of OA provided by the authors. It is also important to note which studies treat the definitions as exclusive categories and which used definitions of OA that allow overlaps, in particular with green OA. Add “with DOIs” in column two of Piwowar et al (2018). The reference European Commission (2014) should be cited as Archambault et al. (2014). Table 3: The second column on Piwowar et al. (2018) should include a note that the figures for the Humanities and the Arts were not included as these disciplines are underrepresented in the WoS and in terms of DOI coverage. In the Hybrid OA column the overall figure cannot be correct: 0.6% is too low; according to Table 3 of Piwowar et al. it should be replaced by 4.3%. Even if certain routes of OA have not been assessed, e.g. Hybrid and Bronze OA, it would be good to add a note if they have been included in other categories. Please check the figures provided for Martn et al. (2018) 4 , the overall OA figures do not seem to match with the sum of the OA routes (the sum is substantially smaller, what is missing? E.g. Social and Behavioral Sciences: 49.9% OA vs. a sum of 23.4% for all OA routes). For further studies the overall OA figures do not match with the sum of the OA routes either, e.g. for Science Metrix (2018) 4 and Jamali and Navabi (2015) 5 , please explain. p. 10: Please correct the underestimation of Hybrid OA, as noted above the overall figure found by Piwowar et al.(2018) 1 is 4.3% for recent articles with a DOI in WoS. p. 11: The statement “… as the OA model is unlikely to generate the level of income and profit that can be achieved with the subscription model” deserves a reference. p. 11: “This also applies to academic and professional societies” – the given reference does not seem to be connected to this statement. Table 4: “APC levels” is a bit narrow as a perspective, and not much is said about cost aspects in the later discussion. Regarding infrastructures the support aspect is missing (e.g. institutional support for the green and gold OA routes). Regarding structural and institutional factors copyright is missing (this is not just an aspect which is relevant for publishers). p. 12: NIH OA mandate – mention the year in which the mandate was introduced p. 13 E) does not mention Wellcome Open Research p. 13 A) Preprints do have a tradition in biology, but were mainly circulated in small circles of colleagues. Please note that on arXiv.org quantitative biology represents a very small share and is not representative for the discipline. A reference for molecular biology is e.g. the study of Kling and Kim (2000) 6 . Thus the conclusions on green OA do not fully apply to biology. p. 14 C) You provide several examples of OA journals in Chemistry, what does “enjoy popularity” mean here? p. 14 D) Please provide a reference for the stated national focus of engineering. p. 14 E) Remove bold face for the word “Reflecting”. p. 14: There seems to be some redundancy in the introduction to “Open access in the social sciences”. Moreover, please add a reference for the order of OA routes as the one you state is not found by the most recent studies (compare e.g. Piwowar et al 1 .). p. 14 A) Reference 51 seems a bit old for a statement about the present state. p. 15 – typo “Open library of Humanities” should be “… Library …” p. 15: “While long-term access to research outputs is questionable in these models…” – this is an unjustified statement. p. 15 C) You do not provide any evidence for growth of the number of repositories when you state the current status, please justify this statement. p. 15 C) “Because OA preprint repositories do not employ peer review, however, social scientists have been slow to adopt Green OA.” – This statement is not convincing, preprint servers circulate non-peer reviewed versions while green OA focuses on final author manuscripts (after peer review) or the publisher’s version (i.e. you compare apples and pears here). p. 15 C) Some of the details about academic journals could be moved to B). p. 16 OA in the humanities: Add reference to the cited order of green OA, Bronze OA etc. p. 16 A) The last sentence should be amended, otherwise it is just a clich pointed out but not put to rest. p. 16 C) MLA Commons is a network of scholars, the related repository is called CORE. p. 16 C) You state that “post-publication peer review remains rare … with a few notable notable exceptions and experiments”. – Please note that one of your references do not support this statement: Bourke-Waite (reference 83) does not elaborate on post-publication peer review but points out that for the HSS double-blind peer review remains the norm and notes an experiments of open peer for monographs by Palgrave-Macmillan. Brienza (2012) 7 certainly fits here as for the book of K. Fitzpatrick post-publication peer review was applied to a draft version (in the sense of open peer commenting). It could be argued that review articles which are quite common for monographs to be considered as a form of post-publication peer review. p. 16 E) For the last sentence you may add an indicative reference, e.g. to Plan S which does not allow any embargoes. p. 17 OA in law: Please add references to the statement that legal studies feature some of the lowest OA levels. p. 17 B) JIPITEC is based in Germany (which is in the EU…). You note that several journals are not listed in the DOAJ which is indeed a pity, they may not have re-registered after the introduction of revised criteria in 2014. p. 18 “overall OA levels well above 50%” – add reference, not all recent studies agree on this point; “the relative uptake on Gold OA remains well below Green OA for most publication years and disciplines” – add reference; “hybrid OA generally is of little variance” – not according to Piwowar et al. (2018); “hybrid OA… with 1% or less of all scholarly outputs” – this figure is too low, Piwowar et al. (2018) found 4.3% hybrid OA on average p. 18 “… biology were the early pioneers” – see comment on biology above. OA in biology is not initially strong via preprints and green OA (arXiv.org only holds a limited number of quantitative biology papers), uptake gets stronger via gold OA with the wave of new OA journals in the 2000s, and only from 2013 onwards preprints finally take off (launch of PeerJ Preprints and bioRxiv). For a discussion of earlier initiatives/experiments with biology preprints which were pretty much blocked by the publishing industry see: Cobb, M. (2017). The prehistory of biology preprints: A forgotten experiment from the 1960s 8 . p. 18 “Barriers to OA in chemistry and engineering can be identified as concerns about the quality of OA journals” – add reference p. 19 “difficulties in assessing funding for APCs and BPCs” – you mean “accessing” here, please also add a reference. p. 19 “we observed signs of cultural change particular in young scholars” – add reference p. 19 “Most OA within the humanities is published as Hybrid OA…” – try to explain why hybrid OA comes first. Piwowar et al. (2018) which seems to be the source here do not seem to do. p. 19 “This includes models such as OLH or other crowd funding initiatives, such as KU.” – You may consider adding a reference here, e.g. Bulock, C. (2018) 9 . p. 19 “… OA … is shaped by the scholars that use respective communication technologies.” – You do not really discuss different types of communication technologies but mainly point out common communication formats, channels and infrastructures. 