The reviewed manuscript “Assessment of the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery test in Saudi children with learning disabilities: A case-control study” presents a useful dataset that compares performances of children with learning disabilities and those without them in several CANTAB tasks. These data confirm the notion that CANTAB can sensitively detect differences in executive function parameters in children with different learning ability. To enhance the value of the obtained data, I’d like to suggest that the authors consider the following points (perhaps revising their submission): It is not quite clear what methods were used to diagnose children with LD. The authors correctly cite the lack of neuroimaging data as a limitation of the study, however, perhaps they should mention if any of the subjects with LD had any genetic testing? Ideally, some statement about whether any of the subjects has syndromic or non-syndromic intellectual disability and results of any genetic tests should be included. We believe that more studies where CANTAB was used for assessment of children with LD/ADHD could be discussed in the Discussion section. The Bibliography section on Cambridge Cognition web-site could be helpful in this regard: http://www.cambridgecognition.com/login/bibliography . Minor points: The article should undergo careful language editing from the point of view of grammar and syntax. There are multiple instances of grammatically and contextually incorrect sentences. Below are very few selected examples: a) The title of the study should be revised, because it was not an “Assessment of the …test in Saudi children”, but rather “Assessment of performance of Saudi children with learning disabilities by using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery”. b) The second sentence of the Results section, “The participants in control group were less because age matched selection was difficult”, should be written as “There were fewer participants in control group because age matched selection was difficult”. c) The fifth sentence of the Results section should read “There were no significant differences in the ages between case and control groups (case: 9.2 2.4 years versus controls: 9.0 1.6 years, P = 0.544)” (“in the ages” was not mentioned in the original sentence). d) In addition, the term “EF” refers to “executive function” (which is correct) in some parts of the text and to “executive dys function” in other parts. For example: “EFs refers to neuropsychological processes that enable physical, cognitive, and emotional self-control in LD children” ( function ) but “There are a number of experimental studies showing EFs in individuals with LD Disorders…” ( dysfunction ). There is no description of SRT in the methods. The use of the Student’s t -test is contingent on the normal distribution of data in the compared groups, however there was no evidence this was checked prior to the comparison in this study. As the data are clearly presented in the Tables, there is probably no reason to repeat the same numbers in the text. P-values also can be in a separate column in the Table. Likewise, because the data are quite straightforward, the Figures are not necessary as they just illustrate what is presented in the Tables. Ideally, we would recommend presenting the data as box and whisker plots with all individual values being represented by small dots. This would be the most informative format compared to current Tables and slightly less detailed Figures. 