In the article, Mayada et al. compared the thyroid hormone profile and other clinical biochemical parameters of women diagnosed as PCOS with non-PCOS otherwise healthy counterparts. In general, there is a scope of improvement in this article as it is not so well written. I want to leave the following comments: The term ‘polycystic ovary syndrome’ is preferred over ‘polycystic ovarian syndrome’. Abstract: ‘The prevalence of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound is around quarter of all women but is not associated with the full syndrome’- is irrelevant here. This is not a case-control study, rather a cross-sectional study that involved a comparison group. In the result, the comparison of different hormone levels and BMI was done. But, in conclusion, you have commented about the prevalence of thyroid disorders in the two groups. Introduction: The description of the pathophysiological link between PCOS and thyroid disorders is clumsy. Methods: Cross-sectional study, not case-control. The sample size is small. How the sample size was calculated? The inclusion and exclusion criteria are not clearly defined. Was the PCOS cases treatment nave? The age of the study participants was not mentioned in the method section. The age range of the subjects mentioned in the abstract (13-45 years) is dissimilar to that mentioned in Table 1. According to methodology, TVS was done in all cases. Is it justified for adolescents or sexually inactive (i.e. unmarried in your culture) women? The inclusion criteria do not match with the Rotterdam criteria mentioned in the guidelines. All PCOS women are not overweight and obese, many of them have normal even low BMI. Why were subjects with normal or low BMI were excluded? Again, patients of these categories are included in the tables. This is confusing. Hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism are in the exclusion criteria but subjects with normal or low TSH, T4, and T3 are in the tables. Please explain. ‘Good performance status’, what does it mean? Avoid the confusing and vague terms like ‘Positive past-medical history’, ‘Positive past-surgical history.’ Specify the inclusion and exclusion criteria for both groups. The blood collection procedures are not written in detailed. Please mention the methods for the estimation of each hormone. Please mention the time of sample collection with respect to the phase of the menstrual cycle and fasting status. Free T4 and Free T3 were measured according to the method section. But in the tables and result section, you have written T4 and T3. Please explain. The measurement of anti-Mullerian Hormone is not mentioned in the method section though it is in the tables. Progesterone is measured according to the method section, it is not mentioned in the result or tables. SPSS is not appropriately written in the text, please see the website of the manufacturer for correct citation. Results: The results are contradictory to the exclusion criteria of the PCOS subjects as I have already mentioned. Table 1: The ranges should be mentioned in the brackets with the mean values or may be mentioned in the separate columns. FSH is significantly different between the two groups (p=0.007). Table 2: Were all PCOS women infertile? Thyroid function status (euthyroid or subclinical hypothyroid) was not shown in any table, though in the result section it is written to be included in table 4. How many of the comparison group had thyroid dysfunction? Some suggestions about the presentation of the study result: a) compare all the demographic, clinical, and laboratory parameters between two groups; b) compare the subcategories of the study subjects according to thyroid status, biochemical hyperandrogenism, etc. Discussion: The discussion section needs improvement. This part highlighted only the prevalence of SCH in PCOS and just compared the prevalence of this study with the others. There is no explanation regarding the higher prevalence of SCH in PCOS. Anti-thyroid antibodies were not measured in this study though previous findings of thyroid autoimmunity in PCOS were discussed. ‘TSH measures, T4, and T3 may be more applicable in the diagnosis of PCOS.’- I failed to understand this. Thyroid function tests are mandatory to exclude thyroid dysfunctions which sometimes mimic PCOS clinically and radiologically, these are not used to diagnose PCOS. Conclusion: In the study 60% of the PCOS women were euthyroid, but the authors concluded as ‘most patient with PCOS will have some degree of thyroid dysfunction, especially SCH’, which is not a reflection of the study result. 