In this research article Seda et al ., describes the use of zebrafish Tol-2 constructs to express wild type and mutant form of the human PTDSS1 gene. A mutation in this enzyme, causing gain of function, has been previously linked to Lenz-Majewski Syndrome (Sousa et al., 2014 1 ). Despite adequate design the construct didn’t deliver the predicted outcome. It is clear from the material methods, as well as control experiments, that the constructs were correctly designed and integrated. As show by figure 1 AB. Tol-2-kit transgenesis is known to result in multiple insertions, which could have helped with this gain of function experiment, but also possibly could have driven the system beyond physiological limits and cause embryonic lethality. Using a bicistronic construct meant that the expression of the enzyme and the reporter gene were decoupled, which limited the usefulness of the reporter gene as indicator of transgene expression. As stated by the authors, a fusion protein might have resulted in the loss of enzymatic activity. However, the authors could mention this strategy in the discussion as some bifunctional enzyme-GFP fusions have been reported in the literature (Martin et al., 2009 2 ). Using the Tol2-kit, clone 455 "pME-mCherry no stop" might have been worth exploring. The authors should also discuss the fact that several articles mention issues using bicistronic IRES constructs, as it is likely to be the main issue here. Hennecke et al ., state; “However, failures of bicistronic applications have been observed, although these were often not published” (2001 3 ). See also Mansha et al., 2012 4 . Considering the results in this study, it is possible that the constructs produced unstable PTDSS1 mRNA. Multiple insertions combined with transient mRNA background expression of the transgene might explain the scoliosis phenotype (which is more prevalent in the osteoblast ( ctsk ) and chondroblast ( col2a1a ) specific promoters I figure 4E.). Overall because such results tend not to be published and issues with similar constructs might not have been previously reported. Therefore I recommend indexing of this article, as it will be useful to the scientific community in this field of research. Minor points: End of page 3: the methods part on in situ hybridization should be taken out as no in situ results are presented. Figure 2C: results are a bit puzzling and could be discussed further. Is the relative expression just minimal background expression? It seems strange that it is negatively correlated with the number of inserted copies. Figure 4: picture could be presented in a table clearly stating which fish are wild type and mutant. 