Here, the authors summarize 40 of the most widely-cited papers on energetics and aging over the last 4 years by themes, including suggested priorities from those publications for future work. Overall, I think this article does a good job of highlighting and summarizing state-of-the-art aspects of several broad and complex topics. Discussion of the heterogeneity of the caloric restriction (CR) response was particularly warranted. The implementation and interpretation of CR studies requires careful consideration of among things, the intervention timing (early or later in life), diet quality, the control group ( ad libitum or mildly restricted) as well as the dose. Indeed, some strains that respond negatively to 40% CR, may respond differently at lower levels of restriction, in part due to reasons alluded to by the authors when discussing the potential risk of further fat depletion in already lean animals or humans. The authors also highlight some important recent observations regarding the role of specific nutrients (methionine) and botanical compounds (resveratrol) on aging, that do not involve calories per se . Of note, this has been further supported by a recent study that did not make the list ( Levine et al ., 2014 ), linking protein intake with IGF-1 levels, cancer and mortality risk in younger, but not older humans. Specific cellular mechanisms of interest are also discussed, with a particular emphasis on mTOR signaling in modulating organismal aging, and its interplay with nutrients and hormones. Rapamycin studies have driven much of the interest in this area, but metformin, which is not discussed here, is frequently and safely used clinically to treat diabetes, and may act in part via similar pathways, and has been linked to less cardiovascular disease, cognitive decline, cancers and improved survival in humans (see Bannister et al., 2014 ). Overall, this is a well conceived and timely review of recent highly-cited papers linking aging and energetics that deserves revisiting in another 4 years.