This article explores the specific needs of arts, humanities and social sciences (AHSS) data management, whether these are adequately served by existing data management systems, and whether they are appropriately considered in future data management developments. It highlights issues with the quantification and digitisation of information for research assessment and problematizes the concept of data itself, a notion that does not easily translate into AHSS disciplines. The author identifies this as a barrier to AHSS researchers engaging with the digital research information systems such as ORCID: it simply has little relevance to them. Links are made between current practices in research data management, licencing, authorship and ethics, and the myriad considerations that might arise in AHSS projects for which we do not at present have satisfactory frameworks. The article reiterates the inadequacy of metrics to capture research impact, and indeed, excellence, in the AHSS; this is corroborated by their absence in the latest Research Excellence Framework under Panel D, as well as by the recent findings of the Independent Review of the Role of Metrics in Research Assessment and Management, which indicate that it is not currently feasible to assess research outputs or impacts in the REF using quantitative indicators alone ( Wilsdon et al. , 2015 ). Finally, the author presents two research projects where some of the issues highlighted are being targeted, specifically by the creation of digital data sets and open access monograph and arts catalogues, in the formulation of research method and output. These projects are interdisciplinary and, crucially perhaps, well-funded and usually include an element of non-AHSS research. While it is clear that interdisciplinarity can contribute much to exploring these issues, it is uncertain whether tools and findings from these projects will fare better that the KULTUR project, which AHSS researchers are mainly unaware of. This is an opinion article, based on the authors experience of working, and interviews, with researcher at Goldsmith. It certainly reflects my experience as Research Adviser for a College of Arts and Humanities. It may have been useful to reference some of the arguments referred to in the introduction, although the paucity of literature on these very current issue may have played against this. This article raises important questions about the definitions, ethical dimension, and the process of digitisation of research data, as well as about sector endeavours to quantify research impact and excellence. It works as a thought-provoking piece, begging many follow-on questions: How might we help AHSS researchers expand a definition of research data that will be relevant to them, and how do we enable the sector to acknowledge and redress the generalisation of its definition in favour of STEM disciplines? How might we ensure that the findings of KAPTUR and future projects are taken into consideration and their toolkits used? How might we address the apparent contradictions between copyright and intellectual property considerations and open access policies? How might we ethically define authorship in cases where research participants have contributing to shaping the data? I hope this article leads to many more engaging with these questions in more depth.