Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. This article gives an overview of steps research teams and patient partners can take when working together to prepare a research funding application. We believe a guide for inclusive and meaningful involvement of patients and public partners, particularly in the planning stages of research, is a highly useful and timely resource for health researchers. We thought it was appropriate that the authors included a variety of resources from different continents, and appreciated the attempt to summarize the varied (and often confusing) terms and concepts that exist around patient and public involvement. It was great to see involvement of patient partners in authorship of the paper. We also wonder if patient partners have been involved in providing review comments as well. We did struggle with the overall flow of the article, due to its non traditional structure, thereby making it challenging to follow for the reader. Despite the valiant attempt to describe differences in terminology around patient and public involvement in research and key concepts that need to be considered for meaningful patient and public involvement, terms are at times dispersed, seem to be used interchangeably throughout the article, and do not follow a step-by-step order that would be expected from an overview of ‘steps’ in a process. In addition, many key considerations that should be made prior to engaging patients or members of the public are left to the end of the article (such as training for patients involved in research, or working together ethically). In general, the article operationalizes PPI into a series of steps and although mentioned at some points later in the article, the theory and principles of equity and social justice that are critical to meaningful and inclusive engagement are presented later in the article. However, to ensure researchers are incorporating these principles, we suggest they be introduced sooner and have a more central role as the lens through which PPI is viewed. We feel it would be more beneficial to begin with terminology and key concepts, and then provide an overview of the subsequent steps involved in engagement. Given that the article appears to be an attempt to synthesize information and provide an overview of the steps to take when involving patients and the public in preparing a research grant application, a clear description of the methods used to gather, sort, and summarize the sources and information contained in the article is missing. Such information is critical for demonstrating the strength and rigor of the recommendations. Although we recognize this is an opinion article that is not intended as a formal synthesis, we feel that including a description of the literature review methods would provide a landmark for others who may seek to undertake a full synthesis in the future. The tables and boxes included are excellent resources for researchers seeking to learn more about PPI and how it is done in different contexts and regions. However, aside from the definitions, their placement may be better suited to the supplementary material, rather than embedded within the article itself (especially Table 1, as it is in landscape orientation making it difficult to read in digital form). As we have heard from our stakeholders and patient and public partners, language is a critical aspect of ensuring that PPI is successful, inclusive, and respectful. Many of the decisions that should be made through dialogue with patient partners are presented as decisions for the research team to make and share with patient partners. We recommend directing researchers to dialogue with patient and public partners about topics such as ground rules, preferences for compensation, preferences for feedback, and other matters in which patient partners are involved, in order to ensure that decision-making power in engagement activities is equally shared. A specific example is on page 12 under the heading “Agree appropriate funding for patient involvement”, where the authors state that researchers “Negotiate with patients the costs: payment for patient time, any special needs…” and “Researchers are advised to spell out to patients the best case and worst case scenarios…” – we caution to consider carefully how language can challenge or perpetuate power differentials that often tend to place the researcher above the patient as having more expertise and education. We suggest that terms like ‘discuss’ and ‘dialogue’, in place of ‘negotiate’ and ‘spell out’, can help work towards equality and mutual respect in the research partnership. Some specific points the authors may want to address are detailed below. Page 3: Given that the concept of PPI is central to the article, a definition (or a discussion of the variability between definitions) should be one of the first points of discussion. The authors state that “PPI includes patients, potential patients, families, carers, patient groups and members of the public who use or have access to health and social care services”. We would suggest PPI also includes those who may be currently unable to use or access health and social care services. The authors discuss ‘patients’ including “people who do not describe themselves in this way”, an important consideration for ensuring inclusive and meaningful engagement – however, we feel the discussion of why people may not describe themselves as ‘patients’ (for example, medicalization of people with disabilities, stigma attached to living with a mental health issue). Box 1: It would be of great interest to us to know how the resources listed in this box were chosen and why. We also believe that given the iterative nature of many online resources and the frequency with which URLs change, it may be best to avoid including hyperlinks for specific documents, many of which will likely become defunct within a year’s time. Box 2: Under ‘some acronyms for involving people in research’, it is unclear why this particular handful of terms was chosen, yet we do not see common acronyms such as PE (patient engagement; https://bcsupportunit.ca/patient-engagement-methods-cluster ) and PAR (participatory action research 1 ) . The section of definitions appears to lack structure or hierarchy and is confusing in its presentation. Rather than clarify terms, this box seems to further complicate the differences in language used. Specifically, ‘partnership’ in engagement should also include participatory action research and community-based participatory research 2 ; devolving would also seem to fall under ‘partnership’; ‘consulting’ is described as “relatively passive when compared to ‘engagement’”, but still falls within the realm of ‘engagement’. Box 3: This overview is an excellent concept and will be highly useful to research teams looking to engage with patients in their work. However, we feel that there may be some information not found here that may be useful. This includes a step for assessing capacity of both research teams and potential patient and public partners to meaningfully engage – for example, determining the willingness of the research team to change directions based on patient and public partner input; determining what resources are available to support engagement activities; and determining the underlying purpose for engaging. Point 3 indicates researchers should identify patients to involve “as early as possible” – this may be unclear to those unfamiliar with the PPI process, and should be more explicit – i.e. engaging before the research questions and methods have been determined – something we do not see mentioned elsewhere in this article. Under 3.i, it is suggested that researchers consider identifying a “professional or lay link worker”, however many research teams will not (for whatever reason) choose to hire an outside professional to assist with engagement activities, and will embark on it themselves. For this reason, we feel it is critical to mention the need for reflexive practice and trauma-informed approaches for those who are not familiar with these approaches and their need when engaging with people with lived experience of health issues, and the potential retraumatization associated with sharing those experiences. Under 5, there is a minor grammar error – “agree an approach” should read “agree on an approach”. Under 6, we believe the use of language such as ‘negotiate’ may perpetuate power imbalance between research teams and patient and public partners. This language posits researchers and patients on opposing sides, when perhaps what the authors intended to suggest with ‘negotiate’ was a method of working together to determine appropriate funding and compensation – with which we agree. Perhaps using a term such as ‘researchers and patient partners should work together’ instead of ‘negotiate’ would be more appropriate. In relation to this point, it seems that a key component missing from this article’s discussion of compensation for patient and public partners is determining the preference of patients and actually asking them what they want in terms of level of involvement, supports, payment, etc. Similarly, under 8, the authors suggest that researchers “consider whether patients or patient groups will ‘do’ any research” and subsequently assess their skills, ability to add value, status as employees, and mentorship/supervision – we again suggest that these considerations should be made with patient and public partners, rather than decided for them. Page 10: From the title of the section “Action research, co-design, co-learning and co-production”, it seemed as though the authors would be providing a discussion of these different principles, but instead was a discussion of the differences between definitions that should probably have been included at the beginning of the article. We would suggest moving this information to before the ‘steps’ of involvement are discussed, and potentially changing the heading since it is somewhat misleading given the content of the section that follows. Additionally, the first sentence discusses the historical context of ‘action research’, yet this is the only mention of the chronology of terms and seems somewhat out of place. Without discussion of the origin of other terms mentioned in the article, we would suggest that this is unnecessary to the reader’s understanding of concepts. Under “Action research, co-design, co-learning and co-production”, there is a minor grammatical error – in the sentence “Equal power in decision-making is sometimes implied, however there are structural and economic power differentials between different types of partner in terms of pay…”, the word “partner” should be pluralized to read “partners”. The authors have brought up a critical consideration regarding power differentials between patients, however the discussion of these and other systemic power imbalances seems to be somewhat lacking in the article, particularly regarding the dynamics of relationship-building in research partnerships, where researchers may hold more ‘power’ and need to engage in reflexive practice to understand how this impacts the process of engagement. We also recommend a discussion of safe spaces, a key consideration for addressing power imbalances in research partnerships. As a reference, we would suggest reviewing the 2017 BMC Health Services Research article by Shimmin et al. 3 . In the second column on this page, the sentence “Partnership approaches can be resource intensive require leadership skills…” appears to contain a grammatical error and should perhaps read “Partnership approaches can be resource intensive and require leadership skills” or “Partnership approaches can be resource intensive, requiring leadership skills”. The authors mention “negotiation skills are required to accommodate different perspectives in order to reach consensus in a timely manner”, however we are not sure that this aligns with the principles of meaningful and inclusive PPI in research – though consensus and timeliness are obviously of importance to researchers, we are not convinced that these are central tenets of engagement, and would argue that respect for patients’ stories and lived experiences should be valued over ‘timeliness’. Under “Find out what research questions are priorities for patients”, the authors state that “If a research question is of low priority to the people affected by the condition, or important outcomes are not considered, and/or the intervention in question is considered unacceptable to patients, then further research is wasteful”. Although we do not disagree, this is a bold statement that we would suggest tempering, given that basic, fundamental research is often of low priority to patients, and may not have a direct intervention for treating disease or improving health, though it often serves as critical foundations for future discoveries. Figure 1: The figure demonstrates the people involved in different types of activities. It seem as though the integrated partnership approaches are intended to be positioned as the ‘overlap’ between PPI and qualitative and survey research. Generally, we found this figure is somewhat difficult to interpret and aesthetically unpleasing. We also question the exclusion of health and social care staff from PPI, and wonder why people in these roles would not be able to participate in PPI. Page 11: In determining patient priorities, we are pleased to see mention of JLA, an important methodology. We also think this would be an excellent opportunity to introduce the Patient-Led Research Hub, mentioned later in the article. The use of survey methodology as an example of identifying patient priorities seems overused – there is a lack of discussion of other potential priority-setting methods (such as patient journey mapping and digital storytelling). This is particularly important for researchers who are new to the concept of PPI who would benefit greatly from information about alternatives to the survey methodology. Mention of hard-to-reach groups should be mentioned initially under “Identify patients and/or patient groups to involve as early as possible”, to ensure it is at the forefront of researchers’ minds when considering their recruitment strategy. Page 12: Under “Consider the potential for bias and conflicts of interest”, we would recommend mentioning that this should be a consideration for discussing ground rules and/or terms of reference. This would also be a good time to mention that the research team and patient partners should discuss together what to do in cases of potential conflicts of interest, and how those will be addressed in the context of the research partnership. Within the heading “Negotiate and agree an approach” there appears to be a word missing, such that the heading should read “Negotiate and agree on an approach”. Additionally, in the first sentence of the paragraph under this heading, “Once patients are involved, it is advisable to agree clear boundaries…” should read “Once patients are involved, it is advisable to agree upon clear boundaries…”. In discussing the ‘scope of the role’, it is also important to note that the role of the researcher in the partnership should also be discussed, and this should be indicated in the article. The authors state that “Patients can contribute to three key functions” – we would argue that patients often contribute to other functions such as collecting data, interpreting results, and informing knowledge translation activities, to name a few. The authors state that “Patients value individual constructive and honest feedback about their contributions in order to learn, gain confidence and maintain motivation.” Although this statement may be true, the indicated reference is a link to a NIHR site declaring the development of national standards for PPI (from March 2017). This statement in particular should be supported by a reference, or replaced with the suggestion that research teams discuss with patient and public partners how they want to receive feedback and what they need to learn, gain confidence, and maintain motivation. The heading “Agree appropriate funding for patient involvement” seems to be missing a word, and should probably read “Agree on appropriate funding for patient involvement.” The sentence “Negotiate with patients the costs: payment for patient time” should also include expertise, a major contribution of patients to the research process, such that this part of the sentence should read “payment for patient time and expertise.” Page 13: The inclusion of consideration for patients not having to pay upfront for travel and having access to computers and printers is critical and we commend the authors for including it. In discussing the steps for PPI in grant development, discussing how to budget for these early activities would be appropriate and useful for those reading this article. At the very least, a reference to an existing budget tool (such as INVOLVE’s cost calculator - http://www.invo.org.uk/resource-centre/payment-and-recognition-for-public-involvement/involvement-cost-calculator/ ) would be appropriate and highly useful. Under “Working together ethically”, it would be helpful to include references for researchers to explore these concepts in more detail – how to ensure distribution of power in research, perhaps guides to reflexive practice questions (such as Shimmin et al.’s article), guidelines for valuing patient contributions and fair compensation (such as those produce by the SPOR National Disease Networks). Page 14: The authors mention “Audio-recording… does not require ethics committee approval” – we are unsure whether this advice is accurate for all potential jurisdictions, and would suggest including a note about inquiring with the readers’ own regulatory bodies would be appropriate here. The authors warn “Expect to be challenged if PPI appears tokenistic”, but provides no guidance for what this means and how to avoid it. We would suggest including more detail and/or a reference. The authors state that “It helps to use language precisely and to understand how involving, participating, collaborating, consulting and engaging with patients in research differ” - this statement gives the impression that these concepts are mutually exclusive, when in fact they are overlapping and intertwined. Perhaps this could be restated as “how involving, participating, collaborating, consulting and engaging with patients in research differ, and what the overlap between these concepts is.” In the Conclusion, the authors call for evidence about the engagement process, and we would suggest they may also want to touch on the potential to have patient and public partners included as participants (in evaluating the engagement process), and should discuss this when issues around ethics are discussed (page 13) and/or when comparing partners and participants (page 3). 