This is an interesting original research article based on computational modeling to understand several questions related to cancer cell metabolism, specifically on the Warburg effects and related phenomena (high glucose uptake and lactate production by cancer cells despite sufficient oxygen supply; also very high transient glucose uptake one order of magnitude faster than the high steady state glucose uptake). In doing this, the author developed a new computational model integrating simplified "phenomenological" models of key lumped reactions in glycolysis, mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled to oxygen consumption (oxidative phosphorylation; OxPhos), and cytosolic ATP consumption. I am not an expert in cancer cell metabolism, so I do not know how much experimental data are available for testing and calibrating the mathematical model. I trust the author has carefully considered all the important experimental data that are available for the calibration of the model. For example, I see the author has considered some key experimental data sets showing transients in several important variables in the mathematical model governing cellular metabolism in cancer cells (Figure 2). This is surely an important data sets for model calibration, as it depicts the transients of fructose biphosphate (FBP) content, ATP content, glucose uptake, lactate production, and oxygen consumption for two different glucose stimulation conditions in cancer cells (low glucose and high glucose conditions). These data show distinct characteristics in these important variables for these two perturbation conditions. Based on the calibrated model, the author used model simulations to gather several interesting insights into the cancer cell metabolism. Finally, the author has very well recognized the limitations of the model. I still wanted to point out few further limitations of the modeling. As I mentioned above, the modeling of the lumped reaction processes in this integrated model are highly phenomenological. The author considered two lumped reactions of the whole glycolysis process (termed as "head" and "tail" portion of the glycolysis), one reaction representing OxPhos, and one reaction for ATP consumption. I wonder what is the philosophy behind the formulated flux expressions for these lumped reactions. I see the author has not given any thermodynamic consideration in the modeling of these lumped reactions (e.g. reversible reaction fluxes satisfying the Haldane constraint, relating kinetic parameters to the Gibbs free energy of the lumped reactions). The author has also not included the stoichiometry of the biochemical species in the modeled reaction fluxes. For example, the modeled lumped reaction fluxes do not include square terms considering two ATP and ADP are involved in the lumped phosphorylation-dephosphorylation reactions. Also I am wondering if the author has individually parameterized these reactions fluxes prior to integration and testing the integrated model with the dynamic data in Figure 2. Besides these few modeling limitations, the author has done a great job in developing, calibrating and testing the model, and coming up with interesting conclusions regarding the operation of this complex metabolic system in cancer cell. I am not sure how these findings can be experimentally tested, but I would invite the author to put some of his thoughts on further testing experimentally these interesting model predictions. Besides, I have few other suggestions: 1. I would suggest the author to show the model simulated reaction fluxes along with the model fittings in Figure 2. 2. I would suggest the author using the acronym EATC throughout after it is defined. 3. I did not see how the effect of blood flow is integrated into the model. I thought the model is for isolated cell experiments in a cuvette. 4. The whole experimental system (cells in buffer) is considered as a single compartment. I am wondering how the model prediction would alter if one considers compartmentation (e.g. extracellular, cytosol, and mitochondria as separate compartments with transport of species in and out of the compartments). 