 4th April 2017: This referee report was mistakenly published with a Not Approved status - we have now corrected this to the intended Approved with Reservations. The manuscript present a Cytoscapp app called SCODE for supervised detection of protein complexes. In principle, the motivation of the work is strong: learning the features of known complexes in a protein interaction network is a viable strategy to compute new complexes. However, the manuscript requires a significant amount of revision. The authors motivate the usefulness of supervised learning of complexes by saying that the problem is often reduced to clique detection. They are considerably simplifying the literature in making this claim, since there are literally dozens of algorithms for computing protein complexes in protein networks and they cite only one publication (the MCODE paper) to support the claim. The authors claim that "Real-valued data indicate that a variety of other features, including but not limited to edge density, are typical of complexes among PPI networks." In support, they cite an earlier paper from 2008 (citation 5). In citation 5, the authors of that paper show a few example of complexes that are not-cliques. It is possible that algorithms developed since 2008 may compute such subgraphs. This manuscript will be improved if the authors provide some more recent and updated data to support the claim. It is unclear how the SCODE algorithm differs from the method published in citation 5. The manuscript should clarify if the two methods differ in any essential features or if this manuscript focuses on presenting a Cytoscape app that implements the method from citation 5. In either case, the precision of SCODE is very low (around 0.1) when the recall is around 0.5. The manuscript will be much improved by a quantitative comparison to other algorithms (supervised or not) in terms of its precision and recall. A difficulty that a user of the SCODE app will find is that it has a surfeit of parameters. When faced with so many choices, a user is likely to settle for the defaults without knowledge of whether these values will lead to good results or not. The usability of the app can be dramatically improved by decreasing the number of parameters and providing some guidelines to the user on how to tune them for a particular dataset. In the section on "Search parameters", the authors do state "For the purposes of our evaluation, we provide the ideal conditions for the search to return true complexes." They should explain how they determined that these parameters provide ideal conditions to find true complexes. The descriptions of some features are confusing and unclear. For example, "Complex size" is "Takes the length of a list of complexes of size |N|." Do the authors mean that the feature is for a complex c, the number of proteins in c? They use this type of language for features such as degree and clustering coefficient. In the definition of density, what is Ep? What are the values in "Edge Table Column"? What are the singular values of a graph? How do the authors compute them? What is their biological meaning? More generally, some features are defined for nodes, some for edges, some for pairs of nodes, some for the entire graph. It will be helpful to group them by this categorization and explain how the different types of features fit into the training framework.