This Brief Report shows that a specific Pten-deficient mouse model shows no change in prepulse inhibition compared to wildtype controls. This is discussed in the context of literature about changes in PPI in humans with autism and in autism animal models. Albeit negative, this report could then be of value as an additional component of this literature. Unfortunately there are some problems with the study and the way it is presented. Abstract, background: "has been rarely examined” - does this mean it has been examined once before? What was the result? Introduction: It would be helpful if the neuronal subset-specific Pten KO mouse was described in more detail. What do we know about behavioural changes in this mouse model. Importantly, were there deficits in social behaviour? If this has not been published yet, it would be good to add some of those additional behavioural tests here. Methods, subjects: Why were only males included in the study? Methods, sensorimotor gating: As far as I know, the SR-LAB system has only one speaker and there is no “high-frequency” speaker (what is that anyway) to produce the stimuli. Methods, sensorimotor gating: It would be more clear if the prepulses were described as level over background, i.e. PP2, PP7 and PP12. Methods, sensorimotor gating: What was the interval between the onset of the prepulse and the onset of the startle pulse (SOA)? What was the interval between various trials in the PPI protocol (ITI)? Is it, like the figure legend suggests, always 15 seconds? This would be unusual because the ITI is variable in most of the PPI literature. Results: Details of the statistical analysis are missing. In the Statistical Analysis section in the Methods, or in the Results section, it has to be explained what the between-group and within-group factors are and main effects and importantly interactions between those factors have to be detailed. For example, for PPI, was there a prepulse intensity x genotype interaction? Discussion: Again, it would be more clear if the prepulses were described as level over background, i.e. PP2, PP7 and PP12. This would allow better comparison with previous studies. Figure 1: Along the horizontal axis do not use labels at an angle. Figure 1, legend: A lot of technical detail here should be included in the Methods section, not in a figure legend. There is also no need to constantly repeat rise-fall times. This can be mentioned once in the Methods as a feature of all stimuli. 