In the investigation of the effects of colour on behaviour, as in the investigation of hypnosis, it is difficult to separate from other effects the influence of participants prior beliefs and expectations. These are culturally determined, and may play a role in influencing outcomes. Within contemporary culture there are widely held beliefs about the effects that colour may have on behaviour, and these have the potential to alter the participants motivation and attitudes towards any study involving colour. Attitudes and motivation are more likely to play a role in those cognitive tasks that have given rise to the Colour in Context theory, than in the low-level visual task used here in which performance is judged using two-alternative Psychophysics. The current study appears to have been carefully designed and conducted, but perhaps slightly less carefully reported. I would have liked to have seen the stimuli described in greater detail. For example: What were the chromaticities of the red and blue colours used? It is unclear what made it impossible to match the luminances. Was the positioning of the square such that the centre was at 5 degrees eccentricity, or was it the nearest margin that was at 5 degrees eccentricity? Was the of the square measured horizontally or diagonally? I do not see how the lifetime of the dipoles could have been 0.005ms. Even if this is a typo and the lifetime was 0.005s, I am still incredulous because the screen refresh rate was 100Hz, so the frame duration was 0.01s and this is twice the supposed duration of the dipoles! A t-test is not a dependant, even when it is a dependent t-test. I would have liked to have seen some discussion of the possible role of colour in affecting the accommodative lag to the visual stimuli on display. There is data in the literature that could have been used to argue that the effects of colour on image blur would have been negligible (about 0.07 dioptres, at maximum), and in the event any effects of accommodation were minimal because colour had no effect on visual performance of either local or global tasks. Given that about half the participants were aware of the colour manipulation and half were not, it might have been of interest to have separated the data for these two groups to see whether any effects of belief (Colour in Context) were more apparent in the group that had awareness. Indeed, in the literature on "Colour in Context", it would have been useful to have known what preconceptions regarding the effects of colour the participants brought to the tasks they were asked to perform.