This study examines the quality of surgical care in patients undergoing surgical resection for pancreatic adenocarcinoma over a 10-year period (2001-2011) in the Canadian Province on Nova Scotia. The authors use the provincial cancer registry to identify the study cohort based on ICD codes. The quality of surgical care delivered to patients was assessed using previously reported, established disease-specific quality indicators including surgical factors, pathologic measures and short and long-term outcomes. The objective was to determine if patients undergoing curative-intent resection for pancreatic cancer in Nova Scotia were receiving similar quality of care compared to published references. Our surgical knowledge in the management and outcomes in pancreatic cancer is largely based on retrospective data from large volume centres, often single-institution based series. While these reports provide essential information, it is unclear whether similar outcomes are being realized in routine clinical practice. Health services research using population-based studies, such as this one, provide insight into the management and outcomes achieved in the “real world” and are less limited by referral and selection biases that are inherent in traditional institutional-based series. Moreover, they provide insight into access to care and the adoption of new treatments in routine practice, allowing for identification of gaps and deficiencies in the delivery of appropriate care. In this study, the authors report inferior outcomes in patients in Nova Scotia compared to published quality measures. Specifically, the resectability rate was below average with only 10% of patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer actually undergoing surgical resection with curative intent. They also found a below average rate of referral to medical oncology for consideration of adjuvant therapy, with only half of patients being referred. These are important findings as they identify critical deficiencies in the health care system that are correctable. It is conceivable that with improvements in referral to both surgical and medical oncology in Nova Scotia, long-term outcomes may improve, which at present are substantially worse compared to the reported rates in the literature (5-year overall survival 9% compared to 16%). The authors also identified critical gaps in the quality of surgical pathology reporting with poor reporting of margin status, as well as an inferior surgical node retrieval rate with only one-third of patients having 10 lymph nodes resected. Again, these findings identify important areas of quality improvement. Given the retrospective, administrative nature of the data, there are inherent limitations such as the lack of detailed information related to post-operative complications and factors that may have influenced referral to surgical and medical oncologists. Moreover, despite using registry data for the entire province of Nova Scotia over 10 years, the actual study cohort is quite small (n=94), limiting more detailed analysis. Perhaps there is a temporal relationship between quality of care and time, with better outcomes in the more recent era? Given the small numbers, it is not possible to explore how quality may have changed over time. Nevertheless, the authors should be commended for the candid reporting of this data, highlighting the insufficiencies in the delivery of care to patients with pancreatic cancer in Nova Scotia. Through their investigation they were able to identify several areas where quality of care can be improved, with a view to achieving better outcomes. This report also underscores the importance of health services research and population-based studies to determine if outcomes in routine practice are indeed comparable to published reports and to identify deficiencies in the health care system in order to better organize, manage and deliver quality care.