This study evaluated changes in peripheral refraction induced by ‘2 week pure’ soft contact lenses in a group of children. There are issues which need to be addressed as described below: General comments: Why do authors expect there to be a difference in peripheral refraction changes to published reports on adults, if peripheral refraction has been shown to be relatively similar between myopic children and adults? Furthermore, these results cannot be generalised to all contact lenses and is specific for the included lens design. If results are not statistically significant, authors should not state that SVCLs increased relative hyperopic defocus. The discussion details many studies exploring differences in myopia progression between SVCLs, spectacles, and between different materials of SVCLs. Instead, authors should compare peripheral refraction profiles to previous publications in children. Limitations of instrumentation has not been discussed – authors only measured peripheral refraction along the horizontal meridian and it has been shown that the vertical meridian tends to demonstrate myopic defocus in myopic individuals. Furthermore, the autorefractor samples within a small arc which may mask subtle changes, which may be a possible reason for non-significant changes reported in this study. Authors need to be careful in statements regarding peripheral vision/refraction and myopia/emmetropization as these are hypotheses or proposals that have not been fully validated. Minor comments: Abstract: Conclusion: Results are not statistically significant therefore authors should not state that SVCLs increased relative hyperopic defocus. Introduction - first paragraph: Why is myopia considered a global health problem? Prolate, not prolated Replace affordable with a more appropriate word Introduction – second paragraph: There have been numerous studies have characterised changes in peripheral vision or defocus with various single vision and multifocal soft contact lenses. Peripheral hyperopic defocus is believed to cause axial length elongation More recent evidence has suggested that peripheral hyperopic defocus may be a consequence rather than cause of myopia development. Methods: Were p values adjusted to take into account multiple comparisons? How long were contact lenses worn before measurements were taken? Did authors note any decentration in their subjects, as this may influence results Results – first paragraph: Remove the last sentence Figure keys: baseline, not base Table 1, 2 and Figure 1: I am surprised with such low J 0 values in the periphery? Discussion – first paragraph : the results were not statistically significant, therefore authors should not state that the contact lenses induced any changes in relative peripheral refraction. Fourth paragraph: this is true if peripheral defocus is to some extent responsible or involved in myopia development. This is currently still under debate. 