This paper deals with the very hard and important problem of cancer survival prognosis with focus on evaluation of methods and data usages. Common prognosis models are assessed in a full-scale analysis, that is, in combination with imputation techniques and variable selection methods. The data stems from the prostate cancer DREAM challenge and the stage is set for achieving best prognosis performance in terms of the integrated AUC in case of cross-validation using the training data or for the validation dataset. The authors provide a thoroughly description of predictors and their mutual relationship. Combined Methods: The missingness taxonomy, which sets the range for imputation, is chosen sufficiently exhaustive and is then combined with the modelling and variable selection approaches. The chosen stability selection is appropriate and interesting given the wide range of chosen models. Some of the models have implicit variable selection and comparisons are made. Interestingly the debiased lasso is shown to perform rather poorly in the comparison scenario as well as the boosting methods that optimizes a concordance measure, but are low on the iAUCs, somewhat unexpected. Explaining why the methods differ in performance is not straightforward but the general purpose of comparison is fully met and very interesting claims are provided useful for developing prognostic survival models. The stability selection procedure is recommended as a reliable method for selecting prognostic variables. The authors point at ad-hoc choices and "hand tuning" during the process, but manage to convey and address very well the great many choices to be made for survival prognosis in action. There is a comprehensive explanation of study design, chosen methods, analysis, and results. The paper is clearly written and may in combination with the supplied material serve as a very good tutorial on the topic - the case study presented seems to have very general scope for application. Papers of this type are welcomed in general. Misc: A typo of AUC in abstract. A specification of how mutual dependence of binary predictors is obtained. Not important: the estimation of the iAUC was not to be found in the supplied material - maybe a closer look is needed.