The authors report on a systematic review in order to assess the state-of-the -art in the field of Clinical Decision Support (CDS) systems in the last 5 years (2013-2018). They review and report on study designs, outcomes and methods employed in CDS in the scientific literature as well as in study databases (like Clinicaltrials.gov ). The paper is clearly written and organized. The methodology for the systematic review is solid and comprehensive. The topic is also very relevant and timely. I do have some concerns which are mentioned below: The authors could potentially include in the study (as described by the inclusion criteria), conference abstracts that were published only as abstracts in 2017 or 2018, even without subsequent publication. I assume they do that in order to somehow keep up with later developments even if they are not published elsewhere, given the very fast pace of the research area. However, they exclude protocols of studies that were published in the same (or more extended) time frame, which seems slightly inconsistent. Some discussion concerning this choice would be enlightening. There seems to be some confusion with terminology, with unknown consequences on the review's results. The authors seem to separate "machine learning" methods, from "statistical" methods ( Table 1: "Multivariable hierarchal logistic regression models*** (models which are based only on statistics - but there is no machine learning)", as an exclusion criterion ). This is clearly not the suitable platform to resolve this issue, but, the distinction between machine learning and statistics is not at all that clear. Specifically, under the term "supervised learning", any regression method (statistics) could be classified. So, logistic regression IS a machine learning method. So is LASSO and several other methods reported. Again, this is not the appropriate place for going into further details, but there is certainly some confusion, especially when in the results Logistic regression keeps appearing as a preferred method. Again concerning terminology, the term "accuracy" appears often in the results section. Sometimes it is reported as a different outcome than i.e. ROC AUC, sensitivity and specificity. All the latter methods are quantifying "accuracy" in some way and some clarification is needed. Minor comments: Table 1: Treatment/Intervention, a parenthesis is missing. Tables 7 10: Maybe reverse the orientation of the column titles, it is impossible to read on a screen. 