This article aims to demonstrate how a neuroimaging study can be published in such a way that readers can re-execute the complete workflow with (relative) ease. Although the concrete study used as an example is probably of little scientific interest, it could serve as a template and guideline for other researchers using the same software tools. My main issue with this paper is that I was unable to re-execute the workflow, in spite of the authors' efforts to document the process. A detailed technical explanation is provided at the end of this review. In addition to technical obstacles that could in principle be overcome, the main issue is the use of the proprietary software package FSL, whose licence can be interpreted as prohibiting its use in the context of a review for F1000Research. It is not clear to me if using FSL via NeuroDebian would somehow solve this problem, because I did not succeed in obtaining the NeuroDebian docker image. Another issue of the interpretation of numerical tolerances. The article says that the authors made comparisons "allowing for a numeric tolerance of 1e-6", but no explanation is given for this particular choice, nor is it said if this is an absolute or a relative error criterion. Table 1 shows numerical results obtained on different platforms, but provides no guide for their interpretation. How big would a difference have to to influence the scientific interpretation of the results? Finally, readers wishing to take this example as a starting point for preparing their own studies reproducibly would benefit from a more extensive discussion of the technical choices and of the work required for actually composing, rather than simply consulting, the authors' code repository. For example, it is not stated explicitly anywhere that the workflow takes the form of a Python script (run_demo_workflow.py). The use of conda in re-creating an environment with precise versions of each software package is also not generally known and deserves more explanation. Attempting to re-execute the example workflow I tried to re-execute the workflow on a MacBookPro running under macOS 10.11.6, using both procedures explained in the authors' README.md. 1. "Within your current environment". The first obstacle is "Make sure FSL is available in your environment and accessible from the command line." Where do I get FSL? Which version(s) are acceptable? Please provide at the very least a link to the software's Web page (https://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/). I decided not to install FSL on my computer because I am not willing to accept the licence. It excludes commercial use, and in particular "use of the Software to provide any service to an external organisation for which payment is received". F1000Research offers reviewers a reduction on future article page charges, which could be interpreted as a form of payment. Beyond this specific legal issue, I also consider it unreasonable to request reviewers to register as users of proprietary software, providing personal data for marketing purposes in the process. I did, however, continue the setup process to check it for completeness. The instruction "If you already have a `conda` environment, please follow the detailed steps below." lacks some precision: where exactly do I have to start if I already have a conda environment? The right answer is "at 'conda config --add channels conda-forge'", which I think is not obvious. 2. "Within Docker" Running the Simple_Prep_docker under macOS ends with the error message readlink: illegal option -- f usage: readlink [-n] [file ...] I modified the script, replacing "readlink" by "greadlink" from Homebrew's coreutils package. The next error message then is sed: -i may not be used with stdin There are two uses of "sed -i" in the script, but for neither one it is obvious under which conditions it would erroneously act on stdin. I decided to give up at this point. Considering the use of apt-get in the script, it probably requires Debian or Ubuntu Linux anyway. I am not sure the authors can do much to address this issue, given that writing platform-independent shell scripts is difficult to impossible, but they should at least say clearly in the installation instructions for which platforms they have actually tested the installation.