This is a very well written, concise, and useful manuscript summarising the literature published in TS during 2017. I commend the authors’ efforts and I am grateful for the opportunity to review this piece. I only have a few minor comments, listed below. 1. The choice of articles is obviously subjective, but I think that the review could also cite the following register-based study from Finland, including 1195 cases, about parental age and the (lack of) association with tic disorders. I believe that the study is relevant from an etiological point of view since it contrasts with what it is known in other disorders (e.g., ASD, ADHD): Chudal R, Leivonen S, Rintala H, Hinkka-Yli-Salomki S, Sourander A (2017) 1 2. Regarding the Fernndez de la Cruz et al. (2017b) paper on suicide, cited in the Epidemiology section, the authors write: “TDs in adults were associated with a four-fold higher risk of suicide…” I suggest that the authors delete “in adults”. This large epidemiological cohort included individuals of all ages, followed up for different periods of time, up to 44 years, and the outcomes may have occurred at any time during the follow-up, including childhood/adolescence. 3. When mentioning the paper by Darrow et al. (2017a), the authors explain: “The presence of OCD was associated with higher scores on the social cognition and RRB subscales”. I assume that a higher score in the RRB subscale means more repetitive behaviours, but does an elevation in the social cognition subscale reflect more (better) or less (worse) social cognition? I take from the following sentence that it is probably worse, but please clarify. 4. When referring to the BIP TIC project in the Psychological interventions section, you may want to cite the communication cited below, which was presented at the ESSTS conference in 2017, and/or the project’s registration ( https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02864589 ) instead of the Karlsson, 2016 reference. Andrn, P. (2017, June). Development and evaluation of a therapist-guided, Internet-based behaviour therapy programme for young people with Tourette syndrome and chronic tic disorder: The BIP TIC programme. 10th European Conference on Tourette Syndrome and Tic Disorders / 2017 Annual Meeting of the European Society for the Study of Tourette Syndrome, Seville, Spain. [oral and poster presentation] Other minor points: The acronym ADD is only used once in the text (in the Electrophysiology section) and is never spelled out. Please write “attention deficit disorder” instead. Please spell out TSPO the first time that is mentioned (Neuroimaging studies section). 