 General comment Phylogenetic analysis need to be improved, and the choice for NJ methods and JC model, justified in the article. There are several programs that have been largely employed for phylogenetic analysis, including for mitogenome data. The paper authored by Foster et al. 1 contains useful information about analyses that have been carried out for inferring phylogenetic relationships within Anophelinae mosquitoes. I strongly suggest authors to verify how analyses were done. Sample collection Authors - “The An. gambiae and An. coluzzii samples were collected as resting adults using mouth aspirators in Kela, Mali (11.88683N, -8.44744W) in 2012 and Mutengene, Cameroon (4.0994N, 9.3081W) in 2011.” Comment - Can you please give more details the micro environment where your specimens of An. gambiae and An. coluzzii were resting? Authors - “Similarly, we did this for the An. gambiae Savannah and Bamako chromosomal forms. We used the same definitions and methods to characterize the chromosomal forms as in Lanzaro Lee, 2013.” Comment - It is not clear to me if you examined the polytene chromosome of each specimen you identified as the Savannah, Bamako, Forest and Mopti forms. Please clarify. Genome sequencing Authors - “For the An. coluzzii and An. gambiae samples we used the same methods as described in Norris et al. (2015) and Main et al. (2015). For the latter species, libraries were created using the Nextera DNA Sample Preparation Kit (FC-121-1031) and TruSeq dual indexing barcodes (FC-121-103) (Illumina) and the samples were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq2500 with 100-bp paired end reads.” Comment - Please add a short sentence to clarify if you sequenced the whole genome and from the full sequence data you obtained the positions 1-13,470 of the mitogenome. Data analysis Authors - “The phylogenetic tree was generated using the Jukes-Cantor genetic distance model and Neighbor-Joining tree methods available in Geneious version 10.1.3.” Comment - Authors should clarify their choice for sequence analysis. The Geneious software has been developed for editing and aligning DNA / amino acid sequences. There are several softwares, which have been largely used to infer phylogenetic relationships. I suggest authors to refining and improving the phylogenetic analysis using appropriate programs and models that have been chosen for the mitogenome data you have at hand. 