Thanks for the opportunity to review the articles titled ‘A pilot study on assessing the gap between nurses’ task performances and knowledge pertaining the same with reference to “I COUGH” initiative- a call for promoting patient ‘care bundle’ assignments in low-income nations’. The concept behind this research is novel and impressive for me. Introduction: There should be more info related to the background aspects of this research. The authors need to mention the pulmonary complication occurring after the surgery. Here the authors need to cite the articles related to ‘I COUGH’ programme. The authors need to explain about Care bundle approach method. Methodology: The I COUGH protocol has to be mentioned in detail mentioning all the six components to enable readers other than nurses to understand and interpret. The study design needs to be explained under this section. What do the authors mean by ‘Analytical study?’. It needs explanation. The authors have mentioned 101 nurses were advised to tabulate different components of effective chest physiotherapy. The authors mentioned only about ‘C’ and the remaining other five components such as 'Oral care', 'Understanding', 'Get out of bed' and 'Head end elevation'. The methodology should be written in detail mentioning duration of study, how many samples the authors have collected in a day, and details on the short educational activity. Overall, it will be nice to divide the methodology into subsections to improve understanding. Results: In the results part the authors have mentioned clearly about nurses knowledge but the authors never mention the knowledge of nurses in the methodology. This needs rewriting. Figure 3 and Figure 4 have the same headings and need to be modified. The authors need to perform inferential statistics with the results. In the results the authors have mentioned about level of understanding but in the discussion, in a few places the authors have mentioned ‘knowledge’. It is confusing and hence needs to be rewritten. Discussion: In the first paragraph the authors did not mention what VAP is. This needs expansion and a probable explanation. The ‘task organization skill simulations’ need more elaborations. Conclusion: I would suggest the authors to mention about how to improve the health care standard. Conclusion should be written based on the objective. Hence it can be rewritten. 