This manuscript was written by participants of a workshop entitled "AllBio: Open Science Reproducibility Best Practice Workshop" which took place at the TGAC in Norwich UK in September 2014. The alleged purpose of the oath and manifesto proposed in this manuscript is to make "transparency, reproducibility and citizen-scientist engagement the default parameters for performing sound research." Those goals are clearly highly laudable, and I completely agree that the process of scientific refereeing would greatly improve by going . I do, however, feel very ill at ease about acting as a referee for this particular paper, for the following three main reasons: This is not a scientific manuscript, and it neither contains data, nor reviews a scientific topic. I am thus left wondering why such a manuscript should need to be peer reviewed. After reading it, I certainly cannot conclude that it is scientifically sound. The best I can conclude is that it is not scientifically unsound. Although this manuscript is very short, I must say that I found it rather difficult to read because of its structure which contains many redundancies and of the fuzziness of its purpose. One aspect that particularly bothers me is the unquestioned assumption that open refereeing will improve reproducibility. The first thing the authors should clarify is what they mean by reproducibility since there are at least two types that I can think of: The first one concerns data reproducibility (or robustness). In other words will similar data, leading to the same conclusions, be obtained if the experiment is repeated (on a different day and/or with different samples and/or in a different place and/or by different people etc). The second type of reproducibility relates to the capacity of other scientists to reproduce an experiment described in a published manuscript. I suspect that when they refer to science reproducibility, the authors refer to the latter type, although the first type is the most important one in my eyes. The authors duly acknowledge that they have been inspired by reviewers oaths previously proposed by others (refs 13-15), and if I am being completely honest, I do not find that the set of 17 rules they propose represent a significant improvement on those previously proposed oaths. Because I do not want to plagiarise Jonathan Eisen, I will simply suggest that the authors should very seriously consider following the many suggestions he has made on his blog to improve this paper ( http://icis.ucdavis.edu/?p=505 ), and especially the idea of reversing the Oath and the Manifesto. 