 Title and Abstract The title is appropriate. The abstract makes some jumps in logic: e.g “ Furthermore, South-East Asian strains showed a higher proportion of non-synonymous polymorphism at conserved positions, suggesting reduced negative selection.” This pattern can equally well be explained by stronger positive selection in SEA than in Africa. Article content Major points Results differ from the prior analysis of this dataset. The article comes to different conclusions from those reported by the MalariaGEN consortium in eLife (ref 18) who write: " Accordingly, we found virtually identical distributions of the ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous mutations (N/S ratio) in the two regions ( Figure 3c )” page 6 bottom: MalariaGEN Plasmodium falciparum Community Project. eLife 2016;5:e08714. DOI: 10.7554/eLife.08714). It is unclear to me why this F1000 submission and the published eLife paper reach very different conclusions using the same dataset ? I suggest that the authors should cite the conclusions of the eLife paper and explain why their analysis comes to a very different conclusion. This point needs urgently needs satisfactory resolution as this is the central conclusion of the paper. Methodology/analysis biases. Reduced ability to score non-synonymous variants in African populations could generate the N/S ratios observed. Such a bias could be generated because infections are more complex in Africa. Non-synonymous mutations tend to be at lower frequency than synonymous mutations. In complex mixed African infections low frequency non-synonymous mutations may be filtered out of the dataset (because very few reads show the mutation) but scored in SE Asian samples, where infections are simpler (so multiple reads show non-synonymous mutations). To eliminate this potential methodological bias, the authors should filter their data to minimize mixed infections prior to analysis. This could be done by setting a threshold for numbers of mixed base calls. Again, it is important to understand why the conclusions reached by this analysis differ from the published eLife paper. As pointed out in the eLife paper there is a dramatic difference in the allele frequency spectrum in the two locations. The excess of rare variants in Africa could also potentially alter the N/S ratios. Population genetics explanation. Assuming the central result is correct, a simpler model explains these results: The effective population size (Ne) of parasite populations is lower in SEA than in Africa. Therefore purifying selection is weaker in SEA than in Africa resulting in less efficient removal of deleterious mutations. Discussion of this simple alternative explanation would improve the paper. Also Cheeseman et al, MBE 2016 (Mol Biol Evol. 2016 Mar;33(3):603-20. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msv282.), who make this argument to explain patterns of global copy number polymorphism in Plasmodium falciparum . Statistics used : The paper counts numbers of non-synonymous and synonymous mutations and estimates the ratio (N/S). This is an unusual way to present such data – it would be more informative to show dN/dS – (Nonsynonymous changes per non-synonymous site/synonymous variants per synonymous site). This statistic is more useful because the expected ratio under neutrality is 1. This should not change the results but will be more easily interpretable with reference to a neutral model. Related questions: How is N/S ratio determined for genes in which there are NO synonymous mutations? Details of the methods for calculating this ratio, and how they differ from those used in the eLife paper should be provided. More support needed for intrahost competition explanation: The authors argue that the observed pattern may result from more within infection competition in Africa relative to Asia. If competition is invoked to explain the results, then it would be useful to examine the categories of genes contributing to the excess of NS variations. This argument would imply that this effect should be seen in subsets of genes involved in within host competition. On the other hand, if there is no particular enrichment of particular gene classes, then the simple population genetics explanation seems more likely. Conclusions Lack of balance. The authors argue that drug resistance may arise in SEA rather than Africa because intrahost competition prevents emergence of resistance mutations associated with fitness costs. I agree in part – this may certainly contribute. However, greater selection for resistance to drugs in SE Asia is likely to be a critical factor. Most infections in SEA are symptomatic and infected individuals seek treatment. However, most infections in Africa are asymptomatic, so people to no seek treatment. Discussion of the difference in selection strength between continents would add balance to this paper. Other issues. I was very surprised to see this analysis of MalariaGEN data without involvement from malariaGEN authors. My understanding is that access to these data requires a "Fort Lauderdate" type agreement with MalariaGEN (https://www.malariagen.net/data/terms-use/pf3k-terms-use). The authors may have already discussed this with relevant people at MalariaGEN - I would suggest that the authors directly contact Dominic Kwiatkowski, if they have not already done so.