Summary: This is an interesting study evaluating salivary cortisol levels in Alzheimer's patient caregivers with a correlational analysis of multiple measures with morning, afternoon, and evening cortisol values. There are a number of issues with the paper that are rectifiable and would strengthen it enough for indexing acceptance. Abstract: This sentence in the abstract is very long and could be broken up for greater clarity: “Saliva samples were collected to assess the cortisol level of the caregivers three….caregivers and elderly patients.“ "this is not a good neuroendocrine marker of response to mood disorders" This is a very strong conclusion that does not seem warranted from the results of the study and considering the vast literature on HPA axis measures and mood disorders. “dosage” Were they given cortisol? Maybe this should be "values"? Introduction: Change “The main reason” to “One reason”. Methods: What time did participants wake up in relation to their first sample collection? What time did they go to sleep the night before? Was this a usual amount of sleep for them? Did you collect any information about exercise during the day, illness, and smoking? All of these affect cortisol levels and should also be accounted for. The statistical analysis would be more powerful using a linear regression model with all the variables of interest rather than separate simple correlations. Even if you stick to simple correlations, you would need to include a multiple comparison correction. Results: It would be helpful to put some of the demographic and/or questionnaire data into a table for easier readability. The x-axis of Figures 1-4 is not clear. Is that showing time? Why are the numbers not in order? The figures are confusing and I’m not sure what relationship they are trying to show. Discussion: This is a very strong statement and not warranted considering the results of this one small study: “Our study showed that daily salivary cortisol levels did not differ significantly when associated with the level of depression in caregivers of patients with AD, suggesting that this is not a good marker of neuroendocrine response to mood disorders.” “possible onset of hormonal disorder” I don’t think you have to have a hormonal disorder to have dysregulated cortisol values. Under limitations - the authors could also add no measurement of perceived stress. You only measured one day of cortisol and only three time-points. You could add pros and cons for different cortisol collection methods here (salivary vs blood vs urine), diurnal vs 24-hour collections. “Therefore, we would suggest that this steroid hormone alone is not a reliable neuroendocrine marker for the disorder of depression.” Again, this is a very strong statement considering the size and scope of the study and results. You need to include a discussion of your results in relation to other papers that have evaluated cortisol in caregivers. Here are other papers I found with a quick search that you have not cited (de Vugt et al. , 2005 1 , Gallagher-Thompson et al. , 2006 2 and Wahbeh et al. , 2008 3 ). I am sure there are more. 