This paper presents a mathematical model for the transmission of tuberculosis in human populations, and describes how endemic equilibria change with effective contact rate and post treatment immune status. The novelty of the model is the way in which the latent infection compartment is slip into L1 and L2. The primary infection compartment (L1) consists of individuals who have been infected from a susceptible TB-free state (S) and were able to contain the infection in a latent state. These individuals are subject to reactivation and progression to active disease at a rate 0.0026 per year, and to reinfection at a rate 0.21 times the force of infection, where 0.21 accounts for reduced susceptibility due to prior infection. The reinfection compartment (L2) consists of those individuals who have been reinfected from L1 and were again able to contain the infection in a latent state. These individuals are now subject to reactivation and progression to active disease at an increased rate 0.0053 per year, but are no longer susceptible to subsequent reinfections. The model also provides the option for individuals who had active TB disease to return to S, L1 or L2 upon successful treatment. This seems sensible to me and so do the results, although I have not seen TB transmission models formulated in exactly this way before. After defining the model, the authors proceed to calculating the basic reproduction number R0, the threshold parameter which determines whether the disease-free equilibrium is stable (R01) or unstable to perturbations that will take the system to an endemic state. This is followed by a section dedicated to the stability analysis of the disease-free equilibrium (R01). My first reaction to this was to say that this section is redundant given that R0 has already been calculated. Closer inspection, however, shows contradiction between the two sections. While the R0 section implies that the disease-free state loses stability when beta*(mu*p+c)/(mu+c)(k+mu+muI), the stability analysis section concludes that this happens when p*beta(k+mu+muI). I have not verified the calculations in full, but this cross check shows that there must be an error somewhere needing to be corrected. I think the authors will want to verify their calculation. Minor comments: In the abstract and other parts in the text, the authors refer to the 5 host states as “immunological states”. I don’t think that immunity is always the factor that differentiates the states. For example, the difference between “active TB” and “treated TB” is not whether individuals are immune or not, but rather whether they are under treatment or not. This can be fixed by simply using the denomination “host states”. In page 3, 3rd paragraph, I got stuck where it reads “because of a high ‘new’ TB event frequency”. Consider saying just “because of a high TB event frequency”. In the last sentence of the same page, the authors say that “the model includes HIV infection”. I don’t think it does! At the end of page 5, there is a period “M. Where” where should be a comma “M, where”. At the end of page 6, “it is likely to be greater than 1” is awkward. How about “it can be greater than 1”? In page 7, “we assume that lambda4,5 have negative real parts”. Stability analyses do not accommodate such assumptions. Can the authors calculate the real parts of lambda4,5 and determine under what conditions (in terms of model parameters) these are negative? Can they show that these are always negative? Figures and tables are typically displayed in the order they are cited in the text. This is not the case in this paper. 