 Summary-Study Objectives: This is a very interesting and unique study performed by an excellent group of researchers with high expertise in the field. Overall, the study provides novel data describing the permeability of three commonly used drugs in the clinic, digoxin, cimetidine and paracetamol, into the blood, brain and CSF compartments of Sprague Dawley rats at three developmental stages. These data are further complemented by qPCR-based RNA expression studies for relevant ABC transporters in the placenta, brain and choroid plexus. The findings highlight a link between novel age-specific differences in transporter regulation and penetration of these drugs into blood, brain and CSF compartments. The work significantly advances the knowledge in the field as there is a very important lack of information related to this topic. Overall Comments: The supporting background information described in the introduction and discussion is a very thorough representation of existing literature, and gives context to the results. Overall, the studies are carefully planned and the methods applied are robust. Limitations of the study are thoroughly described in the discussion. This work sets the stage for further investigation into the topic, and future directions are highlighted by the authors. The work significantly advances the knowledge in the field as there is a very important lack of information related to this topic. Specific Comments: Additional details on the drug dosing would be helpful especially since there is ample literature describing the use of the drugs in animal models. It is clear that the dosing was adapted from the Australian Medicines Handbook; however, the authors should clarify if allometric scaling or existing literature was used to adapt the drug doses for rodent studies. The authors should also address whether the observed drug plasma concentrations in their animal model reflect clinical relevant plasma concentrations. The authors should consider the extent of drug plasma protein binding when they address the various factors regulating drug permeability across the various tissue compartments; only free drug will be able to permeate across biological membranes by diffusion. Drug concentration in biological compartments is the result of the interplay of passive diffusion across biological membranes, influx/efflux transport, and drug metabolism. While the authors have nicely characterized the role of efflux transporters, they have not fully addressed the potential role of influx transporters in the permeability of the drugs studied. Members of the Solute Carrier (SLC) superfamily could be involved in the uptake of the drugs across the various compartments. The expression of these transporters could also be very variable at the different development stages. This could be further addressed in the discussion for completeness. Measurement of radiolabeled drug in the tissue compartments will reflect total drug/metabolite concentrations rather than parent drug; hence drug metabolites may present a confounding factor in the interpretation of the data. This should be addressed by the authors. In the discussion section, p17 second paragraph, please correct the spelling of the terms “gluc ur onidation” “glutathionylation”. 