This is a very interesting and useful article, which makes a contribution to the knowledge about the use of the Millennium Cohort Study data in general and a utilisation of the sub-set of child-level measures overtime specifically; and to the methodology of applying systematic mapping techniques to reviewing longitudinal data use. The aims of this article are: to firstly identify all the unique studies that use MCS for primary data analysis; and, secondly, to explore the way the data was used (under-explored areas/rarely used response categories), focusing on a subset of areas of interest. I feel that the authors have fully accomplished their aims and I am certain that this article will prove to be of benefit to a wide range of readers. On the whole I found it a pleasant and easy read, which provides the right amount of detail, and is well structured and coherent. I would therefore recommend it for indexing after considering some of my minor suggestions listed below: Detailed comments: The abstract: I would suggest the authors to be a little bit more specific in writing so that it is more obvious what their study did from reading the abstract alone. I am not sure I understand the “background” section - do the authors mean to say that their paper is the only one that systematically explored MCS data? If so, perhaps re-phrase the sentence to make it clearer. In the “methods” section of the abstract: when the authors refer to “(i) explore previous exercises”, I think the authors should be a little more explicit and say something like “(i) explore previous exercises which examined the use of MCS data”. Otherwise it sounds like there were other systematic mapping exercises. Again, in the “methods” section of the abstract: when referring to own approach, expand a little to say something along the lines of: “our approach, namely systematic mapping” to be precise. Methods results sections: The method of the systematic mapping is clearly described within the methods section, helpfully contrasted with the systematic review. The term “systematic mapping”, which is the review method used in this work, does not appear in the paper until quite far along in the methods section (with the exception of a brief mentioning of it at the end of the introduction). I think it should come up earlier: for example, the end of the first paragraph of the section “Previous approaches in reviewing longitudinal data usage”, could, in my opinion, benefit from explicitly referring to the manuscript’s approach as “systematic mapping”. Although it is understandable that to review all the areas of MCS data collection would not be within the scope of this work, it would be useful to get a sense of the reasons for choosing these particular topics, even if briefly. And perhaps, later in the paper to say something, about the focus of studies not included in the in-depth analysis (even if it is just to name a few big obvious areas that the MCS data is used for in those publications). I thought that the authors did a good job in clearly describing their search methodology, specifying search terms, providing the description of the way the initial screening and subsequent screenings took place and the information extracted with a supplementary flow diagram. My one suggestion would be for the authors to make the total number of studies identified, which is mentioned in the text of the article (n=481), more visible in the flow chart (Figure 1) as it currently takes some figuring out and adding two numbers together to get to it. In terms of reproducing the results and for the full transparency of the review, I think a date (dates) when the searches were undertaken and the CLS list of studies was obtained should be included within the methodology description. It would also be good to see to see a full list of studies (all 481 of them), as well as the identified selected studies for the in-depth analysis, in a separate appendix. I think specifying exactly which sweeps of data the measures are available in would be useful for Table 2. I would also suggest to move the introduction of new information – the fact that studies using age 11 sweep were excluded from the review - from the discussion section of the article to the methodology. 