The work is a confirmation that the CRISPR/Cas9 system and a template DNA design can be technically used in a chicken cell line for inserting a reporter gene into a genomic locus. The authors demonstrated that insertion of an EGFP gene cassette into the 3’UTR of the endogenous GAPDH gene with an efficiency of 0.5%, and 89% with selection with antibiotic. The authors provided a detailed description of the protocol, which is helpful for other researchers to follow. However, the work remains a proof-of-principle demonstration that the CRISPR+DNA donor can work in a chicken cell line, the efficiency is likely not high enough for applications. The authors didn’t spend efforts to improve the efficiency, nor investigate what might be the causes of the low efficiency. The protocol used in the chicken cell line is largely taken from the one that is used in mammalian cells, including the human codon optimized Cas9, and mammalian promoters for expressing Cas9 and gRNA. To make a convincing case that their method is “robust”, they should test inserting more genes (not only a reporter gene) into more genomic loci (not only GAPDH). Because of this, it remains a question if the described method is robust enough for inserting any gene of interest into any genomic locus of interest. The suggested next-step experiments include optimizing the method to increase the efficiency, testing more genomic loci, testing gene insertion with different lengths, and testing in the chicken primodial germ cells that will be useful for the applications. Other suggestions for improvement: While the authors demonstrate inserting a promoterless gene into the genomic under the control of an endogenous promoter, they also claimed potential tissue-specific gene expression. However, they didn’t prove that their method can result in a cell line that exhibits tissue-specific gene expression. The efficiency of gene cutting in vitro is lower than expected, only 1.8%. What causes this low efficiency? In general, the authors should provide a detailed discussion of the generally low efficiency observed both in vitro and in vivo, which will be the primary targets for improvement. The authors should mention one additional advantage of their use of the endogenous promoter to express inserted genes, which is less likely be epigenetically silenced. From their data, they observed a relatively long-term (1 month) expression from the endogenous GAPDH promoter. This can be an advantage for long-term stable expression of pharmaceutical proteins compared to using an exogenous promoter that can be epigenetically silenced over time. There is not off-target assay to characterize the real off-target sites from the computational ones. Also, what is NHEJ rate in the correctly EGFP inserted cells? Are there alleles also show indel editing via NHEJ? It would be useful to understand the NHEJ vs. HDR landscape in a chicken cell line. The authors should try additional experiments to improve the efficiency. For example, they can try to reduce the number of plasmids used for transfection, test methods such as RNP delivery or using Cas9 mRNA, use a chicken codon-optimized Cas9 and chicken promoters to express Cas9 and gRNA, and re-design the 5’ and 3’ homologous arms. Via these experiments, it may become a more useful resource to understand what might lead to better HDR efficiency in a chicken cell line. 