The strength of this manuscript lies in its analytical methods. Treatment of data, use of a network framework for highlighting the role of different types of relatives, and the statistical models, are generally well described. I found it impressive that the models performed as well as they did on the independent dataset (models developed using North American records were tested on data from the Australian populations). The approaches described here might be useful beyond inbred tightly-managed captive conservation settings, and could potentially help reveal the importance of multiple types of genealogical relationships in complex societies. Two possible issues with appropriateness of the data: First, how parentage, and paternity in particular, is determined is not described in the text. Speaking with a zoo director about this, I learned that this is usually, but not always clear from behavior in the colony. Additionally, the text does not state how castrated individuals were treated (meerkat colony management occasionally involves neutering males to reduce aggression). The latter would obviously be extremely important for understanding direct reproductive success. The issue of whether human-sterilized individuals should be lumped together with “naturally” reproductively suppressed individuals is interesting in itself but not discussed in the manuscript. My guess is that neither of these issues change the data sufficiently to alter the outcome of the analyses, but it would be nice to know more. It does not appear that the analysis took into account the identity of the zoo. It seems plausible to me that zoos could differ in the quality of care and housing in ways that are confounded with their decisions about meerkat group management. Since I’m not sure this paper makes specific management recommendations and seems to be more proof-of-concept of the analytical methods, I don’t necessarily see this as too damning. I don’t think the distinction between “game theory” and “kin selection theory” is necessarily accurate, nor particularly useful for the message of the paper. For example, see the following for a recent paper which uses a game theoretic approach to ask behavioral questions in an inclusive fitness context: Akay Van Cleve, 2016 1 . References 1. Akçay E, Van Cleve J: There is no fitness but fitness, and the lineage is its bearer. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci . 2016; 371 (1687): 20150085 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Krakauer AH. Reviewer Report For: Reproductive success is predicted by social dynamics and kinship in managed animal populations [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :870 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9375.r18031 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-870/v1#referee-response-18031 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Clutton-Brock T and Pemberton JM. Reviewer Report For: Reproductive success is predicted by social dynamics and kinship in managed animal populations [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :870 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9375.r17367 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-870/v1#referee-response-17367 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 02 Nov 2016 Tim Clutton-Brock , Large Animal Research Group, Department of Zoology,  University of Cambridge, Cambridge , UK Josephine M. Pemberton , Institute of Evolutionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9375.r17367 All fine – but the conclusions are incorporated in a way that makes them difficult for readers to assimilate. Both the Abstract and the Results need to explain how kin and group dynamics affect breeding success (i.e. which components of ... Continue reading READ ALL 