This paper describes a relatively straightforward study focused on comparing the nutrient utilization capacity of the fungal bat pathogen Pseudogymnoascus destructans versus the closely related species P. pannorum using the well established Biolog phenotype system. In general, the results suggest that P. pannorum can more readily utilize most carbon and nitrogen sources compared to P. destructans under the experimental conditions tested (15 deg C, and 7 and 10 days, respectively). The bat pathogen was also more sensitive to pH extremes and less tolerant to high salt. The authors conclude that these results validate their previous whole genome studies which compared the predicted protein numbers between these two species. In general, the results also support previous metabolic capacity studies of P. destructans and other non-pathogenic Pseudogymnoascus species. There are some important questions that should be addressed, and additional details that would improve this manuscript: How was the incubation time of 10 and 7 days for each species determined? Presumably by comparison of equivalent growth in the control wells, but this detail should be provided. If this time is increased, does the utilization capacity of P. destructans eventually catch up? More details should be provided about the cut-off value determination for growth versus no growth. Also, there should be some analysis of the range of results, versus simply using the average of the two readings. For example, what was the standard deviation for replicates? It would be helpful to have a map of the nutrient sources, xenobiotics, etc. in the supplementary data to accompany the OD data (the numerical data alone is impossible to interpret without any other identifying information)--presumably Biolog provides this as a document. It’s not clear how the heat map values were generated, if the starting spore inoculum had an OD of 0.2. (since the lowest value on the heat map is “0” OD). Presumably, if no growth occurred under a given condition, it would remain at the starting OD? Also, is 1.0 the highest OD obtained or was the data scaled to 0-1.0? The heat map figure for the “nutrient supplements” is missing (also, I’m not sure what compounds this category encompasses, so some information about this would also be helpful, perhaps even just referring to the plate map in the supplementary data if that is added). For Figure 6, the solid and dotted green and red lines seem to indicate relative growth, but the numerical cutoffs should be provided in the methods (or figure legend). For example, the growth in the well for 2% NaCl looks (labeled with a solid green line above) looks similar to the well for pH 9 with a dotted green line, but presumably are numerically different. Part of the justification for doing this work is stated as confirming the in silico gene predictions (from a previous publication by the authors). However, it’s not entirely clear that the just comparing the overall numbers of predicted proteins is actually correlated to the overall number of nutrient sources that can be utilized. This seems likely to be true, but the two studies don’t necessarily test/confirm this connection. The reference cited is a short report on the overall sequencing of the P. destructans and P. pannorum genomes, and prediction of encoded proteins, but no significant functional analysis. It might be more relevant to include references that include more functional data on metabolic and enzymatic capacities. Overall, this work adds important information about the competitive ability and metabolic specificity of P. destructans and could provide additional insight into fungal life history strategies and potential ways to control or mitigate white nose syndrome in bats. Some additional details (highlighted above) would provide critical information that would allow others to replicate or expand on this work. 