The discussion of relevant epidemiological data conducted in Mexico and other countries could be included. Correlates such as socio-demographic, culture-related factors of Mexico and other countries pertaining to adolescent smoking could also be discussed in the Introduction Section. Methods - The information below is missing in the paper but should be included: The authors did not tell us how many students participated in the study and how many of them was included and excluded? The criteria for selection of the participating medical students should be listed. What is the percentage of those who participated compared to the total medical students? Is it daily interview or once per week from Jun up to August? What were the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the participants? Regarding the assessment, the authors need to let the readers know more about the variables which were included in the questionnaire. The authors should state the scales that have been used to measure the variables, the reliability etc. All of those were missing in the Methods Section. Since the authors outlined some information about northeast Mexico, it would be better if the authors could devote a section to discuss northeast Mexico in the Introduction part so as to let the readers understand what are the existing cultural factors affecting adolescents in that area. The authors also need to state that the rights and confidentiality of the participants have been communicated to them. I suggest to make correlation between smoking status and their perception. Also, the survey should mention about the family history of smoking, using marijuana in the home. The study was done on medical students but actually no clear question about the effect of medical schools on their perception. How many lectures per semester talk about drug abuse. The study has implications on policy and how adolescents are educated to resist peer pressure when it comes to smoking. In general, a good study but needs more clarification about the comments above and how the medical school will increase the awareness of medical students about the harmful of MM. 