McClain and Neeley make an important contribution to the science communication literature with their opinion article A critical evaluation of science outreach via social media: its role and impact on scientists. The authors do a great job dismantling many of the misconceptions held by those who naysay science communication. I also loved their manifesto at the end of the three necessary elements to support social media for science outreach (particularly the last element, which is very consistent with some initiatives on work allocation I am currently attempting at my own institution!). I have only a few comments about ways in which these authors could strengthen their manuscript: The introduction could more clearly state the authors argument. As experts in this field, the authors could really frame their argument for the reader by offering it from the beginning. Right now the introduction does not make clear what side of the issue for which the authors advocate. Related to this: the headings, instead of asking the question, could just make your point. So for instance, the first could read Science outreach is not a social media nightmare. For the browsing reader, making your point and THEN iterating it can be powerful. I love how strongly cited this article is. I would love to see a little more of the extended explanation of the empirical articles to which the authors cite in their first section they do a great job of this in the other sections. Minor issues: The acronym appears to be out of order, since it stands for Social Media for Science Outreach (SMSO). Personally Im not crazy about using when the intended meaning is as is used in the title, but I leave that very minor decision up to the authors. When there is an extended quote, it really should be turned into a blockquote so that its clear to the reader the authors are using the words of another to strengthen their argument (examples: first and second paragraphs in right column of page 3). Though I also felt these extended quotes might be better paraphrased by the authorsso as to avoid patchwriting. The use of the term academic inclusion (page 4, second full paragraph, right column) is confusing. Inclusion in academic circles is usually a term to discuss diversity initiatives. Thanks for the opportunity to review this interesting piece.