The paper provides an excellent overview. See below a few comments that could further improve the overview. 1. Motivation and contribution of the paper The Hertfordshire cohort study has resulted in several important discoveries related to the relationship between conditions in infancy and later life and this paper summarises the outcomes very well. However, I believe that it would be important to further highlight the motivation of the paper in the introduction. Most importantly, the following questions should be addressed: What can we learn from the Hertfordshire cohort study (three most prominent findings)? Can the experience in setting up and conducting the Hertfordshire cohort study be transferred to other settings (put differently are there country and context specific circumstances that need to be taken into consideration)? What are the main challenges (perhaps costs) that need to be considered? Hence, it would be important to provide a clear motivation for this paper before discussing the historical background. Most importantly, the authors need to convince potential readers, who maybe unfamiliar with the UK, why this paper and the experience gained in conducting the Hertfordshire cohort study matters for their research agenda or potential cohort studies. Put differently, can the success of the Hertfordshire cohort study be replicated in other countries? 2. Age, period and cohort effect The early study focused on men and women born between 1911-30 with a special focus on 1920 and 1930 cohort. The 1920-30 cohort were are born at the tail end of the 'Spanish flu' and the start of the great depression. The younger cohort (the cohort of this study) comprises of 3000 men and women born between 1931 and 1939. During this period the great depression impact continued and the World War 2 started. It would be good to see the differences in findings between these two older and newer cohort studies from this context, if it is possible. Also, it would be good to say something on the socio-economic situation of the 1931-39 cohort. Would any of the historical events impact the results perhaps through survival bias? How was the infant mortality in this period? Can you describe the socio-economic status of the cohort and the differences in the ageing experiences by SES, if such information is available? 3. Methods of data collection over time The paper discusses various methods of data collection summarised in Table 2. It would be interesting to know whether these methods (e.g. home interviews, clinic visits) have changed over time due to improved technology (e.g. home testing kits, questionnaires via mobile phones or email links etc.). Finally, could the authors provide cost estimates per participant? This would be valuable information for other research projects that consider setting up a cohort study in other countries and settings. 4. The ‘early studies’ versus the Hertfordshire cohort study The authors highlight that the ‘early studies’ had limitations, which were subsequently addressed. It might be useful to explain in detail what the limitations were. What can readers learn from this experience? 