The Authors fulfilled properly all the statistical problems of the previous version and the manuscript is definitively improved. However, even if the new analyses confirm the previous results, I still feel that the Authors’ conclusions are too far stretched and I would suggest a more cautious approach to the discussion. This is due to three main reasons: The rationale behind predictions is that a higher sexual activity is linked with a higher SCR, but this is not directly demonstrated by this or by previous studies on the selected species. Therefore, I would be more cautious in definitively concluding that the positive correlation between sexual activity and deceptive mating behaviour support the hypothesis that SCR is the driving force behind the evolution of deception. The firm conclusion that deceptive behaviour is independent from aggressiveness (derived from the absence of correlation between the two) has a week point if considering that sexual activity correlates with deceptive behaviour but it also correlates with aggressiveness. As a consequence the Authors’ should be less categorical in attributing the whole weight to sexual activity while totally excluding an implication of aggressiveness. Main conclusions are drawn in the perspective of males that, after having inseminated a female, take advantage of a deceptive behaviour by standing rivals away from recently inseminated female even considering the risk of losing contact. But in fact, during the experiment it was impossible to discriminate a successful mating from a simple mating attempt. As a consequence, insemination (mating) should not be taken for granted. I would be more cautious in interpreting the adaptive behaviour of these experimental males as they have inseminated the female when this did not happen with certainty. Therefore, the Authors’ might want to consider the following assumptions with more prudence: i) That patterns of sperm precedence are the cause that renders the risk of losing a high quality and inseminated female beneficial. This may be true only if insemination definitely occurs. ii) That male mate choice copying renders recently mated females more attractive to rivals, as they can’t be sure that experimental females have mated. I have also a last minor comment on the phylogenetic comparative analyses that I suggested as a future perspective. By excluding the population of guppies that were most closely related to the Venezuelan guppies the Authors are not definitively controlling for independence of the results from phylogenetic relationship across species. What I meant is that only a phylogenetic comparative study, implying statistical analyses that account for phylogeny (see for example phylogenetic generalized linear models) on a large species set, would allow the pattern observed on this study to extend to a broad-scale; excluding the possibility that this pattern is explained by phylogenetic factors other than sexual selection. This is why I suggested a phylogenetic comparative study as a promising future approach, taking advantage of data on a higher number of species and of a resolved phylogenetic tree.