The lakemorpho package fills a need in the limnological community (and beyond) for easily deriving lake morphometry metrics in a repeatable and documented way. The package is relatively simple to use and understand, and implements common, published methods for calculate lake morphometry metrics. Additionally, the authors implement a tool for predicting lake depth, which is a difficult lake parameter to obtain. I only a have minor suggestions for changes in the language and documentation for the package. Most of these changes are related to the order in which ideas are presented in the paper. While reading the paper, I had several questions that were later answered, but I think the authors can avoid the questions altogether by simply rearranging some of the text (see specific comments below). Additionally, I think it’s important for the authors to include an error estimate of the lake depth predictions – prediction error is notoriously high for lake depth, and I think it’s important for users to understand this. I recommend this paper for publication after the following changes are considered – and I look forward to using the package! Minor revisions: - Recommend removing “…and for students of limnology, some of the first lessons are centered around a typical suite of metrics and how to calculate them.” from the first sentence and instead lead with morphometry affecting water quality. - What is a “suitably large area around the lake”? 50m, 100m? - I think you can remove bulleted list from the first paragraph of the lakeMorpho and lakeSurroundTopo section. It only roughly introduces pieces of the lakeMorpho object, and left me with more questions than answers (e.g., previous question RE: suitably large area around the lake which you answer later). You answered all of the questions immediately in the next paragraphs, which left me feeling like you could just leave out the list, or use it as a summary list at the end of the section. - “If metrics for multiple lakes are required they will need to be passed to the suite of lakemorpho functions separately.” This seems to be in direct contradiction with the purpose of the package – which is to derive morphometry metrics for a large number of lakes. It becomes clear later in the text that you address this with a use-case. I think you should state this up front – “Although each lake must be passed through lakemorpho functions separately, we provide a use case to show how a user can easily calculate these metrics for several lakes”. - This sentence is really confusing: “First, the elevation data must be of a large enough extent so that the surrounding topography does not include land area outside that extent (i.e. would return NA values)”. My interpretation is: “The extent of the elevation data must be equal to or greater than the extent of the area surrounding the lake that you are summarizing”. I think this is confusing because you are not using “surrounding topography” in a general sense but as a defined area that is part of the user input. Perhaps use a different naming convention? You’re describing the surrounding topography (through summarizing the elevation data) within a specified area. Perhaps elevation = your fabric and buffer area = your stencil? This is adopting language from the USGS geoknife package. It may not make sense to use fabric since you only have one type of raster input, but I think stencil is a nice word to use for your variable buffer/watershed area. I see you call this “surround” in the lakemorpho object, so that may be a good option as well. - Maybe give some error measurement from the max depth predictions in the Hollister paper? I think it’s important for users to understand there is substantial error in these models. - I think you should briefly describe the Hollister methods for calculating zmax in this paper. Also, the mean depth calculation is unclear from the text. How is volume calculated? By estimating depth at each pixel of the lake? Do you know anything about the error of these estimates? Ok – now I see that you give a good description of volume. Maybe move volume up earlier (before mean depth)? - In the lake shoreline development section: “This metric is used as an indicator of potential habitat” It is also used an indicator of potential terrestrial-aquatic linkages 1 . 