 Q-1) There are a few technical terminology errors that should be corrected. MS-DRG weights are based on relative resource use (costs) for each MS-DRG. Overall provider costs are never used; either in weight calculations or in charging the base payment amounts one year to the next unless the system is recalibrated (setting payments to costs) over time. MS-DRG weights are not “capitated” amounts for a given person; they are prospective payment amounts set for each case as defined by individual MS-DRGs. MS-DRGs are Medicare -Severity – DRGs, not Medical severity – DRGs, and as I say below, CMS does not use CPI-U as its inflation adjustor for healthcare costs. It uses the hospital market bracket (MB) for this purpose. Q-2) The study design would be more accurate if the hospital MB were used, as opposed to the CPI-U, as the study price deflector. The hospital MB was designed in this purpose and is used by CMS exclusively in its payment system design and calibration. The paper notes that surplus financial capacity comes from profits (margins), not absolute payment amounts. Low payments that are profitable, are more conducive for product development than higher paid MS-DRGs that are big losers in terms of margin (profits). Along these lines, I did not see in the paper a mention of payment “compression”. That is, high cost cases tend to be underpaid and low-cost cases are overpaid in case-mix-based payment systems. This would seem to be important to understanding the relative payment growth in case types across time. That is, high cost cases that are underpaid initially may set better payment rules over time. Q-4/6) The analysis indicates that CMS IPPS (inpatient prospective payment) payments lag behind the payment rates one year to the next. This is not in and of itself news. It is well known that MB and productivity cuts, Medicare DSH payment reductions, and hospital quality penalties reduce the rate of increase in IPPS case payments well below MB growth rates. The distinction between MS-DRG types (Medical vs. Surgical) is somewhat novel and worth presenting, but some information for why this happens would be useful. An example of the payment dollars involved over 2 to 3 years might also be useful. The focus on underpayments thwarting innovation and new product development and diffusion is likely directionally correct, but as the paper notes, this is more an issue of MS-DRG profitability relative to costs, as opposed to absolute payment amounts. I would argue that device manufacturers know which MS-DRGs are profitable and which are not. I have worked with a few larger companies and they know which MS-DRGs by hospital are profitable. Admittedly, smaller companies do not have the Medicare cost report skills to make these calculations. Additionally, many hospitals also know which services are profitable (e.g. cardiology and orthopedics). But, nevertheless, as payments fall relative to costs over time the downward pressure on product innovation and diffusion must intensify as the paper states. The hospital outpatient side of the payment equation must be somewhat less harmful to product innovation to the extent that APGs are based on relative input costs on a more or less real time basis. The paper notes this, but does not indicate that OP PPS bundles clinically comparable procedures within the same APG. Thus, high cost procedures in low payment ARGs are less well paid. As noted, the CPI-U is not the measure of inflation used by CMS for hospital input factor price inflation. CMS uses the hospital market bracket developed specifically for hospital payments. More properly the paper should use MB not CPI-U as its price deflector. Some might argue this is a critical flaw in the paper. I would have thought the differences between payments and inflation would have been larger then reported. That said, the study contention that CMS IPPS does not keep up with inflation is undoubtedly directionally correct. And the study’s distinction between medical and surgical cases is also likely directionally correct, unless the CMS MB and CPI-U price medical and surgical service inputs differently. I would guess this is unlikely. Note: Providers’ reported costs should be reported as providers reported relative MS-DRG costs. A given providers’ absolute MS-DRG costs are not covered under CMS- IPPS by design. The notion of product value (e.g. some services may reduce overall healthcare costs – (e.g. drugs may reduce hospital costs) is well taken, but this is more of a coverage issue then an issue that will be explicitly accounted for in a payment system. CMS IPPS covers average production costs with no regard for internal MS-DRG overall system efficiency. If a product is covered, it is paid for. Given the finding that Medical MS-DRGs are paid relatively less well over time, as compared to surgical MS-DRGs, one would expect either that medical MS-DRG are more efficiently provided over time (better medicines, diagnoses, and therapies) or cost accounting in the Medicare Cost Report undervalues Medicaid MS-DRG relative cost over time. The CMS IPPS is not developed to favor one MS-DRG type over another. So it may be that the Medical MS-DRGs worse position in keeping up with inflation reflects productivity growth, not declining profits. If so, the paper’s conclusion is challenged. Summary I was the research director for Medicare when IPPS was developed and implemented in 1983. Device manufacturers frequently came unto CMS and recited the arguments presented in this paper. Over the years, I have not heard that CMS IPPS has stalled innovation. Probably because Academic Medical Centers have been relatively well paid under IPPS. The arguments against IPPS are more frequently related to quality; hence the CMS emphasis on quality measures and penalties as it develops its prospective payment systems. Admittedly, CMS has developed a series of adjustments for new technology. However, these mostly provide price supports for new services and technologies that are not well priced as products come to the market. After volume increases and costs are better known, the relative MS-DRG prices for new technology should be as fair as prices for older technologies. In the end, prospective payment systems put pressure on resource use within each MS-DRG. This forces device manufacturers to set their prices with some care and set their prices with consideration of medical value. While CMS does not price to value, each hospital can pay for value within a given MS-DRG. These effects may be as important, if not intentional, as the “underpricing” presented in the paper. 