The article is of great interest considering the impact of thermal stress on coral reefs globally, and the pressing need to identify refugia that might support coral diversity in a warming ocean. The article is basic, in that it only attempts to directly answer two questions: (1) did acroporid corals do better at deeper depths (8m) versus shallower depths (2 and 4m), and (2) is there a significant proportion of acroporid diversity that would be protected by the identified depth refuge in 2010 (i.e., how many acorporid species have a sufficiently wide depth range). I believe that they answer these questions well, but I would have liked to see more thorough investigation of the patterns in the data and I think there are some anomalous parts of the data that I cannot explain. For example, while most sites followed a pattern with increasing bleaching mortality at shallower depths, plotting of the data provided in table 1 shows that one site, Ba Kopra at 4m, showed no change or even an increase in total and acroporid cover, respectively. The authors never discuss this site to site variability, which might be important for "Identifying sites where oceanographic conditions reduce the effects of thermal anomalies should be a priority for coral reef conservation". As for anomalous parts of the data, I can't understand why the absolute cover change of acroporid corals seems to surpass that of total coral cover at some sites. For example, at Rubiah Channel the acroporid cover drops an absolute amount of 38.1%, by my calculation. That is a simple calculation of final cover - initial cover, not standardized to the initial coral cover (which would be relative cover change). Therefore, the total absolute coral cover change has to be at least 38.1%, yet it is only 23.6%. This is not that the total cover is really the total cover excluding acropora, since the prior to bleaching acropora + total cover = 102%. Can the authors explain this? In the methods it would also be necessary to know if the pre- and post-bleaching transects are the same (i.e., fixed permanent transects) or whether they are randomly placed. In either case, but particularly for the latter, it is also necessary to know the method by which the placement of the transect was determined at a site. How are we to know potential biases in the pre- and post-assessments without this knowledge. There is also no information given on the exact location of monitoring sites, which is important for replication of the study. Perhaps coordinates and a map would be appropriate. One further addition that would be nice, though an addition to the two primary questions of the manuscript, is what is the relative importance of the depth refuge to the in situ shallow coral survival? They mention "recovery" in the title, but this isn't really addressed much in the manuscript, and improving the discussion of potential recovery process would help on that point. I.e., what absolute amount of cover for each species survived deep, and could contribute to shallow water recovery via larval recruitment, versus the amount that survived shallow and could contribute to direct asexual recovery and larval recruitment? Also, any speculation on the relative importance of the processes in recovery (deep to shallow larval recruitment versus shallow to shallow larval and asexual recruitment) would be a good addition and set up future research. I have a feeling all these questions are easily answerable and that the conclusions are justified, and I think the manuscript is an important addition to a rather sparse body of knowledge concerning reef refuges and refugia.