The ddpcr software is extensively documented and works as described. There are some minor changes that might be relevant (e.g. in ddpcr v1.4, the plot contains a percentage estimate in the lower right hand quadrant which is not shown in figure 1, and the X- and Y-axes are labelled slightly differently in the actual output from running the example. Overall, however, the package offers both a powerful tool for end users which advances the state of the art, and also a foundation for further algorithmic development. Cross-pollination between the flow cytometry community and ddpcr in the R ecosystem will likely lead to advances that would not otherwise have occurred. Figure 3 should be moved alongside the text in the paragraph "Analysis algorithm". Figure 5 is a powerful demonstration of the rationale for the library's creation and could perhaps stand to be moved up in the body of the paper. Standard practice is to provide a reason for the user to care about a method (e.g. figure 5), then describe the nuts and bolts of the implementation. There is a reason that this is standard practice. Time permitting, this reviewer has sought and obtained some much more challenging samples. In a revised or separate publication, it would be of interest to compare the software's performance on these ddPCR runs (where 1 in 10000 cells carries a mutation, but that 1 in 10000 is verified by multiple orthogonal sequencing methods) and determine whether the algorithmic flexibility of the ddpcr package would allow users to automate what is currently a highly technical process for detecting rare mutations. Unfortunately, the manufacturer has been unhelpful in converting this data to a usable format within the timeline of the review, so I cannot in good conscience delay it further. Outside of the scope of this paper, but relevant to the introduction, reproducibility and comparability would be much improved if the raw .QLP files could be parsed by R itself, making exchange and sharing of data far easier. Inquiries placed to Bio-Rad regarding the file format and the QuantaSoft package went unanswered, suggesting that (as with Illumina and their .IDAT format) the eventual solution will be to reverse engineer the format and brute-force the problem. It is unfortunate that some scientific instrument vendors appear to value imaginary profits over actual scientific merit, but such is life. Reverse engineering the file format is not a reasonable request here, but represents a future direction to further improve reproducibility of this important analytical technique. Existing tools rely upon ddpcr data provided in .CSV format; the first to elide this requirement (and that of a $5000 software package merely to review output) will be a notable step towards transparency for an increasingly powerful genotyping technique. In conclusion, the ddpcr implementation and its extensive documentation (here in this paper and in the copious examples provided with the package) represent a solid foundation for further methodological improvements to an important assay platform. 