The paper describes a relatively new on-line forum referred to as VERVENet that was developed with the private company protocols.io. VERVENet seeks to provide a virtual gathering place for viral ecologists where information on experimental protocols, literature, upcoming conferences and job listings are centralized and made available, openly. The paper describes most of these features and provides some examples to help encourage the reader to explore VERVE Net online. There are some concerns that may need further clarification in this publication relating to 1) navigation, 2) types of data being supported, and 3) intellectual property rights. At a practical level, VERVENet is still in its infancy and one would expect it to continue to develop in response to the community input. Thus, the concerns we have with navigating in VERVENet at this time will likely be corrected/ adjusted with continued use and input by users. The authors should address how they intend to respond to the intended community when suggestions are proposed. Who has the “authority” to make the changes and how will those changes be made available? Given the potential (and presumed intended) for a highly dynamic forum, will there be an archive of information maintained? It is not quite clear from the manuscript how navigation by particular topics works. Is it possible to find a specific protocol without having to scroll through all entries, as well as to find easily a collection of protocols related to a particular field, e.g,. nucleic acid isolation and manipulation; proteomics; bioinformatics, etc? If these functions exist in the current version of VERVENet, it would help to describe this more fully. The authors indicate that VERVENet was initiated, in part, due to “…a renaissance in virology..given the new metagenomic methods...” Although it is true that there is a large influx of metagenomic data in recent years, DNA sequence data is not the only type of data of interest to viral ecologists. The authors should discuss what types of data are being supported. For example, how are image data sets being handled, given the relatively large file size? How will VERVENet adapt as other types of ‘omics’ data become common within the viral ecology community? Clearly, DNA sequence is not the only data of interest, RNA sequence is equally important to virologists, so the authors may wish to indicate the range of data intended for VERVENet. The authors have taken on the responsibility of creating an online forum with an emphasis on methods. These methods are created by individuals and generally made available to anyone whether they register with protocols.io or not, at varying levels depending on the authors’ decisions. It is not clear who holds the intellectual property rights at that point. The authors should be transparent about the rights of the protocols.io contributing authors, where the legal authority begins and ends, and how contributors can both share and protect their intellectual property should they choose. Another concern that should be addressed is what is the fate of VERVENet should protocols.io change ownership. Are there contingency plans in the company statutes that would ensure that groups like VERVENet be supported? What happens if they are not supported? Who has legal ownership the information? Also, given that the current funding is through the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, what happens to the content of VERVENet should that funding be removed or reduced? These things need some clarification. The title of the paper does not give a full reflection of the contents of the paper. There are several statements in the manuscript where the authors tend to use emphatic language that is not easily supporter. For example, the first sentence of the Abstract infers that social interactions of scientists ONLY occurs at physical meetings and conferences. This statement is not only inaccurate, it undermines the credibility of the information that follows. The authors should re-read their paper and consider how some of their statements may be perceived. There are several examples. 