This paper describes an R package for calculating QRISK3 scores in large datasets. The introduction reads well and provides justification for the paper although the package only describes one function. The methods section needs more detail and adjustments. Some of the items can be fixed by improving grammar and readability although others need clarification or details added. Please find our particular comments below. Development and validation of the QRISK3 R package: The description of the simulation used to create the QRISK3_2017_test and QRISK3_2019_test datasets are unclear. It would be beneficial to explain the reasoning behind creating a dataset with sequential addition of risk factors. Clinically, it would be very unlikely to encounter such a dataset. A more translatable dataset would have been patients with randomly sampled risk factors rather than a sequential addition. Additionally, it could be beneficial for the authors to show a summary of the test datasets (number of individuals, demographic information etc.). The last sentence “with several useful online tutorials 15–18 ’ should be deleted as these are not relevant to the manuscript. Table 1: The ratio concerning cholesterol should read “Total cholesterol/HDL ration?” in order to clarify the input data for users. For the Validation section CPRD needs to be defined. A description of the CPRD dataset along with the methodology and statistical terminology (e.g. discrimination, calibration, C-statistic etc.) should be clearly described in the methods. Additionally, the study that includes 3.6 million patients that was used is not described and there is no assurance of what the data were, how it was formatted, or how it performed. The authors emphasize the importance of how fields are entered and presented into the R package, therefore, a description of the validation set showing any issues and to elaborate on the results with the R package are needed in order to determine how well the package is performing. The last sentence needs to be adjusted as it is confusing and needs to read better in order to determine what the authors are trying to convey. Usage and features: The authors state that missing values should be handled, but do not elaborate as to how they should be handled. What if a value is truly missing? If data handling is an issue with QRISK3 then that should be presented and how it will affect the QRISK3 score being calculated should be explained. A reference could be added to indicate how these should be handled. Use case: The instructions for creation of a dataset is unclear. Does the user just need to structure their data file similar to the test dataset as opposed to creating a statistical analysis dataset? Discussion, 2 nd paragraph: Please rewrite the last half of the second paragraph. The reason for creation of this package was presented in the Introduction and the description in this section is not useful. The last portion of the second sentence needs to be deleted or rewritten. Discussion, 3 rd paragraph: The second to last sentence is confusing. It could be rewritten from “…who is a smoker is coded as “1” in the variable…..” to “…who is a smoker and has the smoking variable coded as “1” would be in conflict……”. Discussion: Please delete the words “to better understand” as this package only calculates a number and does not enable exploration of understanding. Overall observation: Although the package implements the QRISK3 algorithm in an R package, the ultimate goal as stated by the authors is for investigators to readily use the algorithm for large cohorts. Therefore, one would require working knowledge of R to use the package. One way to increase the ease of use would be to create a Shiny App using the algorithm written in R to make the program more accessible to clinicians and investigators. Additionally, there are no functions to create data/results visualizations. A package should be somewhat standalone in the sense that it provides all functions from data exploration to modeling. A single function usually does not merit a research article. 