This paper aims to present a different approach to analyzing fMRI time trends. The idea is to average the signal overall trials, over subjects (similar to ERP-analysis) and look at the differences between groups and conditions and especially its interaction with time since onset. Because the trials are clustered within subjects, the data points are modeled using a mixed model. The result is a figure with the average time course per group/condition, with a statistical test comparing the BOLD signal at each time point. The main difference between this model and the model in the standard (frequentist, parametric mixed model) procedure is the specific within-subjects design matrix. The predictor over time in a standard analysis would be: [ 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 1] o HRF The predictor over time with the presented approach would be a categorical variable: [ 0 0 0 1 2 3 0 0 0 1 2 3 ] The model tested is then BOLD = GROUP + TIME + GROUP*TIME. Important: TIME is modeled as a categorical variable, not continuous. Modeling time as a categorical folder allows to test for each time point separately as a post-hoc test. The results of interest are the post-hoc tests of the interaction effect between group and time. SOME COMMENTS The focus of the paper is on the post-hoc tests. These are definitely interesting, but the post-hoc tests should only be performed if the interaction group*time is significant. It would be interesting to also have some more detail on the main model (e.g. main effect of time, what does it mean? what is the interaction?) In my opinion the chunks of code make it hard to read through the paper. It would be easier if the methods section only describes the different choices/tests/parameters and the code is grouped in an appendix. Especially code that is just for the purpose of making variables or figures should not be in the main manuscript. In general, I think SAS is a bad choice. Even though it has definitely one of the best mixed model implementations, it’s not a typical language at all in neuroimaging. If you want people to use this procedure, consider having a script in R, matlab or python. I have tried to reproduce the code with the data attached. However, the datasets have different names and paths. It’s hard to derive what is what… I very much liked the diagnostics, something that is most often lacking in neuroimaging studies. I think the part about missing data could be removed. This problem is non-existing in fMRI. In the results section: “all significant effects were BOLD signal responses”. Poor choice of words. The outcome variable is the BOLD signal response, not the effect. “the highlighted VOI did show significant overall effects”: significant overall effects of group? of time? the interaction? all of them? The interpretation given to the time series is the interpretation of a pattern. However, these tests are not tests for patterns. For example, the interpretation of the interaction on fig 6E is not significant on all time points but is interpreted as such. This door is wide open for over interpreting non-significant results. This is a problem with these point wise comparisons. There are ways to take away the temporal autocorrelation (whitening), which is currently used in fMRI software. You should mention this when talking about the problem of temporal correlation. 