This is a clear and well written protocol for a living systematic review of evidence on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on self-harm and suicidal behaviour. This is an important topic, a living systematic review approach is clearly useful for this topic at this time, and the methods described are also appropriate. I note that the review questions are complex and this will both make the review more useful, but also more challenging to do and to describe. Is there any plan to review the search strategy to ensure the terms used remain appropriate? Will non-English studies be included? Have searches of trials registers been conducted to determine the likely workload over coming months? I would encourage the authors to provide more clarity on the approach and criteria they will use to make decisions about: changing the frequency of screening whether there is “sufficient relevant evidence” to justify an update. Ideally enough detail should be provided on these to allow another team to make the same decisions, using the same criteria; and I don’t think this is true of the descriptions as they currently stand. For example, some other living review teams have committed to updating their reviews when new evidence is likely to have a clinically meaningful impact on the size of the effect, or change the direction or degree of certainty (GRADE) of the effect for key outcomes. I recognise that the complexity of the review questions and types of evidence being included in this review may make this challenging, but additional explanation would be helpful, and avoid potential future perceptions of bias based on these decisions. (These decisions may also require that some elements of data extraction and ROB assessment are taken before a decision to update is undertaken, and this should be considered for workflows.) Also there is some confusion between the Figure and the text, with the figure appearing to suggest that update decisions are made 3 monthly, while the text suggests these decisions may initially be more frequent (monthly?); and the figure suggesting that screening is conducted daily (presumably 5/7?) but there is some ambiguity about commitment to this in the text. I recommend review of the article by a person with clinical expertise in the area, as I do not have these skills, and I look forward to reading the review. 