This paper describes a new method for approaching one aspect of the inverse QSAR problem. As the authors point out, the inverse QSAR problem can be divided into two steps. The generation of a set of coordinates, in some multidimensional space, that corresponds to one or more optimal compounds. The generation of molecular graphs that would produce chemical structures with descriptor values corresponding to these coordinates. This paper focuses on the first problem and does not address the second. The paper is well written and the topic will be of interest to computational chemists working in both industry and academia. The methodology is described well and an individual with some QSAR expertise should be able to reproduce this work. However, in the interest of making it easier to reproduce the work described here, and making the method more widely available, it would be useful for the authors to make a reference implementation available. On a similar note, the authors mention that the ChEMBL datasets are available from the original source. As a service to those readers who would like to reproduce the work, it would be useful if the authors provided the specific datasets used in this paper as a download. As part of this download, the authors could also include a list of specific descriptors used and annotate which compounds were rejected due to PAINS filters. The definition of the applicability domain used in this paper could be expanded. It would be useful for the authors to provide a specific worked example demonstrating how the applicability domain is defined for one of the ChEMBL examples described in the paper. This example could be expanded to demonstrate how a set of optimal coordinates is defined. One other beneficial addition to this paper would be a comparison with established methods. The authors provide the results of virtual screening based on their method but do not provide a comparison with commonly used techniques. One way to do this would be to provide a simple comparison with an SVM model for activity calculated based on the same descriptions. A comparison with activity calculated based on nearest neighbors in a simple principal component space could also be provided. A few specific comments: It is unclear what the RMSE value is in Table 2. This is on an arbitrary dataset, how should RMSE be interpreted? There appear to be a number of errors in the chemical structures in Figure 7. 