Professor Wild and his collaborators are well known for their expertise in electron microscopy. I also note that three other scientists who developed cryo-TEM won the Nobel Prize this year. The SEM and TEM images in this manuscript are excellent. I enjoyed reviewing their data. I have heard Professor Wild present his results at conferences. However, I can say upfront that most recent herpesvirus data appear to support pathway #3 in Figure 11, which is not the pathway preferred by the Wild lab. For example, the authors do not consider that both the Elliott HSV lab and the C. Grose VZV lab have found evidence for Rab11 on the vesicles that transport enveloped virus. If the above two labs are correct, the pathway #1 in Figure 11 cannot be completely correct because the drawings do not include the endocytic pathway. Thus, the experiment requested in Comment 6 needs to be performed to resolve this question. Overall, the suggestion is made that the Wild lab take a look at some of the VZV articles and include them in their discussion, even if the Wild lab disagree with the conclusions of the VZV lab. Figure 1. Confocal microscopy of Vero cells. The text states that both WT and mutant virus were tested but only one virus is shown in Figure 1. Which virus is shown? If only WT virus is shown, may wish to add confocal with mutant virus. Figures 4 and 5. Virions in ER cisternae. The C. Grose lab has published several articles about VZV encapsidation, VZV capsid transport from nucleus to cytoplasm and subsequent envelopment. These articles should be reviewed and cited by Wild et al. First of all, Wild should show us whether he finds viral particles between the INM and the ONM. For VZV, Harson and Grose (1995) have clearly shown that capsids with a thin envelope can be found between the INM and the ONM. See Harson and Grose, Figure 5, panels C, D and E. Note increase in diameter of particle between panels C and E. Panel F is important because panel F shows a thin-enveloped particle still within the ER cisternae and clearly beyond the ONM. Thus, the VZV micrograph agrees with the data from Wild about “Virions are within ER cisternae.” Data not shown by Wild lab. Harson and Grose have shown that VZV capsids without a thin envelope can be found in the cytoplasm. The capsids do not appear to be within any Golgi derived compartment. See Figure 6 panel A, (Harson Grose, 1995). This micrograph provides evidence against the Wild hypothesis that herpesviruses are always retained within compartments derived from the ER or Golgi. There is one micrograph in the Wild manuscript that appears to resemble the VZV micrograph. See Wild manuscript Figure 9B, which shows a BoHV capsid (without a thin envelope) in the cytoplasm adjacent to a Golgi (or ER/Golgi) membrane. This single BoHV micrograph would seem to invalidate the Wild hypothesis that BoHV always is transported within ER or Golgi compartments? Differences between viral particles in ER cisternae and viral particles in vesicles near the outer cell membrane. As noted above, data from the Grose lab agree with data from the Wild lab that viral particles are found in ER cisternae. But the Grose lab finds differences between particles in ER cisternae and particles in vesicles near the outer cell membrane. ER cistern are irregularly shaped. Particles within ER cisternae have a thin envelope without an obvious electron dense outer coat (presumably the viral glycoproteins). Vesicles containing viral particles near the outer cell membrane often are circular with a single outer membrane. See Figure 8 panel A in Harson Grose (1995), for a clear VZV example. The vesicle contains 4 particles, 2 of which are perfectly enveloped, with clearly defined capsid, tegument and envelope with electron-dense outer coat. These particles are slightly larger in diameter than the thin-enveloped particles seen in the irregular ER cisternae. The VZ virions in the circular vesicles are similar to the BoHV virions shown by Wild in his Figure 9 panels D and E. In other words, there clearly are two types of enveloped particles: particles with thin-envelope and particles with a thicker electron-dense envelope. Virions are within Golgi cistern? Wild discusses viral particles with spikes and viral particles without obvious spikes. Spikes presumably represent mature glycoproteins. One possibility that Wild has not considered is that viral particles may be routed in different pathways. Some viral particles may enter the large Golgi-like cisternae. Other viral particles may be wrapped in individual vesicles. Why does there need to be a single pathway for all viral particles? Lack of data about endocytic or autophagy pathways. There are now HSV and VZV papers that provide evidence for involvement of the endocytic and/or autophagy pathways in viral egress. The Elliott lab has shown that both Rab5 and Rab11 are involved in the final envelopment process for HSV. Further, they did not find co-localization of capsids with the TGN marker TGN46. See Hollinshead et al. 2012. The C. Grose lab confirmed that a fraction of purified VZ virions were positive for the Rab11 protein, presumably because the purified virions retained remnants of a Rab11-positive vesicle. See VZV article by Buckingham et al , 2016. The C. Grose lab also found the LC3-II protein in the same purified virion fraction and hypothesized that the virions were housed in amphisome-like vesicles, which contain both Rab11 and LC3-II proteins in their membrane. The fact that a HSV lab and a VZV lab both found Rab11 in the virion greatly strengthens the observation. These data are presented because they suggested that the Wild lab cannot determine the origin of the vesicles containing either HSV or BoHV virions by using only TEM and SEM. The Wild lab will need to use either immuno-TEM or alternatively isolate the HSV and BoHV particles, then examine them for proteins such as Rab11 and LC3-II by immunoblotting. Figure 11. Schematic drawings. If the Elliott lab and the Grose lab are correct that purified HSV or VZV contain Rab11 protein, then schematic pathway #1 in Figure 11 cannot be correct. Also, if the Elliott lab and the Grose lab are correct, then secondary envelopment must involve an intersection of the virus with a pathway outside of the ER/Golgi pathway. Strongly suggest that the Wild lab investigate whether any of the vacuoles that contain either HSV or BoHV are positive for the Rab11 protein. Electron microscopy alone is not sufficient. Figure 7. Virus titers. cell by endocytosis. The titers at 8hpi probably represent viral particles formed after some actual HSV glycoprotThe data about the different titers with and without BFA may need re-interpretation. The titer is much lower when BFA was added at 5hpi. Most of these particles would be capsids and capsids with thin-envelopes. A titer of 1000 PFU/ml seems reasonable for capsids, which could enter a ein biosynthesis. Some VZV glycoproteins undergo their biosynthesis within 2 hours. See article from Grose lab by Yao et al , 1993. Presumably HSV glycoproteins are synthesized at the same rate. Therefore, addition of BFA at 8hpi would not prevent formation of substantial amounts of HSV glycoproteins, which would allow envelopment of viral particles, even by 8 hpi. In other words, I do not think that the BFA experiments add much weight to the arguments about which pathway HSV takes Bovine herpesvirus data. I do find inclusion of the BoHV micrographs to be informative. The BoHV data appear to resemble the VZV data more closely than the HSV data. Remember that BoHV is a member of the varicellovirus subfamily. Schematic pathway for VZV trafficking. Please take the time to look over the VZV pathway illustrated in Figure 8, in article by Buckingham et al , 2016. It resembles pathway #3 by the Wild group. 