This paper does a good job of covering the big picture of what's needed to assemble and annotate a genome. Its stated goal is to give guidelines that are "broadly applicable" and "intended to be stable over time." This paper achieves that goal, and all of my concerns are minor. However, "stable over time" was a frustrating goal for me. This means that comments on specific sequencing technologies and software are not as common as they would be in a review article on the state of the art. This is a fine line to walk. Specific comments Introduction 1. Think about dropping or shortening the checklist at the end of the introduction. I believe that all of this is covered in detail in the individual sections. Repeats 1. "Contigs" used for the first time, Not sure if these need to be explained. (Could reference figure 3.) Chemical purity 1. What ONT means is explained later. Move that explanation here. 2. The text says: It is widely known in the PacBio community that samples rich in contaminants... Are there any references for this? This highlights a larger question with the paper. It is an opinion article and it contains many opinions such as The characteristics of the genomes being assembled have a greater impact on the results than the choice of the algorithm. I am not disputing any of these statements, but if and when references exist that support them, then those references should be included. Long read genome assembly This section says error rates are 5-20%. Elsewhere in the paper they are given as "up to 10% or 15%." Scaffolding and gap filling The very end of this section states: Be aware that any changes to a genome assembly will most likely necessitate annotation to be re-started from scratch, and you should therefore be sure to “freeze” the assembly completely before starting annotation. I think "restarted from scratch" gives the wrong impression. Tools such as MAKER can do liftover from one version of an assembly to the next. Perhaps this could be clarified? Ensure your methods are computationally repeatable and reproducible Toll - Toil ? 