 Didier and colleagues present MolTi-DREAM, an update to their previous software for community detection in multiplex networks and its application to the disease module discovery using synthetic and DREAM challenge data. The new version of the software adds the possibility of edge and layer weights, the randomization of the underlying Louvain algorithm and partitioning of large modules into smaller modules based on user defined parameters. Based on their analysis of simulated and biological interaction data, they reaffirm that using multiple layers of networks and randomized repetition of module discovery could improve the accuracy. Overall the article is clearly written and the technical details are clearly explained with several exceptions I mention below: 1. The multiplex modularity formula lacks the resolution parameter (which should appear before ki kj / 2m in the summation). The authors are encouraged to provide data / figures with respect to the reasoning on the selection of the default resolution parameter (currently they mention verbally that it showed better results on leaderboard). 2. Randomization procedure is unclear. I believe the cost function used is the multiplex modularity given in Eq 1 (L) but the “move” leading to an increase of the modularity is not formally stated (sth like i, j: random_pick(argmax ci, cj L)). The choice of 4 by default is also somewhat arbitrary given that the difference between 3,4,5 are all very small. The significance of the difference in Rand index across runs in Figure 1 could be used to decide the number after which the change is not significant. 3. The simulation of the multiplex networks could be explained better. Potentially owing to the previous publication, there is no detail in regards to which model was used to generate these networks. A brief description of SBMs and the underlying assumptions of the model it relies on would help. Are these simulated networks are more ER-like? Could this be the reason why the simulated results do not reflect the results on the real networks? Also, it would certainly be useful to add the standard deviation across 2000 networks in Figure 1. I had difficulties following how exactly the mixed and noisy networks are generated (did the mixed ones still have 1000 vertices, 500 from sparse and 500 from dense, for the missing data if the vertices were drawn half of the time, did they have 500 vertices?). 4. The coverage / precision of disease module discovery is missing. What is the number of all modules identified by the algorithm, how many disease modules are there (or could there be) in total? The latter question could be tricky to answer but I believe a lower and upper bound could be provided (e.g., number of diseases and a number based on the GWAS hits for that disease divided by the min module size). 5. “combining biological networks in a multiplex generally increases the number of significant modules”. The Figure 3 does not exactly reflect this, it seems the number of significant modules for multiplex(ppi1, ppi2) monoplex(ppi1) + monoplex(ppi2). Maybe the authors could show the numbers for the union of the modules identified using ppi1and ppi2 and put that into the figure as to what to expect when the modules are combined using these networks separately. 6. The choice of the for each biological network seems rather arbitrary. Could these weights be optimized (i.e. using leaderboard data) and their effect be tested on final data? 7. “the community structure of these networks (if they exist) are so unrelated that it is pointless to seek for a common structure by integrating them” I feel that this statement should be supported by further evidence. Could the authors provide some measures in regards to the modularity of each of these networks and the overlap of nodes / edges between them. This would also help to justify the argument on the “DMI biological networks are constructed from different biological sources that might correspond to unrelated community structures”. Minor: Explain what monoplex network means at its first occurrence for readers not familiar with terminology. “hande mulxtiplexes” multiplex networks “following the PASCAL tool” identified using “Considering a greater number of layers...” lacks the main clause / verb “after more than four runs” upto four runs / repetitions “varies in a non-trivial way” non-trivial? 