WebANIMO is a web interface to the ANIMO modelling tool, enabling to get a grasp of the tool while avoiding a complex installation process (the desktop version is a cytoscape plugin which further requires the UPPAAL software). The client uses cytoscape-JS and provides a model editor, relying on JSON requests to the server to perform simulations. Some features are only available in the desktop version, import and export of cytoscape session files enable the user move between the two versions. The paper explains the motivation behind this web version, and the architecture of the client and server parts. The tool itself and the information available in the paper are sound, but the paper could include more context and be streamlined. Some background is missing, especially on ANIMO itself and UPPAAL: a complete description of these tools would be out of scope, but a brief introduction would improve the paper. A paragraph outside of the methods to introduce the user interface and the feature set (edit models, see their revision history, share them online and exchange with the desktop version. Perform analysis on the server, visualize and export the result) would help to understand the scope. Figures 1 and 4 can probably be merged, providing a single view of the client-server architecture. In figure 1, what is the difference between "ANIMO" and "headless ANIMO" ? Also, does the server version rely on cytoscape (I understand that it doesn't but it could be more clear) ? Figures 5 and 6 could be better suited for supplementary material or code documentation: stating that client-server communication uses JSON is enough for many technical readers, and these figures will probably not help the non-technical ones. The authors provide a demo server for webANIMO, with some restrictions on running time to save resources. What would you encourage users who need more power to do: use the desktop version or install their own server? Installing their own server sounds like a good option for groups with both bioinformatics resources and several naive users. Trying out the web interface: The tool loaded properly and seems to be working well despite the following minor issues. If I start to add an interaction with a right-click on the graph, and select a node without validating the new interaction, the temporary link is still visible but can't be added to the model. I encountered a few CSS issues, which could be tied to my browser (firefox 48 on fedora): the "initial activity slider" is there but not visible (clicking on the gray area under the label does work). The "k" slider for interactions had the same problem. the text in the comboboxes was too large and only readable after opening the menu. 