Thank you for this interesting report about CLABSI in Kenya. Data are rare and this publication should be acknowledged. I have many advices to improve the format and the content of the paper: CLABSI definition: the definition that you used should be reported. Do you systematically performed blood culture? do you perform catheter tip culture? Recent syst review report very weak relationship between CLABSI and CRBSI and CLABSI is often a mix of CRBSI and primary bacteria with really opposite pathophysiology and impact on outcome... see discussion on: de Grooth HJ et al. 2019 1 ; see also result from Adrie C et all. 2 . When catheter tip culture is systematically performed with the definition of CRBSI as reported by IDSA, the over risk of death is not so important. In another chapter you should explain the catheter infection policy used in your hospital, the number of single rooms the nurse to patient ratio the compliance to hands hygiene etc... Details on the population and more clinical characteristics should be included: at least age, severity scores, rate of mechanical ventilation, cause of ICU admission. For the catheters: site of insertion duration of catheter insertion in days Details on CLABSI: what are the micro-organisms recovered from blood cultures? Details on therapy: do you systematically removed the catheter in case of positive BC? do you start antibiotic therapy? Methods: as far as I understand a cox model is used. (although the figure one revered to a progressive disability model and competing risks? Could you clarify? If it is a cox model the method section should be largely reduced. Number at risk, time perspective? Censors? pH assumptions. If a model for competing risk is used please clearly mention the different event and the way you take into account the competing event (discharge alive?). The use of a log rank test is preferable. Reporting of the results: should include a table with main characteristics (see point 2 and 3); include one or 2 Kaplan Meier curves.. the table 6,7,8 should be removed. A sub analysis according to the microorganism responsible for the infection should be added. In the discussion you should discuss your result in view of other data on prognosis of CRBSI and CLABSI. 