 Summary: A re-analysis of the data and a significant re-write is advised. The authors have provided a fine if brief literature overview of definitions of science outreach, public engagement, widening participation and knowledge exchange. This is also a timely topic, as the need for evidence-based science communication has grown in todays complex ecosystem of science new media and outreach efforts on the part of scientific institutions. However, there are major flaws in this paper as it is currently written and presented. The sample is extremely small for an online survey - this sample would have been more appropriate for in-depth interviews with each respondent. This is acceptable as long as the audience/population is clearly defined. Are those who answered the survey mostly active scientists, or mostly dedicated science communicators? This could make a big difference to participants definitions of science communication, outreach, public engagement, widening participation and knowledge exchange. Why only 47 respondents? The mailing list serves a much larger number of people than this (and the authors also dont make any estimate of how many people they reached with their survey.) How long was data collected for? The authors should more clearly spell out their sampling goals and procedures. These results suggest that in a still emergent field, the participants of this survey are likely to be the driving influence behind the definition of science communication at an institutional level. How so? Please make this statement, and how/why this conclusion was reached, more clear. If the participants that took part in this survey represent a fair cross-section of people working in science outreach, public engagement, and widening participation across the UK then it is somewhat alarming that such a significant proportion of them feel as though the fundamental basis on which their work is founded lacks such clemency in its definitions. The authors should be VERY careful in making any statement regarding the implications of this survey representing a fair cross-section of people working in science outreach, etc., as per my comments on the sampling procedure above. The authors dont present any data on the basic demographics of the respondents. This was a critical oversight. In the analysis of survey responses, I am not under the impression that Wordle is an academically rigorous method for mapping word and concept frequency. Other qualitative analysis tools such as AtlasTi would have been preferable, even if figures were created in Wordle for demonstration purposes only. Wordle images, while a visually appealing, make it very difficult to quickly gauge relative word frequency. The authors methodology in qualitatively analyzing, coding and interpreting the survey responses is very unclear, if not missing altogether. How were the survey responses approached during data analysis? Were the authors primarily looking for responses that corresponded with how the scientific literature defines concepts of outreach, engagement, etc., or were novel or conflicting definitions also coded and analyzed (e.g. open vs closed coding?)? From the description of survey response analysis, it is not clear if the data analysis reached saturation, or what theory or framework guided the textual analysis. It would be very useful to know the demographic information of those respondents who provided alternative definitions of outreach and engagement, and of those respondents who were unable to define widening participation, etc. Are these scientists? Are these professional science communicators? This type of basic information would enrich the meaning of these results. The authors state only in their conclusion section that the respondents were active science communicators. What type of science communicators? How many were involved in academic institutions? I think this type of information is paramount to the authors interpretation of their findings, and the lack of this data is a significant weakness in this paper. What insights did we glean from the authors survey of 47 science communicators regarding the definitions and terminology surrounding science outreach, public engagement, widening participation and knowledge exchange beyond what the authors presented in their literature review? What insights to the field and definition of science communication were uniquely contributed by this study? In this the authors are also unclear. It would have been useful for the authors to compare and contrast at greater length their respondents definitions of these concepts to published scientific literature definitions.