The authors provide important guidelines for the evaluation and management of hydrocephalus developing in the post-craniotomy follow-up period after surgical traumatic acute subdural evacuation. The authors presented an interesting case, which presented with gait abnormality associated with falling back tendency and underwent craniotomy surgery two months earlier for evacuation acute subdural hematoma. A cranial computed tomography revealed presence of hydrocephalus. In the standard management of post traumatic craniotomy development of hydrocephalus, it is essential to evaluate the possible causes, degree of intracranial pressure rise, evaluating beneficial effect of cerebrospinal fluid diversion procedure i.e. ventriculoperitoneal shunt or thecoperitoneal shunt, assessment of CSF protein level, and exclusion of associated indolent meningitis as possible causes. Ideally for excluding ex-vacuo post-traumatic hydrocephalus development, CSF sampling can be done through lumbar drainage or by placing external ventricular drainage and assessing initial CSF egress pressure with manometry for selection of pressure range and most suitable type of future shunt requirement, cytological, protein level for suitability of shunt functioning after shunt insertion; as very high protein level can be relative contraindication for shunt, biochemical study and culture sensitivity studies to exclude infective pathology and assessing Mini mental scale for cognitive assessment and gait changes . The patient shows improvement following CSF drainage CSF diversion surgery in the form of thecoperitoneal or ventriculoperitoneal shunt, however the former is the preferred choice. 1 Development of pneumocephalus requires communication between arachnoid membrane and associated defect in the dura, calvarium and communication to the external environment. As CSF egresses, air enters the intracranial cavity and development of pneumocephalus. The “ball valve” mechanism was postulated by Dandy, as air travels in only one direction 2 . After air entering the cranial cavity leads to rise in the intracranial pressure 3 . The other postulates for tension pneumocephalus is the “Inverted-soda-bottle effect”, proposed by Horowitz 4 . The author postulated negative intracranial pressure resulting from excessive loss of CSF through an iatrogenic lumbar drain or settling into the distendable spinal subarachnoid space or simply drainage via normal pathways with physiologic activity such as inspiration or the Valsalva manoeuvre 4 . However, when there are fistulous communications between the intracranial and outer environment, air can enter the intracranial space as a consequence of negative pressure gradient 3 , 5 - 6 . As the authors' case had EVD, that might have unfortunately disconnected and leak of CSF led to development of tension pneumocephalus. In cases of dry tap, insertion of the ventricular end is specially challenging and options include abandoning the procedure, getting an intraoperative cranial CT scan or help of an endoscope, or image guidance or infusing fluid through the EVD into the ventricle thereby distending the ventricle prior to reattempting Ventricular catheter insertion. However, dry tap is really a neurosurgical emergency needing tactful management, which depends on available facility at surgical centre including image guidance, intraoperative CT scan facility, endoscope facility and expertise of surgical team. References 1. Agrawal D, Pandey N, Sinha S, Gupta D, et al.: Subdural effusion with ventriculomegaly after decompressive craniectomy for traumatic brain injury: A challenging entity. The Indian Journal of Neurotrauma . 2014; 11 (2): 97-102 Publisher Full Text 2. DANDY W: PNEUMOCEPHALUS (INTRACRANIAL PENUMATOCELE OR AEROCELE). Archives of Surgery . 1926; 12 (5). Publisher Full Text 3. Lee SH, Koh JS, Bang JS, Kim MC: Extensive tension pneumocephalus caused by spinal tapping in a patient with Basal skull fracture and pneumothorax. J Korean Neurosurg Soc . 2009; 45 (5): 318-21 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. HOROWITZ M: INTRACRANIAL PNEUMOCOELE. AN UNUSUAL COMPLICATION FOLLOWING MASTOID SURGERY. J Laryngol Otol . 1964; 78 : 128-34 PubMed Abstract 5. Rathore AS, Satyarthee GD, Mahapatra AK: Post-Traumatic Tension Pneumocephalus: Series of Four Patients and Review of the Literature. Turk Neurosurg . 2016; 26 (2): 302-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Satyarthee GD, Mahapatra AK: Tension pneumocephalus following transsphenoid surgery for pituitary adenoma - report of two cases. J Clin Neurosci . 2003; 10 (4): 495-7 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Satyarthee GD and Moscote-Salazar LR. Reviewer Report For: Case Report: A case report of dry tap during ventriculostomy [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :188 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7698.r13750 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-188/v2#referee-response-13750 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 07 Jul 2015 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bosnjak R. Reviewer Report For: Case Report: A case report of dry tap during ventriculostomy [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :188 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7251.r10474 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-188/v1#referee-response-10474 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 24 Sep 2015 Roman Bosnjak , Department of Neurosurgery, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7251.r10474 The authors analysed dry tap during ventriculostomy in the presence of EVD inserted few days before. Their explanations are reasonable. But there might be additional explanations. The EVD was inserted to rule out ex vacuo hydrocephalus. CSF egressed under pressure. Here the ... Continue reading READ ALL 