This paper describes two studies that sought to explore the reliability and validity of a new measure for measuring paranormal beliefs and experiences. The paper found that the measure displays reliability and validity. Following a CFA for both samples, there is support for the hypothesized existence of two sub-scales - one for belief and one for the experience. Overall comments: This measure is a valuable contribution to the existing literature that tends to examine beliefs and experiences separately or conflate experiences with beliefs in the measurement of both. However, there are some limitations. It is not currently clear which order the scales were presented to participants to ascertain the convergent construct validity in study 1. The inclusion of these other measures may have influenced responding to the NEBs if presented prior to the NEBS. This should be clarified herein. In terms of the measure itself, think it would have been an improvement to randomly present items for the belief and experience versions of the same set of phenomena, and include more neutral language for the experience terms, which I think, still implicitly address beliefs and certainly conflate experience with appraisal, when this could have been further teased apart. Although this cannot be done on the current dataset, I think the authors should consider these issues in their discussion and note that the way that the items are worded and the measure was presented may have inflated the correlations between the 2 factors/subscales. I would also be interested to see the emergent results of EFA to see if the traditional distinctions between ESP, mind-matter interactions and survival play out within the dataset. The authors should also discuss the emergence of 2 factors for their CFA, as factors are statistical and not psychological. The belief questions and experience questions are framed as two parts to one overall type of experience, which immediately sets them apart as two things. I would like to see this addressed in their discussion with regard to how the measure will be developed moving forward. More detailed comments are included below. Introduction: I am not convinced that experience is necessarily a memory of an experience that one judges to be genuine. I think that there is evidence for folk to report an anomalous experience that could feasibly fit the category of paranormal without it necessarily being labeled/appraised as such and that this is demonstrated by research using the Irwin et al measure of anomalous experiences and appraisals. One might argue that all experience is being actively constructed as it is happening in addition to the memory of that experience. I think that the authors might think about adding another subscale (3rd part to each question) to future versions of this measure that reflects the experience without a paranormal attribution. This might be addressed in the discussion. I think that the relatively recent measure by Irwin et al. should be more thoroughly discussed in your literature review and more rationale given here for the development of the current measure as a viable alternative addition. The Irwin measure includes the possibility for several different appraisals of an ostensibly paranormal experience that is described phenomenologically rather than including a paranormal interpretation in the item description. It is commendable that the authors attempted to describe these phenomena without using the term paranormal, which may prime or bias responses to questions like this. The term noetic usually refers to experiential and direct knowledge, which I think encompasses experiences rather than beliefs which are usually understood to be more cognitive, but I think the terminology for the scale is fine as it is. Method: A lot of good design and methodological considerations have been included herein. This type of design is not usually referred to as an observational study in psychology. A more commonly used description would be a correlational design. Who were the consultants who helped the authors develop the measure? It seems that some of the items were derived from the existing literature which is commendable. With that said, it does seem as though you are including some items that are not usually included as traditional parapsychological experiences – i.e., extraterrestrials - alongside others that are. This might be addressed later in terms of how the items behave as part of the questionnaire and which relate more to the overall measure/subscales. What was the order of presentation of the variables for study 1 and study 2? Ideally, NEBS should be first, so that responding was not influenced by scoring on the other paranormally relevant measures in study 1. Although I think this is a valuable addition to the literature, I am not convinced that this measure completely addresses the very real problem of the separate measurement of beliefs and experiences of the same phenomena (although it is a step in the right direction). The items are presented together, with the belief item first. I think it would have been preferable to have presented the items in a random order overall and with the deployment of yet more neutral language and item construction. Many of the experience items are unfortunately conflated with belief because the paranormal belief always comes first (as the authors acknowledge in terms of possible response bias). In addition, the language of the experience item actually incorporates a paranormal interpretation (belief in something paranormal is followed by items asking if the respondent has experienced the paranormal phenomenon as denoted in the preceding belief item). This is problematic because the two subscales are more dependent from the outset than they might otherwise be. It would also be difficult for a skeptical person to respond to the experience items affirmatively because the experience cannot be interpreted neutrally or mundanely - in other words, the measure may be set up for believers to respond affirmatively to experiences. I think it would be preferable to have matched all the paranormal phenomena in terms of belief and equivalent experiences but used separate and neutral language for the experience items. Another way forward might be to add a 3rd part to the questions that would tap experiences (described neutrally, i.e., without any appraisal as part of the question). For example, although it is neatly presented with 2 parts to each paranormal phenomenon, it might work better to have the items presented in a more neutral way. E.g., some people have reported ____ which many interpret as ____ and then having a belief item and an experience item below it? The authors should acknowledge this in their discussion and consider ways that they might adjust the measure in the future. Results: Were the data for the first sample normally distributed? Do you have any data for gender breakdown, etc. to provide norms for these scales? Your Cronbach’s alpha is generally very high which is commendable - seems to be tapping something common and consistent - paranormal ideation. I think it would be valuable to explore individual items within each subscale as well as overall subscales for Cronbach’s alpha to explore how well each item performs. As this paper seems to be focusing on the development of a new measure, I think it would be useful to spend some time on an item analysis and considering whether all of the items you have included in the measure should remain as part of the scale. An item analysis would usually look to see how the removal of a given item might influence the overall Cronbach’s alpha. Looking at the correlations between items, it does seem that some of your items perform less well than others – in particular the item describing intuition and possibly also the item referring to extraterrestrials. I suggest that this should be discussed in your results and discussion sections with some rationale given for why all of these items were retained. It may be that this was addressed in the prior studies conducted by and referred to by the authors, but it does seem that additional items were added prior to the current study (intuition). I think it makes sense why a CFA has been run, but I would also like to see the results of an EFA - perhaps as a footnote to explore emergent factors regarding how the different items work together (e.g., do we see belief and experience emerging here too, and do we see traditional categories of subjective paranormal phenomena emerging? Are they different for belief and experience?). The authors should further discuss the emergence of 2 factors for their CFA, as factors are statistical and not (necessarily) psychological. The belief questions and experience questions are framed as two parts to one overall type of experience, which immediately sets them apart as two things. I would like to see this addressed in their discussion with regard to how the measure will be developed moving forward. Are there plans to explore how a longer period of time between the first and second mailings impact the test-retest data? One month is a fairly short period of time and I wonder how the measure would perform with a longer gap. The second mailing included only 26% of those in the first mailing, which is on the low side, although it is noted that the demographics are equivalent. It is commendable that the authors attempted to explore divergent reliability in the second sample. However, the second sample is very biased in terms of gender, age, affluence, etc. This should be noted in the discussion. The variables that you explored here do not relate to NEBS for this particular sample but may relate to other more representative samples. Which order were the scales presented in? Was NEBS first or after these other measures? The second sample seems to be very different to the first as you note that experience and beliefs are both much higher in this second sample. Discussion: The questionnaire has potential but has some limitations. The authors should talk more about how the measure might be developed/tested in the future. The authors include a very brief discussion on the relationship between experiences and beliefs in their discussion. There is a lot of research on this topic, particularly in terms of recent research on appraising ostensibly paranormal events as being at the heart of the generation of beliefs. I think that Pekala’s (2000) work on the levels of anomalous experiences would be a valuable addition here or in the literature review, as they talk about anomalous sensations, anomalous experiences, and anomalous beliefs and how they relate to one another. They note that it is very possible to have anomalous sensations and experiences in the absence of holding paranormal beliefs and vice versa and this should be included in the paper. 