Kalkeri et al. investigate the potential of the human RSV MTase as target for antiviral drug discovery. This is a very relevant topic, as RSV remains an important human pathogen for which it has been very challenging to find potent therapies and/or vaccines. MTase of several other viruses have been investigated and the authors link this information to RSV with the hope to find new starting points for RSV drug discovery. In general, we do not have the impression this review brings a lot of value. Several of the hallmark papers in the field (example Nature Communications volume 6, Article number: 8749 (2015) 1 or Nature Reviews Microbiology volume 10, pages 51–65 (2012) 2 ) describe many of the arguments of the authors in a more understandable/graphical way. The value of the manuscript is also limited as it is challenging to read. It lacks a clear explanation of the different biochemical reactions involved in vRNA capping. A reaction scheme would be very helpful for the reader (like for example in Nature Reviews Microbiology volume 10, pages 51–65 (2012) 2 ). The paper also lacks an explanation on what is SAM and how SAH is a by-product from MTase activity that has SAM-dependent inhibition. Similarly, the work describes several conserved sequences and residues but an overview in a figure of these gene/protein elements is lacking while it would be extremely helpful for the reader to keep track. Without this basic information represented in a schematic way it is impossible to link the understanding of MTase from other nsNS viruses with the potential implications for RSV. The text also shows several language errors including many missing occasions of ‘the’ and repeating messages like the fact that the K-D-K-E motif is a typical 2’-O MTase fold is mentioned twice under “Guanylation and methylation functions". Also the fact that sequence similarity for homology-based modelling is important is suggested at several places in the text. Also, some relevant arguments remain unexplained and thus difficult to understand. For example “MTase activity seems to affect late elongation or polyadenylation” or “Due to the involvement of multiple amino acid residues for enzyme activity, targeting HRSV MTase might offer a high barrier for resistance emergence.”. Two aspects of the paper are certainly interesting. These are the parts on the genetic support for RSV MTase role in viral replication and the importance of 2’O methylation on viral RNA. They clearly represent the challenges and opportunities for finding novel MTase inhibitors. 