The authors report the workflow and pipeline code they developed to annotate variants. The authors were motivated to develop this pipeline specifically so that a user could use tissue- and disease-specific resources of annotation and annotate a large set of variants, such as from a whole genome sequencing (WGS) analysis, provided in a VCF format. As a use case, their provided code is suppose to download annotations linked with gut related tissues and metabolic disorders, format them and use them to annotate and filter variants provided in a VCF format. The authors applied the provided code to annotate 6,248,584 variants from a patient with history of gastrointestinal symptoms and generated a filtered set of 151 variants using the annotations. The manuscript reports the pipeline-code for a workflow which is very important and useful for generating a filtered set of variants that likely have biological function and which could be followed-up in more detail after a WGS study. However I have major concerns about the practical feasibility and interests of others using this code because it is tailored for a very specific use case and lacks documentation. For these reasons I hesitate to endorse its acceptance at the present stage. Major concerns: The features for which the authors developed the pipeline i.e ability to use tissue- and disease-specific annotations, and to provide VCF as an input is already available in the Whole Genome Sequence Annotator (WGSA, https://sites.google.com/site/jpopgen/wgsa ) 1 . In addition, WGSA has a large selection of a recently updated annotation resources that a user can choose to annotate the single nucleotide variants as well as indels. The code provided is very specific to a use case. A user wanting another set of annotations or more than one set of annotations might end up having multiple versions of the code. In general, such an approach in not considered a good practice as it leads to duplication of lot of code. This can be avoided if the code is updated to handle user specifications provided through a config file. A user's ability to use tissue specific annotations in a format different than the currently used resources (example annotations from long range chromatin interactions experiments ) will be limited. I did not come across any documentation associated with the code. A documentation and vignette will be very helpful so that user can use the code as is, as well as modify it if they desire to use other resources. It would be helpful to add a description about how the code handles and reports multiple annotations for a given variant from a given resource. For example, if a variant was found as an eQTL for two different tissues is that variant reported twice or the information from the two tissues combined and reported in a specific format Minor suggestion: Annotation of a large set of variants can have a huge computational burden. A user would find it useful if the authors could provided software performance benchmarks. 