The article introduces BED a new identifier mapping tool. Using a graph database like Neo4j provides a fast way to query relationships between the biological entities and retrieve mappings of interest. The available source code is nicely documented and for bioinformaticians, setting up the database and running queries should be straight-forward. Nevertheless, there are several major issues that we would like to comment on: Already in the abstract, it is indicated that current tools cannot be easily customized and optimized for any specific use. It is unclear what the authors actually mean with this statement and how this is solved through BED. Further on it is also stated that current tools are generally dedicated to a particular domain, which is also true for BED. BED only focuses on gene related identifies (genes, transcripts, proteins) similar to mygene, Ensembl BioMart and g:Profiler. In the introduction, three main challenges are mentioned which are addressed by BED. (1) Integration of mappings from different resources - very relevant but the difficult question is if transitive mappings are always biological meaningful. They can also lead to conflicting statements when resources show inconsistent relationships (we have experienced this when comparing Ensembl → UniProt and UniProt → Ensembl mappings) - how are you dealing with that? We want to state that mygene is also integrating mappings from multiple resources. (2) Mapping of deprecated identifiers - this is indeed an interesting problem when analysing older datasets and the visualization in Figure 3 can be very useful when running into such issues. While you mention that BED contains all deprecated identifiers, it is not discussed why g:Profiler has five deprecated identifiers that are not in BED (Figure 4). (3) Mapping scope - It is not clear why the automation of mapping between different scopes needs to be done differently and how BED is solving this. Importantly, BioMarts and mygene also provide easy ways to map between the different scopes (gene - gene / gene - protein / gene - homolog). Figure 3 - we believe that it would make sense to use two different edge styles for is_replaced_by and is_associated_to since they have very different meaning. Also check the layout (in this example, it looks like the blue node is placed over the edge from the purple to the light-purple node). Figure 5 - what do the bold borders of nodes mean in the network? Preferred identifiers? How are those selected? Additionally, when talking about the shortest relevant path, the arrows on the edges might be misleading and confusing (since there is no path from ILMN_1220595 to Q16552 taking the directionality into account). The authors shortly mention the neo2R package to build the database. The functionality is not discussed in detail and it is unclear why the existing R package provided by Neo4j ( https://neo4j.com/developer/r/ was not used. Neo4j can also be easily queried from other programming languages. Are you planning to provide APIs in other languages that would allow the integration in tools other than R? While the conversion rate from Ensembl to Entrez Gene is very interesting, we are missing a comparison between the tools for real research examples, e.g. selection of several datasets and mapping from probe to Ensembl identifier / Entrez Gene identifier (one of the most common use cases in R workflows). This is also mentioned under the criteria for a software tool article in F1000: “The article should provide examples of suitable input data sets and include an example of the output that can be expected from the tool and how this output should be interpreted.” Is it possible to only include edges from certain resources when performing the identifier conversion? Or do the users need to build their own database with only those selected resources? As a final comment, we think that structure of the article is sometimes hard to follow and paragraphs are often not linked to each other. In the section “Converting identifiers” you state the following: “The aim of BED is to improve the efficiency of identifier conversion in a well defined context (organism, information resources of interest. . .) and not to replace biomaRt, mygene, gProfileR or other tools which provide many more features for many organisms and which should not be narrowed to this task for a complete comparison.” We believe that this efficiency, especially in the context of run time, is the key advantage of this tool and this should be made more clear in the article (abstract/intro/conclusion). 