In this paper, Azuaje et al ., utilise transcriptional data from the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia to construct gene co-expression networks and identify hubs within them. They assess the biological relevance of the hub genes, and through the use of comparatively simple linear regression-based approaches, can use gene expression of these hubs to predict drug sensitivity in vitro . Despite not initially aiming to predict drug sensitivity, the authors’ models are able to perform comparably to previously published approaches. Azuaje et al ., have performed extensive and appropriate validation of their work both in silico and in vitro , including assessing the inter-platform robustness of network hubs, cross-validation of the 47-hub signature, investigating the effect of network size on hub detection, and re-implementation of their own predictive approach to allow comparison with previously published drug sensitivity predictors. The paper is well-written and clear, with a thorough and precise account of the approaches used to assess the performance of the predictive model. The authors have produced a thoughtful and detailed account of their work which I enjoyed reading. The online Dr Paso resource is easy to use and has good documentation, although I have only tested it with the example datasets provided. I was unable to access the extended data via Zenodo as described in the manuscript (see comment below). My current recommendation is for “ A pproved with reservations ”, as there are a number of points I feel should be addressed prior to approval: “Furthermore, only four genes in our list of hubs are known drug targets: DKK1 (Irinotecan), MYB, SPARC and TUBB6 (the latter three targeted by paclitaxel).” I disagree with this statement. I have been unable to find any evidence of irinotecan targeting the protein DKK1, apart from an entry in DGIdb that states there is an interaction of type ‘n/a’ between DKKI and irinotecan, based solely upon a paper in Oncotarget that states DDK1 does not affect sensitivity to irinotecan in two cell lines. Equally, MYB and SPARC are not targets of paclitaxel, although they are shown in the DGIdb database as interacting with paclitaxel based on little or no evidence. I recommend the authors remove this sentence from the manuscript as it is based on a misinterpretation of DGIdb results and as such is misleading. I was able to access the code for the Dr Paso tool via Zenodo, but not the extended data associated with this study. Please ensure this is added and the appropriate link included. Figure 1: Please update this figure to highlight the filtering stage between collecting transcriptomics data and building co-expression networks. Listing the number of genes present before and after filtering would also be informative. Figure 2a: Here, the weight of edges is used to represent the expression correlations between nodes, but at present it is very difficult to see this in the examples highlighted. A larger, higher-resolution image of the network and examples is required. Figure 2b: I am not familiar with the concepts of semantic space and so do not know how to interpret this plot. Consider adding extra discussion in the main text or presenting this data in another way. Figure 2d: This figure is currently very difficult to read and could be enlarged if 2c is concurrently decreased in size. Figure 3a: The density plot requires further annotation in relation to the clusters described in the manuscript, for example by arrows or circling the appropriate regions of the plot. Figure 4a: This figure is currently very difficult to read and could be enlarged. In conclusion this is an interesting paper illustrating how co-expression hubs can be used to predict drug responses in vitro with reasonable accuracy. The authors have clearly put a great deal of time and thought into this project and should be pleased with the resulting paper. 