“On 19 December 2018, Altria announced an offer of US$12.8billion for a 35% share of Juul Labs. The deal combines Altria (formerly Philip Morris), the company with the largest share of the US cigarette market, with the large and rapidly growing vaping product (aka e-cigarette) company, Juul Labs. The acquisition price was based on a US$38billion valuation, which was more than twice Juul Labs’ August valuation, and a surprise to many investors on Wall Street.” 1 We have to have this information in mind, because the manuscript submitted to F1000Research by Peter Lee and John Fry is financed by Philip Morris. My personal opinion is that Philip Morris has an interest to show that the so called gateway effect is not existent. I am not an expert in the propensity score approach, but what I understand is, that the authors tried everything to show, that the gateway effect does not exist. It seems trivial to me, that adjustments reduce an OR. Even after adjustment for a broad range of confounders, there is still a significant and clinical meaningful association between e-cigarette use at baseline and smoking initiation in the observational period. My main point is that I do not agree with the conclusion and discussion of the results. Instead of saying that confounding is a major factor explaining most of the observed gateway effect, the authors should emphasize that even after controlling for a large number of confounders, the gateway effect is still present. I am counting nearly two dozens of cohort studies, which investigated the gateway effect. The authors only cite a portion of these studies. In detail, young people have been recruited in the US and Canada 2 - 15 , UK 16 - 18 , Finland 19 , Mexico 20 , the Netherlands 21 , Romania 22 , Taiwan 23 , and Germany 24 . More than 100,000 young people have been recruited for these studies with observational periods of up to 24 months. Outcome variables range from one cigarette to daily smoking. All these studies found a significant association between e-cigarette use at baseline and uptake of smoking in the observational period. Applying the well-known Bradford-Hill criteria, it seems to me that the following criteria are fulfilled: (1) Strength (effect size), (2) Consistency (reproducibility), (3) Temporality, and (4) Plausibility. In the Introduction the authors should describe the two opponent explanations for the observed association between e-cigarette use and the later uptake of smoking: the so called “common liability” theory vs. the “gateway” theory 25 . Another important theoretical paper should also be discussed 26 . If anything, the results reported are in line with the gateway theory and not with the common liability theory. 