Postoperative atrial fibrillation after (POAF) is a common complication after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and cardiac surgery in general. In this article Musa and colleagues perform a retrospective, single-center analysis of 637 patients undergoing CABG in order to identify the incidence of POAF, its associated morbidity and mortality as well as its pre- and intraoperative risk factors. The authors compare their results to previous studies and also point out their regional relevance by comparison between Malaysia’s major ethnic groups. From a technical point of view, the paper is well written. The Introduction section includes a very detailed literature review summarizing available data about incidence, mortality and risk factors of POAF after CABG. This part of the article indicates the complexity of POAF with a high amount of variables possibly influencing its aetiology and pathogenesis. The Methods section describes the study design and sample size calculation, the inclusion and exclusion criteria are plausible and the statistical methods are well chosen. In the Results and Discussion section, a detailed analysis of the collected data is performed, comparing their own results to previous studies and literature. Finally, the Conclusion section includes a short recap and a future perspective for further studies. In order to give a helpful feedback to the authors I want to divide my review in 2 sections: “technical aspects” and “intended relevance of the paper”. Technical aspects: Introduction: I want to point out that the Introduction offers an excellent insight into POAF literature and the current state of research on this topic. Methods: Page 4: The sample size was calculated in order to “investigate the outcome”. Please give a more detailed definition for the “outcome” you wanted to analyze. Which parameters did you look for in the first place (i.e. incidence, mortality, etc.)? Was the sample size large enough for all your endpoints? The inclusion/exclusion criteria as well as the statistical methods were chosen appropriately. Results: To provide a clear design of the tables I would recommend to include the total number of patients (637), the number of Non-POAF patients (454) and POAF patients (183) into the tables, since some of the percentage numbers are a little bit confusing at first sight. So, for example, you may mention those numbers in the table’s head line or within each field (i.e. Table 1: Male gender 521/637 (81.8). Page 5, Table 2: “Time from surgery to POAF” should be corrected to “hours” instead of “minutes” Page 7, Operative details: The section about on-pump vs. off-pump CABG could be written a bit more understandable (i.e. the percentage of POAF in the on-pump group vs. the percentage of POAF in the off-pump group). Page 8, Postoperative stay: If available, the cause of prolonged stay on ICU and HDU (i.e. hemodynamic instability, rhythm control, non cardiac reasons) would be very interesting to know, in order to determine if there might be a causal relationship between POAF and the prolonged ICU stay or not. Data about postoperative cardiac pacing and its influence on POAF would be very interesting. What is your protocol of postoperative atrial/ventricular pacing? Did you collect any data about the completeness of revascularization and its influence on POAF? Discussion: Page 11: Please explain why you selected the 48-hour timeframe to identify patients for prophylactic anti-coagulation. What was the number of patients with a POAF episode of 24 hours? What is your protocol for recurring POAF? Do you start anticoagulation in those patients? (and maybe for the discussion section: what do you think is a good follow up protocol for those patients?) Conclusion: What are your thoughts about the importance of the difference of POAF incidence between the different ethical groups? Do you think there is any clinical relevance? Is it an interesting fact for research about genetic influences on POAF? Please explain more detailed what surgical methods you think about, that could be improved? Bicaval cannulation (as you mentioned) is hardly done in isolated CABG. The reduction of cross clamp time is probably the goal of every surgical procedure. So in my opinion the current possibilities for surgical improvement are rather limited. Would it be possible to estimate the additional costs caused by POAF per year in your national health care system? Relevance of the paper: I think it is important to determine the target audience for this paper as well the article’s intended impact. If the author’s main intention is to present an analysis of POAF by using a local patient cohort, the paper is solidly written. However, despite the analysis of differences between Malayan ethnical groups, the novelty and scientific relevance of the information presented is limited. Although my limited knowledge about the Malayan health care system and its medical research institutions, in my opinion this article has huge potential to emphasize a discussion about improvement of the national research and data collection system. The authors mention on page 4 that there is currently no data available about the total number of CABG performed in Malaysia per year. Such information could be collected through manageable financial efforts by installing a national database for cardiac surgery, comparable to already existing databases in Europe or the United States. Such a database would profoundly facilitate further scientific research as well as quality control. Furthermore the author’s mention that prospective studies have to be performed in future. One of the main problems might be that the costs for that kind of studies often are enormous and that there might be a lack of industrial sponsors. If the authors were able to determine an estimation of the real-world additional costs of POAF for the the national health care budget, this might facilitate national sponsorship for research targeting to reduce these costs. However, in summary I support the indexing of the paper in regard of the revisions mentioned above. 