This manuscript is aimed at answering an important question in the field of survivorship care after allogeneic HCT. Authors have used a novel and interesting approach to quantify the rate of compliance with recommended guidelines. However, there are several major issues in their methodology: First, authors have used provider gender, provider years of practice, and providers’ focus of practice (survivorship-focused or not) as independent variables. However, considering that survivorship care is provided longitudinally and often by different providers over time, categorizing subjects based on these variables is almost impossible. Which category do we put a patient in if they were seen twice by a female provider and three times by a male provider over the course of two years? Unless patients were seen exclusively by the same providers for the entire period, I do not think we can categorize them accurately based on these characteristics. We cannot take only one visit into account either as survivorship care involves more than a single visit. Second, for overall score assessment, authors have added one point for each organ system if at least one question in the category for that organ was addressed. The questions grouped together in each category are of very different importance though, and they cannot be a substitute for each other. For example, in the Respiratory System, there are four questions, and one of them is “Clinical Exam,” which is very likely to be documented in almost any clinicians’ note. Taking this alone as an overall assessment of adherence to survivorship guidelines for the respiratory system will be rather misleading as we can have a group of patients with 0% adherence to PFTs, who are marked as 100% compliant with overall respiratory survivorship care just because they all had a clinical exam. Third, missing data were analyzed as not being addressed, even though this is not an accurate assumption. Some aspects of survivorship care such as “inquiry about family functioning” or “Inquiry about sexual functioning” are inherently less likely to be documented in the records, whereas other components such as renal function or liver function tests almost always get recorded and can be captured retrospectively. Authors should distinguish these from each other, and either report missing data separately or state that assessment of adherence in certain areas were not possible. At the end, an alternative scoring system (or a different reporting methods) that is based on more objective and specific measures instead of lumping together a group of questions with different clinical significance and rates of documentation would be a more reliable and informative approach. For instance, separately reporting on the rate of compliance with PFTs, measurement of bone densitometry, colonoscopy, or referral to ophthalmology is far more informative and reliable than providing a summative score for how many questions in each organ system were addressed. 