This manuscript introduces a new method for simulating longitudinal differential abundance for microbiome data. The method is implemented as an R/Bioc package. The proposed package allows the user to simulate longitudinal microbiome data based on various assumptions, and allows the tuning of key design aspects such as signal-to-noise ratio, correlation structure, effect size and zero inflation. One of the available methods is validated with benchmarking comparisons. The manuscript is technically sound and written in a fluent and easily understandable English. Experiments and statistical analyses have been conducted rigorously. The source code and experiments are openly available via Github but I have not tried to replicate the analysis. Realistic simulations are valuable for study design, and help to address questions about sample size, density of time points, experimental costs, etc. The work provides pragmatic solutions to a topical problem in microbiome bioinformatics. Major comments: The simulator provides versatile options to tune signal shape, correlations, and noise. However, I am left wondering how well the simulations correspond to real microbiome data. In particular, it is not clear nor validated how the time series shape and correlation structures correspond to known processes in microbial ecology, such as neutral process, competition models (such as generalized Lotka-Volterra), compositionally aware naive models (Dirichlet-Multinomial), mean-reversing processes (Ornstein-Uhlenbeck). All of these have ecological interpretations and have been visible in recent microbiome time series literature. These models are motivated by known ecological processes, rather than technical modifications on the signal shape; it would be relevant to know how large impact the chosen modeling assumptions might have on the results. Can we expect that the proposed simulator will yield qualitative similar conclusions, even if the connection to ecological mechanisms might be weak? The proposed model does not (explicitly) account for heteroschedasticity or overdispersion, and its performance has not been demonstrated with recently popular models of differential abundance, such as DESeq2. It could be true that longitudinal testing of differential abundance requires different methodology. But longitudinal simulators can be also used to simulate cross-sectional data, which is always a snap-shot of longitudinal data. I wonder if the simulator would perform well with standard methods for cross-sectional data; or if it can be shown to yield similar overall distributions. This could provide some additional support for the simulations as the feasibility of the modeling assumptions and their impact on the conclusions remains open. Minor comments: Other simulators for microbiome data and time series are available. One that I am aware of is the seqtime package ( https://github.com/hallucigenia-sparsa/seqtime ), although that is only available as an R package (and not formally published), but there may be other recent simulators. I did not find other simulation works being cited, it would be good to check if other simulators can be identified in the recent literature, and how they relate to this work. Lack of integration with phyloseq is a weakness, as this class structure is now very popular among the microbiome R users, and many tools build directly on that class structure. It would be useful addition to the package if the simulations could be made available in a phyloseq format. 