This manuscript is a study of the “Relative effectiveness of a full versus reduced version of the ‘Smoke Free’ mobile application for smoking cessation: a randomised controlled trial”. The use of such applications as described therein can extend the reach of smoking cessation interventions to a large number of smokers through low-cost approaches. Thus, the results of this study will be of great interest to the tobacco treatment community. I have several questions about the details of the study and some suggested edits. Introduction: The introduction discusses most methodology decisions, such as those about the comparator group, follow up loss, analysis, and the measure of abstinence. But, it lacks some conceptual information. For instance, it does not address why the full version of the app was expected to be more effective than the reduced version. I would like to see a more conceptual description used as a background to support the development of an extended version beyond the app’s basic version. Also, I think methodology decisions would fit better under methods or study limitations. In addition, it is not clear what the authors mean by, “Also, in a trial where there is no greater psychological pressure to claim abstinence in one condition than another, use of self-report should not bias the estimated effect size“. I’m not sure if the authors refer to a non-superiority trial since the last sentence in the introduction session shows that they expected a better result in the intervention group. Furthermore, I would like to have more information about the app itself. For instance, are people from all over the world able to download the app? In which languages is it available? Methods: Study design: Provide more details about the method used to generate the random allocation sequence (such as blocking and block size). Participants: Were included daily and occasionally smokers? In which countries do the participants reside? Is the app only in English? Intervention and comparator Show the theory that guided the development of these interventions in this section. Measures: Did you collect data about how often the app was used and for how long? Analysis: How did you control against the duplication of data, such as if someone installed the app twice? What strategy did you use to increase follow up response rates? Did you set up a reminder function to send notifications to the user to complete the follow-up questionnaire? How did you handle missing data? (details of any imputation method) Results: How did the participants use the app? If you included descriptive information from both groups, then it would help us to better understand participant interactions with the app. Did you have information about whether participants used other methods to quit smoking? For instance, nicotine replacement therapy? The sentence “Older participants, and in the MES analysis, those with longer time to their first cigarette of the day were more likely to report abstinence”. This interpretation is confusing because the results from participants who smoke cigarettes longer than 60 minutes were not significant. Also, those whose quit date was after the date of registration were less likely to report abstinence. What was the comparator? Table 2: It is not clear. What is the reference in table 2? Discussion: The fifth sentence of the introduction states: “The odds ratios ranged between 1.50 and 1.90 in the two analyses and the percentage point differences ranged between 0.7% and 5.5%”. Is it not 0.85 and 0.7? The last sentence in the third paragraph is not clear when looking at table 2. Which variable measured the difficulty of quitting? The quit rate in this study was lower compared to other studies (ex: BinDhim, McGeechan, Trevena, 2018 1 ), as well as the follow-up rates. I would like to see more discussion about how the results from this study compare to those of other apps. The results showed that those using Android (versus iOS devices) were less likely to report abstinence. What’s the implication of this data? 