This article has been improved in response to the previous comments of the reviewers. The authors have added several important and difficult-to-implement new analyses to the package, especially those discussed in Aguirre et al. 2014. The text has been altered to make clearer the limitations of some of the procedures. On the other hand, many of my more general comments about the shortcomings of the package still hold, and I refer the reader to my first set of comments. One problem has, however, gotten worse, and that is how the package discusses the estimation of errors in G matrices and other variance component matrices. The text and code does not properly distinguish between sampling error of estimates of G matrices and sampling error of simple statistics based directly on the data. Consequently at many points the package could be used to produce misleading estimates of error in evolutionary statistics. The section on matrix error and repeatability is the locus of this problem. The opening paragraph in this section is about error in the G matrices, but none of the methods in that section actually apply to G matrices. In particular the text equates the REML-MVN method (Houle and Meyer, 2015) with this package's MonteCarloRep, but this is incorrect. REML-MVN requires you to have an estimate of the sampling variance-covariance of matrix elements, but the software implements the assumption that the only parameter that is needed to construct an estimate of error is the sample size. This works for a P matrix of multivariate normal data, but is NOT the REML-MVN method. Similarly, the bootstrap routine seems only to bootstrap at the level of individuals. Bootstrapping over individuals will always severely underestimate the error in G. For a designed experiment like a full and half-sib estimation of G, one could get proper estimates of error in G by bootstrapping over sires, which are the exchangeable units in that design. A pedigree cannot be effectively bootstrapped as individuals are not exchangeable. For a G matrix, you need additional estimates of error from either the posterior distribution of matrices, the variance-covariance matrix of estimates from a ML procedure, or samples drawn from such a distribution. Consequently the statement at the start of the Evolutionary Statistics section that "MonteCarloStat() and BootstrapStat() can be used to generate confidence intervals for these statistics" is incorrect. To properly deal with this problem all of the routines should allow the user to furnish samples of matrices from the sampling distributions (e.g. samples from the posterior distribution), and then produce measures of uncertainty from those. It would be ideal for the package to implement the ability to utilize such samples in every procedure. References 1. Houle D, Meyer K: Estimating sampling error of evolutionary statistics based on genetic covariance matrices using maximum likelihood. J Evol Biol . 2015; 28 (8): 1542-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Aguirre JD, Hine E, McGuigan K, Blows MW: Comparing G: multivariate analysis of genetic variation in multiple populations. Heredity (Edinb) . 2014; 112 (1): 21-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Houle D. Reviewer Report For: EvolQG - An R package for evolutionary quantitative genetics [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :925 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9735.r14607 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-925/v2#referee-response-14607 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 08 Nov 2016 Diogo Melo , Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil 08 Nov 2016 Author Response Thank you for the second careful review! We agree completely with the problems regarding G-matrix error and have modified the text to make these limitations clear. As much as we ... Continue reading Thank you for the second careful review! We agree completely with the problems regarding G-matrix error and have modified the text to make these limitations clear. As much as we would like to provide general methods for G matrix error estimation, the current available mixed model packages in R for ML estimation make this difficult. We recommend using MCMCglmm or some other Bayesian framework to incorporate uncertainty. Thank you for the second careful review! We agree completely with the problems regarding G-matrix error and have modified the text to make these limitations clear. As much as we would like to provide general methods for G matrix error estimation, the current available mixed model packages in R for ML estimation make this difficult. We recommend using MCMCglmm or some other Bayesian framework to incorporate uncertainty. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 08 Nov 2016 Diogo Melo , Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil 08 Nov 2016 Author Response Thank you for the second careful review! We agree completely with the problems regarding G-matrix error and have modified the text to make these limitations clear. As much as we ... Continue reading Thank you for the second careful review! We agree completely with the problems regarding G-matrix error and have modified the text to make these limitations clear. As much as we would like to provide general methods for G matrix error estimation, the current available mixed model packages in R for ML estimation make this difficult. We recommend using MCMCglmm or some other Bayesian framework to incorporate uncertainty. Thank you for the second careful review! We agree completely with the problems regarding G-matrix error and have modified the text to make these limitations clear. As much as we would like to provide general methods for G matrix error estimation, the current available mixed model packages in R for ML estimation make this difficult. We recommend using MCMCglmm or some other Bayesian framework to incorporate uncertainty. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 30 Sep 2015 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Houle D. Reviewer Report For: EvolQG - An R package for evolutionary quantitative genetics [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :925 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7623.r10610 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-925/v1#referee-response-10610 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 16 Nov 2015 David Houle , Department of Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7623.r10610 This paper describes the functions implemented in the R package “evolvqg.” This package implements a large set of methods for characterizing and comparing variance-covariance matrices. A compendium of such methods is useful, but the user should be aware of shortcomings ... Continue reading READ ALL 