This is a very useful review of an area that is vitally important for science and that is constantly being examined by funding agencies. It included some papers that I had not read, but there were a few additional papers that I thought could be included (detailed below). The results once again highlight the incredible lack of studies in this area. The paper ends with some sensible recommendations, including the need for funders to experiment more and make their data available to researchers. I was surprised that some of the more innovative solutions to funding peer review were not included, specifically using prediction markets 1 and using the “wisdom of the crowd” 2 . Why was 2009 chosen as the time threshold? Is it because that was the year of the previous review? This paper should be included in the discussion on interdisciplinary research: Interdisciplinary research has consistently lower funding success, Lindell Bromham, Russell Dinnage Xia Hua. Nature 534, 684–687 doi:10.1038/nature18315 3 . This paper agrees with the other two mentioned, as there are lower success rates for applications with more cross-disciplinary researchers. One force against “cognitive particularism” is that strict conflict of interest rules from funding bodies can often rule out reviewers with the greatest knowledge, particularly in small fields or small countries. This study may touch on this issue: Abdoul H et al , Non-Financial Conflicts of Interest in Academic Grant Evaluation: A Qualitative Study of Multiple Stakeholders in France, PLoS ONE, 7/4: e35247. 4 In terms of using technology in the review process, some researchers have suggested that videos may produce more reliable peer reviewer ratings and take less time to prepare: Doran MR, Lott WB, Doran SE. Trends Biochem Sci. 2014 Apr;39(4):151-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tibs.2014.01.004. Multimedia: a necessary step in the evolution of research funding applications 5 . Minor comments Introduction, 1st paragraph. As an Australian researcher I would argue that the ERA has not really measured research quality, rather it has simply measured research output. Maybe you could say “Funders have attempted to gather evidence…” The “95%” figure in the abstract feels about right, but is there a reference for this? For the Google search terms, “fellowship” could also have been added, so “Fellowship OR funding”. The link to this paper did not work: The Novelty Paradox Bias for Normal Science: Evidence from Randomized Medical Grant Proposal Evaluations Page 6, “when reviewing research closer to application”, I didn’t understand this. Page 7, “only affects the funding decision for around 10 per cent of applications relative to original scores” but that could still be an important percentage, particularly if it’s those near the funding line Page 9, “found that panel assessments of full proposals and shorter anonymised versions of the same proposals showed weak correlations” do you need to add, “implying that knowledge of the applicants influences the score”. Although as well as a change in blinding there was also a change in the size of the application, so it may be hard to conclude anything about cronyism here. Footnote 9, the NZ Health Research Council has been using random allocation for this scheme since at least April 2015 I agree that giving more feedback would improve the value of the process (page 12), but our experience with the NHMRC is that this also opens them up to appeals which can take a lot of time for their staff. This doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t try, and giving frank feedback was a feature of a funding scheme we designed (already cited paper “Streamlined research funding using short proposals and accelerated peer review: an observational study”). This paper may be of interest: Scientometrics, July 2016, Volume 108, Issue 1, pp 263–288, The consequences of competition: simulating the effects of research grant allocation strategies. 6 This parody of a grant application may be useful for the section on peer reviewers being biased against innovative proposals: doi:10.1097/ede.0000000000000453 “John Snow’s Grant Application” 7 This paper examined the costs of applying for NIH funding and could be included in the section on the costs to applicants: Nursing Outlook, Volume 63, Issue 6, November–December 2015, Pages 639-649, Time and costs of preparing and submitting an NIH grant application at a school of nursing, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.outlook.2015.09.003 8 