This article by Imhof et al . describes the unanticipated and intriguing observation that flagella of procyclic form African trypanosomes are capable of fusing and exchanging both membrane bound and cytosolic proteins between the interacting cells. Flagellar fusion occurs in ~1% of cells under normal culture conditions, but fusion can be increased up to ~5% of the population with appropriate manipulations. For proteins to be transferred from one cell to the next, they must have access to the flagella. A nucleoside transporter that is localized to the cell body but not flagellar membrane is not transferred, whereas proteins bound to the inner our outer face of the flagellar membrane, or non-membrane proteins, can be transferred. Striking transmission electron micrographs are shown in which two or more flagella are fused, and the corresponding axonemes and paraflagellar rods are encompassed within a single flagellar membrane. Fusion of trypanosomes expressing two different fluorescently labeled proteins can occur within 1 minute of mixing and can persist for minutes or for hours. Parasites fused by their flagella remain motile and are able to undergo cell division, producing two daughter cells that are both dually labeled. This phenomenon is clearly distinct from mating-associated fusion that has been observed in tsetse fly salivary gland stage trypanosomes, because the cell bodies and nuclei do not merge during flagellar fusion, but they do fuse during mating. As the authors discuss, the major mystery is what purpose this behavior serves for parasites. While the phenomenon has been observed only in culture, it seems likely that the process will also occur in trypanosomes within tsetse flies. Furthermore, recent reports in both trypanosomes and other eukaryotes have underscored the role of the flagellum in transfer of proteins and membranes between cells. Recently, blood stream trypanosomes have been shown to secrete tubules and vesicles that can fuse with host red blood cells, and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii release from their flagellar tips vesicles that carry protein cargo. Thus flagella play a variety of biological roles, many involving the flagellar membranes, that were not anticipated even a few years ago. This paper raises the prospect that flagella and cilia in various organisms may be involved in directed exchange of proteins and should alert the scientific community to another possible broader function of these organelles. Minor Points. In Video 2, one of the cells that has undergone exchange of the two fluorescently labeled proteins acquires 4 nuclei without undergoing division. Do the authors see other examples of this phenomenon, and do they have any comments about this behavior?