Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD) are two most common neurodegenerative diseases responsible for dementia. Currently, AD is often diagnosed in the mild dementia stage by a combination of clinical tests and brain imaging studies. Numerous studies have highlighted the use of CSF or blood biomarkers in identifying and diagnosing AD at earlier stages, even in the pre-symptomatic phase. Despite the hallmark findings of accumulation of amyloid-β protein (Aβ) and hyper-phosphorylated tau proteins in AD, the pathogenic mechanism that led to the onset and development of disease are still largely unknown. There is increasing evidence suggesting that autoimmune diseases are linked to increased risk of dementia development. Autoantibodies against a variety of antigens were found to be associated with AD, such as autoantibodies to Aβ, tau proteins, neurotransmitters, glial markers, and lipid molecules. There is still a real unmet need to discover sensitive and specific biomarkers for AD and PD, ideally in less invasive, blood samples. Recently, ELISA and microarray based analysis has been applied in an attempt to develop diagnostic tests for AD. The authors described a novel immunoaffinity-based mass spectrometry method to identify potential autoantibody biomarkers in AD and PD. The study limitations, including significant younger age of control group, small sample size (10 in each group), and unknown method sensitivity are discussed. CSF and brain tissue preparation were analyzed using NanoLC-MS, and peptide search are all described in detail. The preset selection criteria for representative autoantibodies in the disease group attempts to identify relatively more disease-specific biomarkers. Overall this study, although small in sample size, is scientifically sound, and presents a good and interesting proteomics approach for biomarker discovery, especially immunoglobulin biomarker study. Several questions are raised by the reviewers regarding this work that may help clarify some aspects of the methods: Are AD or PD patients truly able to give “informed consent”? How do you convince patients with HA to undergo LP for CSF collection, or is this part of the diagnostic workup? Why was RapiGest SF surfactant used on brain tissue before incubation with bead-bound IgG? RapiGest is a mild denaturant, which unfolds proteins and makes proteins more susceptible to enzymatic cleavage. Most immunoaffinity-based mass spectrometry methods denature proteins after immunoaffinity precipitation and elution. The authors stated measuring protein concentration of extracted brain tissue and applied an equal amount of tissue protein in each sample. However, did the authors also measure CSF protein and CSF IgG concentration? Were equal amounts of CSF IgG applied in each sample? If not, will low CSF IgG concentration in one sample/or one group result in lower sensitivity on autoantibody detection? 