Kancherla et al describe a set of re-usable web-components for the Epiviz tool, which are designed for visualizing genomic/epigenetic data in an integrative and interactive way. The components include the visualization components, app components and datasource components, are designed in a modular way and can be integrated with JavaScript libraries and other HTML frameworks. Moreover, there is an R-version available, which can be used with R / Shiny and to produce stand-alone HTML documents. The general concept and design of the Epiviz web components is very good. With growing amounts of -omics data, we need easy-to-use, re-usable and extensible code for interactive data visualization, since visualizing large-scale data enhances our understanding of inherent trends and features of the datasets under analysis. We therefore have a growing need for easy-to-use and re-usable software for their visualization; re-useable and extensible tools like Epiviz are highly sought-after. The manuscript is in general well written and the software has a nice look and feel. Though, there are a couple of points that should be addressed prior to indexing. While I find the description of the tools quite good and explicit, the description of the used biological examples, as well as the plots, is in my view too sparse. In fact, visualization only makes sense to the reader, if he/she understands, what is plotted and how to interpret the plots. With the manuscript at hand, as well as the user manual, this is not made easy. For instance, there is a general lack of axis labels on the scatter plots. E.g. Figure 2 and 3 show scatter plots, however from different data sources (peak positions/height or differential detection(?) on the genome, RNA-seq data (?)). What are the numbers on Figure 3 (ie the scatter plot of the RNA-seq data)? Are these rpkms? Log2 fold change? As the plots are quite useful and might be used directly for publication, this is a feature that should be implemented. Also, in the same Figure/example (methylation workspace following the given link of the legend to Figure 3), how does the RNA-seq data relate to the chip-seq/methylation data? Is there a possibility to see the identity of the genes, when hovering over the dots in the scatter plot? At least for the pre-selected example shown on the web-page, there is no brushing over from the zoomed-chromosome plot to the scatter plot and vice versa. However, this feature seems to work, when changing the chromosomal region. Is this due to the fact that the genes in the selected region are not present in the RNA-seq data? If so, the authors should think about changing the selected region for their demonstration. Also, what is the relationship of genes in the scatter plot that are highlighted together, when one is selected? Do they share the same enhancer/methylation peaks? It might be useful to provide information on the genes selected in the RNA-seq plot also via an info box or pop-up, which shows the name of the gene(s) and its(their) associated differential expression values. Is there the possibility to e.g. change the region of the chromosome-zoom/the chromosome view, when selecting dots in the scatter plot of the RNA-seq data? This seems currently not possible, however would be desirable. In the same example, the brushing of the chromosome view vs the zoomed-in chart does not work. When changing the genomic region, there is no highlighting any more in the chromosome view, so only the pre-selected region seems to work. This needs to be fixed. Finally, in the same plot, changing the chromosome for zoomed-in visualization has no effect on the whole-chromosome view, which I assume should also be updated. In my opinion, the whole-chromosome view is in its present form not really useful and could be omitted. In the same workspace (methylation workspace), there is a scatter plot at the bottom of the page; what do the numbers in the scatter plot refer to? See data labels problem already discussed above. On the binning of data values, the authors describe that the genomic region is binned into 2000 intervals. To which overall length does this refer to? Is always a fixed length chosen or can the user determine the length? Binning e.g. 100000 bp would then give quite different results than e.g. 1000000 bp. There are also some errors in the manuscript, more specifically in the description of Figure 3. It currently states: “In this example, the navigation element at the bottom of the page visualizes (in order from top to bottom): 1) a genes track showing … “ Instead, it should read, I assume, as the genes track is at the bottom of the figure: “In this example, the navigation element at the bottom of the page visualizes (in order from bottom to top ): 1) a genes track showing … “ 