The authors present a case of Left Coronary Artery shutdown post Core Valve Deployment that was attended with a cephalad migration of the prosthesis post deployment. While immediate post deployment angiogram did not reveal any limitation to coronary perfusion, the patient developed cardiogenic shock and global hypokinesis consistent with left coronary shutdown necessitating surgical bail out. I commend the authors for sharing their experience with this interesting case. I do have some critiques to offer regarding the report. I would suggest addressing these prior to indexing of this report. Core valve sizing is perimeter based. The authors should provide the amount of oversizing for 26mm Core valve based on manufacturer guidelines in the initial part of their report. The Left Coronary artery height was borderline although sinus of valsalva width was adequate. Cephalad migration of Core Valve is not always a benign event. The device has three portions. An inflow portion that has the highest radial force, a constrained middle portion designed to allow unhindered coronary perfusion and an outflow portion for maintaining orientation with respect to the ascending aorta.Since Core valve is a nitinol based device it keeps expanding for 10-20 minutes post deployment. I would refer the authors to the findings of the core valve pivotal trial wherein the amount of paravalvar regurgitation was progressively reduced compared with immediate post deployment assessment. This is a function of continuous outward expansion of Core Valve and helps us avoid routine post dilation with BAV balloons. The timing of Coronary occlusion is consistent with a functional occlusion due to continuous expansion of the inflow portion. The presence of a skirt in the inflow portion is also a factor but the lack of thrombus at the time of surgical exploration argues more in favor of a compression of native aortic valvar tissue as the primary mechanism. As the authors point out it is important to perform LAO (Caudal preferably) angiogram post deployment to assess left coronary ostium post deployment. It is not uncommon to have some mobilisation of aortic leaflet tissue in the region of the Left main ostium, however in most cases flow is preserved and "functional" left main stenosis is inconsequential. Protamine reaction is not a likely cause given the imaging and angiographic findings. This report again underscores the need for meticulous preparation and anticipation prior to deployment and an understanding of device behavior to expeditiously solve post deployment issues. 