Overall, this is an informative manuscript that sets a large number of training issues in big data in the context of the many national and international big data projects. The organization of the manuscript, however, is rather uneven, and the presentation logic is at times, confusing. Specific Points: Neither the outline of discussion points in the abstract, nor the list of focus questions (p.3) are cleanly aligned with organizational structure of the rest of the paper. It is difficult to reference either one and then try to find the related content in the conference proceedings. Abstract does not set up problem clearly - why do the challenges to conventional methods for sharing, managing and analyzing constitute a training issue? What are the impediments on translational impact: very confusing as worded. The outline of conversations in the abstract appears to be different here from the outline of questions in the Introduction, and yet again different from the actual organization of the paper content. Even though much of the discussion ultimately considers the topics in each of the various outlines, it does make things hard to cross-reference. The structure/organization would be much more accessible if outlined by the headers, and also with the addition of headers to block some of the very long sections into meaningful subunits. Modify headers to conceptually align with the body of the text and to allow the reader to target content areas. Section 2 (Training in biomedical data science) needs a topic sentence or some overview introductory statement to orient the reader to what is coming (descriptions of 7 different big data initiatives, from different regions of the world), and why. The transition from initiative summaries in section 2 to what collectively seems to constitute a section on inter-initiative collaboration is a very awkward transition in the section as currently structured and seems like a non-sequitur. Section 3, which is a single paragraph titled ‘International interactions’ seems to be closely related to the preceding few paragraphs on inter-initiative collaborations. Re: Section 4, it is very unclear to the reader why the discussion shifts from an overview of many initiatives to a) a specific and detailed comparison of online portals from two of those initiatives, and b) the conceptual basis of a FAIRness comparison. Some topic sentence here would be important. What is the primary conclusion from the FAIR principles comparison for TeSS x ERuDIte? Identification of and utility for stakeholders are mentioned as priorities in both the Abstract and the Introduction, if this is indeed an intended priority for the readership audience, it would be helpful to summarize conclusions in a section with a corresponding header Very confusing use of the term ‘translational impact’ in the training context. Translational impact implies ‘impact of translational research’ – it isn’t obvious how this relates to training - there is a missing link between big data and the need for people to be trained to work with it in order to enable translation between current cutting edge biomedical data science and research outcomes. Section 8, pages 10-13, would be more accessible with some from some conceptual blocking/sub-headers e.g Need for Standards, Training and Trainers, Certification/Credentialing of Trainers/Trainees, Licensing of Materials, Courses and Training Paradigms, Data Science- interface between bioscientists and IT. Overall, the content is valuable, but the organization needs some work to improve the clarity of the presentation. 