Dr.Laderoute has revised the paper to make it clearer. She presents the hypothesis that HERV-K102 endogenous foamy viruses become active after vaccination of humans with HIV vaccine candidates that are based on virus vectors, and that they can mediate immunity to HIV. A number of studies have shown some level of interaction between viral transcription/replication of HERV and HIV and there is some evidence for cross-reactivity between them in the literature. Dr. Laderoute, however, postulates that vaccine effects such as protection in RV144 might be due to the K-HERV. To prove this hypothesis, evidence would have to be amassed from HIV vaccine efficacy trials with an efficacy signal. To be credible, the overall argument would have to somehow accommodate a few facts. The hypothesis is said not to apply to non-human primates, but these animals clearly can be protected against Simian Immunodeficiency Virus or hybrid SHIV (Simian-Human Immunodeficiency Virus) by some vaccines and also by passive antibodies; likewise, immunosuppression of NHP by removal of CD8+T cells can nullify the control that they have over SIV replication early in infection. It seems highly unlikely that clear-cut adaptive immune mechanisms can protect NHP without reflecting mechanisms that also can work in humans. The SIV and SHIV models are widely accepted as valid analogs for HIV infection of humans. Hence it is difficult to imagine that the adaptive immune response cannot be harnessed, eventually, to prevent HIV. A particular type of antibody has been identified, IgG with specificity for a V1V2 region, that is associated with lower risk of infection in the RV144 trial. The proposed mechanism of action is cell-mediated killing of HIV-infected cells, or inhibition of their ability to produce HIV. IgA antibodies against this same region, which would not mediate the cell-mediated killing, negate the apparent protective effect of the IgG 1 . While this explanation remains to be proven, it is one adaptive mechanism for which evidence exists. Dr. Laderoute points out that in a different HIV vaccine efficacy trial (using the Env protein alone) VAX003/4, IgG antibodies against the same epitope can be found without an efficacy signal, however alternate explanations may exist, including subtle differences in the IgG or IgA blocking of the effect. Dr. Laderoute’s discussion on statistical analysis of efficacy trials and gender is somewhat difficult to follow and seems to have some incorrect elements. As an example, the contention that the confidence interval for both genders in RV144 could not be smaller than the CI’s for each of the two genders alone ignores the effect of sample size on confidence interval. The comment that oral contraception was not required in the men-only STEP trial is not biologically meaningful, as we have no hormonal contraceptives for men. In summary, though the paper is much clearer, selective interpretations of data in the literature have been made to link K-HERV with protection from HIV infection, and alternate explanations are not fully explored. References 1. Haynes BF, Gilbert PB, McElrath MJ, Zolla-Pazner S, et al.: Immune-correlates analysis of an HIV-1 vaccine efficacy trial. N Engl J Med . 2012; 366 (14): 1275-86 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Vaccines, HIV epidemiology I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Fast PE. Reviewer Report For: Clues to finding correlates of risk/protection for HIV-1 vaccines [version 2; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :868 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14672.r30229 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-868/v2#referee-response-30229 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Reader Comment 06 Apr 2018 Dr. Marian Laderoute , Immune System Management Clinic & Lab, Canada 06 Apr 2018 Reader Comment I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Fast for continuing this important discussion in an open forum, and also the approval of the manuscript (with reservations). First I would like to clarify that the ... Continue reading I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Fast for continuing this important discussion in an open forum, and also the approval of the manuscript (with reservations). First I would like to clarify that the STEP trial did involve 1135 females along with 1,844 males (Table 2 from Buchbinder et al ., Lancet 2008). Second, I was not arguing that HERV-K antigens are cross-reactive with HIV-1 antigens and this was the primary source of protection. Instead I was saying that HERV-K HML-2 Env is present on HIV-1 infected cells but not normal cells, and is used as surrogate marker of virus infected cells for their clearance by T cells against HML-2 Env (eg., Jones et al., 2012) . Antibodies against HERV-K102 Env also clear breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo (Wang-Johanning et al., 2012) and remarkably, appear to directly trigger apoptosis. Moreover, the HERV-K102 particles are postulated to undergo lytic infections in HIV-1 cells but not normal cells. Although this has not been directly shown, indirect evidence supporting the notion that the replicative activity of HERV-K102 particles may protect against HIV-1 acquisition has been shown in an HESN cohort, wherein genomic copy numbers were found to be significantly increased over normal and not found in persons already infected with HIV-1 irrespective of use of anti-retrovirals (Laderoute et al ., 2015). A main point of contention appears to be differences in opinion/perspective. Dr. Fast cites important work in the simian model which supports adaptive immunity protection against HIV-1/SHIV replication and sometimes acquisition, and postulates that we should be able to harness the adaptive response to prevent HIV-1 acquisition. However, in humans, while clearly parts of adaptive immunity may control HIV-1 replication post-acquisition (Bar et al ., 2016), there is no direct evidence provided in humans that adaptive immunity protects against acquisition (Haynes et al ., 2012). Indeed, there is direct evidence that the presence of adaptive immunity does not alter superinfection with a different strain (Ronon et al., 2017). In the STEP trial, those with protector HLA alleles, had lower viral loads and showed robust T cell activity (Migueles et al ., 2011) but the T cell activity was not associated with a lower risk of acquisition (reviewed in Tomaras Plotkin, 2017). The increased VE related to the presence of HLA A*02 in the RV144 trial, was probably related to post-acquisition selection pressure by adaptive mechanisms and not a genuine blocking of HIV-1 acquisition (Gartland et al ., 2014). There have been hundreds of adaptive immunity vaccine trials which failed to show efficacy against HIV-1. These facts imply that adaptive immune mechanisms are not likely significantly involved in the prevention of HIV-1 acquisition in humans. Thus, these facts are accommodated in the proposal that an innate protector mechanism may instead be at play. Indeed, the proposed innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 acquisition does not exist in simians, which helps to explain the dichotomy between humans and simians and the role of adaptive immunity in HIV-1 acquisition. This does not discount at all that adaptive immunity serves to control HIV-1 post-acquisition in humans or more generally in simians. In the human situation, we know that HERV-K HML-2 and/or HERV-K102 Env is expressed on HIV-1 infected cells (and breast cancer cells) and serves as a surrogate target for such. T cell clones against an HML-2 Env epitope identical to HERV-K102, clear HIV-1 infected cells in vitro (Jones et al ., 2012). These T and B cell responses to HML-2/HERV-K102 Env have not been well-elucidated but could be innate or T helper cell independent responses. It remains to be determined if HERV-K102 particles, the upregulation of HML-2 and/or T and B cell responses to HML-2 Env comprise 'trained (innate) immunity' which has been reported to explain memory in the innate immunity compartment and which also provides surrogate protection against unrelated microbes. Be that as it may, the fact is HML-2 Env (but not HERV-K102 Env) pseudotypes HIV-1 particles (Brinzevich et al., 2014), and so, how would an antibody or T CTL clones to HIV-1 envelop block transmission of these particles? Productive clinical transmission of HIV-1 frequently results from a single transmitted/founder (T/F) virus (Shaw GM et al ., 2012) although there is newer evidence of multiple T/F strains in up to 20-60% of new acquisitions (Kijak, 2017). Accordingly, on these grounds, the prediction would be made that protection in humans by adaptive immunity against HIV-1 acquisition would be less efficient than what is generally assumed . As simians do not have HERV-K102 or HML-2, this issue is not likely applicable to this animal model. In terms of an alternative explanation for the existence of a potent innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 which is: induced by viruses, possibly enhanced with female hormones, launched by alternatively activated macrophages and that this activation of macrophages may be sensitive to inhibition by locally bound antibodies (for example as might be the case through tuftsin), and which has been hard to identify/study with traditional methods; unfortunately, I could not find one. Moreover, the fact that HML-2 activity has been phylogenetically associated with significantly reduced levels of orthoretroviral invasion of the human genome (Magiorkinis et al ., 2015) and that a HERV-K102 precursor may have co-evolved in chimpanzees alongside of lenti-viruses or HIV-1 like precursor lentiviruses over at least a few million years before humans acquired HERV-K102 (reviewed above), would be consistent with the notion that HERV-K HML-2 activity and HERV-K102 particles might play a significant role in protection against HIV-1 acquisition in humans, but not in simians. The value of the paper is that in part, it reinforces the notion of adaptive T immunity quiescence in protection from HIV-acquisition as studied in the HIV-exposed seronegative cohorts (Card et al., 2013), and highlights HERV-K102 particles and the HML-2 innate response together as a strong candidate for correlates of protection to be tested retrospectively in informative trials, or to be monitored prospectively, going forward with HIV-1 preventative vaccine trials involving viral vectors. I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Fast for continuing this important discussion in an open forum, and also the approval of the manuscript (with reservations). First I would like to clarify that the STEP trial did involve 1135 females along with 1,844 males (Table 2 from Buchbinder et al ., Lancet 2008). Second, I was not arguing that HERV-K antigens are cross-reactive with HIV-1 antigens and this was the primary source of protection. Instead I was saying that HERV-K HML-2 Env is present on HIV-1 infected cells but not normal cells, and is used as surrogate marker of virus infected cells for their clearance by T cells against HML-2 Env (eg., Jones et al., 2012) . Antibodies against HERV-K102 Env also clear breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo (Wang-Johanning et al., 2012) and remarkably, appear to directly trigger apoptosis. Moreover, the HERV-K102 particles are postulated to undergo lytic infections in HIV-1 cells but not normal cells. Although this has not been directly shown, indirect evidence supporting the notion that the replicative activity of HERV-K102 particles may protect against HIV-1 acquisition has been shown in an HESN cohort, wherein genomic copy numbers were found to be significantly increased over normal and not found in persons already infected with HIV-1 irrespective of use of anti-retrovirals (Laderoute et al ., 2015). A main point of contention appears to be differences in opinion/perspective. Dr. Fast cites important work in the simian model which supports adaptive immunity protection against HIV-1/SHIV replication and sometimes acquisition, and postulates that we should be able to harness the adaptive response to prevent HIV-1 acquisition. However, in humans, while clearly parts of adaptive immunity may control HIV-1 replication post-acquisition (Bar et al ., 2016), there is no direct evidence provided in humans that adaptive immunity protects against acquisition (Haynes et al ., 2012). Indeed, there is direct evidence that the presence of adaptive immunity does not alter superinfection with a different strain (Ronon et al., 2017). In the STEP trial, those with protector HLA alleles, had lower viral loads and showed robust T cell activity (Migueles et al ., 2011) but the T cell activity was not associated with a lower risk of acquisition (reviewed in Tomaras Plotkin, 2017). The increased VE related to the presence of HLA A*02 in the RV144 trial, was probably related to post-acquisition selection pressure by adaptive mechanisms and not a genuine blocking of HIV-1 acquisition (Gartland et al ., 2014). There have been hundreds of adaptive immunity vaccine trials which failed to show efficacy against HIV-1. These facts imply that adaptive immune mechanisms are not likely significantly involved in the prevention of HIV-1 acquisition in humans. Thus, these facts are accommodated in the proposal that an innate protector mechanism may instead be at play. Indeed, the proposed innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 acquisition does not exist in simians, which helps to explain the dichotomy between humans and simians and the role of adaptive immunity in HIV-1 acquisition. This does not discount at all that adaptive immunity serves to control HIV-1 post-acquisition in humans or more generally in simians. In the human situation, we know that HERV-K HML-2 and/or HERV-K102 Env is expressed on HIV-1 infected cells (and breast cancer cells) and serves as a surrogate target for such. T cell clones against an HML-2 Env epitope identical to HERV-K102, clear HIV-1 infected cells in vitro (Jones et al ., 2012). These T and B cell responses to HML-2/HERV-K102 Env have not been well-elucidated but could be innate or T helper cell independent responses. It remains to be determined if HERV-K102 particles, the upregulation of HML-2 and/or T and B cell responses to HML-2 Env comprise 'trained (innate) immunity' which has been reported to explain memory in the innate immunity compartment and which also provides surrogate protection against unrelated microbes. Be that as it may, the fact is HML-2 Env (but not HERV-K102 Env) pseudotypes HIV-1 particles (Brinzevich et al., 2014), and so, how would an antibody or T CTL clones to HIV-1 envelop block transmission of these particles? Productive clinical transmission of HIV-1 frequently results from a single transmitted/founder (T/F) virus (Shaw GM et al ., 2012) although there is newer evidence of multiple T/F strains in up to 20-60% of new acquisitions (Kijak, 2017). Accordingly, on these grounds, the prediction would be made that protection in humans by adaptive immunity against HIV-1 acquisition would be less efficient than what is generally assumed . As simians do not have HERV-K102 or HML-2, this issue is not likely applicable to this animal model. In terms of an alternative explanation for the existence of a potent innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 which is: induced by viruses, possibly enhanced with female hormones, launched by alternatively activated macrophages and that this activation of macrophages may be sensitive to inhibition by locally bound antibodies (for example as might be the case through tuftsin), and which has been hard to identify/study with traditional methods; unfortunately, I could not find one. Moreover, the fact that HML-2 activity has been phylogenetically associated with significantly reduced levels of orthoretroviral invasion of the human genome (Magiorkinis et al ., 2015) and that a HERV-K102 precursor may have co-evolved in chimpanzees alongside of lenti-viruses or HIV-1 like precursor lentiviruses over at least a few million years before humans acquired HERV-K102 (reviewed above), would be consistent with the notion that HERV-K HML-2 activity and HERV-K102 particles might play a significant role in protection against HIV-1 acquisition in humans, but not in simians. The value of the paper is that in part, it reinforces the notion of adaptive T immunity quiescence in protection from HIV-acquisition as studied in the HIV-exposed seronegative cohorts (Card et al., 2013), and highlights HERV-K102 particles and the HML-2 innate response together as a strong candidate for correlates of protection to be tested retrospectively in informative trials, or to be monitored prospectively, going forward with HIV-1 preventative vaccine trials involving viral vectors. Competing Interests: I have no competing interests. The Public Health Agency of Canada holds patents for the discovery of HERV-K102 as a replication-competent, foamy-like protector virus, but by policy, inventors have no rights nor benefits. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Reader Comment 06 Apr 2018 Dr. Marian Laderoute , Immune System Management Clinic & Lab, Canada 06 Apr 2018 Reader Comment I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Fast for continuing this important discussion in an open forum, and also the approval of the manuscript (with reservations). First I would like to clarify that the ... Continue reading I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Fast for continuing this important discussion in an open forum, and also the approval of the manuscript (with reservations). First I would like to clarify that the STEP trial did involve 1135 females along with 1,844 males (Table 2 from Buchbinder et al ., Lancet 2008). Second, I was not arguing that HERV-K antigens are cross-reactive with HIV-1 antigens and this was the primary source of protection. Instead I was saying that HERV-K HML-2 Env is present on HIV-1 infected cells but not normal cells, and is used as surrogate marker of virus infected cells for their clearance by T cells against HML-2 Env (eg., Jones et al., 2012) . Antibodies against HERV-K102 Env also clear breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo (Wang-Johanning et al., 2012) and remarkably, appear to directly trigger apoptosis. Moreover, the HERV-K102 particles are postulated to undergo lytic infections in HIV-1 cells but not normal cells. Although this has not been directly shown, indirect evidence supporting the notion that the replicative activity of HERV-K102 particles may protect against HIV-1 acquisition has been shown in an HESN cohort, wherein genomic copy numbers were found to be significantly increased over normal and not found in persons already infected with HIV-1 irrespective of use of anti-retrovirals (Laderoute et al ., 2015). A main point of contention appears to be differences in opinion/perspective. Dr. Fast cites important work in the simian model which supports adaptive immunity protection against HIV-1/SHIV replication and sometimes acquisition, and postulates that we should be able to harness the adaptive response to prevent HIV-1 acquisition. However, in humans, while clearly parts of adaptive immunity may control HIV-1 replication post-acquisition (Bar et al ., 2016), there is no direct evidence provided in humans that adaptive immunity protects against acquisition (Haynes et al ., 2012). Indeed, there is direct evidence that the presence of adaptive immunity does not alter superinfection with a different strain (Ronon et al., 2017). In the STEP trial, those with protector HLA alleles, had lower viral loads and showed robust T cell activity (Migueles et al ., 2011) but the T cell activity was not associated with a lower risk of acquisition (reviewed in Tomaras Plotkin, 2017). The increased VE related to the presence of HLA A*02 in the RV144 trial, was probably related to post-acquisition selection pressure by adaptive mechanisms and not a genuine blocking of HIV-1 acquisition (Gartland et al ., 2014). There have been hundreds of adaptive immunity vaccine trials which failed to show efficacy against HIV-1. These facts imply that adaptive immune mechanisms are not likely significantly involved in the prevention of HIV-1 acquisition in humans. Thus, these facts are accommodated in the proposal that an innate protector mechanism may instead be at play. Indeed, the proposed innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 acquisition does not exist in simians, which helps to explain the dichotomy between humans and simians and the role of adaptive immunity in HIV-1 acquisition. This does not discount at all that adaptive immunity serves to control HIV-1 post-acquisition in humans or more generally in simians. In the human situation, we know that HERV-K HML-2 and/or HERV-K102 Env is expressed on HIV-1 infected cells (and breast cancer cells) and serves as a surrogate target for such. T cell clones against an HML-2 Env epitope identical to HERV-K102, clear HIV-1 infected cells in vitro (Jones et al ., 2012). These T and B cell responses to HML-2/HERV-K102 Env have not been well-elucidated but could be innate or T helper cell independent responses. It remains to be determined if HERV-K102 particles, the upregulation of HML-2 and/or T and B cell responses to HML-2 Env comprise 'trained (innate) immunity' which has been reported to explain memory in the innate immunity compartment and which also provides surrogate protection against unrelated microbes. Be that as it may, the fact is HML-2 Env (but not HERV-K102 Env) pseudotypes HIV-1 particles (Brinzevich et al., 2014), and so, how would an antibody or T CTL clones to HIV-1 envelop block transmission of these particles? Productive clinical transmission of HIV-1 frequently results from a single transmitted/founder (T/F) virus (Shaw GM et al ., 2012) although there is newer evidence of multiple T/F strains in up to 20-60% of new acquisitions (Kijak, 2017). Accordingly, on these grounds, the prediction would be made that protection in humans by adaptive immunity against HIV-1 acquisition would be less efficient than what is generally assumed . As simians do not have HERV-K102 or HML-2, this issue is not likely applicable to this animal model. In terms of an alternative explanation for the existence of a potent innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 which is: induced by viruses, possibly enhanced with female hormones, launched by alternatively activated macrophages and that this activation of macrophages may be sensitive to inhibition by locally bound antibodies (for example as might be the case through tuftsin), and which has been hard to identify/study with traditional methods; unfortunately, I could not find one. Moreover, the fact that HML-2 activity has been phylogenetically associated with significantly reduced levels of orthoretroviral invasion of the human genome (Magiorkinis et al ., 2015) and that a HERV-K102 precursor may have co-evolved in chimpanzees alongside of lenti-viruses or HIV-1 like precursor lentiviruses over at least a few million years before humans acquired HERV-K102 (reviewed above), would be consistent with the notion that HERV-K HML-2 activity and HERV-K102 particles might play a significant role in protection against HIV-1 acquisition in humans, but not in simians. The value of the paper is that in part, it reinforces the notion of adaptive T immunity quiescence in protection from HIV-acquisition as studied in the HIV-exposed seronegative cohorts (Card et al., 2013), and highlights HERV-K102 particles and the HML-2 innate response together as a strong candidate for correlates of protection to be tested retrospectively in informative trials, or to be monitored prospectively, going forward with HIV-1 preventative vaccine trials involving viral vectors. I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Fast for continuing this important discussion in an open forum, and also the approval of the manuscript (with reservations). First I would like to clarify that the STEP trial did involve 1135 females along with 1,844 males (Table 2 from Buchbinder et al ., Lancet 2008). Second, I was not arguing that HERV-K antigens are cross-reactive with HIV-1 antigens and this was the primary source of protection. Instead I was saying that HERV-K HML-2 Env is present on HIV-1 infected cells but not normal cells, and is used as surrogate marker of virus infected cells for their clearance by T cells against HML-2 Env (eg., Jones et al., 2012) . Antibodies against HERV-K102 Env also clear breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo (Wang-Johanning et al., 2012) and remarkably, appear to directly trigger apoptosis. Moreover, the HERV-K102 particles are postulated to undergo lytic infections in HIV-1 cells but not normal cells. Although this has not been directly shown, indirect evidence supporting the notion that the replicative activity of HERV-K102 particles may protect against HIV-1 acquisition has been shown in an HESN cohort, wherein genomic copy numbers were found to be significantly increased over normal and not found in persons already infected with HIV-1 irrespective of use of anti-retrovirals (Laderoute et al ., 2015). A main point of contention appears to be differences in opinion/perspective. Dr. Fast cites important work in the simian model which supports adaptive immunity protection against HIV-1/SHIV replication and sometimes acquisition, and postulates that we should be able to harness the adaptive response to prevent HIV-1 acquisition. However, in humans, while clearly parts of adaptive immunity may control HIV-1 replication post-acquisition (Bar et al ., 2016), there is no direct evidence provided in humans that adaptive immunity protects against acquisition (Haynes et al ., 2012). Indeed, there is direct evidence that the presence of adaptive immunity does not alter superinfection with a different strain (Ronon et al., 2017). In the STEP trial, those with protector HLA alleles, had lower viral loads and showed robust T cell activity (Migueles et al ., 2011) but the T cell activity was not associated with a lower risk of acquisition (reviewed in Tomaras Plotkin, 2017). The increased VE related to the presence of HLA A*02 in the RV144 trial, was probably related to post-acquisition selection pressure by adaptive mechanisms and not a genuine blocking of HIV-1 acquisition (Gartland et al ., 2014). There have been hundreds of adaptive immunity vaccine trials which failed to show efficacy against HIV-1. These facts imply that adaptive immune mechanisms are not likely significantly involved in the prevention of HIV-1 acquisition in humans. Thus, these facts are accommodated in the proposal that an innate protector mechanism may instead be at play. Indeed, the proposed innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 acquisition does not exist in simians, which helps to explain the dichotomy between humans and simians and the role of adaptive immunity in HIV-1 acquisition. This does not discount at all that adaptive immunity serves to control HIV-1 post-acquisition in humans or more generally in simians. In the human situation, we know that HERV-K HML-2 and/or HERV-K102 Env is expressed on HIV-1 infected cells (and breast cancer cells) and serves as a surrogate target for such. T cell clones against an HML-2 Env epitope identical to HERV-K102, clear HIV-1 infected cells in vitro (Jones et al ., 2012). These T and B cell responses to HML-2/HERV-K102 Env have not been well-elucidated but could be innate or T helper cell independent responses. It remains to be determined if HERV-K102 particles, the upregulation of HML-2 and/or T and B cell responses to HML-2 Env comprise 'trained (innate) immunity' which has been reported to explain memory in the innate immunity compartment and which also provides surrogate protection against unrelated microbes. Be that as it may, the fact is HML-2 Env (but not HERV-K102 Env) pseudotypes HIV-1 particles (Brinzevich et al., 2014), and so, how would an antibody or T CTL clones to HIV-1 envelop block transmission of these particles? Productive clinical transmission of HIV-1 frequently results from a single transmitted/founder (T/F) virus (Shaw GM et al ., 2012) although there is newer evidence of multiple T/F strains in up to 20-60% of new acquisitions (Kijak, 2017). Accordingly, on these grounds, the prediction would be made that protection in humans by adaptive immunity against HIV-1 acquisition would be less efficient than what is generally assumed . As simians do not have HERV-K102 or HML-2, this issue is not likely applicable to this animal model. In terms of an alternative explanation for the existence of a potent innate protector mechanism against HIV-1 which is: induced by viruses, possibly enhanced with female hormones, launched by alternatively activated macrophages and that this activation of macrophages may be sensitive to inhibition by locally bound antibodies (for example as might be the case through tuftsin), and which has been hard to identify/study with traditional methods; unfortunately, I could not find one. Moreover, the fact that HML-2 activity has been phylogenetically associated with significantly reduced levels of orthoretroviral invasion of the human genome (Magiorkinis et al ., 2015) and that a HERV-K102 precursor may have co-evolved in chimpanzees alongside of lenti-viruses or HIV-1 like precursor lentiviruses over at least a few million years before humans acquired HERV-K102 (reviewed above), would be consistent with the notion that HERV-K HML-2 activity and HERV-K102 particles might play a significant role in protection against HIV-1 acquisition in humans, but not in simians. The value of the paper is that in part, it reinforces the notion of adaptive T immunity quiescence in protection from HIV-acquisition as studied in the HIV-exposed seronegative cohorts (Card et al., 2013), and highlights HERV-K102 particles and the HML-2 innate response together as a strong candidate for correlates of protection to be tested retrospectively in informative trials, or to be monitored prospectively, going forward with HIV-1 preventative vaccine trials involving viral vectors. Competing Interests: I have no competing interests. The Public Health Agency of Canada holds patents for the discovery of HERV-K102 as a replication-competent, foamy-like protector virus, but by policy, inventors have no rights nor benefits. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 12 Jun 2017 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Fast PE. Reviewer Report For: Clues to finding correlates of risk/protection for HIV-1 vaccines [version 2; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :868 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12772.r26997 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-868/v1#referee-response-26997 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 27 Nov 2017 Patricia E Fast , International AIDS Vaccine Initiative-New York, New York, USA; Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA Not Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12772.r26997 Dr. Laderoute has advanced a novel and interesting hypothesis, that an innate immune state associated with the virus HERV-K 102 can, in some circumstances, prevent or reduce the risk of HIV infection by a mechanism of infection of macrophages and ... Continue reading READ ALL 