 18th February 2019: This report was briefly published as an Approved report, and has now been updated to an Approved with Reservations at the request of the reviewer. This paper evaluates the Fellowship Programme of the Software Sustainability Institute (SSI), which has the primary goals of encouraging Fellows to develop their interests in software sustainability and to become ambassadors of good software practice in their communities. The paper analyses a survey of people who were Fellows during 2012-2016 (26 respondents of 78 Fellows contacted). The paper’s goals are contributing to literature on software sustainability and understanding the program’s impact. The results of the study include only data obtained from the study itself, which featured open questions. The paper explains the methods of the survey and discusses results, around four themes that emerged from analysis of free-text answers: status, community/network, professional development, and resources. This paper and the SSI Fellowship Programme overall are of strong interest to international communities who are working to advance software practices as a key element of increasing overall scientific productivity. Overall, the paper is well written and clearly explains the approach and analysis of the survey. The analysis concludes that the Fellowship promotes the status of the role of research software and of the Fellows themselves. A key observation is that the Fellowship promotes community and provides a platform for Fellows to influence their domain-specific communities in advancing practices of research software. The Fellowship also contributes strongly to professional development. My main criticism of the paper is the implicit assumption that the reader understands the importance of software sustainability and the scope of software practices addressed by the Fellowship Programme. I recommend adding background information about software sustainability and the SSI, including references, in order for the paper to be more effective as a stand-alone document. While I understand the reason for the authors to exclude information about employment during and after the Programme (preserving anonymity), it would be interesting to explore the changes in employers and roles over time (of all Fellows), and whether the SSI Fellowship Programme influenced that. Also, it would be interesting to explore changes in the software practices and culture of domain-specific communities, to help understand the longer-term impact of the SSI Fellowship Programme. 