In “Lost in Translation”, Nachev et al. provide a bold and thought-provoking piece on the past and future of cognitive neuroscience. Their thesis is that the classic inferential tools of neuropsychology, which also formed some of the foundational building blocks of cognitive neuroscience, are inadequate to model and understand the complexity of the brain. New paradigms are needed, and Nachev et al. offer a fresh, theoretical argument for why we should embrace new concepts of distributed causality, nonlinearity, and models that move beyond averaging over individuals to better capture inter-individual variation. The implication is that only by embracing such models can cognitive neuroscience, and perhaps neuroimaging in particular, develop models that are accurate enough to predict individual performance and clinical status - in short, to be translationally useful. Nachev et al.’s position has much to recommend it. One anchor point in their argument is that the brain processes that drive (cause) feeling and behavior are distributed across neurons and/or brain systems—and, if this is the case, then models and measures with coarse, distributed features (even if noisy) will outperform those with only a few, high-precision features. I resonate with this point. There is substantial evidence that the neural representations underlying multiple forms of cognition, emotion, and action are population codes distributed across large numbers of neurons and (in the case of fMRI) brain regions and systems (e.g., for review, see Kragel et al. 2018 1 ). In fMRI studies, distributed predictive models that include activity across regions and systems can dramatically outperform those based on even the best single brain regions (for recent reviews see, e.g., Arbabshirani et al. 2017 2 ; Bzdok Meyer-Lindenberg 2017 3 ; Woo et al. 2017 4 ; Kragel et al. 2018, Figure 3 and text). Units of analysis The essential question when it comes to brain systems is “What are the units of analysis”? The authors imply that translational failures come from a localisationist approach, and provide a thought-provoking theoretical argument for why the brain - at least with respect to cognition, feeling, and behavior - ought to be treated as a system with broadly distributed causality. I agree in part. Lesioning isolated nodes in a neural network typically does not catastrophically, or selectively, impair performance largely because the single node (or neuron) is not the relevant unit of analysis. But if one were to lesion a layer , particularly a layer dedicated to a particular function as in the structured, brain-inspired networks of O’Reilly et al. (Aisa et al. 2008 5 ; O’Reilly et al. 2017 6 ), the effects on network behavior would be profound. Recent advances in opto- and chemogenetics allow for the targeting and activation/inactivation of distributed sets of neurons that collectively represent particular cognitions and actions (e.g., Ramirez et al. 2013 7 ), with strong effects on behavior. Likewise, when studying ecosystems, the loss of individual organisms selected at random has little effect on the behavior of the system as a whole; but loss of a species can have a profound effect. The species, but not the individual, can be characterized as having necessary and sufficient roles in the system’s behavior. Likewise, individual neurons are likely not necessary or sufficient for anything, but neural populations are. A related point is Nachev et al.’s critique of averaging over individuals, which also hinges on the issue of which units of analysis are averaged over. Nachev et al.’s “watch” example is an interesting case study. They show that averaging over visual images of watch mechanisms does not elucidate the nature of watches or produce anything like any of the individual watches. But the problem is not averaging per se - it is knowing what to average over. Pixels in an image of the watch mechanisms are simply not the right unit of analysis, so averaging over them is meaningless. However, the average watch has 2 gear wheels, 2 hands, and one battery; averaging over or otherwise characterizing the distributions over these properties makes sense. Perhaps we will discover that brain voxels are not the right features to average over, either (and I suspect that they are not!). Cognitive neuroscience converges with machine learning in that a big part of the endeavor is, and has always been, discovering the units (or features) and level of analysis that confer maximal ability to understand the mind and predict future behavior. Monomorphous and polymorphous Another interesting contrast that Nachev et al. make is the distinction between monomorphous populations, whose individuals are identical, and polymorphous populations, whose individuals vary. Their central argument is that because human brains are polymorphous, we should not characterize them using averages across individuals; rather, we should focus on more individualized models. Clearly, humans are a polymorphous bunch. But does this mean that population-level studies that characterize averages - or, alternatively, develop multivariate predictive models of behavior across individuals - are useless? Really, the brain is both monomorphous and polymorphous, at different levels of analysis. Identifying patterns of commonality does not mean that all variation is noise. If I were trying to describe to a space-faring alien what a car looks like, I would not assume that all cars are identical and the difference between a Tesla and a Toyota is “noise”. But neither would I assume that every car is completely different, which would preclude any sort of common description at all. The brain is similar in this respect. Virtually all of us have an occipital lobe, which contains a primary visual cortex. We have a primary motor cortex, a hippocampus, an inferior frontal junction, each of which plays consistent roles in behavior across individuals. In my lab’s work, we find that systems that track and predict the intensity of evoked pain experience are very similar across individuals - for example, the same brain pattern responds to painful events to some degree in 95% of participants (the 5% might well be largely noise; see Zunhammer et al., N = 603). But this does not mean that individual differences are unimportant! Rather, these baseline commonalities are a launching point for understanding the ‘variations on a theme’ that make individuals different from one another. Lost and found A final reflection: It is true that cognitive neuroscience has not developed many translational applications that are used clinically or commercially (e.g., Woo et al. 2017). But this does not necessarily imply that cognitive neuroscience has failed so far. We should remember that the goal of cognitive neuroscience has been to understand the physiological representation of thought and behavior - one of the thorniest challenges in all of science, and a basic (not clinical) goal at that. Like many forms of basic science, the hope is that by better understanding how the mind works, without tying it immediately to any commercial venture or practical application, will yield new ways of thinking about the brain and mind, which in turn will inspire future applications that were previously unimagined. In my own lab’s work on pain and emotion, I have learned that the gaps between science and commercial application are not just about limitations in the science. Even if current cognitive neuroscience-based models could reliably diagnose mental and brain health conditions in individual people with perfect sensitivity and specificity, there would be gaps related to business development, marketing, public understanding and policy, economic cost/benefit ratios, equal access, insurance reimbursements, and more. I believe that in the past 2-3 years, cognitive and clinical neuroscience has succeeded in developing models of brain function that could be useful for characterizing dementia, depression, pain, autism, and more. Their clinical and commercial success will depend largely on what society wants to do with the science. This does not, of course, take away from the point that translation is a worthy and useful goal, both from a humanitarian (e.g., Gabrieli et al. 2015 8 ) and scientific perspective. Not only can it advance clinical applications, translation also provides a concrete, objective yardstick against which to evaluate our understanding of the brain. Clearly, we have a great distance to go; the good news is that we're moving forward. 