In this manuscript, Gurprit Sekhon and Ranvir Singh describe the results of the equilibrium unfolding of human aldose reductase. The authors conclude that urea- and GuHCL-induced unfolding of this protein is characterized by the presence of partially folded intermediate. This is an interesting study with some potential. However, additional experiments are needed to provide more evidence for the existence of an intermediate state and also to provide better description of the structural properties of this protein. The authors are encouraged to add near-UV CD spectroscopy to the arsenal of techniques utilized in their study. This will give very important information on the effect of denaturants on the tertiary structure of a protein. In fact, combined use of near- and far-UV spectroscopy is the accepted practice in studies on the conformational stability of proteins. Quality of the reported far-UV CD spectra is very low. Spectra are very noisy and their utilization for the analysis of the effects of urea and GuHCl on secondary structure of human aldose reductase is questionable. The authors have to change settings to generate more reliable and less noisy spectra. Probably, protein concentrations should be increased too. Far-UV CD spectra of completely unfolded forms induced by high concentrations of urea and GuHCl are very different, suggesting that these unfolded forms are not similar. Why? Compactness of an intermediate state should be evaluated. This can be done by a whole host of hydrodynamic techniques. The authors should make sure that the protein does not aggregate at the conditions promoting formation of a partially unfolded intermediate. This can be done by simple light scattering experiments. Data shown in Figure 3 suggest that very low GuHCl concentrations cause very noticeable changes in some of the analyzed parameters. Similar behavior was described previously 1 and was attributed to the aggregation of partially unfolded species. This phenomenon should be discussed. The presence of partially folded intermediates can be visualized using "phase diagram" method described in previous work by Kuznetsova et al. 2 The authors are encouraged to use this approach for the analysis of their data. The authors are encouraged to reconsider the use of terms "denatured/denaturation" and "unfolded/unfolding". Typically, unfolding is attributed to the process resulting in the formation of coil-like conformation, whereas denaturation is referred to the elimination of functional tertiary structure. Obviously, these terms are not equivalent - molten globule is denatured, but is not unfolded. Furthermore, although temperature increase typically causes melting of a protein tertiary structure, temperature-denatured species are often rather compact and preserve high levels of secondary structure. The manuscript contains some linguistic issues and errors and definitely needs editing. 