BioTapestry is the pre-eminent viewer for building and analysing developmental gene regulatory networks. Although many other GRN viewers are available, very few provide the ability to link developmental processes and the concepts of tissues and cell types emerging over time with the underlying GRN. BioTapestry was the first to really formalise this process (I believe building on the work of Schilstra and colleagues with NetBuilder) and provide a method of displaying GRNs incorporating the logic first proposed by Eric Davidson. The ongoing development and maintenance of tools like BioTapestry is very important to the understanding of GRNs in development. This manuscript is clearly written, accurately described and focuses on key improvements made in BioTapestry versions 6 and 7. I approve of the migration to a more web centric view for BioTapestry future development and look forward to the ability to edit GRNs in a web based environment. The focus on layout tools (the 'hyper edges' are an example) is extremely useful for cleaning up a visualisation. The network overlay-driven layout features seem to work well for clustering groups of genes in perhaps biologically meaningful ways. The option to right click on a network link to visualise all the data behind that particular interaction is very helpful indeed. The source code for BioTapestry is appropriately available from github and the documentation accompanying its release is clear and easy to follow. One possible problem with BioTapestry is with respect to its deployment. The BioTapestry target audience is "...a researcher using the full-featured BioTapestry Editor as a desktop Java application to create GRN models that are saved as local files on their computer." (Page 6, Paragraph 1). This user will also tend to be a wet lab experimentalist collating data from direct observation as well as pooling other sources of knowledge, be that from the literature or - perhaps - other bioinformatics pipelines. The process by which such an individual shares their network becomes complex. The user is expected to set up an Apache Tomcat installation and configure the package. At the same time, the authors present a model repository (Page 12, Para 3). These concepts should perhaps be linked. It would be great if users could submit models quickly and easily to the model repository which - itself - could be searched by others or a direct link to it could be shared with others. Of course, it may not be a single experimentalist working on the model either - perhaps there is a larger team at work who all wish to work on the model at once. Perhaps a hinderance to this process at the moment is that it appears each model visualised via the web viewer requires its own full install of the BioTapestry WAR file. A possible future improvement to the deployment method might be to pass the appropriate configuration files to the BioTapestry package at launch. This could then simplify the process of hosting a GRN model server visualised in BioTapestry. A minor comment that might improve usability is with respect to the search features for nodes(genes) of interest. The default behaviour currently is "Match Full Name". This usually failed for me when browsing the endomesoderm network (as an example) whereas switching to "Match part of name" found the required gene or pathway (nice that it highlights pathway members in the case of signalling molecules!) straight away. An auto suggest function or simply switching the viewer to defaulting to "Match part of name" would increase usability. A final broader comment with respect to the viewer. As far as I can see there is no way to export a model file (either .sif or any other format) from a network model. Whilst BioTapestry is the clearest and easiest way to draw developmental GRNs, many other tools exist for the analysis of networks. To have an easy way to export a collection of interactions from a BioTapestry web view would be helpful. This would enable users to analyse a network they were viewing in other tools if they so wished without having to redraw or otherwise reconstruct the network. Overall I thank the authors for their continued work on BioTapestry - a tool which is incredibly useful for all those interested in the study of developmental GRNs.