 General comments Environmental monitoring means different things to different people. It always involves a long-term commitment that is, a given system is followed up over time, years to decades but how much this is driven by hypotheses about what drive the changes of the system, and/or about the consequences of these changes, vary. One could use one of the most famous examples of environmental monitoring the monitoring of CO2 concentrations initiated by Charles David Keeling in 1958 at Hawaiis Mauna Loa observatory. Keeling was expecting a rise as a consequence of the combustion of fossil fuels, and there were different hypotheses regarding the rate of increase depending on in particular exchange between atmosphere and ocean (see e.g., Revelle and Suess 1957). Keeling concluded for example in 1960 At the South Pole the observed rate of increase is nearly that to be expected from the combustion of fossil fuel (1.4 p.p.m.), if no removal from the atmosphere takes place (p. 203; Keeling used measurements from both hemispheres, not just Mauna Loa). This was therefore a strongly hypothesis-driven monitoring but that did not exclude surprises, in particular the large seasonal variations due to photosynthetic activity. But such surprises often came because there are rather precise expectations about possible changes (see Lindenmayer et al. 2010 for a related discussion). Many environmental monitoring programs, however, do not have such underlying hypotheses, and are often characterized as being more of the surveillance type (see Nichols and Williams 2006). The main goal is to identify changes other than due to the stochastic variability of the system. This paper falls in this category the main purpose is to describe waterfowl communities in a given area, the Narragansett Bay, and identify possible changes (as e.g., an upward trend in two species, Bufflehead and Hooded Merganser). Variables that could drive these changes, and with a relevance for local or regional management, are not included in the analyses environmental data used refer either to site variables which are unlikely to change (latitude/longitude, bathymetry, area) or that rather reflect short-term temporal variation (wind speed on the day of the survey or just prior to it, North Atlantic Oscillation a measure of regional atmospheric patterns in the month of the survey or the months prior to it). That in fact identifying the causes of observed changes in waterfowl communities will be hard without having more explicit hypotheses is made clear in some parts of the discussion. How can we know for example if an observed increase in a wintering duck population is due to 1) improved reproductive success on the breeding grounds, 2) lower hunting pressure in the fall, and 3) change in wintering areas (these hypotheses are not exclusive, so the problem is to assess their relative importance, as for CO2 concentrations: burning fuels, exchange atmosphere-ocean and photosynthetic activity all play a role). Monitoring environmental systems should, in my opinion, aim at characterizing the state of the system but also the drivers of changes (Yoccoz et al. 2001; Yoccoz 2012; see Lindenmayer et al 2015 for a thorough discussion). Doing this without formulating hypotheses (and if possible quantitative models) is difficult. Even if the paper focuses on developing a baseline for environmental monitoring, it also proposes a statistical framework for future environmental monitoring. I do not see how the proposed framework will allow for such a quantitative evaluation of hypotheses. Another concern is the reference to a baseline using the 2004-2011 data. It is most likely that waterfowl communities during that period have already been heavily impacted by important environmental drivers, either positively (think about the increase of some goose populations) or negatively. Taking those years as a baseline might lead to what Pauly (1995) in the context of fisheries call the syndrome of shifting baselines (see Clavero 2014 for an example with non-native species). What we see as a baseline is already very different from historical conditions irrespective of the reference time used to define . Monitoring requires we determine the state of the system, but calling it a baseline may be rather misleading without at least a comment. A final general comment relates to waterfowl as logical candidates for monitoring environmental health (p. 2) because they respond to a wide array of environmental stressors [...] at the local up to the regional scale. Clearly, what we monitor should reflect the changes we expect, but they should also allow for disentangling causes of change for example if managers want to act on these causes. Knowing if for example causes are local or regional will determine where policy decisions should be made. Monitoring system variables, such as waterfowl communities, that are influenced by a large number of drivers at very different scales may make them too for management (or scientific) purposes. Of course, it may be that there will be a main driver of change (think of DDT and birds of prey) but that seems to be unlikely in this case. I personally think we should aim at monitoring directly state variables and rely less on indicators, but I understand also the practical (and financial) difficulties. But if one relies upon indicators, or surrogates, at least simple conceptual models linking indicators and state variables would help. It would also make transparent assumptions regarding the stability of the links. To conclude, the authors have done a great job organizing and synthesizing a waterfowl survey over nearly 10 years. The nest step future environmental monitoring should go further and provides us with a conceptual model of expected changes in the waterfowl community as stressors change at different spatial scales, and if one has the necessary information to assess the relative impact of these stressors. Specific comments: NMDS is one among many multivariate methods that can be used for analyzing spatio-temporal community data (see Legendre and Gauthier 2014 for a recent review). These methods do not make assumptions about the distribution of the data (p.2), but they all make assumptions about what is a measure of e.g. community similarity (for example one could consider the number of species the two communities share, and how many species that are unique to each community, and combine these numbers in different similarity indices). If one wants to make inference (for the number of axes to be interpreted, or relationships with environmental variables), most analyses rely upon permutation tests which do not rely upon distribution of the data but may be sensitive to dependence among samples. Particularly to identify relationships with environmental variables, alternative approaches to NMDS such as Canonical Correspondence Analysis, would have been interesting to use (ter Braak 1987, Legendre et al. 2011). p. 4, it is written that the choice of ancillary (environmental) variables was hypothesis driven. It would have helped to be more explicit about which component of the variation could be explained by these variables, and in what way it was related to the stressors described e.g. p.2. Clearly the first 10 variables (latitude to wetland area) are unlikely to change during the 8 years of the survey, so they would explain the spatial variation only. Wind speed the day of the survey might explain the day to day variation (but given there is no replicate survey within a year, it will be confounded with the yearly variation), whereas NAO.fall might reflect weather conditions during migration and early winter. Table 2, p. 5: for counts with skewed distributions, the standard deviation (SD) might be a poor descriptor of the variability (the mean might also be a poor descriptor of location). It might be useful to give the range and median in addition to mean and SD. Table 3: what is meant by ? Correlations? How are P-values calculated? p. 7: Bucephal a p. 8: species life history strategies: use traits rather, you do not really investigate strategies here. References 1. Clavero M: Shifting Baselines and the Conservation of Non-Native Species. Conservation Biology . 2014; 28 (5): 1434-1436 Publisher Full Text 2. Keeling CD: The Concentration and Isotopic Abundances of Carbon Dioxide in the Atmosphere. Tellus . 1960; 12 (2): 200-203 Publisher Full Text 3. Legendre P, Gauthier O: Statistical methods for temporal and space-time analysis of community composition data. Proc Biol Sci. 2014; 281 (1778): 20132728 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 4. Legendre P, Oksanen J, ter Braak CJF: Testing the significance of canonical axes in redundancy analysis. Methods in Ecology and Evolution . 2010; 2 (3): 269-277 Publisher Full Text 5. Lindenmayer DB, Liken GE, Krebs CJ, Hobbs RJ: Improved probability of detection of ecological “surprises”. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2010; 107 (51): 21957-21962 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 6. Lindenmayer DB, Burns EL, Tennant P, Dickman CR, et al.: Contemplating the future: Acting now on long-term monitoring to answer 2050's questions. Austral Ecology . 2015; 40 (3): 213-244 Publisher Full Text 7. Nichols JD, Williams BK: Monitoring for conservation. Trends Ecol Evol. 2006; 21 (12): 668-673 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Pauly D: Anecdotes and the shifting base-line syndrome of fisheries. Trends Ecol Evol. 1995; 10 (10): 430 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Revelle R, Suess HE: Carbon Dioxide Exchange Between Atmosphere and Ocean and the Question of an Increase of Atmospheric CO2 during the Past Decades. Tellus . 1957; 9 (1): 18-27 Publisher Full Text 10. ter Braak CJF: Canonical correspondence analysis: A New Eigenvector Technique for Multivariate Direct Gradient Analysis. Ecology . 1986; 67 (5): 1167-1179 Publisher Full Text 11. Yoccoz NG: Ecological Monitoring. eLS . 2012. Publisher Full Text 12. Yoccoz NG, Nichols JD, Boulinier T: Monitoring of biological diversity in space and time. Trends Ecol Evol. 2001; 16 (8): 446-453 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Yoccoz N. Reviewer Report For: Developing a wintering waterfowl community baseline for environmental monitoring of Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :40 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6509.r8808 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-40/v1#referee-response-8808 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Vilchis LI. Reviewer Report For: Developing a wintering waterfowl community baseline for environmental monitoring of Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :40 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6509.r7881 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-40/v1#referee-response-7881 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 30 Mar 2015 L. Ignacio Vilchis , Wildlife Health Center, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California Davis, Davis, CA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6509.r7881 General Comments This study provides an excellent contribution to our knowledge of baseline species diversity and abundance for the waterfowl community in Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island. The authors analyze longitudinal survey data from the Narragansett Bay Winter Waterfowl Survey (NBWWS) in ... Continue reading READ ALL 