This paper describes the cytotoxic effects of extracts from a marine sponge. The authors provide evidence that extracts were cytotoxic, and that methanol-extracts were the most cytotoxic (as measured by MTT assay). Additional studies showed that the mechanism of cell death is likely through apoptosis (as measured by examining Annexin V/PI staining and caspase 3 activity via flow cytometry). These are novel results that contribute to the search for anti-cancer agents, and it is this reviewer’s opinion that indexing is warranted. There are a few minor modifications that I would suggest making before finalizing this manuscript. Methods: It would be helpful to include additional details about the methods, such as: specific extraction methods. the method in which the IC50 was calculated. Figure 1: This reviewer agrees that the MTT data supports the idea that these various extracts are cytotoxic. In Figure 1, it seems that the y-axis is the percentage of cells that are healthy relative to controls (?), but the units are not given. It would be helpful in Figure 1 to: give the units for the y-axis. provide some explanation of the dose that is given in each treatment (currently given in the methods). know the number of trials this experiment represents. What is the n, what do the error bars represent? (Standard error? Standard deviation?) It might also be beneficial to do an ANOVA to better understand whether differences among these experimental treatments might be statistically significant (in other words, are the dose-dependent changes in cell viabilities statistically different from each other?). I do not consider this to be essential for indexing. Figure 2: This reviewer agrees that these treatment compounds seem to negatively impact cells (based on their morphology). It would be beneficial to: describe the differences that were observed for each treatment condition, as there seems to be some variation (C vs. E for example). Figure 3 4: It appears that the flow cytometry experiments were repeated a number of times, as implied by the variability that is reported in Tables 2 3 (+/- values). It would be helpful to: give the number of times the experiment repeated. state what this variability represents (standard error? Standard deviation?). 