This paper describes an attempt at replication of the results of Michailidis et al , regarding the existence and relevance of mid-channel proteolysis of Ca V 1.2, previously described as a homeostatic mechanism to regulate channel activity (Michailidis et al ., 2014 1 ). Mid channel proteolysis was shown in that paper to occur in the II-III linker and to result in prominent 150 kDa and 90 kDa bands. The careful work of Buonarati et al describes here the use of multiple different Ca V 1.2 antibodies and % gels, and shows conclusively that the most prominent size forms are 250 and 210 kDa, relating to full length and C-terminally cleaved Ca V 1.2 channels in brain tissue. A 150 kDa band was also observed with two of the antibodies, but was still as prominent in KO mouse tissue, indicating it is not a Ca V 1.2-related fragment. The other antibodies identified only very minor 150 kDa bands, estimated to be 1% of the total, and the authors conclude mid-channel proteolysis is minimal in brain tissue. In the Discussion the authors describe several possibilities that could account for the disparity of results, including % gels used and gel run times, as well as antibody specificity, leading to mis-identification of bands. They also critique another result in the original paper, partial lack of co-localization of an N-terminal-GFP tag and an extracellular HA tag in Ca V 1.2, which was also originally attributed to mid-channel proteolysis. They point out that GFP is quenched by paraformaldehyde and fixation also induces partial permeabilization of hippocampal neurons in culture. In my view this is a completely reasonable comment, and probably should have been picked up by the original referees. In doing this painstaking study, the authors have also done a great service to the community by comparing multiple different antibodies to Ca V 1.2. Minor comments . Do the authors have any clues about the 150 kDa band, is it a contaminant from blood? Have the authors ever perfused mice or rats with ice-cold saline before harvesting the brain, to determine whether it is reduced? Fig. 5B, identify the MW markers on the left. Fig 6 might be easier to grasp rapidly if the authors added IB: CNC1 on the left, and put IP next to all the Ab labels on the bottom of each blot. I may have missed how the authors quantified any mid-channel proteolytic processing to be ~ 1% (page 12). In the Abstract, I suggest two changes: - line 5 change “Recent work suggests..” to “However, recent work further suggests” - last line change “at best” to “at most” 