This manuscript by Swanson et al. is a rather simple analysis of a few SNPs in the HTR7 gene checking for association with cortisol levels in a small cohort of African-Americans. But it suffers from numerous severe problems in the description, planning and analysis of the data, to the extent that its major conclusions are not supported by presented evidence anymore after careful consideration of the results. A) One of the most striking problems is that this manuscript conducts many different statistical analyses, but surprisingly, does not employ any multiple testing correction such as Bonferroni correction. For example, they have 26 different observed haplotypes (out of 2^5=32 possible haplotypes), and 3 gender analyses (combined, male, female). The appropriate significance threshold after Bonferroni correction would be 0.05/(26x3)=0.00064, at which level no reported p-values are significant any more. Which means all the reported associations in the manuscript do not stand up to a proper statistical scrutiny. Thus the manuscript, including the title, abstract and conclusions, should actually be rewritten to present this fact that no associations are significant so no association between HTR7 and cortisol can be drawn. B) The reportedly significant haplotypes for males and female associated with cortisol are very different. Yet no biological explanations are provided as to why that may be the case. Such instances suggest even more that the observed associations could be artifacts of improper statistical analysis. Problems with the sample description: C) Since the study referred to while presenting the cohort is an unpublished study, readers can have no further idea about the sample. So it should be described in more detail, possibly in supplement. D) Is there any information available about ancestry proportions of the samples? A typical GWAS will include genetic PCs to adjust for population substructure/stratification/admixture while doing association test with SNP genotypes / haplotypes. As the authors mention, these African-Americans are likely admixed, having some European and some African ancestry. Because whole-genome SNP genotypes are not available, it is understood that the authors can't adjust using PCs. But that is a substantial weakness and a possible cause for biased results. At least some idea about ancestry would help to shed light on the possible degree of substructure in the data. E) Table 1 provides several variables that the authors seemingly consider to be interesting in the cohort. If so, why aren’t any of these variables used in analysis? Otherwise, what is the purpose of presenting them? Problems with phenotyping: F) People with health issues, such as tumors in pituitary or adrenal glands, should be excluded, as these issues will affect the normal production of cortisol. Was such data collected in the participants? G) The choice of cut-offs for defining hypo- and hyper-cortisolism are arbitrary and unexplained. Explanation and reference should be provided. Problems with the choice of markers: H) It is not clear why HTR7 specifically was selected to check in contrast with cortisol level. Further biological explanation should be provided. I) The rationale provided behind the choice of SNPs is rather weak. Not clear why the only SNPs of interest would be those showing a big allele frequency difference between CEU YRI. As it happens, this rule only ends up selecting some intronic snps. Selecting some functional variants mentioned in the literature, such as non-synonymous SNPs, would be more interesting as such SNPs are more likely to have a biological effect, if any. J) And even if the SNPs are intronic, they should at least be studied if they have any functional features such as regulatory annotations. Other problems with statistical analysis: K) The ‘statistical analysis’ section is extremely brief and doesn’t present any details on the methods or analysis procedure. The various analyses done in the manuscript is very haphazard, without any planned systematic presentation. L) The authors use the term “adjusted for gender” several times, but it doesn’t make sense, compared to the analyses performed. M) OR for gender within SNP genotype groups doesn't seem relevant as it is not related to the research question. N) OR for one genotype category AC against AA is significant for one gender in one SNP, but is not true for CC against AA, neither in effect size nor in p-value, and thus the postulated effect of the C allele doesn't seem reliable. Also, wonder why the authors didn't test for allelic effects in addition to genotypic effects. O) They should provide some power calculations, particularly considering that the statistical analyses actually don’t show anything as significant. Other comments: P) “as African American’s are likely to possess frequencies that fall between those of Caucasian and Yuroban descent.” – references should be provided. Q) “Yuroban” should be Yoruban. 