The ability to automatically count live C. elegans on agar plates accurately, in a time-efficient manner, and with relatively low cost is of great utility to many C. elegans researchers. This manuscript and its supplementary materials provide an open access tool to allow researchers to do just that. I especially appreciate the discussion of the benefits of keeping an archival record (of images and data) in the reproducibility of scientific research. Overall, the authors describe the use and demonstrate the accuracy of this tool well enough to allow other groups to troubleshoot its application to their particular needs. With some more clarification in the manuscript, I believe this manuscript will have an even greater practical impact on many C. elegans research groups. Below are a list of suggestions and questions: In the Introduction, you should mention or at least refer to more techniques that are currently available for automated C. elegans handling and data collection. For example, see the WormBook chapter on Microfluidics: http://www.wormbook.org/chapters/www_microfluidics/microfluidics.html When referring to Matthews et al. (2012) in the Introduction, it would be worthwhile to describe in more detail their findings that the light of the scanner (a) works to detect mortality and (b) habituates the worms to the same degree as using a platinum pick. This would address any concerns about potential detrimental health effects of the scanner light right in the introduction. Is there a reason you use this particular scanner (Epson v700 or v800)? General Methods questions: Can this program be adapted to analyze different sized plates? Is there a particular thickness the agar needs to be or will any depth work? How does your group actually get an estimated 100 animals onto each plate? Worm Strains and Maintenance should mention which exact strains/genotypes were used and acknowledge the CGC if applicable. The “ daf-2 ” strain examined later in the manuscript has no genotype mentioned that I can find. You mention in the results section (pdf page 3) the different measurements that are available in the end product after analysis: circumference, area and circularity. None of these measurements are listed in Figure 2 – do these data appear in a different output spreadsheet? Also, in Figures 5 and 6, you mention using perimeter to calculate the length of worms. Is perimeter another measurement that is included in the automated end product after analysis? If so, please add that item to the list in the results (given that you use it in the data presented in the Figures). If not, please provide more details on how perimeter was calculated from the automated end product dataset. Potential typo – page 4, under “Automated wormscan can be used to measure growth rate and fecundity” – second mention of the daf-2 strain is missing the “ -2 .” Also, related to #5 above, it would be best to name the full strain name and genotype again in this section. The protocol used to determine fecundity in Figure 6 should be described as a section in the methods. Doing this would likely address many of my concerns/questions below in #9. I have many questions and concerns related to Figure 6: I am not surprised to see that daf-2 mutants have fewer viable progeny than N2, but how are there only 2 juveniles per adult in the wildtype strain? How was this data collected? Does it align with data collected manually by a trained observer with a microscope? If so, it would be useful to add that comparison to this Figure. Did you start this experiment with ~100 adults per plate and then end up with ~300 on the N2 plates? Did you remove the parents at some point or are they on these plates as well? Please clarify the number of adults and progeny per plate analyzed by the scanner as limiting the number of animals per plate was an important limitation to this tool. Did you set the size exclusion to include all animals on these plates at once? Or did you run the Automated Wormscan plug-in two times (once for the objects with 1.5mm perimeter and then again for the objects 0.5mm perimeter)? Are there limitations to using this tool in lifespan studies? Can the scanners pick up the slight movement of the head or tail of older individuals that are no longer mobile? Are there any other mutations or scenarios when you would not recommend using this tool? For example, are there specific mutations prevent the animals from responding to the scanner light? 