 General comments: The article is within the scope of the F1000 Research Open for Science. The abstract clearly explains the goal and the methodology as well as the flow of the paper. The method is well defined and well-illustrated as it is. The authors are using modern concepts, pertinent equations and numerical comparisons between relevant variables which are clear to understand; besides, the authors detailed the data validation process with tools for spectral signatures. Although the authors quantify the emissions of natural volatile organic compounds produced by the forest species: Eucalyptus globulus L., Pinus radiata and Alnus acuminata in Riobamba, Ecuador, in the "Results and Discussions" the authors need to discuss the limitations of this study. Specific comments (Please make corresponding adjustments): In Table 1, lines: 2, 4 y 5 the terms “High tress” should be replaced by “High trees”. The text included in all figures should be improved with more resolution and with uniform font sizes. On page 5, “Measurement of volatile organic compounds (COV) and NO 2 ” should be replaced by “Measurement of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and NO 2 ”. On page 9, figure 9 “OCOV” should be replaced by “OVOC” or BVOC? On page 11, figure 11 “OCOV” should be replaced by “OVOC” or BVOC? On page 11, figures 12 “COV” should be replaced by “VOC”. On page 12, figures 13 “COV” should be replaced by “VOC”. On page 13, “… OCOV (Table 1)” must be confirmed if the authors refer to “other volatile organic compounds OVOC ”, or “oxygenated volatile organic compounds OVOC ” or BVOC? Please make corresponding adjustments. Recommendation: The authors should include the following references: Prndez, M., Araya, M., Criollo, C., Egas, C., Faras, I., Fuentealba, R., Gonzlez, E. (2019). Urban Trees and Their Relationship with Air Pollution by Particulate Matter and Ozone in Santiago, Chile. In Urban Climates in Latin America (pp. 167-206). Springer, Cham. 1 Gonza, S., Ferro, F. S., Silva, D. A. L., Feijoo, G., Lahr, F. A. R., Moreira, M. T. (2019). Cross-country comparison on environmental impacts of particleboard production in Brazil and Spain. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 150, 104434. 2 