This article presents a modified version of a finger stick method of RNA extraction using an already-established Tempus system for RNA. While the study is relevant especially for quick and easy collection of RNA in specific cases such as pediatric samples as well as samples that have to be collected in large populations in a quick and reliable way, I do have some questions and clarifications regarding the study: While they have been through specific differences between the Tempus and the PaxGene systems for RNA extraction, in this study with the modified methodology there have been no specific attempts to do downstream processing in terms of RNA sequencing or microarray analysis to compare the results. It is important that the authors do not just assume that previous results may replicate despite modifications to the protocol. A quick comparison using a microarray, or a targeted RNAseq method would actually sort out the true differences between the modified method and a standard PaxGene or a PaxGene methodology that has been modified for finger stick purposes. As a follow-up to the first question, a downstream processing step to compare RNA quality becomes even more important in the context of having a range of RNA Integrity numbers. Do higher quality numbers translate to better QC when it comes to sequencing or microarrays? These answers will shed more light into the actual quality of RNA from this modified method. Have the authors tried to do a globin reduction step to remove globin transcripts which are highly abundant and may interfere with the quality of the other expressed RNA transcripts? What is their opinion about performing a globin reduction step? Many protocols suggest this step when dealing with whole blood samples, so it would be nice to get some input about it. Some comments on the wide range of RNA yields obtained need to be explained. Do the authors expect such a wide range in total RNA to be normal? Is it more of a technical limitation of the methodology that scales down a protocol that normally uses a few mls of whole blood to microliters of blood? What is the experience from their previous studies? 