This paper presents a considerable amount of work devoted to improving the accuracy of existing automatic dicentric systems for biological dosimetry. The authors have developed some very interesting ideas in constructing filters that detect false positive dicentrics and thereby improve the accuracy of ‘hands-off’ microscopy. The work has demonstrated that inter-laboratory differences, commonly reported in biological dosimetry, and evident between the two labs here, can be considerably improved by application of the filters. It is particularly interesting to see how the linear dose response reported by one lab, over a dose range that should show a lin/quadratic curve, can indeed be converted to linear quadratic by filtering out the false positives. Moreover they have demonstrated that much of the improvement can be achieved by a sub-set of their filters which should simplify future developments by not needing to employ all the methods. The single most pressing remaining problem is the selection of metaphases of sufficient quality for passing onto the filtration procedures. Manual selection still seems better for removing the wide range of unsuitable material although the authors have demonstrated that the automated approach is getting there. The authors suggest that manual screening of candidate metaphases is labour intensive but most experienced cytogeneticists would probably consider that a list of, say, 1000 automatically presented images can be screened by eye in a few minutes. This is probably acceptable for much routine biological dosimetry but I agree that fully automated image selection would be particularly advantageous when rapid triage dosimetry sorting of many cases is needed. It is gratifying to see that the accuracy of dose estimations using the procedures described here falls well within the requirements for triage sorting following a major radiological incident. I note that this system uses Giemsa stained material examined with bright-field microscopy. There is an alternative approach being employed in biological dosimetry which uses fluorescent probes to highlight centromeres. I wonder if the authors would like to comment on this and speculate on the extent to which their filtration ideas could be applied to this approach too. Overall they are to be congratulated on a well-presented account of an improved approach to automated ‘dicentric-hunting’. 