This process-orientated manuscript covers a lot of ground in some detail. I have some specific comments: Major Section: General Comment: The process of reaching these recommendations is unclear to me. Perhaps these are opinions? I don’t think there is primary evidence to underpin them. Should there be? Section: General Comment: This is comprehensive, but also sets out a substantial burden on organisations. I wonder for what proportion of trials this work is proportionate effort. Section: General Comment: This does not address my previous concerns about recognition of effort of the original researchers or issues about self-identification by patients, but perhaps that is outside of the scope of the paper. It would helpful to remind the reader that these are key, unresolved issues and point to places where they might be considered further. Moderate Section: Table 1 Text ref: "1.2 Clarify own institution’s requirements for data sharing" Comment: This is pretty vague. I don’t know how to use this row. Section: Table 1 Text ref: "2.1.2 Check funder requirements for data sharing" Comment: Which takes priority and when? 2.1.2 vs 1.2. Section: Table 1 Text ref: "2. Plan for data sharing, in the context of a specific trial" Comment: When should this be developed? 2.2.2 suggests before the protocol is finalised; but I suspect 2.2.2 would generally be done before 2.2.1. What is the ordering of the rows? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "3.1 Decide upon strategy for data preparation for sharing" Comment: 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 seem to be in the wrong order. Section: Table 1 Text ref: Section 3 or 4 Comment: Somewhere, perhaps, one should advertise the timelines for making data available. It’s unlikely to be during the trial; how long after primary analyses? Useful to manage expectations? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "5.1 Maintain highly granular access control to IPD, that can be changed rapidly" Comment: Changed on what basis? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "5.5 Provide an expert advisory panel" Comment: Is this a Data Access Committee or something different? Is there independent membership? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "5.7 Provide data use agreement templates" Comment: Possibly wishful thinking. Agreements are never as straightforward as one might hope. Is this a suggestion for global templates, institution templates or trial templates? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "6.1.2 Assess the reasonableness of the request and the ability of the requesters to draw sensible conclusions" Comment: Where is the independence in this process? Is there a duty from the sponsor and TMG to work fairly? Who judges what is reasonable? Section: Table 1 Text ref :: "6.2.1 Repository makes appropriate request forms available on-line" Comment: Why? This will just encourage false positive submissions. Better for applicants to talk to the trial team before getting a form, so the applicant really understands whether the data set is suitable and timely. (Very often, it really won’t be.) Section Table 1 Text refL "7.2 Agree an ID generation scheme for data objects" Comment: Also, what if the same dataset is given to two separate people: does this get the same ID? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "8. Publishing results of re-use" Comment: Who checks that the secondary use of the data is done well? Section: Table 1 Text ref: "8. Publishing results of re-use" Comment: What to do if there is discrepancy in findings between original and subsequent findings? Could undermine trust. Probably needs rows about “dispute” resolution. Section: Table 2 Text ref: "2. Locator services. Locator service for data sharing resources" Comment: Will this be a familiar term to readers? I’m not sure what it means. Trivial/Minor Section: Table 1 Comment: Would be quickly for each actor to find the role if this column was broken into separate columns, one per actor type, with the ticks for whether it is relevant. Section: Table 1 Text ref: "7.2 Agree an ID generation scheme for data objects" Comment: “Data objects” needs a clear definition before the table. Perhaps a Glossary with the Abbreviations? 