There is little doubt that some C. elegans researchers will find the software provided by the authors to be a valuable addition in automating analysis of C. elegans grown on standard C. elegans laboratory medium. The authors provide good validation data of the principal elements of the analysis for counting and assessing non-moving worms following toxic insult in Figures 3 and 4 which should give others confidence in the ability to employ this software. However, I found the narrative which I viewed as largely a “sales pitch” for the software was both unneeded for this journal and distracting. Similarly, I was quite disappointed at the lack details of the software, what data is captured, how one might modify the software in obvious ways of interest to C. elegans researchers, and what values returned from the software might represent with regards to C. elegans biology. While my specific comments below may seem extensive, they are largely and broadly summarized in the preceding two sentences (e.g. make the introduction and discussion more balanced and make the methods/results/case use more descriptive/detailed). Specific points that should be addressed in a revision (listed more or less in the order that they came up reading the manuscript in the presented order): This manuscript does not appear to comply with the software tool article template. Specifically, the Methods section is lacking both the implementation and operation sections. Additionally, the authors have opted for a Results section but mostly describe non-novel data and therefore, perhaps should have used a Use Cases section. The Introduction should make some mention of other “digitisation and computational analysis of Caenorhabditis elegans. ” It is certainly not the case that only the WormScan and The Lifespan Machine exist. Early efforts developed a “wormsorter”, I believe in the 1970s, which has now been commercialized as the COPAS 1 and is fairly standard in many C. elegans labs. A quick google search returned loads of other efforts at automation a few examples: drug discovery 2 , gene expression 3 , and locomotion 4 . There are also an entire host of micro-fluidics devices that are continually being published and some reference to this is also probably warranted. “ C. elegans is the premier model organism for ageing and toxicological research.” Needs to be changed, while I might agree with “is a premier model organism for…” it is certainly not the case that the toxicology field agrees with this statement as explained in a recent review on the worms’ role in toxicity testing 5 . NB. This review also explains, briefly, the current state of play for large scale toxicity screening and explains why axenic medium is preferable for toxicology screening. Related to point (3), If you want to make argument about the utility of this analysis for toxicology, better references for the use of C. elegans as a model system for toxicology should be provided, especially as your paper doesn’t really go through toxicology endpoints in much detail. The above review is one example but there are other older excellent reviews as well. Related to point (2), if you want to talk about the “recent surge” of interest in automated and high throughput experimentation and analysis on C. elegans you really need to cite other examples, particularly microfluidics which, frankly, is where the surge is. Given that your analysis relies on worm movement you really need to be explicit about the limitation of using this device for ageing studies. Specifically, worms are immobile prior to death and this can last several days. Thus, your device will generate falsely truncated survival curves in lifespan assays. Given that I had a new post-doc count roughly 150,000 worms in 75 min last week I don’t find the number of animals that can be processed with this system vs. a manual system at all convincing. If you want to argue about throughput I would stick to the number of conditions that can be analysed as being where the saving is (we only looked at 5 conditions in that 75 min). “Cheng et al. , 2006 7 ” should be “2003” A better description of what the plugins and macros “do” and “how they do it” should be included, probably in an implementation section in methods. Related to point (9) there needs to be enough detail such that someone who wants to modify the software can easily do so. For example, what if someone wants to image different size petri dishes or even 24 well tissues culture? Related to point (9) there needs to be more explanation of what the size parameters are likely to represent for example what likely corresponds to an L1 (can you image an L1?), and L2 (can you image an L2?), an L3, and L4, and adult, etc. Related to point (9) and (11), what are circumference, area, and circularity indicative of? What do different values likely mean, what are the strengths and limitation of each measurement with regards to individual worms? Check your worm count in Figure 1, the legend says approximately 100 early L4 stage worms but a quick manual count (prompted by a quick visual estimate of more than 100) suggests closer to 200. If this is closer to 200 and you are making statements about 100 worms being optimal for maximal reliability either provide a better example image or revise your statements to reflect 200 (in which case additional details of how you get the approximate number that you put down should be provided, for example are you counting worms, visually estimating, automatically putting down counted worms (as the COPAS could do)). Please provide details of what parameters were used to generate the worm count in Figure 3. Are these likely to be L1, L2, L3, L4, Adult, some combination? And did visual conformation match the expectation for animal stage? Similar to (14) please provide details of what parameters were used to generate the survival curve and what stage these are likely to represent and if visual conformation matched expectations. (As written your paper suggests you dosed L4 animals and they remained L4 animals but this does not match your lab’s past work so I suspect this is a lack of clarity in this paper). Provide details for what strain of daf-2 was used and temperature of cultivation. Similar to (14) please provide details of what parameters were used to generate this length data and how this compares with life stage and visual confirmation. In both instances the estimated lengths seem too short for the populations to be entirely adults, this should be reflected in the title (perhaps Size after 48 hr growth from L1 is a better title?). NB. You refer to perimeter in the figure legend and results section but perimeter is not a parameter that is otherwise mentioned in the description of the software. Figure 5 does not provide a growth rate as a single data point is provided. I suggest simply removing “rate” from the title may fix this problem. The well-established size difference of daf-2 strains is for width (for example Depuydt et al. 6 ) yet you are claiming your length data reflects this well established difference. Please provide a reference for how your length data match past published literature for daf-2 length at a comparable growth point. In the results you state “adults being well over 1.5mm in perimeter and juveniles being under 0.5mm.” This does not seem consistent with past published literature where L4 and young adult animals are similar in length with juveniles being in a somewhat linear distribution of smaller sizes down to the size of a newly hatched L1 and adults being in a somewhat linear distribution of larger sizes up until mid-late adulthood. Please clarify/correct this statement. N.B. this relates to point (14) and the related points all of which request more clarity of what is being measured and how it precisely relates to visual inspection. Figure 6, Fecundity is typically number of eggs produced. I suggest changing the title to progeny produced or viable progeny produced in two(?) days of egg laying. The figures seem low as your wild-type data are suggesting 2 viable progeny for each adult where 200 are expected. To be honest, from the description you provide it sounds like you have measured a decline in juveniles that results from both a developmental delay in daf-2 and decreased fecundity. Thus, you really need to be clearer about what you are really detecting and if you want to make clear claims about fecundity you should run a more appropriately controlled example. If you are going to make claims about the Wormscan improving workflow etc (for example “greatly improves the speed at which such experiments can be performed”, you should discuss what other bottlenecks will occur. For example, in your set up how many plates can you put in a desicator at once? There is a reason, afterall, that high throughput systems go, largely, to liquid culturing. Similarly, do plates need to be poured at a specific depth for optimal use in the scanner, does this add time? I would disagree that most C. elegans assays are done on NGM plates, these days molecular endpoint and/or sub-cellular endpoint are much more common than movement (perhaps excluding toxicology and/or ageing). You might revise the sentence. It is certainly not true that human counting is precluded in conditions that induce aggregation. One simple disaggregates the worms to count them. This statement should be removed from the discussion. Since it is clear that mobility defects impair use of the system some guidance as to how little mobility is required would be quite helpful in the discussion as would be discussion of if this can be overcome by changing the scan parameters. References 1. Pulak R: Techniques for analysis, sorting, and dispensing of C. elegans on the COPAS flow-sorting system. Methods Mol Biol . 2006; 351 : 275-86 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. O'Reilly L, Luke C, Perlmutter D, Silverman G, et al.: C. elegans in high-throughput drug discovery. Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews . 2014; 69-70 : 247-253 Publisher Full Text 3. Murray J, Bao Z, Boyle T, Boeck M, et al.: Automated analysis of embryonic gene expression with cellular resolution in C. elegans. Nature Methods . 2008; 5 (8): 703-709 Publisher Full Text 4. Cronin CJ, Mendel JE, Mukhtar S, Kim YM, et al.: An automated system for measuring parameters of nematode sinusoidal movement. BMC Genet . 2005; 6 : 5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Hunt PR: The C. elegans model in toxicity testing. J Appl Toxicol . 2017; 37 (1): 50-59 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Depuydt G, Xie F, Petyuk VA, Shanmugam N, et al.: Reduced insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 signaling and dietary restriction inhibit translation but preserve muscle mass in Caenorhabditis elegans. Mol Cell Proteomics . 2013; 12 (12): 3624-39 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Szewczyk N. Reviewer Report For: Automated Wormscan [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 6 :192 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11609.r20573 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-192/v1#referee-response-20573 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Vayndorf EM. Reviewer Report For: Automated Wormscan [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 6 :192 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11609.r20569 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-192/v1#referee-response-20569 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 06 Mar 2017 Elena M. Vayndorf , Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AK, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11609.r20569 The authors present a system, including easy-to-acquire equipment, software and instructions, for counting live, moving and stimulus responsive C. elegans . The authors also demonstrate that human counting vs. Wormscan system counting of animal survival produces similar results that are not ... Continue reading READ ALL 