In “The Unhappy Postdoc”, Grinstein and Treister present the results of a survey to 190 respondents who carried out postdoctoral training in the U.S. The results seek to demonstrate the satisfaction of postdocs with their postdoctoral training and isolate factors which are critical to their sense of well-being. So far, very few efforts have looked at the well-being of postdocs in the context of their training, and this survey data sheds some light into the murky world of the postdoc. The survey has a small sample size, understandable given the difficulty of actually getting access to communicate with postdocs, but the most pressing concerns are how far selection bias plays into the inclination of postdocs to respond; and whether there was thought given to an appropriate control group? However, it is encouraging to see that some of the results replicate the findings of others, which may hint towards this being at least a fair representation of a subset of the postdoc population. Major concerns: Please check the proportion of US PhDs pursuing postdocs - while this is not an easy number to quantify, Kahn and Ginther 2017 1 and Sauermann and Roach 2016 2 both point to about 80% of U.S. biomedical PhDs pursuing postdocs, and the NSF’s Survey of Earned Doctorates suggests that at graduation, 30% of PhDs have a postdoc lined up, and 50% don’t know what they are doing next, suggesting a large number of people are defaulting into this plan. Again also check the tenure-track position percentage from more recent literature/qualify - it may be as low as 8% for tenure-track positions (although this may be for research-intensive institutions specifically). Sauermann and Roach 2016 2 should be cited - theirs is a larger survey effort of postdocs that addresses some of the same issues, particularly the change in career preference over time, and comparison with Figure 2 would be particularly useful. The first sentence in the results section would make more sense being placed after the sentence that follows it, which lays out the scale. Also the authors should explain why a mean of 4.47 and 30% of postdocs lying below the median supports their argument - what is the mean expected from other studies using the same scale? This is suggested, and one example is given, but more examples and clearer articulation of the comparison would be helpful. Also, if 30% are below the median, does that not mean 70% are at or above? It is not clear why this result is indicative of poor satisfaction and the authors should make this clearer. How does selection bias factor into the author’s analysis? One counter-argument is that the people with most to complain about felt most compelled to reply, and this skewed the results - how did the authors account for this, or is it possible to do so? Could the authors comment further on the redirection of postdocs to industry or to other non-academic careers, reflecting on the state of the current labor market? The 2012 NIH Biomedical Workforce Working Group Report found that industry is actually hiring fewer people into research positions, and into more managerial/non-research positions, and our own work looking at Census data 3 show that the private sector is actually a shrinking component of the biomedical workforce, apparently explained by the increasing outsourcing of RD to academic labs, who are both increasingly desperate for sources of funding, and also provide a plentiful pool of cheap labor. Please see also Mason et al ., 2016 4 . Reference could also be made to Faupel-Badger et al ., 2017 5 , which is possibly the only other citation that looks at career satisfaction from postdoctoral training. Can the authors link their findings to recent work that suggests that it is not the labor market, but the nature of the academic position itself, which is driving researchers out of academia? See Sauermann and Roach 2017 6 . In Table 1, what does 'number of papers' show - is it the number published during a postdoc? In total? The survey asks this, but the table doesn't make clear which data this is. Both numbers would actually be very interesting, and also if it's possible to show how many papers people had from their first postdoc before possibly doing another one. Minor concerns: “Their research requires heavier funding” - could the authors articulate what they mean here? Is it that research generally has become more expensive? Or is there some increased burden at the postdoctoral position? The increasing cost of research and the market forces that are resulting in more postdocs (that they are essentially cheaper than graduate students) have been pointed out by Paula Stephan in her book “How Economics Shapes Science” 7 and elsewhere, and these works should be cited appropriately in the introduction “Moreover, postdocs that are not able to achieve an academic appointment often become over-qualified for industry positions while losing alternative higher compensation (salaries in the industry)” - Kahn and Ginther 2017 1 should be cited here. Footnote 3 should probably be moved into the Figure Legend of Figure 1, to highlight transformation of the 1-7 scale into a 1-10 scale. In Table 1, “Duration of postdoc (years)” may be better described as “Total years in postdoctoral positions” or similar, if the survey questions are understood correctly - it is not clear whether this is pointing out the years in the current postdoc, or the years of postdoccing in total. Supplementary File 2 is not as described, but is the same as Supplementary File 1. 