This interesting and important paper addresses the nature and structure of the network of Vietnamese social scientists who have published in Scopus-indexed journals in the period of 2008–2017. This is a critical issue to Vietnam given the government’s recent emphasis on enhancing research capacity and scientific outcomes. The topic of networking and co-authorship is very timely given Ministry of Education and Training’s new policies requiring doctoral candidates to publish in Scopus and Web of Science-indexed journals, as a compulsory component of their PhD. Overall, the paper is nicely written. The literature review provides an effective overview of the status of network statistics analysis and makes reference to the broader international context as well as the Asia region. The aims of the research are clearly articulated. There is a good balance between the presentation and discussion of the data. Even though I do not have statistical expertise and am unable to comment on the detailed analysis, generally I found the key findings of the research logically presented and easy to follow. A key strength of the paper lies in the way the authors use social network analysis to interpret and explain Vietnamese social scientists’ research performance. Based on this analysis framework, interesting insights into the structure of the network, the level of connection as well as the level of clustering in the network have been discussed. I have five comments below for the authors to consider in enhancing this research project or expanding this research area: More discussion of the specific implications of this research for improving research capacity and doctoral education would be very useful in the current context of Vietnam. This information would be welcome by policy makers, leaders of universities and research institutes as well as research team, individual researchers and doctoral candidates. Given the scope of this paper, I hope a follow-up article may focus more on this aspect. A critical issue that should be further explored is what facilitates or inhibits productive and sustainable networks among the researchers rather than just an one-off or brief collaboration or co-authorship? The authors mainly focus on using social network analysis to explain research performance but less on predicting research performance and impact. Perhaps a follow-up study can address this issue and may include interviews/survey with the scientists to provide more nuanced understandings about the topic. An issue of great concern is what characteristics and structure of networks are likely to lead to not only research productivity but also research impact . A further issue is whether the network facilitated at the institutional/organisational level or at the individual researcher level is more sustaining and productive ? In this regard, what might be the incentives or support mechanism from the institution and government (for example, targeted funding for network/partnership development or grant/funding scheme in which capacity for research collaboration or network is one of the assessment criteria) needed? One of the findings of this study is that “the network shows the potential of an intellectual elite composed of well-connected, productive, and socially significant individuals.” What is the implication of this finding for policy makers and education leaders to facilitate an equitable and inclusive networking and collaboration structure that supports rather than marginalises less established or ‘non-elite’ Vietnamese researchers including early career researchers, researchers from regional universities and researchers who were not exposed to overseas education. In sum, I have enjoyed reading this paper and I congratulate the authors for this valuable work! Thank you for the opportunity to read and comment on this paper. 