 Background: On a post-discharge eLearning platform for patients with coronary artery disease, videos are used as the main educational media. Medical content takes a long time to be thoroughly explained, frequently exceeding the viewer’s attention span. To find the optimal duration for such an educational video, we studied the retention of video watching. Comment : The background clearly highlights the addressed challenge. Methods: In this study, 135 (88% male; age 629 years) patients with coronary artery disease actively used eLearning platform which included 60 video recordings with duration ranging from 21 sec to 303 sec. The videos were divided into two groups based on their duration (short 100 sec and long 100 sec). From the platform usage metadata, an average video retention rate was obtained as a ratio of video viewing time and total video duration for videos watched six times or more. Independent t-tests for mean values and f-test for variance were used to compare the groups. Comment : The methodology is clearly set and appropriate for the type of research. Results: In total, 35 (18 short and 17 long) videos were included in the study and were viewed (mean SD) 22 11 times. The mean duration of short videos was: 80 sec 14 sec and of long videos it was: 160 sec 51 sec. The retention rate in the short and long group was 0.99 0.05 and 0.94 0.19 respectively. Average values were not significantly different (P = 0.33), but variances were (P 0.05). Comment : The results are clear and derive from the implemented methodology. Conclusions: This study shows that the effective attention span for a video recording of this kind, based on an eLearning set-up and local population, is up to 100 sec. Videos shorter than 100sec are mostly watched fully without a break. In contrast, longer videos are often rewound, and parts watched again or not watched to the full length at all. Comment : The conclusion is relevant to the findings. General comments: The purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of educational video duration on cardiac patients’ viewing behaviour. The paper is novel in addressing the optimal video recording duration used at educational eLeraning platforms. Its conclusion is simple and clear: the videos used by patients in different therapies should be less than 1 minute long in duration. It is encouraging that a scientific approach is used to assess efficiency and effectiveness of the novel ICT based tools that will be broadly used in the near future for therapeutic purposes in different areas of medicine. Technical corrections needed: The first sentence in the Methods is not clear (Study background Within the scope of a large randomized clinical study….). Consider revision. 