Timely referral saves the lives of mothers and newborns: Midwifery led continuum of care in marginalized teagarden communities – A qualitative case study in Bangladesh This is an interesting article on the workings of midwifery, especially referral by midwives, in a district in Bangladesh. The case study approach is appropriate but the description of the Methods is slightly odd. This is a typical case study based on secondary analysis. But the authors do not mention ‘secondary analysis’, let alone give a reference to a methods paper /textbook on the topic. Most record studies are retrospective, i.e. researchers using the record data after it was written. “A qualitative case study design by reviewing records retrospectively...” Also it is possible that authors used a Content Analysis (Krippendorff 2004) rather than a ‘general thematic analysis’? The Discussion needs a section on the Strengths Limitations of this particular way of using Secondary Analysis in a Case-Study Approach. Any maternity record has incomplete data, unclear recordings, etc. None of this mentioned in the text. Abstract The expression “76.4% of mothers were referred to conduct delivery at facilities,” is not quite right ‘women perhaps don’t conduct deliveries, you can say women deliver, or women give birth I read the Abstract and wondered why randomly selected in the sentence: “In depth analyses was also performed on 15 randomly selected cases to understand the facts behind the referral.” I would have expected purposively selected case, namely ones that highlight particular aspects of the case the authors would want to highlight/stress. But when I came to page 4 the authors state that the 15 cases are purposively selected. BUT on page 7 of 15 the authors repeat the Abstract “A total number of 15 cases were selected randomly out of 72” This needs to corrected. Introduction Perhaps the reader needs a little bit more information about the state of midwifery in the country. In Bangladesh the three-years diploma curriculum following global ICM standards was introduced in 2010 (Bogren et al . 2015). It introduced a six-months post-basic advanced midwifery programme for graduate nurses. So what was the training of the midwives in this study? Where they post 2010 qualified or where some midwives trained prior to this date? Grammar, style typos The authors use a mixture of American and British English. I would have preferred British English. They mix words like ‘labour’ (=British English) and in the Abstract ‘hemorrhage’ (=US English) and in the main text on page 3 ‘haemorrhage’(=British English) In the title (and elsewhere in article) I would use a hyphen in ‘ … newborns: Midwifery led continuum of …’ with a hyphen, i.e.: ‘Timely … and newborns: Midwifery-led continuum of …’ Similarly in the Abstract and throughout I would have expected a hyphen in: “pregnancy related complications…” to read: “pregnancy-related complications…” Also page 3 “few mothers sought facility based care during” should be “…sought facility-based care …”. It is perhaps ugly to start a sentence with a number, there are two cases in the Abstract “the facilities. 76.4% of..” AND “section. 94% deliveries…” In Abstract I think plural is needed in the sentence “majority of baby’s as well as mother’s lives” to read: “majority of babies’ as well as mothers’ lives….” In the Abstract I think in the word ‘only’ in the sentence “ .. and only 6% were stillbirths…” is a judgement by the authors perhaps not shared by the women/families who had a still birth. Remove the word ‘only’! Page 3 of 15 there are word glued together, e.g. “maternaldeaths” You could argue that all mothers are complicated. In the Abstract you should state something like“72 mothers with pregnancy-related complications” instead of “72 complicated mothers” Remove capital in “The Midwife…” page 4 of 15. References: Krippendorff, K. (2004) Content Analysis. An Introduction to its Methodology, London: SAGE Bogren, M.U., Wigert, H., Edgren, L., Berg, M (2015) Towards a midwifery profession in Bangladesh – a systems approach for a complex world, BMC Pregnancy Childbirth 15:325 