The study (completed in 2003) was well designed, albeit with a relatively small sample size, and intended to answer an important and clinically relevant question. After reviewing the manuscript I would agree that it probably does support the notion that olanazapine may cause intolerable worsening of motor disability but I do not think that one can draw any conclusions regarding efficacy or lack thereof based on this study. One element of the trial design (i.e. permitting changes in dopaminergic medications) may have created some challenges when interpreting the data. The investigators speculated that olanzapine may be better tolerated if adjustments in dopaminergic medications were allowed (and therefore permitted dopaminergic medication adjustment at the 2 week visit). While this may be true, it could also increase the chances that dopaminergic drug induced psychosis could worsen (if dopaminergic medication were increased in an effort to improve motor worsening). This could potentially be a "set up" for decreased efficacy (if dopaminergic medications were changed more frequently in active vs. placebo). It is noted that medications were adjusted in one of the placebos, two of the 2.5 mg active and one of the 5 mg active. The authors note that there was an apriori decision to analyze data from weeks 0-2 and 2-4 separately. Change from 0-2 weeks was chosen to be the primary test of efficacy, apparently in order to limit the confound of changes in dopaminergic medications allowed at week two. However, one could question if 2 weeks is long enough to demonstrate efficacy. In addition, a series of unplanned events contributed to challenges with data interpretation. These events included a change in design after study initiation, lower than expected enrollment and high dropout rate. The change in study design was a decrease in study drug dosage after enrollment of 5 subjects ("in light of reports published since study initiation that higher olanzapine doses cause intolerable exacerbation of parkinsonism in PD"). This resulted in one subject being excluded from analyses (see below) and perhaps, decreased the chance of demonstrating study drug efficacy (if higher dosages were required). Only 24 (of an anticipated 30) subjects were enrolled and 9 withdrew (39%) which is a fairly high dropout rate. One of the 24 subjects was not included in the analyses because he was the only one to receive the initially planned dosage of 10 mg. While spontaneous reports of motor side effects were not statistically significant between groups, a disproportionate number of olanzapine vs. placebo who withdrew did so due to motor side effects. This finding does suggest that olanzapine may be associated with worsening motor function. However this may not be true for every patient, as exemplified by the one subject who was the only to receive the initially planned dosage of 10 mg. He had no worsening of motor function (and an improvement in psychosis).