Rinchai and co-workers nicely present a re-analysis of existing genomic datasets, demonstrating an useful tool for quick establishment of functional hypotheses. By this, they suggest a novel function of ADAM9 as biomarker for tissue damage. The article is well written, but several concerns should be addressed before indexing. Introduction: The authors give a nice review of the current literature. However, a link to their one study is missing. The introduction should include the motivation (knowledge gap assessment). Otherwise, readers could expect a detailed physiologic analysis of ADAM9 in tissue damage. Methods: The description is very nice but could be adapted to journal style and shortened. The possibilities offered by the software could be summarized in a table. Figure 1: The colour scheme in the figure and the legend are sorted differentially. In general, the figure is overloaded and the colour scheme not helpful. Differences were only observed for monocytes and neutrophils. These results should be included in figure 1, whereas the other results should be included as supplementary figure. Supplementary Figure 2 to 5: I dont see any additional information by this second plot type. What is the difference between Suppl. Figure 2 4 and Figure 2? Why are not all datasets mentioned in the text also shown and listed within the figures? This is very obvious for Figure 2. The diagrams within the figures are very redundant especially due to the detailed description within the text. This space should be used to present more original data sets. The tables should be summarized within one table. Further, the table should include all datasets analysed and mentioned in the text. Figure 3: It would be helpful to mark the values for the different individuals, maybe by different colours to avoid the impression of a general outlier. Otherwise, changes after PAMP treatment could be possible. Conclusion: To address the point of infection the authors include a stimulation of blood samples. However, this is not sufficient to draw the conclusion of a biomarker for tissue damage (also as a result of infection). Experiments with tissue cells, including scratch assays, stimulations with cytokines, and conditioned media from blood samples would provide further information and address the tissue damage effect in comparison to the infection effect. 