The paper by Tabet and co-workers examines the interactions between a model protein, BSA, and hyaluronic acid (HA) and/or chondroitin sulfate (CS) in forming self-assembled networks using rheology, DLS, imaging, and other techniques. The work is of a generally high standard and is suitable for indexing, but several points (below) should be addressed to improve the quality of the paper. Rheology measurements: Why does the gap range between 600 um and 1 mm? The text says “amplitude sweep” was conducted – at what frequencies were they done or was just one done? DLS measurements: What is the solution concentration used here? Interactions between particles, especially electrostatic interactions, can cause two modes to appear in the DLS data; these do not necessarily correspond to sizes. As such, it is important to specify the concentration in the materials and methods section, and what interactions are expected. One way to check if the additional peaks are from interactions or not is to further dilute the samples. Additionally, what model used to produce the radii listed? Especially in cases where electrostatic interactions may be significant, the extrapolation of the data to “radius” may not be accurate; this should be considered by the authors. The analysis of the DLS data between Fig. 2-5 is also a bit confusing. How are we to interpret DLS data on a gel like this? Again, the radius/modeling assumptions seem like a stretch here so that should be stated… Also in Figure 5, could the larger sizes be coming out of aggregation that’s occurring/changes to structure that are occurring due to any interfaces in the cuvette? Because the effect is so slow/fairly minor, and it’s hard to really understand the DLS from a gel like this to start with, I think this interpretation should be re-examined. What makes something “more dynamic” (page 6 second to last paragraph). Based on the labelling, it seems as though both the gels (Fig. 5) and the particles (Fig. 4b) change over a 12h time scale so I’m not sure what more dynamic means. The authors state that the width of the distribution in the HA/BSA is why you assume there are not discrete particles because there is just one peak in the time zero data. Figure 3 : c) At what frequency is this conducted? More detail is needed. Do you know that the change in modulus with the time sweep is real vs. can be attributed to drying? A water trap will not necessarily stop this over the 5 hour experiment course. What happens if you put this in a small Couette? Do you get a visual change if you leave these in a vial over time in terms of the flowability/pourability? Have you tried the measurements with a light oil or similar around the sample edges (not in the trap)? The experiment that part c) is done after is not clear. Was the solution simply sheared to 100% (in which case, include the rate at which this was done)? Or was it oscillatory shear to 100% at a particular frequency? These details should be specified. e) at what frequency is this comparison done at? Minor points: With respect to the rheology methods section, “to determine a strain in…” should be “to determine the strains within” since multiple strains are within the LVE window. The legend in Fig. 3b,c is hard to differentiate between in black and white. While most rheologists will know which moduli is which, just based on symbol/coloration, it is difficult to tell which is G’ and G’’ in the key. I think it would help if G’ was open circles and G’’ was open squares for HA and have the same with closed symbols for HA+BSA. 