The article highlights the major role of India in supplying medicines to the world, relatively well-known to those who specialised in this area of research, but less to the wider world. It is important to have this message at the time of a global pandemic. The data on the significance of India’s pharmaceutical imports in Africa – that India contributes one-fifth of its pharmaceutical imports – to some extent underestimates its significance because it is a value number rather than a volume number. More broadly, because of its role supplying generic medicines, which are usually lower-cost, India’s significance is most prominent in volume terms. There are two slightly different dynamics that need to be considered vis--vis COVID-19 and India’s pharmaceutical industry: 1) the wider impact on the general supply of medical products from India (and maintaining that during the lockdown); 2) India’s role as a supplier of potential COVID-19 treatments (e.g. drugs) or of vaccines to prevent COVID-19 infection. The focus of this piece is more on the former, partly reflecting the time the article was written and the major concerns during the initial weeks of the spread of the COVID-19 crisis and India’s lockdown. Most Indian pharmaceutical firms have managed to maintain production during lockdown, albeit at reduced levels. Many of the initial export restrictions placed in India, although subject to considerable media attention beyond India especially, were relatively short-lived. Companies with pre-existing advanced market commitments were quickly issued with exemptions from the export bans. The second aspect – related specifically to COVID-19 treatments - is also a crucial aspect of why “Indian generics matter for the world” 1 but is only briefly touched on in the latter part of this article. In the just over two months now since this article was originally published, and as Indian companies have managed to maintain some level of production during lockdown, this latter aspect has become especially significant. Considerable contestation and international attention has surrounded India’s role in supplying hydroxychloroquine, Remdesevir and a potential vaccine. This aspect is especially important in the need for continued attention to India’s pharmaceutical industry during the pandemic, and is why key stakeholders from elsewhere may need to collaborate with India. For example, Serum Institute is already involved in manufacturing the vaccine candidate being developed at Oxford University which AstraZeneca has a license for, while Gilead has issued licenses to a number of companies in India to produce Remdesevir. A tension between globalisation and nationalism is thus likely to continue to be a key aspect of the Covid-19 response. 