In this well-written manuscript, Chakraborty presents a tool for local alignment of two protein sequences that includes a fragment-chaining step. He then uses this tool to identify important putatively functional fragments in two different Drosophila proteins by comparison to the respective human ortholog. A database containing results of many more similar applications is also presented and is a nice aspect of the work. I have the following specific comments, mostly related to the presentation, that might help the author improve the clarity of the manuscript. The current title is rather long. The contribution of this work is mainly in the form of the FRAGAL tool, and the title could be trimmed to emphasize only that. The two example applications to finding the phosphorylation site, BRC repeat etc. are not experimentally substantiated biological claims, and may be better off being left out of the title. Clear discussion should be provided regarding other previous work where pairs of aligned fragments are stitched together (e.g. exon chaining, see Jones Pevzner 2004 , and the chain/net approach to whole genome alignments). Since the FRScore does not include gap penalties, I am assuming that each pair of fragments is subjected to two distinct similarity-scoring approaches; the gap-based approach when aligning that pair of fragments using 'needle' and the match/mismatch based approach when ranking the aligned pairs. This should be stated clearly, to avoid confusion. Is there a reason why the needle score was not used in place of the FRScore? It appears that the FR score is the unweighted sum of %similarity and %identity. This should be stated explicitly. I did not quite understand the formatting of Table 1. I think there should be a line separating ‘A’ from ‘B’ (which I think comes after a row with rank 14 in the second column). It took me some time to see that there are two sub-tables being shown here. Also, the fact that the same row is used to show different entities was confusing; usually a table is constructed so that a row shows different pieces of information about one entity. I assume something like A91-B337 refers to the starting positions of a matching fragment between sequences A and B, and the length of that fragment is not indicated in the row. Is this correct? (On reading further I realize that this interpretation is incorrect, and the numbers in a match are arbitrary indices and not coordinates. This was not clear from the legend.) I found that presenting sub-tables ‘A’ and ‘B’ (which I finally realized does not relate to ‘A’ and ‘B’ sequences) leads to more confusion than it helps. If both sub-tables present the same ranked list and the only difference is that ‘A’ filters for “conserved” fragments, then it might be better to show only sub-table ‘B’ and add a column indicating if this is a fragment marked conserved. Where is the E-value of an FRScore coming from? (I am not familiar with what the ' Protein Information Resource ' provides.) Perhaps this E-value correspond to the global alignment score reported by needle? The results of Table 1 do not aid ones understanding as to how the fragmented alignment, i.e. stitching together of fragments, helps in this case. As shown, this appears similar in form to a ranked list of matches from a standard local-aligner. Similarly, with respect to Figure 2, the author may wish to discuss why FRAGAL finds the 'melanogaster4' fragment as a BRC repeat where previous annotations (that found three repeats) failed. Was this a matter of previous methods ‘ missing the threshold ’? (This seems unlikely given the strong E-value reported for this.) Similar clarifications for the HAT repeat finding exercise will also be helpful.