 Major comments: In the introduction the following is stated: ‘We hypothesize that the variant alleles at these SNPs may impair iron absorption and may be partially responsible for the disproportionately high anaemia prevalence in sub-Saharan Africa.’ This, however, contradicts the lower or at most equal MAF of the TMPRSS6 variants in African populations as compared to Caucasian populations. Especially the low MAF of rs855791 is important since it has so far shown the strongest inverse association with haemoglobin and iron concentrations in Caucasian and Asian populations. It seems to me that the conclusion then should be that TMPRSS6 variants are less likely to play a major role in the development of anaemia in African populations, unless other variants than the ones under study are responsible for such an effect. Table 1: Since authors already have selected the gene combinations based on numbers available in their database of 3000 genotyped individuals, they might as well already indicate the number of subjects available for each gene variant combination. Exclusion criteria: It would seem more appropriate to exclude participants with sickle cell anaemia or G6PD deficiency instead of using it as a co-variate in the analysis. However, if this reduces the numbers of each genotype combination too much, authors may as well include them while doing a retrospective sensitivity analysis. The primary outcome measure will be the change in serum iron concentration before and five hours after a single 400 mg dose of ferrous sulfate iron given orally. This is not the best way to measure iron absorption, which would ideally be assessed with a stable isotope method. Past studies have shown that change in serum iron concentration cannot be used as a measure of iron bioavailability at the individual level. Authors should provide references that back up the validity of their approach. Minor comments: Under study procedures, second paragraph: ‘injestion’ is miss-spelled. Sample size calculation: A type 1 error of 0 seems to be ideal, yet unrealistic. Is this a typo? 