In this study, the authors analyze an “Anti-infective potential of hydroalcoholic extract of Punica granatum peel against gram-negative bacterial pathogens” with various experiments QS, biofilm hemolytic activity, catalase activity, surface hydrophobicity. Authors also performed in-vivo activity with C. elegans model organism and also analyzed with docking tool. While this study is comprehensive and important for better understanding of gram negative bacteria ( C. violaceum and P. aeruginosa ) physiology and pathogenesis, experiments are enough and paper sounds good but requires minor corrections with respect to the overall presentation of the manuscript. Comment 1: In the introduction, the ESRC reference should be changed as it is from 2014. Comment 2 : Brief description about AMR and how bacteria develop these mechanism would be better. Comment 3: Broth dilution assay: Give the proper reference of MIC determination method and how they defined MIC for example (MIC50, MIC80 or MIC90) or complete at the end point of experiment. Better to put the reference of MIC according to CLSI guidelines. Comment 4 : Measurement of bacterial growth and pigment production: better to merge this sentence with above and keep the pigment production in separate heading. Comment 5 : In vivo assay: last day of the experiment, when plates could be opened, their death was also confirmed by touching them with a straight wire, wherein no movement was taken as confirmation of death. Please mention what metal was used. Comment 6 : In Results section: Figure 1A: is not clear and difficult to understand. The values shown in boxes or brackets - what are these values defining? Are they necessary to show? If yes, better to show in table form. Similarly for Fig 1C. Figures 1D: Better to show C. elegans survival graph along with their pictures (Fig. 1D 2F, 3B). Figure 2: very overcrowded and messy. Is it necessary to show 5 figures A,B,C,D,E,F in a single panel? If there is any figure limitation then show only relevant ones and put rest as supplementary figures. 