The paper: Combining low sampling frequency smartphone sensors and video for a Wearable Mobility Monitoring System, examines the feasibility of combining the accelerometry and video, available in a commercial smart phone for classifying activities of living in the home. As can be anticipate some activities are easy to classify; others with movement overlap are more difficult. Data are provided which can allow the work to be progressed by other researchers. Whilst the individual elements of the work are not novel (accelelerometry for activity monitoring and video for life logs and reminiscence), the combination and the superior performance of the sensor modalities provide a useful contribution. Abstract: This provides good orientation for the reader and cites the headline results. The sensitivity of 27% for daily living activities is low and show the challenge of higher level classification. Overall activity and mobility (changes of state, CoS) may however be more relevant features anyway (in a subsequent referral). The sample number (N=5) is small and is described as a convenience sample, for this initial feasibility study. Material and methods: The WMMS system is based on a Blackberry OS5.0. There is no mention as to whether this can be easily implemented on other smart phones (Android and IOS). Accelerometer sampling rate of 8Hz is appropriate but may miss faster transitions. The feature extraction algorithm and decision tress rely on cited literature. These are key components of the activity classification used for CoS detection. The use of thresholds usually makes it difficult to generalize to the wider population (male/female, height, weight etc.) for accelerometry. Results: Better activity classification results were achieved when using both acceleration features and video clips for all activities except sitting, as compared to using the accelerometer only This is the crux of the paper and the results underpin this. Of course this is a relative measure. Its difficult to determine what would be a clinically useful measure. The figures are useful and inform the reader as to the difficulty of differential classification between some of these activities. There is some useful reflection on the use of video. The time required to manually classify the video is a limiting feature. Conclusions: The conclusions are realistic and pave the way for further research questions. In particular it may be possible to improve the classification algorithms and the publication of the data sets is advantageous. The Blackberry has a restricted market and the evolution of smartphone hardware and software continues to advance rapidly. Porting of the algorithms to other operating systems and provision source code would enable further refinement of the approach. There is little comment on the acceptability of the device, particularly with regard to privacy issues. These are not apparent in simulated environments but would occur if such a device is to be deployed, particularly in a multi-person home environment.