The research article by Lovett and colleagues, Diurnal variation in the proinflammatory activity of urban fine particulate matter (PM 2.5 ) by in vitro assays”, is a fascinating and provocative article, however, not without some controversy in its interpretation. The authors state ambient PM 2.5 undergoes diurnal changes in chemical composition due to photochemical oxidation. In this study the authors examined the relationships between oxidative activity and inflammatory responses associated with these diurnal chemical changes. Because secondary PM contains a higher fraction of oxidized PM species, the authors hypothesize PM 2.5 collected during afternoon hours induce a greater inflammatory response than primary, morning PM 2.5 . The methods used for PM collections methods are highly appropriate and well executed. The in vitro biological methods implemented with immortalized microglia cells are logical and clearly described. The authors state microglia were used for in vitro assays of oxidative and inflammatory responses to PM2.5 exposures because of their increasingly recognized role in environmental neurotoxicology. These are all correct statements. The difficulty comes in the interpretation of the findings. Specific Comments: It is unclear how the dose of PM delivered to microglia in vitro would compare to the in vivo setting where PM and/or oxidation reaction products would need to be transported either through the olfactory epithelium of the nasal cavity and/or via the blood passing through the lungs. The authors need to provide further clarification as to the credibility of using microglia cells in culture to mimic neurotoxicology. The authors need to clarify these concerns. A five week sampling campaign was conducted by the authors during late summer (August and September) of 2016, ensuring maximum UV sunlight exposure to enhance photochemical oxidation reactions seems reasonable. However, how was the stability of PM samples maintained over such a prolonged period of sampling of five weeks? How stable are photochemical oxidation reactions? PM 2.5 slurry samples were assayed with immortalized BV-2 microglia. It is unclear in the text what was the concentration of PM 2.5 slurry samples used for these assays. Please state in the text. Based on Figure 1, were 1, 5 and 20 um/ul of PM 2.5 used? How do these doses compare to the concentration of PM 2.5 actually reaching microglia cells in vivo? Nitric oxide (NO) was assayed in BV-2 cell media by the Griess reagent at 30, 60 minute and 24 hour timepoints. A NaNO 2 stock solution used to allow the creation of a standardization curve to determine the NO concentration in each treatment well from measured absorbance data. The authors observed a dose-dependent NO response to PM 2.5 treatments relative to control at all timepoints (30 min., 60 min., 24 hr.). This assay demonstrated greater effects for morning PM 2.5 than for afternoon PM 2.5 . This assay is quite remarkable, meritorious and clearly illustrated. The interpretation of these findings need to be clearly stated. Summary and Conclusion. The first portion of this section is nicely written to state “urban PM 2.5 collected during the morning rush hour (6–9am), when primary, traffic-derived PM emissions are dominant, induces greater oxidative and proinflammatory responses in cells as compared to PM 2.5 collected in the afternoon (12–4pm), which contains a higher proportion of photo-oxidized, secondary PM products”. It is unclear whether the authors have provided conclusive evidence of these diurnal differences in terms of PM chemistry. Please clarify. Summary and Conclusion. The authors state, “Two in vitro assays of the cellular inflammatory response consistently demonstrated greater oxidative and proinflammatory activity due to primary (morning) PM 2.5 exposure. We attribute this effect to the greater transition metal and water-insoluble organic carbon (WIOC) content of primary PM 2.5 , two classes of PM components that increase toxicity. Again, how conclusive is the chemical analysis of PM from these two periods for PM 2.5 collected over a period of five weeks? Summary and Conclusion. The authors state, “This research will ultimately help us gain a more complete understanding of the complex nature of particulate matter and how its composition and proinflammatory effects change over time due to photochemical aging in the atmosphere. The Southern California climate of Los Angeles with abundant sunshine, compounded with dense vehicular traffic, generates ubiquitous primary and secondary PM throughout the year. Identifying the health effects of these pollutants is critical as we strive to understand the underlying mechanisms of PM-induced oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and associated morbidity”. This is a laudatory conclusion made by the authors using in vitro cells that may or may not represent in vivo conditions of cell response and/or PM dose delivered to the nervous system. The authors need to clearly state the advantages of their study, along with the limitations for interpretation and extrapolation to actual in vivo conditions of exposure. Summary and Conclusion. The authors state, “Our findings may help in further elucidating the role of PM in the etiology, onset and development of widespread, chronic diseases that plague urban populations, including cancer, cardiac and respiratory distress, and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease”. Should the authors acknowledge the limitations of the methods used in this study, this concluding statement is reasonable. 