In this report, Green and Harvey address the genetic architecture governing variation in one of the best-studied examples of developmental plasticity in animas, the dauer larva Caneorhabditis nematodes. Dauer larvae are dispersive forms of nearly all terrestrial nematodes, and are typically induced by the onset of food limitation and/or pheromone cues that are correlated with it. Given that the correctness of the decision to form a dauer (and thus abandon the direct path to reproductive adulthood) is expected to be highly contingent upon the exact ecological context in which it occurs, this trait should be both subject to strong selection and be potentially variable. This may be especially true for C. briggsae , which has a greater degree of geographic population structure than does its more famous congener, C. elegans . The authors take advantage of a set recombinant inbred lines between genetically distinct strains (lines that my own lab played a role in characterizing in 2011; see the Ross et al. reference) to examine whether there is indeed heritable variation for dauer formation, and if so whether there are any loci of variation with effect size big enough to show significant association with dauer formation. I have no doubts that this project is addressing a significant issue in biology, and the authors make some headway. General enthusiasm aside, as Erik Andersen also notes in his review the main concern here is the noisiness of the assay that is mapped. In understanding how the dauer formation assays is done, I think I may see why it is so noisy. The authors are founding each plate with a single L4 larva and a fixed amount of food. This is easy to reproduce, so I see the appeal. However, to then reach starvation on the plate, we presumably are looking at the grandchildren of the founder worm. As an exponential process, tiny differences in the generation time or rate of egg laying in the first few hours would produce big variability in the total number of worms, and also in the increase of the signals that are stimulatory for dauer production. One could try to model the nature of this variation, but I don’t think this is author’s goal. An alternative, though admittedly requiring a whole new set of experiments, would be to seed plates with 20 or 200 L4 larvae, and score dauer formation in the first generation. This ought to be far less variable, yet should also be assessing the same basic phenotype, which could be seen as the threshold signal required to induce dauer development. Rather than repeating the entire scan, perhaps the authors could take their most discordant RILs and repeat this assay on them? It may produce a stronger signal, or at least confirm the initial screen.