This revision has been improved a lot regarding the MSF software and the analysis and discussion of results. This reviewer appreciates the efforts the authors have made to improve the manuscript and the software tool. However, one of the previous major concerns about poor writing has not been addressed carefully. Many typos, grammar errors (especially related to correct use of singular and plural forms of nouns and followed verbs), and other types of errors still exist. There are many examples, here are just some: In Abstract, “have proved tobe..”should be “have proved to be…” In Abstract, “changesdue to” should be “changes due to” In the first paragraph of Introduction, “during an infection providing…” should be “during an infection, providing…” “Peerreviewed” should be “Peer-reviewed” “…and combining it to functional pathway annotations” should be “…and combine it …” “regulating each others expression” should be “regulating each other’s expression” “to each a impact score and a measure of its reliability is assigned” should be “to each an impact score and a measure of its reliability are assigned” “git hub” should be “GitHub” In the equation for t(p), lambda in the first term in the denominator should have a subscript i. “default 2 gene” should be “default 2 genes” “the combined p-value of 3 the merged sub-graph”: should 3 be deleted? “containing the source weightage and the log-fold chances of all considered genes.” Should be “containing the source weights and the log-fold changes of all considered genes.” “…use MSF has been provided on git hub” should be “…use MSF have been provided on GitHub” “the detection of IFN-α/β as point of action for the virus, could be”: comma should not be used Table 1: “Number of connected sub-graph” should be “Number of connected sub-graphs” “MSF was compared to jActiveModules8 since they use similar…” should be “MSF was compared to jActiveModules8 since it uses similar…” “jActive-Modules” should be “jActiveModules”. In the “Reactome pathway analysis” section: Please make sure “lists” are used in many places (not list). “The here presented tool, MSF, employs a different approach…”: Delete “The” please Other comments: In the 'Abstract', authors pointed out “These methods … rely on binary separation into differentially expressed gene and unaffected genes based on an arbitrarily set p-value cut-off.”. However, as authors correctly described, the second type of classic pathway analysis approaches (e.g. GSEA) doesn’t do this. This should be changed. T-test is usually applied for data having normal distribution or close to normal distribution. Using t-test for pvalues to calculate source genes’ significance is questionable. In the “Case Study” section, “The modulated sub-graphs consist predominantly of Cytokines, chemokines (CXCL10, CCL8, CXCL9, CXCL11, CXCR4, CCR7, CCL4L1, CCL3L1, CCL4, CCL8, CCL20, CCL3, CCL19) and Interleukin genes (IL6, IL27, IL23).”: Interleukins are a type of cytokines. Therefore, this sentence should be modified. Human genes should be in upper case. However, genes listed in the Supplement-Material use lower case, for example, https://github.com/Modulated-Subgraph-Finder/MSF/blob/master/Supplement-Material/6H/SourcesAndSinks.text . This should be changed. 