This study gives a simple, but clear, description of the gap between Sierra Leone's health structure staffing ambitions and the actual state of affairs in Kailahun over the last several years. By merely measuring the difference between what the ministry of health and sanitation has set as staffing objectives and what it has achieved, the study is no more complicated than it needs to be. As such, the methods and results sections are suitably short and to the point. That being said, the paper would profit from going into greater depth in the discussion. This is hardly the first study to examine staffing shortfalls in Sierra Leone. The authors cite their own previous work, but there are other papers that merit mention in this domain. A quick PubMed search of "Sierra Leone Staffing" brings up a number of studies, some of which the authors may wish to include in their discussion of health structure staffing in Sierra Leone. The reader is also left in the dark as to how the Basic Package of Essential Health Services was put together and whether the levels set in this standard were tailored to well assessed needs in Sierra Leone, imported from another context, or are aspirational. As such, it is difficult for the reader to guess at the impact of the measured gap. The paper would benefit from some additional exploration of not meeting this standard. The authors speculate about the consequences of the severe non-medical under-staffing in terms of being unable to cope with infectious disease outbreaks because of insufficient hygiene staff, but at a 92% deficit of "administrative staff, cleaners, cooks, maintenance workers, drivers, and security personnel" (and this list should perhaps appear somewhere in the body of the paper and not just in a footnote to table 2), the day to day consequences should go well beyond this. The reader might also profit from some information about why the gap has persisted. The recommendation to mobilize additional financial resources suggests that the underlying problem is insufficient funding, which seems reasonable, but the foundation for this recommendation is never laid by any mention of what has caused the gap to remain. Perhaps the money is available but the qualified people are in the middle of their training programs? Other problems could be at work as well, but the authors do not explore this next logical step following from their findings. This is a nice simple study, but the readers would profit from the authors shedding more light on the meaning of their findings. 