 Section: Introduction Problem statement not clear. Section: Methods Suggest to add another section on “chemicals reagents”, the authors should list all the chemicals and reagents used in this study by clearly stating the brand, company, and country. Section: Plant materials and preparation of extracts Kindly provide a voucher specimen of the plant. Section: Results and discussion Kindly provide yield results. Caption for all the results (Table and Figure incomplete). Section: Results and discussion – Antioxidant activities Authors stated and cited phenolic content increased with the increasing polarity of solvent and extraction of total flavonoids significantly increased in polar solvents, which might contribute to the antioxidant activity by Barchan et al. , 2014 and Zhang, 2015. However, in the current study ethyl acetate showed to have higher antioxidant activities compared to methanol where methanol polarity is higher than the ethyl acetate. Kindly justify this. Section: Results and discussion – Antibacterial activity The authors should include the results for a positive control (reference drug), as it enables a comparison with the other treatment group. In addition, there is no statistical analysis provided. The concentration of the reference drug should be provided. Section: Results and discussion – Wound healing Kindly provide details of the figures and tables, such as SEM or SD. Kindly re-run the statistical analysis for the data of Figure 3 (especially Day 14) as the Control group showed big SEM or SD, however, there was a significant difference comparing Control and High dose at P0.01. Sample size of animal=3, which I doubt is enough for statistical analysis, minimum should have been at least 6 for each group. Kindly justify where is the positive group. The authors stated the study demonstrated dose dependent effect, however, I can’t see any dose dependent data. Kindly justify. Lack of labeling in Figure 4. Other comments: Tukey’s test is to compare all group, however, the way the author presented was more to Dunnet, which was compared to Control only 