The manuscript describes a method to create a graph genome from a set of input sequences, such as whole genome assembly. This is a topic of current interest to the community and I am not aware of another implementation for this problem. The paper implementation is practical and likely to be useful, but it is also clear that that there is considerable room for improvement and work in this field. The provide an algorithm and software. The algorithm has three steps: 1) Whole genome alignment 2) Local multiple sequence alignment 3) Graph construction/VCF construction from graph. There is a large body of literature on whole genome alignment which might be cited and explained to the reader what the difference is between the current method and previously described ones. Multiple sequence alignment is also a well studied problem, this literature might be cited and it is not clear why MAFFT was chosen over other implementations. I would suggest the authors find another word to replace “recombination” in their text, recombination has a well defined meaning in genetics/meiosis which to me seems to be different from the meaning the authors assign to the word. The authors say the branching points in the graph are recombination points between the input genomes, but they might as well be due to SVs. Why do the authors choose to claim that the human reference genome was completed in 2003? There have been a number of updates since then and the reference genome is still filled with gaps. The authors are using GRCh38 which was released in December 2013. Genomic sequencing can be considered to be a key tool in research since shortly after invented, certainly since long before 2003. On page 4, step 2 states that a global MSA is computed, but from figure 2 it is clear that this is in fact a series of local MSAs. I would suggest using another term than global alignment or at least refer to it as inexact/approximate global MSA. From figure 1, step 2.1 it might be inferred that identifying windows was a more involved process than partitioning the genome into 10kb windows. I am not sure how NovoGraph-Simple is implemented, the details are not described in the manuscript. For NovoGraph-Simple to be useful, it would be very useful if the “The positions where an input sequence deviates from the reference is represented as variant alleles in a valid VCF” was better defined. For inserted sequence, particularly microsatellites/STRs, there are multiple valid VCF records that can be created. Conventions such as left aligning would be useful for the user. If I understand correctly, NovoGraph-Universal is a BFS (breadth first search) of the graph. The authors might make a note of this. It is clear that NovoGraph-Universal is not a practical implementation for people studying a large number of genomes. Whenever a single sequence diverges from the reference all sequences are expanded. Once enough individuals have been sequenced this will lead to VCF files where each individual's’ chromosomes are the alternate allele. I have only evaluated the manuscript and not the software or the VCF files. 