Bankston and McDowell provide a comprehensive and well-written report on the status and impact of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) on the US postdoc population. This article is very timely given the “go-live” date for implementing this Act is less than a month away and given that there has been great consternation among academic institutions in terms of how the mandates will be implemented and what impacts it will have on institutions, postdocs, and science in general. While acceptable for publication now, there are minor changes that could improve the article. The non-yes (i.e, the “X” and “-“) annotations in dataset 1 should be defined. The y-axis of Figure 1 should be labeled. At the top of page 7, a deeper analysis comparing salary by region, public vs. private institutions, etc. is mentioned as a future direction. This is a critical aspect of understanding how the FLSA will differentially impact institutions and postdocs across the country. I believe it is a very important point that, for example, the cost of living in the middle of the country is not comparable to the cost of living on the east and west coast, which begs the question of whether such differences should be considered within the FLSA. Will this analysis be added to this current article as more data is collected or will this form the basis of another article? It is my opinion that this analysis would greatly strengthen and compliment the current article’s argument and impact. It may be interesting (and impactful) to add a current snapshot of what postdocs think of the FLSA implementation at their institutions. At my institution, postdocs have been very concerned about the short- and long-term impacts on their current positions and how any potential changes (eg, losing their position) may impact their career progression. It would be interesting to hear from postdocs representing institutions across the country (not just on the coasts). At the bottom of page 8 the authors begin to question how the FLSA will impact the biomedical enterprise. It would be more powerful if the authors were more definitive and concrete with their own opinions as to what impact FLSA will have on science. Some have argued that the FLSA will shrink the postdoc pool thus shrink the pipeline of future researchers thus set back the momentum of new science discoveries. The article could be more impactful if the authors wrote specific speculations as to the threats and opportunities that the FLSA will have on the biomedical enterprise. Similar to point #4, could the authors provide some specific recommendations to institutions, postdocs, the government, etc.? What implications will/could a new political party and leader have on FLSA? In summary, this is an important article that is acceptable for publication now although there are several areas that could be improved upon as noted above. As such, I look forward to reviewing any revised version of the article. 