In this paper the authors update and build on a method they have previously published known as ‘align3d’. This method attempts to infer the chromosome conformation based on images of fluorescently tagged genomic loci. The authors claim that this updated method increases the accuracy of the inferred conformation as well as allowing the method to run on larger instances of the problem. They then go on to demonstrate where the method allows for the near perfect reconstruction of larger scale, simulated, labelled images. We believe that the article is worthy of indexing on the condition that some minor issues, outlined below, are addressed. In the introduction the authors mention a couple of other methods attempting to resolve similar problems. I think that this section should be expanded as there is no critical comparison of how this method compares to each of those mentioned. In particular the computational methods should be compared and contrasted so it is clear to the reader how this method differs from others. Whilst reviewing this paper we were unable to access the supplementary data. This must be made available before the paper can be indexed. Some things the authors could include in the supplementary section that would be useful from the computational perspective would be the type of series expansion being used and any information on how quickly the series expansion converge to the original formula. The authors have experimentally checked on the convergence properties but sometimes it's quite simple to determine theoretically how quickly some approximation converges. This information could be useful in determining better expansions and would explain more concretely why they get some of the results they see. In the experimental section of the paper the authors generate three different types of simulation that they denote 'Toy', 'Experiment 1' and 'Experiment 2'. In the discussion of the results the authors make the following comment: ‘Use of more colors dramatically improves reconstructions. Our most striking result is that simulations of the ambitious Experiment 2 produce far better results than even the Toy scenario, despite the fact that these simulations have more loci per color than either the Toy scenario or Experiment 1. This can be seen in the amount of unrecovered information shown in the simulation-averaged plots of Figure 5A. Thus a push to 20-color labeling could prove critical for genomic reconstruction at the chromosome scale and beyond. At the end of this section we revisit Experiment 2, in order to assess the reconstruction quality when analyzing more realistic DNA contours having tighter confinement.’ The authors should make some attempt to explain this situation. Actually if you increase the number of colours and also increase the number of loci with the same colour then you would not obviously assume that the problem should be harder. It very much depends on how each is increased within proportion to each other. An increase in the number of unique colours available should lead to the problem being exponentially easier as you are effectively exponentially decreasing the ambiguity in the data set. Should you also increase the number of loci labelled with the same colour then you wouldn't expect the problem to become harder unless that increase was large enough to outweigh the effects of the increase in the number of available colours. In this sense it could be argued that many instances of the 'Toy' example are fundamentally more challenging than the (on the face of it) more complicated 'Experiment 2'. This should somehow be addressed by the authors. Also in the discussion of the experimental results the authors note that '20-color labelling leads to near-perfect reconstructions.' This result is consistent with our results reported by Barton et al. (2017 1 ). It would be good to mention this as although the computational methods are different, the simulations are generated in different ways and the resolution simulated is different, both methods suggest that if ~20 colours are available then near perfect reconstruction is possible. The authors should also point out the similarity of the number of colours needed in both their method and ours. The differences in computational methodology yet similarity in the numbers of colours needed for near perfect reconstruction perhaps suggests to me that both methods are in some sense 'naive'. There must exist a minimum number of colours required for a certain average reconstruction performance (with the appropriate caveats) but we would be surprised if it was as high as 20. It could be interesting to see the authors add some discussion about this connection and any insight they might have into it. Finally there have been a number of different attempts to simulate super resolved images of the type used in this and other computational methods. If the authors can use this data as input or the data can easily be coerced into an appropriate format for this method then the paper would be much stronger with the addition of results of using the method against these datasets. In this way the authors can clearly demonstrate that the method they propose is not simply good on their own simulated data, but also performs robustly on other independently generated simulations. 