This manuscript addresses the question how epiphyte communities in tropical montane forests may be affected by climate change by transplanting epiphyte mats between forests at different altitudes. This is a reasonable proxy of what might happen under climate change with moderate temperature changes and substantial changes in cloud base height and thus available humidity. The paper is well written, the experiment is clearly described and the analysis is logical (if complex). I do suggest some additional thoughts and caveats - for the discussion mainly. As one might expect, the outcome of such a study (four genera, three altitudes, three parameters evaluated) is complex, with significant and (mostly) non-significant effects. Overall the effect was perhaps less than expected (at least compared to a similar study by Nadkarni Solano (2009) from Costa Rica). In this case, one tends to pick the significant effects that confirm expectations and ignore those that do not. The authors should avoid simplifying too much, particularly in the abstract, which is what most people will read. The abstract states that "Ramet mortality increased, recruitment decreased, and population size declined for epiphytes in mats transplanted down slope from the highest elevation". This appears to contrast with the results ("Across all species, there were no significant effects on survival of any of the treatments for mats transplanted across elevations" ). Details of the experimental species used are covered in the methods and results sections, however it seems that the plants were either identified only to the genus level or several species (identified or not) were included within each genus. Unless the authors are sure that only one species per genus was used, they should refer to the groups as "genus", and not "species". It is a substantial difference if we compare one species with individuals adapted to different climates within their phenotypic plasticity, or species differing in their evolutionary adaptations. This should be made clear in the methods section and acknowledged in the discussion. Under drought, plants or ramets may completely die off, but drought first results in weaker plants that exhaust their resources. As such, the effect of being transplanted to a different climate may take more than one year to produce significant effects on population size or also on other parameters studied. This should be acknowledged. The discussion suggests that epiphytes may be fairly drought tolerant in the forest studied because they must have survived unusually dry years (such as 2005, at the beginning of the experiment). This is a good point, and to put this into context it would be good to show precipitation trends (perhaps monthly sums for the closest station available) over several years preceding and including the experiment. Minor comments: Please explain how the daily photographs used to compare the cloud base height were taken and analyzed. The correct name is Scaphyglottis , not Schaphyglottis . Why does Table 4 have three elevations for Elaphoglossum , one for Maxillaria (all not significant) and none for the other two genera? 