This manuscript is part three in a series of three articles, which taken together postulate a novel and intriguing hypothetical mechanism of 'vasculature morphogenesis' in tumors involving formation of blood and vessels from local tissue stem cells. The reviewed manuscript, as written, is in some places difficult to read, as the authors tend to discuss several issues at once and often jump from subject to subject, generating sometimes a little bit of narrative chaos. Also, this manuscript may be difficult to comprehend without the context of the remaining two companion articles and quoted references. For this reason, I would suggest, that all three articles should have been published together. Moreover, another problem with this kind of functional morphology research is that the researchers have to present their observational study describing what they see, interpreting pictures qualitatively and deriving working hypotheses without translating visual fields into numbers and supporting statistics, which would be meaningless in this study, as there are no conflicting hypotheses to test, or control group to compare. Anyway, in this manuscript, the authors could more clearly separate their own results from extended discussions (especially in the “Results” section), and perhaps, could easily cut from their interpretations some embellishments, like for example “... The approach used here could facilitate integration of accumulated cyber knowledge on cancer metabolism into predictive science ...” (quoted right from the Abstract). But besides its style, this manuscript is well documented and seems to be methodologically sound. It formulates and substantiates a very innovative hypothetical mechanism of vasculature morphogenesis in situ , including enhanced glycolysis in growing tumor tissue under aerobic conditions, seemingly due to cellular heterogeneity of tumors. The strength of this study lies in the use of in situ methods, involving, after Frost and Borgstrom (2003) , the implantation of cultured breast tumor spheroids into the healthy mouse skin fold chamber, incubation for 1 or 3 weeks in vivo , followed by dissecting the tissue and processing it for electron microscopy. The electron microscopy was supported by immunocytochemistry, using antibodies to identify specific molecules in situ . Unfortunately, due to methodological constraints, the redox potential in the tissue microenvironment and the rate of respiration/energy production were only indirectly inferred from the structural changes in the mitochondria, but appropriately interpreted as indicative of their temporary functional disability which correlated with mitosis. On the other hand, to my knowledge, currently there is no ethical method for direct measurement of microenvironmental tissue oxygenation and/or ATP/ADP ratio in non-anesthetized animals in vivo . Thus, verification of the postulated hypothetical mechanism may need to wait until such a method will be developed. While the title seems to be appropriate for the content of the article, the abstract deserves a revision to more clearly describe the biological system investigated, the methods used, the results obtained and the hypothetical mechanism postulated. Even though the article is relatively well constructed, its clarity could be further improved by separating the results observed by the authors from interpretations based on reports by other researchers. In any event, the interpretations and the postulated mechanism are sensible and well documented.