The authors present an interesting work for predicting cancer cells drug responses based on " the gene expression profile of 47 genes representing significant hubs in pan cancer transcriptomes" from untreated cells lines. The approach is original, as they did not select a specific set of genes from drug sensitivity experiments, but proposed " an unbiased discovery approach, motivated by the hypothesis that co-expression network hubs encode useful information for investigating drug response in vitro " . Next, they investigated co-expression network hubs and drug responses and validated their approach using independant data sets including cell line-drug data. The study is well conceived and executed. The approaches used are suitable, and the description of work is adequately detailed. Data are clearly presented, and for the most part conclusions are reasonable. The method appears interesting, I think the paper would be a nice contribution that will be well-cited. Despite the difficulty of comparison, prediction performance of the model was compared to existing published methods and shows comparable results. Moreover the manuscript is well written. The authors need to clarify on the following points: Figure1: It will be better to specify the type of data (microarrays?) and source (CCLE?) in input for "transcriptomic data from untreated cell lines". Methods, page 4 : The reason why removal of genes is needed is not clear: "Although lasso or elastic net regularizations are also suitable approaches, they would have required the estimation of additional learning parameters and the removal of genes, which were deemed biologically interesting before model training......." Methods, page 5 (line 24) : The authors should specify what they mean by " the original data" which kind of files they used (raw data, gene counts ...). (line 28: RNS-seq instead of RNA-seq). Results, page 9: Could the authors specify if drugs with nearest clusters or CI values belong to a same drug "class" or not? Is there a relationship between performance prediction and drug classes? Results, page 9: This sentence is not clear: " As the GDSC dataset shares "different" cell lines in common with CCLE ..." Results, page 12: " However elastic net model required 613 genes as input features" : Does this set include the 47-hub model genes? Discussion, page 14: Prediction performance and cancer types is discussed, what about "hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues"? This cancer type seems to strongly differ from other types in their drug responses and gene expression (see Figures 2 and 4). Could the authors comment on these data? Discussion, page 16: " Nevertheless future work could benefit from the incorporation of other "omics" data .. CCLE RNA-seq dataset could allow the analysis of transcript-level ( gene isoform)". However RNA-seq technology has a larger potential than extracting transcript isoform and allows to extract genomic (mutation, indels, gene fusion, ...) and transcriptomic events (gene expression, splice variant, non-coding RNA), could the authors enlarge their comment about this potential and their prediction method? Also what about epigenetics data to predict drug sensitivity? 