The authors have done an excellent job responding to my concerns. I agree that a latent factor for nicotine use would make sense as a single latent factor, and that additional covariates would add complications. However, the additional exploratory analyses which include such covariates show that the findings are robust. I have a few remaining comments: My biggest concern is that the authors should be careful not to conclude *no relationship* between e-cigarettes and later cigarette use. Using the significance testing here, that cannot be concluded. A couple specific points: Such results should be worded as, e.g. “not significantly associated with” instead of “not associated with” (p. 6). Though the Beta coefficient does not reach statistical significance, it does look like it’s trending towards a small but positive value (~0.13) based on most of the confidence interval being above 0. It is possible then, that with larger sample sizes, this could become significant. Therefore it might be helpful to also phrase this as, “common liability is sufficient to explain later cigarette use” if this is backed up by your results. In this vein, it might be valuable to do something like a nested model test of M1 vs. a model where the path from e-cigarettes to later cigarette use is removed; if the model fit does not substantially worsen, then this would support e-cigarettes not having any additional explanatory power in addition to that of the latent factor. An inconsistency with respect to how p-values are treated: in one place, p=.054 is interpreted as “not statistically significant”; but in another place, p=.074 is interpreted as “marginally associated.” This highlights the importance of interpreting the effect sizes as well (e.g. Beta coefficients). It would be more appropriate to use “nicotine” rather than “tobacco” in most instances, as e-cigarettes contain nicotine but not tobacco. Another recent paper may be relevant in the literature review on common liability: Foxon Selya, 2020, Addiction 1 , which shows that total nicotine use trends (i.e. the use of any nicotine product) has not changed after the introduction of e-cigarettes. References 1. Foxon F, Selya A: Electronic cigarettes, nicotine use trends and use initiation ages among US adolescents from 1999 to 2018. Addiction . 2020. Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Behavioral science, esp. nicotine use and dependence among adolescents I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Selya A. Reviewer Report For: E-cigarette use and onset of first cigarette smoking among adolescents: An empirical test of the ‘common liability’ theory [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 8 :2099 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.26067.r63037 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-2099/v2#referee-response-63037 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 23 Jun 2020 Hui Cheng , Altria Client Services, Richmond, USA 23 Jun 2020 Author Response We thank the reviewer for the positive response. We have amended the manuscript based on reviewer's comments. To address the reviewer's comment about non-significant relationships, we have made the following ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for the positive response. We have amended the manuscript based on reviewer's comments. To address the reviewer's comment about non-significant relationships, we have made the following revisions to the manuscript: (1) we have changed description of null associations to “not statistically significant…”; (2) we have changed the first sentence in the Discussion section to “In this study, we found that the latent ‘common liability to use nicotine products’ construct is sufficient to explain later onset of smoking among US adolescents.”; (3) we have used consistent description for p-values and highlighted the importance of the beta coefficients (last paragraph of Results) and; (4) we have added the following language in the Discussion section “In this study, we observed a much smaller point estimates for the e-cigarette-to-smoking relationship compared to estimates for the common-liability-to-smoking relationship. Together with the fairly large sample size of PATH (which grants reasonable statistical power), it suggests that the “common liability to nicotine use” is sufficient to explain the onset of cigarette smoking among adolescents.” We agree with the reviewer that a test of nested models would help make the point that the e-cigarette-to-cigarette path does not substantially improve the model fit. Regrettably, the use of replicate weights (to properly calculate the variance) precludes such formal comparisons of model fit. Nonetheless, as we mentioned above, we have added language emphasizing the effect size estimates. With respect to the reviewer's comment about using 'nicotine' instead of 'tobacco,' we thank the reviewer for pointing it out. The point is well taken. Nonetheless, we decided to retain the term 'tobacco products' for the following reasons: (1) although e-cigarettes do not contain natural tobacco, they typically contain tobacco-derived nicotine; (2) the FDA has deemed and regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products, (3) other nicotine products (e.g., nicotine replacement therapy or novel oral tobacco-derived nicotine products) are not included in this study. We hope these reasons are sufficient to justify our use of ‘tobacco’ products in this manuscript. We thank the reviewer to bring the recent paper to our attention. We have cited the paper in the Introduction section of the revised manuscript (reference #20). We thank the reviewer for the positive response. We have amended the manuscript based on reviewer's comments. To address the reviewer's comment about non-significant relationships, we have made the following revisions to the manuscript: (1) we have changed description of null associations to “not statistically significant…”; (2) we have changed the first sentence in the Discussion section to “In this study, we found that the latent ‘common liability to use nicotine products’ construct is sufficient to explain later onset of smoking among US adolescents.”; (3) we have used consistent description for p-values and highlighted the importance of the beta coefficients (last paragraph of Results) and; (4) we have added the following language in the Discussion section “In this study, we observed a much smaller point estimates for the e-cigarette-to-smoking relationship compared to estimates for the common-liability-to-smoking relationship. Together with the fairly large sample size of PATH (which grants reasonable statistical power), it suggests that the “common liability to nicotine use” is sufficient to explain the onset of cigarette smoking among adolescents.” We agree with the reviewer that a test of nested models would help make the point that the e-cigarette-to-cigarette path does not substantially improve the model fit. Regrettably, the use of replicate weights (to properly calculate the variance) precludes such formal comparisons of model fit. Nonetheless, as we mentioned above, we have added language emphasizing the effect size estimates. With respect to the reviewer's comment about using 'nicotine' instead of 'tobacco,' we thank the reviewer for pointing it out. The point is well taken. Nonetheless, we decided to retain the term 'tobacco products' for the following reasons: (1) although e-cigarettes do not contain natural tobacco, they typically contain tobacco-derived nicotine; (2) the FDA has deemed and regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products, (3) other nicotine products (e.g., nicotine replacement therapy or novel oral tobacco-derived nicotine products) are not included in this study. We hope these reasons are sufficient to justify our use of ‘tobacco’ products in this manuscript. We thank the reviewer to bring the recent paper to our attention. We have cited the paper in the Introduction section of the revised manuscript (reference #20). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 23 Jun 2020 Hui Cheng , Altria Client Services, Richmond, USA 23 Jun 2020 Author Response We thank the reviewer for the positive response. We have amended the manuscript based on reviewer's comments. To address the reviewer's comment about non-significant relationships, we have made the following ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for the positive response. We have amended the manuscript based on reviewer's comments. To address the reviewer's comment about non-significant relationships, we have made the following revisions to the manuscript: (1) we have changed description of null associations to “not statistically significant…”; (2) we have changed the first sentence in the Discussion section to “In this study, we found that the latent ‘common liability to use nicotine products’ construct is sufficient to explain later onset of smoking among US adolescents.”; (3) we have used consistent description for p-values and highlighted the importance of the beta coefficients (last paragraph of Results) and; (4) we have added the following language in the Discussion section “In this study, we observed a much smaller point estimates for the e-cigarette-to-smoking relationship compared to estimates for the common-liability-to-smoking relationship. Together with the fairly large sample size of PATH (which grants reasonable statistical power), it suggests that the “common liability to nicotine use” is sufficient to explain the onset of cigarette smoking among adolescents.” We agree with the reviewer that a test of nested models would help make the point that the e-cigarette-to-cigarette path does not substantially improve the model fit. Regrettably, the use of replicate weights (to properly calculate the variance) precludes such formal comparisons of model fit. Nonetheless, as we mentioned above, we have added language emphasizing the effect size estimates. With respect to the reviewer's comment about using 'nicotine' instead of 'tobacco,' we thank the reviewer for pointing it out. The point is well taken. Nonetheless, we decided to retain the term 'tobacco products' for the following reasons: (1) although e-cigarettes do not contain natural tobacco, they typically contain tobacco-derived nicotine; (2) the FDA has deemed and regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products, (3) other nicotine products (e.g., nicotine replacement therapy or novel oral tobacco-derived nicotine products) are not included in this study. We hope these reasons are sufficient to justify our use of ‘tobacco’ products in this manuscript. We thank the reviewer to bring the recent paper to our attention. We have cited the paper in the Introduction section of the revised manuscript (reference #20). We thank the reviewer for the positive response. We have amended the manuscript based on reviewer's comments. To address the reviewer's comment about non-significant relationships, we have made the following revisions to the manuscript: (1) we have changed description of null associations to “not statistically significant…”; (2) we have changed the first sentence in the Discussion section to “In this study, we found that the latent ‘common liability to use nicotine products’ construct is sufficient to explain later onset of smoking among US adolescents.”; (3) we have used consistent description for p-values and highlighted the importance of the beta coefficients (last paragraph of Results) and; (4) we have added the following language in the Discussion section “In this study, we observed a much smaller point estimates for the e-cigarette-to-smoking relationship compared to estimates for the common-liability-to-smoking relationship. Together with the fairly large sample size of PATH (which grants reasonable statistical power), it suggests that the “common liability to nicotine use” is sufficient to explain the onset of cigarette smoking among adolescents.” We agree with the reviewer that a test of nested models would help make the point that the e-cigarette-to-cigarette path does not substantially improve the model fit. Regrettably, the use of replicate weights (to properly calculate the variance) precludes such formal comparisons of model fit. Nonetheless, as we mentioned above, we have added language emphasizing the effect size estimates. With respect to the reviewer's comment about using 'nicotine' instead of 'tobacco,' we thank the reviewer for pointing it out. The point is well taken. Nonetheless, we decided to retain the term 'tobacco products' for the following reasons: (1) although e-cigarettes do not contain natural tobacco, they typically contain tobacco-derived nicotine; (2) the FDA has deemed and regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products, (3) other nicotine products (e.g., nicotine replacement therapy or novel oral tobacco-derived nicotine products) are not included in this study. We hope these reasons are sufficient to justify our use of ‘tobacco’ products in this manuscript. We thank the reviewer to bring the recent paper to our attention. We have cited the paper in the Introduction section of the revised manuscript (reference #20). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 13 Dec 2019 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Gallagher A and Sulsky SI. Reviewer Report For: E-cigarette use and onset of first cigarette smoking among adolescents: An empirical test of the ‘common liability’ theory [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 8 :2099 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.23544.r57841 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-2099/v1#referee-response-57841 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 28 Jan 2020 Alexa Gallagher , Ramboll, Amhurst, USA Sandra I. Sulsky , Ramboll US Corporation, Amherst, MA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.23544.r57841 Cheng et al. (2019) examines the association between e-cigarette use and onset of cigarette smoking in youth between the ages of 12 and 17 years in the U.S. They utilize nationally representative and publicly available data from the PATH study. ... Continue reading READ ALL 