This paper describes the protocol for a clinical trial releasing Wolbachia bacterium infected male and female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in Medelln and Bello, Colombia, with the primary endpoint objective of demonstrating reduction of human dengue infections in the population living in the treated areas. Wolbachia infected female release over time results in replacement of the uninfected Aedes aegypti population with Wolbachia infected mosquitoes that have reduced ability to transmit arboviruses. The study design has two components, an interrupted time series (ITS) approach using passive arboviral disease surveillance data from Bello and a large area of Medelln, and a prospective case-control in a smaller area of northeast Medellin using arbovirus laboratory test negative acute febrile illness controls in 6 early release and late release zones. The studies begin approximately one year after mosquito releases (in 2018 for the early release zone and 2019 for the releases outside the case-control area) to allow for mosquito population replacement. This study employs a novel Aedes aegypti vector control approach to address the major and growing tropical public health problem of Aedes transmitted arboviruses including dengue, Zika, and chikungunya viruses. The authors point out that such studies are badly needed as conventional Aedes aegypti vector control approaches have failed or been shown to be non-sustainable, and the only currently licensed dengue vaccine is partially effective and requires a laboratory test prior to immunization. This study protocol builds on laboratory and fieldwork in Australia and elsewhere, and is well designed and well written with considerable detail (design, statistical power and analysis, laboratory testing, data management, etc) to address the question of human arboviral disease impact of Wolbachia replacement in a highly endemic tropical urban setting in Latin America. The protocol is intentionally “pragmatic” to roll out the intervention at large scale under operational conditions in a timely and cost effective manner acceptable to the study community. The authors thus effectively answer potential criticisms of the study design not being a cluster randomized clinical trial as recommended by the WHO Vector Control Advisory Group. The case control study design also importantly accounts for the extent of replacement with Wolbachia infected mosquitoes in the treated area and human mobility out of the treatment area with a calculated Wolbachia exposure index calculated for each acute febrile illness patient. The test negative case control study design obviates the need for expensive clinical cohort follow up to monitor disease incidence and treated and untreated areas. The authors correctly point out that the risk estimate from the test negative case control approach is likely to be unbiased and can be used to calculate efficacy confidence limits. The ITS approach is a less rigorous experimental design in that the vast majority of passively reported cases are not virologically confirmed, and surveillance may not be always be done in a consistent manner, but is another practical approach using available data from the Ministry of Health that allows for monitoring of reductions in arboviral case reports over a long time period (5 years) after the Wolbachia replacement treatment during which arbovirus outbreak cycles would be expected to occur. The discussion appropriately comments on the potential generalizability of the findings to other settings and that cost effectiveness analysis of this approach is underway. The following are suggestions to clarify aspects of the protocol: Background: While Medelln is clearly highly endemic for dengue, including the historical annual average incidence of dengue would be of interest, as the case-control study will be just be done over a one year time period. Dengue transmission dropped to unusually low levels throughout most of South America after the Zika epidemic, and is on the increase in the region as of mid-2019. Methods: The entomologic details regarding the mosquito releases and strain(s) of Wolbachia could be expanded upon. What is being done differently in 2018 and 2019 compared to the 2017 releases that achieved temporary high Wolbachia prevalence? More details on the Wolbachia sampling and monitoring strategy would be helpful. What is the extent of the monitoring area? All comuna outside the case-control area? Checking BG traps once a week does not ensure that the mosquito specimens will be identified correctly because of damage from the trap fans to captured mosquitoes. Many samples will be lost because of loss of power, ants, etc. BG traps should be checked daily. For the ITS component and the secondary endpoint of severe dengue incidence, how does the Ministry of Health define severe dengue, and has severe dengue been consistently defined over time? Regarding the case control study participant recruitment, what is the possibility that patients with acute febrile illness in the study areas will seek care in clinics outside the network? With regard to the laboratory testing algorithm to exclude potential dengue serologic positives from being control patients, the authors could more explicitly state that PanBio IgG ELISA test is designed with cutoffs to only detect high IgG titers consistent with acute secondary infections, and not past infections. Excluding all patients with IgG antibody due to past dengue infection in this setting would eliminate a large percentage of the potential control patients. Consider observing changes in the vector-bacteria-virus interaction through time. Coevolution is likely. Whether virus blocking ability changes over time (e.g., lowered bacteria concentration in the mosquito cells) is not clear. 