Thank you to give me the opportunity to review, and comment on the article entitled (Thyroid hormonal changes among women with polycystic ovarian syndrome in Baghdad - a case-control study) published by Moustafa et al. The article discussing an interesting subject, and aimed to assess the status of thyroid disorders in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). Moustafa et al., stated in the introduction section that the global prevalence of polycystic ovaries among women is 25% 1 . While, others mentioned that the PCOS affects 15-20% of women when the ESHRE/ASRM diagnostic criteria used 2 . Moustafa et al. , mentioned that PCOS is a state of insulin resistance, which is considered to be the main factor contributing to development of the syndrome; diagnosis is based on the presence of two out of three of the following: clinical and/or biochemical androgen excess, anovulation and polycystic ovaries on pelvic ultrasound 3 . While, other authors mentioned that PCOS has a reproductive manifestations (anovulation, and hyperandrogenism), and adverse metabolic outcome (insulin resistance (IR), and glucose intolerance) 4 ' 5 . So, IR is not a constant finding of PCOS, and it is only a manifestation of the PCOS with metabolic syndrome (MS). In addition, the PCOS should be diagnosed following the ESHRE/ASRM recommendation after exclusion of causes of hyperandrogenism such as late onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), androgen secreting adrenal or ovarian tumors, and Cushing's syndrome 4 ' 5 . So, Moustafa et al ., should include the late onset CAH, and Cushing`s syndrome in their study exclusion criteria. Moustafa et al ., mentioned that hypothyroidism, is more common in women with PCOS than in the general population (40% of patients with PCOS showed sub-clinical hypothyroidism (SCH)). Also, they mentioned that the most obvious connection between thyroid diseases, and PCOS seem to be an increase in body mass index (BMI). Enzevaei et al . found that 25.5% of subjects with PCOS have SCH 6 . Similarly, Sinha et al. found that 22.5% subjects with PCOS were reported to have SCH 7 . This can be explained by the high BMI of the PCOS-women, which produces relative thyroid hormone deficiency, and SCH. The non-diagnosed SCH of the PCOS-women converted to overt/clinical hypothyroidism with further increase in BMI. Consequently, the overt/clinical hypothyroidism, produces anovulation, and subsequent increased severity of PCOS 9 . This explains why Abdelazim and Kanshaiym, recommended screening of PCOS-women for the hypothyroidism 9 . 