The sheer volume of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) scholarship published over the past year is unprecedented in the forty-year history of the disease. This paper provides a close examination of what is reported as an over 12-fold increase in biomedical output, scrutinizing trends in publication content, authorship, disciplinary orientations and institutional origins, as well as availability. A central conclusion of this analysis is that EVD-literature surges in late 2014, coinciding with both the peak of the outbreak in West Africa and media attention. The paper benefits from a robust methodological approach; the search criteria are well considered and rigorously applied. Some further detail about the timelines for publication might have been useful: for instance, how long from submission would a research article take to be published, and whether different timeframes exist for research as opposed to commentary pieces. This further analysis might qualify the claims regarding the simultaneity of the volume of publications and the dramatic rise in Ebola cases. That being said, the granularity of the sub-analysise.g. assessing the number of papers authored by researchers affiliated with institutions in West Africagenerates some intriguing insights into the shifts in scientific interest from basic Ebola science to the specific features of the current outbreak, and suggests some of the constraints of scientific collaborations in countries with weak research infrastructure. The subject analysis also offers some tantalizing leads into the prominence of certain research areasfor instance vaccinesduring a time a global health crisis. My central reservation is that these connections are not explored further. The general point that media coverage and research agendas are inter-related seems hardly surprising. Indeed, scholarship in scientific communication and science and technology studies has illuminated these links as well as the politics of funding in considerable detail. With such a potentially rich dataset to hand, it is frustrating that the authors are not more ambitious in their interpretations, comparing for instance, a similar set of trends in the literature published during the Avian Flu or SARS epidemics. Has the emphasis on shifted? In what ways has the institutional geography of authorship changed? In general, this is an intriguing article that offers a solid overview on the dynamics of scientific output in response to a global threat. My only regret is that the analytical agenda was not bolder, for it could have led to a few more surprising conclusions. 