In this review, the authors describe the biology behind the evolution of antimicrobial resistance, with a focus on the resistance against colistin, one of the "last-resort" antibiotics. An alarming development was reported in 2016, where a form of resistance was discovered that could be readily transferred to other bacteria. Researchers first discovered this resistance in China, quickly followed by findings of similar resistance patterns in other countries. These discoveries relied in part on the use of high throughput sequencing. The review is very short and it is understandable that, within these four pages, the authors can't expand these themes in too many details. Still, I have a few minor and a few major comments about the current version of the article. Minor comments: The flow of the different sections of the review is a bit off in my opinion: a) The section "Colistin resistance trends in Africa" describes the observed burden of colistin resistance in this continent b) the section "Evolution to plasmid mediated colistin resistance …" describes the biology and mechanism of colistin resistance, from chromosomal to plasmid-mediated. c) the section "Pan-drug resistance and characteristics…" describes, generally, the phenomena that gives rise to AMR. It would make more sense, to me, to rework these sections in the order c), b) then a). The sentence "Furthermore, phenomena such as genome plasticity and pan genomes that have the ability to influence bacterial resistome can only effectively be investigated using HTS and bioinformatics analyses." needs to be better explained and referenced. Also, pan genomes are not, in my opinion, "phenomena". The section "Evolution to plasmid mediated colistin resistance..." explains the mechanisms of action of chromosome-mediated resistance, then simply lists the genes involved in plasmid-mediated resistance, with no indication about modes of action of these genes, and whether it is different from the ones described previously. I noticed at least one incomplete sentence ("Plasmid transfer of the colistin resistance mobile genes, mcr-1, mcr-2, and also mcr-3.") Major comments: The section on Africa needs to be reworked. First, the Figure says "Adapted from Xavier et al. under a CC-BY 4.0 license". I don't know about the license and rights, but I didn't notice any difference with the original figure, so a more appropriate phrasing would be "Reproduced from…" (or, if I missed it, a better indication on how it was adapted). Second, I don't see how the figure supports the statement "The limited available literature from African settings has reported the mcr-1 gene mediated colistin resistance to be most prevalent in Africa, largely in South Africa, and this covers the largest portion of Africa according to the global map"; according to the figure, detection in Africa does not look more prevalent compared to other continents. Finally, the text mentions detection in South Africa, Algeria, Rwanda and Uganda, while the maps shows South Africa, Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt. The last section, "The role of high-throughput sequencing …" is very generic, and barely addresses how this applied to colistin resistance, as the tile of the review suggests. It contain very general statements about the possibilities of HTS for AMR detection, that have been reviewed in more details in a few recent publications. The authors should take the opportunity of assessing how HTS led to the rapid detection of the spread of the newly identified colistin resistance risk, in a way that was not possible before. Relevant studies should include, among others, the following: Hasman, H., Hammerum, A.M., Hansen, F., Hendriksen, R.S., Olesen, B., Agers, Y., Zankari, E., Leekitcharoenphon, P., Stegger, M., Kaas, R.S., et al. (2015). Detection of mcr-1 encoding plasmid-mediated colistin-resistant Escherichia coli isolates from human bloodstream infection and imported chicken meat 1 . Kluytmans–van den Bergh, M.F., Huizinga, P., M. J. Bonten, M. Bos, K. De Bruyne, A. W. Friedrich, J. W. Rossen, P. H. Savelkoul, and J. A. Kluytmans. (2009) Presence of mcr-1-positive Enterobacteriaceae in retail chicken meat but not in humans in the Netherlands since 2009 2 . Yu, C. Y., Ang, G. Y., Chong, T. M., Chin, P. S., Ngeow, Y. F., Yin, W. F., Chan, K. G. (2016). Complete genome sequencing revealed novel genetic contexts of the mcr-1 gene in Escherichia coli strains 3 . 