This review is, as its self-set goal goes, very well substantiated, balanced and timely. There is no factual correction in itself that is necessary in my view. However, I wish to give a few critical feedbacks to the authors that they may wish to integrate. I would prefer if they did, but in my view it is unfair to formally demand such an extension. However, the debate itself would profit. My point is regarding the presuppositions of the current model the authors implicitly subscribe to, for instance when they say randomised trials “provide the highest level of evidence” (1 st para). This is true, but only from a - debated – point of departure that accepts the hierarchisation of evidence as a given and true proposal. As it happens, we, and others, have debated this [1,2]. The hierarchisation of evidence accepts – without further reflection – that internal and external validity are compatible, linear concepts, where first internal evidence can be gleaned and is prior and superior to external validity. This I find an unsubstantiated point of view that needs at least acknowledgement. All the arguments in this paper address the improvement of internal validity, and as such they are very good. The argument that “specific” effects have to be tested against “non-specific” or placebo-effects and therefore blinding is necessary also makes presuppositions that are not clarified and critically debated. The presupposition is that there is such a thing as separability of these effects. This separability argument is highly speculative, very little researched and where and when researched found to be wrong [3, 4]. One can, of course, try and disentangle various components of interventions. And especially where interventions are costly or fraught with side-effects this is even an ethical requirement, because else patients would be submitted to problematic procedures with little benefit or where other interventions might be just as good, all taken together. But one should be clear about the fact that this is not something that automatically gets rid of all problems in evaluating therapeutic procedures. Therefore, I think the arguments the authors present are valid within the context of improving internal validity of intervention trials that offer costly and potentially dangerous or problematic interventions. But I think the authors should be clear themselves that this is not a universally valid strategy and it would be wise to integrate some caveats and restrictions in their argument. 