The presented article is a summary of current findings regarding the driving factors in deciding to pursue MD training, PhD training, or both. Based on findings in the cited literature, the article discusses a psychological drive for intellectual stimulation, together with available mentorship, as the most consistent drivers of these decisions. Examples for different career paths are presented, based on interviews that the authors have conducted. All of this is presented from a Canadian / North American perspective. The article is very well written and the topic is timely and should be interesting and useful to a large number of readers. While the article is very good as it is, I would like to raise a few discussion points in the hope that they might improve the manuscript further: As mentioned above, the presented information is given in the context of the Canadian / North American system and the authors make this clear at several points in the text (as well as in the title) so as not to create any confusion. However, for a reader outside of this region, it might be useful to know that much of the information given in the text might be different for them: not all countries offer combined MD/PhD career paths, and/or the interplay between clinical work and research might be structured differently. Similarly, funding structures differ between countries, and the decision to go in a specific direction might have to be made earlier or in a different context than in the given examples. I don't think that all of this needs to be described here, as it would distract from the main points of the text, but I think it would be useful to mention, either in a footnote or in the Discussion section, that the influence of personal values as described here might conceivably be different in an international context, where other/additional influential factors might be at play. I very much appreciate the authors addressing the gender imbalance in academia, which is certainly an influencing factor on individual career decisions. This is similar to the situation for people with a low socioeconomic background or those belonging to an underrepresented minority (URM). Now, it is not my intent to dilute the very important discussion of gender issues by introducing another topic that will then compete for the reader's attention. However, it does feel that its omission makes the article miss an important additional influential factor of career paths and decisions, especially since discouragement is being discussed. My recommendation would be to mention this topic in a footnote or in the discussion section, making the point that, similar to the mentioned gender imbalance, belonging to an URM or coming from a non-academic or low-socioeconomic background can present a filter, limiting one's actual or perceived options regarding academic career paths. These filters might not act in the same way, to the same degree, or at the same entry points as the mentioned gender imbalance, and they might not have been studied to the same degree. Nevertheless, they might interact with the mentioned deterrents to limit options and to otherwise impede the decision-making process. A minor note: it is mentioned that women in academia are less likely to be married than those in private practice (citation 13). Were they also less likely to be married than men in comparable positions? I assume this is the case; either way it might be an interesting addition to this sentence, maybe in parentheses or as a footnote. Thank you very much for writing this important and interesting article. 