This paper offers methods to calculate patient risk scores and predict survival times from proportional hazard models in the context of the Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge. The author used a two-step feature selection procedure by first using a combination of the LASSO and significance testing and then using a forward selection method. The challenge consisted of two parts. In one part the contestants were to assign global risk scores to patients and in the other they were to predict survival times. The author states that the results of the methods in question for the former outcome did not make it into the top-10 of the challenge. However, the paper seems to conclude that the two-step feature selection is superior to one-step feature selection. This is possibly based on a comparison with the DREAM benchmark model only. In this case, the paper would benefit from a more specific statement. For the feature selection it seems unclear if the LASSO variable selection was done conditionally on the categorical predictors (without penalizing their coefficients) or marginally on only the continuous predictors. Cross-validation seems to have been carried out incorrectly in the sense that only the second step (the forward selection) and not the first step was cross-validated. Whether this has consequences for the quality of the selection is unclear, but the estimated iAUC-values reported in Figure 2 are suspiciously large – and they definitely overestimate the validation iAUC. For predicting survival times , the author first used a fitted proportional hazards model to estimate median survival times. Then observed survival times were regressed linearly on the predicted medians. This estimated a linear transformation, which could be used to transform predicted medians to means. The paper would benefit from a brief discussion of the motivation behind this approach. It is stated that the linear transformation “reduces both the estimation bias and variance”, which is unclear as it is not stated what we’re aiming to estimate. Arguably, estimating the means from the medians should improve the performance as the RMSE is used to score the predictions. Minor comments: p. 5: 1-b→1b Table 3: Please add information to the caption about what the symbols mean. It is clear from reading the paper that “open circle” means “selected”, but that is not self-evident.