 General In this manuscript, Ochwoto et al. investigate mutations in TP53, among patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH), Eldoret, Kenya. They conclude that TP53 mutation is a poor indicator for prognosis among HBV-positive persons in Kenya, due to a lack of association between TP53 mutations and HCC development. Comments to Authors In general, the manuscript owns some degree of novelty and clarifies previously existing hypothesis on the relationship between TP53 mutations and HCC. However, the study seems to have some glaring omissions with methodology and the results. The authors aimed to evaluate TP53 mutations in exons 4, 6 and 7, but there were no results shown for exon 6. Even though, this study didn’t find a significant relationship between TP53 mutations and HCC development in Kenya. It would have been ideal to include healthy subjects as part of the controls since previous studies have shown the presence of TP53 mutations in healthy cohorts albeit at much lower frequencies to HCC subjects, thus, it is difficult to make any inferences due to the lack of such controls. An interesting part of this study relies on the sequencing results, am referring to mutation detection and analysis. Accordingly, I think that the study would have greatly benefited from some experimental validation of this data e.g. Restriction endonuclease to validate the mutations.There are also no supporting results depicting the presence/lack of the said mutations i.e. Gel electrophoresis images and sequence electropherograms. Thus, making reproducibility of this work partly possible in validating the conclusions made. Minor Points Omitted results/typographical errors: Study site and sample population, Page 3, line 6 “HBV or HBV” delete one. Serology testing, Page 3, line 2 “were was” correct the sentence. PCR mastermix, page 4, give the genomic DNA template concentration as opposed to a generic quantity. DNA sequencing, page 4, line 5 “were send” edit to were sent. Table 1, include the expected band sizes or mention these in the methodology. Include Exon 6 results. Figure 1 legend, not detailed and descriptive. Results, page 5, lines 2-3 delete word “more”. Results, page 5, paragraph 1 last line. The authors state “….all patients wth Arg/Arg alleles did not have HCC….” But both tables 3 and 4 show the presence of 2 (50%) HCC subjects with the polymorphisms. Codon 249 mutation and HCC, section is not clear, check for grammatical errors. Discussion, Page 6, line 3, no exon 6 results. Discussion, Line 9, “tufy” edit to study. Discussion, Paragraph 2, line 9, “most study” edit to most studies. Summary This manuscript provides novel interesting data on TP53 mutation and HCC in Kenya. Subject to addressing the concerns raised, this work is scientifically sound and worthy of indexing. 