In this paper, Niebling et al. , study the regulation of hippocampal neurogenesis by interleukin 17-producing T helper (Th17) cells. Using a T-cell deficient mouse model with impaired base-line levels of hippocampal neurogenesis, they found that the neurogenesis impairment present in these animals can be restored after transfer of homogenous populations of Th17 cells, in a way that was independent of direct interaction between the transferred Th17 cells and cells of the dentate gyrus. From these results, they conclude that Th17 cells may promote hippocampal neurogenesis via secreted cytokines. The manuscript is well written and easy to read, the title is descriptive of the content and the abstract provides a clear summary of the article. The experiments are clearly designed and information on how the data has been analyzed is provided. The main conclusions made by the authors are supported by the data presented in the manuscripts figures. Main Comments: Some details in the description of the methods are unclear. Specifically, the age of the animals used in the experiments is not clearly stated in the corresponding methods section. Although eight weeks old is mentioned in legend to figure 1 this should be clarified in the methods section because age is a strong determinant of base-line hippocampal neurogenesis. Were animals transcardially perfused until complete elimination of blood cells before fixation? The authors should clarify this point to facilitate the readers interpretation of the data presented in figure 3, discarding blood cell contamination in dentate gyrus microdissected tissue samples, which could be an alternative interpretation for the differences in cytokine receptor expression in tissue vs. cultured precursor cells (last paragraph of the results section). The authors suggest that one of the limitations of their study is the lack of direct characterization of the specific factor/cytokine(s) responsible for the cell-cell interaction-independent promotion of hippocampal neurogenesis they observe. However, it could have been very interesting to see some experimental effort made to support the hypothesis that the effects of Th17 cells are mediated by specific cytokines produced by these cells. This could have been done in vitro, using their cultured precursor cells, providing a stronger first proof-of-principle for the important concept they propose. In the adoptive T cell transfer experiments, control mice were injected with PBS only. Although this experimental approach provides a suitable negative control, one wonders whether the injection of other non-IL17 producing T cells (e.g. naive CD4+ differentiated into Th1 or Th2 cells) could have been a more sensible negative control for these experiments, given the specific immune functions of these different T cell sets, which are highlighted by the authors in the last sentence of their discussion. Perhaps the authors could comment on the limitations of their experimental approach in this respect? The discussion could benefit from a short paragraph including a more detailed discussion of possible pathological implications of the observations described in the paper. For example, other authors have recently found that hippocampal neurogenesis is enhanced in an arthritis model in rat ( Leuchtweis et al. , 2014 ). Perhaps another interesting point of discussion could be the possible implications for depression, a disease commonly linked to alterations in hippocampal neurogenesis and possibly linked to immune function ( Eyre and Baune, 2012 ). The data presented in dataset 1 seems compatible with the figures presented with the article. However, the data could be presented in a format more easily understandable for the reader. i.e. Dataset 1a is labelled , while is should presumably be C57BL/6, TCR +/- , TCR and the data in rows 8 and 9 seems to be in an odd format compared to the other data rows? Minor comments: In "BrdU administration and immunohistochemistry " scull should be skull. Abbreviations should be defined the first time they are used in the text. 