This article proposed to use a wild-type SARS-CoV-2 as a live vaccine through intradermal, subcutaneous, intra-muscular, or intraperitoneal inoculation, to bypass the pathogenesis site of the fragile lungs. I published three articles discussing the same opinion (PMID: 32320083 1 ; PMID: 32525587 2 ; PMID: 32681650 3 ). This opinion is supported by the fact that two wild-type adenoviruses have been SAFELY used as live vaccines through enterically coated capsules for 40 years in the US recruits, and reduced over 99% cases of adenovirus-associated acute respiratory diseases (PMID: 27475474 4 ). My own experiments also suggested that intra-muscular inoculation of a wild-type respiratory virus is safe and able to induce strong immunity (PMID: 32681650 3 ). With my own experiment, I do believe that it is POSSIBLE and ONLY possible that intradermal, subcutaneous, or intra-muscular inoculation of SARS-CoV-2 is safe and able to induce strong immunity. We should use animal experiments to confirm this route, and such animal experiments are not expensive as compared with the fact that so many people are dying every day and so much economic loss is happening worldwide. On the other side, some methods available readily could enhance the safety of the live unattenuated vaccine of COVID-19. For instance, if the SARS-CoV-2 is produced using PK-15 cells rather than Vero cells, it shall carry α1,3-galactose (αGal), and thus can form immune complexes with anti-αGal antibodies which are naturally abundant in human bodies. The anti-αGal antibodies could greatly enhance the safety of the live unattenuated vaccine through blocking the viral entry, aiding complements to destroy the virus, and aiding immune cells to destroy the virus (PMID: 32681650 3 ). Meanwhile, the anti-αGal antibodies could greatly enhance the efficacy of the live unattenuated vaccine through immune opsonization, as the immune complexes aid the antigen capture, process and presentation of APCs (PMID: 32681650 3 ). Again, this view should be investigated using animal experiments. If the above animal experiments strongly support the opinions, the live unattenuated vaccine of COVID-19 should enter clinical trials in the volunteers. From the view of a veterinary scientist and a long-term worker in public health, I do believe that the live unattenuated vaccine could be much more powerful than the dozens of vaccines currently under rapid development for COVID-19, because the unattenuated vaccine could be of high development speed, high production efficiency, ability to be produced in more countries, all of which could be as important as the safety of vaccine for reducing deaths and losses of the pandemic. In short, I fully support the major opinions of this view: (1) the unattenuated vaccine could be powerful to curb the COVID-19 pandemic; (2) the unattenuated vaccine is imperatively desired to be investigated using animal experiments. Meanwhile, the author should consider the relevant history, publications, and methods to enhance the safety and efficacy of the unattenuated vaccine. 