The authors provide a useful report on the practice of replacing a human allograft cornea, sclera, or pericardial graft with porcine collagen matrix (Ologen) to cover the tube entry site during glaucoma drainage device placement. The authors give a reasonable rational for the use of collagen, namely cosmesis, cost and the ability to avoid transplanted human tissue. It should be noted that porcine material is not for everyone, and the use of this material should be discussed with patients prior to placement. The strengths of the study are a reasonable follow up duration and a sufficient number of patients, given that this is the first report of this surgical modification. I say that this number is reasonable, because after 40 cases of a new technique, it is appropriate for the surgeon to pause, carefully analyze the experience, and report the results to the scientific community. The limitations of the study include its retrospective nature and the lack of a control arm. A greater number of patients would include the power of the study, and any future reports on this topic would do well to include more patients. The authors provide adequate support from the literature that a roughly 5% tube erosion rate, as was seen in this study, is the standard. Another limitation of this study relates to the fact that there is a growing body of evidence that glaucoma tube shunt surgery may be safely performed without the use of any patch graft material. Using a long scleral tunnel needle technique, Oscar Albis and colleagues 1 reported a 0% erosion rate in 106 Mexican children followed after Ahmed valve placement with no patch graft. The mean follow up was just over two years, no patients were followed for less than six months and some were followed for up to eight years. While this data is encouraging, the reality of the situation is that in the United States, many surgeons are still using patch graft materials, and these materials do have problems, cosmesis and cost being among them. I applaud the authors for making a valuable contribution to the surgical literature and for answering a straightforward but important question: is it reasonable to substitute collagen matrix for other graft materials in glaucoma drainage device surgery? Yes. References 1. Albis-Donado O, Gil-Carrasco F, Romero-Quijada R, Thomas R: Evaluation of Ahmed glaucoma valve implantation through a needle-generated scleral tunnel in Mexican children with glaucoma. Indian J Ophthalmol . 58 (5): 365-73 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Radcliffe NM. Reviewer Report For: The use of collagen matrix (Ologen) as a patch graft in glaucoma tube shunt surgery, a retrospective chart review [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1898 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9936.r19745 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1898/v1#referee-response-19745 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Sheybani A, O’Bryhim B and Gupta AS. Reviewer Report For: The use of collagen matrix (Ologen) as a patch graft in glaucoma tube shunt surgery, a retrospective chart review [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1898 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9936.r15561 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1898/v1#referee-response-15561 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 09 Aug 2016 Arsham Sheybani , Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA Bliss OBryhim , Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA Ankur Sudhir Gupta , Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9936.r15561 “The Use of Collagen Matrix As a Patch Graft in Glaucoma” is a well designed study on the use of Ologen as a primary graft in glaucoma shunt surgery. The title is appropriate, though it may benefit from the inclusion ... Continue reading READ ALL 