The authors present TFutils, a Bioconductor package for analyze TFs and their binding sites. TFutils combines information and analysis capabilities from several popular sources into one interface. The authors present use-cases and tutorials for how TFutils can be used to ask and answer several biological questions. Major Comments From what I can tell, the manuscript is basically a copy-pasted version of the “vignette” from their TFutils R package on Bioconductor, probably written by the (co)author of the package. If the purpose is to teach people how to use their TFutils package, or even compare/contrast it with other existing solutions, in my opinion the manuscript falls very short of this goal. It’d be different if the vignette (or the paper) made a clear case for what TFutils does right up front. Apart from saying it doesn’t do sequence logo visualizations, the introduction lacks any discussion of what good the package is, except that it “assembles various resources intended to clarify and unify approaches to working with TF concepts in bioinformatic analysis”. A helpful remedy for this would be to have a table of included functions, data structures, and sample datasets, similar to the auto-generated listing from their own package, which is already publicly-available on the web. The “Intro” section (actually the whole paper) lacks any straightforward enumeration of the contents of the package like “we include data structures (name them) that wrap X, Y, and Z databases, and functions alpha, beta, and gamma to do (whatever).” The manuscript itself is very hard to follow. It would be much better if there were with a common, practical theme through the examples – as written, they are quite disjoint and not very well explained. There is no unifying thread to any of these examples, no focus on telling a “story” with a real-life research inquiry, or making the case for how TFutils could make that inquiry easier. If people in my lab (a transcription factor bioinformatics lab) have trouble following it, then there is almost no chance that a non-expert could follow it. One thing that would really help would be more human language in the code samples parts (or code comments), in order to aid in reader understanding. As it stands, the text surrounding the code is choppy, and does little to illuminate what’s going on in the code samples. The examples and the text surrounding them are sometimes painfully disjoint, to the point where I was wondering how the text and code and figures right next to each other were related. I would strongly urge the authors to use the Lambert et al. collection of 1,639 human TFs as their basis. Bigger is not always better. Although the other databases currently used collectively sum to many more human TFs, there are many false positives. For example, GO includes things like kinases in this category. This is exactly the reason that Lambert and colleagues went to the painstaking efforts of collecting all human TF candidates and manually curating the list one by one. Table 1 is comparing apples to oranges. Cis-BP contains all human TFs, regardless of their motif status (i.e. even if a TF does not have a known DNA binding motif, it is still included in the database). HOCOMOCO, on the other hand, only includes TFs with motifs. So, it does not really make sense to compare their TF members, which seems to be the major point of Table 1. This also applies to the following comment in the Discussion, which also does not really make sense based on these facts: “is noteworthy that the four resources used for Figure 1 agree on names of only 119 TFs. The fact that CIS-BP distinguishes 475 TFs that are not identified in any other source should be better understood. We observe that the ascription of TF status to AHRR is based on its sharing motifs with AHR.” The only reason AHRR is not in the other databases is probably because it has not had its motif directly determined through experimentation. The example functionality shown in Figure 6 does not make sense to me. As I understand it, a “TF target” is from MSigDB, which is simply a predicted binding site for a TF (here, VDR), in the promoter of a gene (e.g., TBX2 in the top row of the figure). TBX2 is associated with, e.g. Creatine Levels. But, we do not know where the GWAS signal is located relative to TBX2. The GWAS signal could be 20,000 bases away from TBX2, or inside its intron, etc. So, what is the connection here between binding of VDR to the promoter of TBX2 and the GWAS signal? Unless I am misunderstanding how this part of the tool is working, this analysis seems very misleading to me. Minor comments Introduction: “typically near gene promoter regions” – I would add “and enhancers”, since this is actually where the majority of the TF binding sites are located. There was just a new release of Cis-BP (version 2.0) – if its not too much work, I would urge the authors to update their system, since it is a major update. I realize that this can be a lot of work, so I will leave it to the authors to decide if this is worth immediate action. I would be very careful about calling the MSigDB collection “TF targets” – these are not experimentally determined binding events (e.g., through ChIP-seq). These are simply the result of scanning motifs in promoters. I think these should therefore only be referred to as “predicted targets”. This seems nitpicky, but I think there is a very important distinction here. It looks like the motifs from FIMO are Cis-BP motifs (these are incorporated into FIMO), which is fine. But according to the example shown, it looks like the IDs might be truncated in your database – for example, the top one is called “M3433_1”, which could lead to ambiguities, since it could correspond to “M3433_1.02”, “M3433_1.01”, “M3433_1.00”, etc. It is usually not mentioned whether a function or data structure comes from TFutils or some other R package - a simple inline comment or note in the accompany text would really clear this up. Dependencies are left up to the reader to figure out, which is a bit of a nuisance for someone that is trying to decide whether or not a given package is worth exploring. Cis-BP should be spelled “Cis-BP” (as it is in Determination and inference of eukaryotic transcription factor sequence specificity - Weirauch et al. (2014) 1 ). Some of the sentence structure and word choices (data is “lodged” in Amazon S3, “harvesting” insights from the data) are inappropriate. There are numerous “typesetting” problems in the paper, most of which, I assume originate with the original R Markdown vignette. Monospace font not used consistently for variable or function names (numerous occurrences) - in many places throughout the text. A bold font is used where a 4th-level headline (####) should be, which when rendered as HTML, creates a run-on with the first sentence of the intended section; e.g.: Annotated reference to ENCODE ChIP-seq results.encode690 Find TFs that are direct GWAS hits for a given trait.directHitsInCISBP Additional individual nit-picks (there are many) can be found in a marked-up version of v2 of the paper, found here . 