There are typographic errors included a repeated word three lines into the abstract. The author’s state that pure tone audiometric evaluations were performed but do not include graphical data in the manuscript, nor do they indicate frequency specific thresholds in the raw data attached, only PTAs. Air conduction and bone conduction information needs to be included in order to ascertain the impact of standing hearing loss has on the included participants, especially since many occupations of participants included are readily exposed to noise such as farmers, labourers, and drivers. Furthermore, ototoxic events primarily initiate at ultra-high frequencies 8 kHz, which was not even measured in the present study and can have significant impact on conclusions. The use of tuning fork is not exactly clear if pure tone audiometry was performed. Unless pure tone audiometry was only performed on the “better hearing cochlea”, in which case the authors should have performed these studies binaurally. The studies included do not fully address the impact that salicylate may have on hearing capability. Animal models have shown that salicylate can impact not only DPOAEs but permanently damage spiral ganglion neurons as well. Which could result in recoverable DPOAE’s and thresholds but have a permanent impact on word recognition capabilities. While these observations have been made with significantly higher dosage of salicylate, and may not be present at lower dosages, details should still be included in the manuscript. There are many claims in the text which are written as though supported by research. While I believe the text included in the manuscript, proper references need to be included for readers. This event is widespread throughout the manuscript. The authors claim their data opposes Curhan et al’ s research. While findings were different, they need to include the significant differences between the two studies, one primary difference being the number of participants. This is addressed as the limitation, but should be also be interpreted in regards to difference in study results with Curhan et al . Despite the lower number of participants in the present study, the participants were well controlled age and gender. However, the youngest age group is inappropriately large. Dramatic differences in hearing are expected between the ages of 15-50 and should not be included in the same group. The definition of tinnitus in the text is incorrect. The authors reference a previous studies classification used in that research paradigm (performed in 1988), but is not generally accepted definition of tinnitus. This likely has resulted in the inaccurately inflated occurrence of tinnitus in used participants. Typically, tinnitus can be present in ~15-20% of the general public, but the ~63% reported in the control group in the present study is much higher than expected. Overall, the findings of the study could potentially be of interest. However, significant changes need to be made with clarity of writing, appropriate citations, divulging specific raw data to include frequency specific air and bone conduction results, better classification of tinnitus and labeling of such in raw data, along with other methodological changes to specifically address the question at hand. 