This paper by Paessler and Veljkovic on the potential link between bradykinin-2 receptor (BKB2R) and influenza virus is an interesting, as well as a provocative follow-up of previous work by this group published in 2014 1 . In that paper, sequence homology between influenza virus and human proteins was investigated by the informational spectrum method (ISM analysis). BKB2R, although it didn’t get the highest amplitude or signal:noise values on the IS frequency, was studied in more detail because of its association with cardiovascular disease. It should be noted that conventional BLASTing of BKB2R with a range of influenza A strains (including A/Beijing/262/95 (H1N1), A/NewCaledonia/20/1999(H1N1)), shows very limited sequence homology. Thus far there is no direct evidence that influenza vaccination induces antibodies (agonistic or antagonistic) that would bind to BKB2R, but is interesting to speculate about possible consequences. Bradykinin, signaling via BKB2R (as well as BKB1R) is an important regulator molecule in inflammatory and vascular processes including angioedema, tissue permeability, vascular dilation, and smooth muscle contraction. Bradykinin also has been shown to promote proliferation and invasion of cancer cells, as indicated in the manuscript. Indeed, natural or experimental infection with influenza virus induces bradykinin secretion, which can be measured in nasal secretions during the first days after onset of symptoms (before specific antibodies are formed) 2 . In the above context, this would argue in favor of vaccination to prevent influenza infection. The immunogenicity and safety (including potentially negative effects) of influenza vaccination in (pediatric) patients with cancer have been published: NCT00112112 3 , NCT00906750 4 . In an accompanying editorial of latter study, the need for influenza vaccination of children with cancer is emphasized 5 . Most studies have limited follow-up, related to the seasonal nature of influenza vaccination. Prolonged monitoring of vaccinees therefore is warranted. Patients with solid tumors are treated with chemotherapy and/or checkpoint inhibition therapy. From that perspective, BKB2R agonists have been investigated as adjuvant therapy. While being effective in animal models 6 , thus far it is not being used in patients. It could be concluded that the intricate relation between bradykinin and influenza, also in the context of vaccination of patients with cancer required further study. Current clinical and immunological data however would not support a safety concern. 