The study aims to investigate whether texture analysis can be used as an ROI classification tool in fetal MRIs. The authors used data collected from 1.5T and 3T MRI scanners. Commercially provided software Mazda was used to perform texture analysis and B11 was used for classification. There are several concerns regarding this manuscript: The exact objectives and aims are not clear, either in the Abstract or Introduction. In the Introduction there is too much information on topics which are not relevant to the paper. The dialogue verges into the arenas of ethics, religion, politics, and medical jurisprudence. What is required here, yet missing, is a more focused rationale for the study, and background material on the methods used, namely texture analysis and artificial networks. Thus, I disagree with the stance of the authors’ (as stated in the Methods, “Advance notice to readers”) to not even offer a brief description given that these methods are otherwise quite abstract to the uninformed reader. The authors do not provide basic information about their data including the number of subjects, age, gender, etc. The clinical and demographic information should be provided to allow the readers a sense of the size and characteristics of their datasets. Additionally, no information regarding the imaging dataset is provided including image resolution and acquisition parameters. The manuscript is hard to follow. The method section is fairly complex and convoluted. The authors should consider removing information from the Methods that does not add value to the manuscript in allowing a third party to replicate the study. Furthermore, results should be removed from the methods section as they should be provided in the Results section. The authors used normal tissue to test for classification of potential "abnormal" tissue. This is an interesting proof of concept approach; however, to be clinically relevant, a dataset with abnormal anatomy should be tested as well to investigate the power of the texture analysis in differentiating between tissue classes and potential diagnoses. The authors should compare texture classification against clinical evaluation and classification of the MRI images to investigate if texture analysis adds any value to the current practices. It is of note that the authors achieved very high classification rates with texture analysis and should be commended on the study as it does seem to be a large project. Constraints, limitations, and assumptions section: A discussion on the administrative and logistical challenges of this study is not needed and should be removed. Overall, it is an interesting study. Sections need to be considerably streamlined and focused to the science and methods. More information needs to be added that are crucial in a neuroimaging study. The authors should consider applying texture analysis techniques to anatomically abnormal data and compare their results against human classification. 