The paper “The study of protein recruitment…” by Hurst and Gasser is a very useful and timely technical report. It touches upon an important but often overlooked methodological aspect of studies of recruitment of repair factors to DNA lesions. When unnoticed, photoconversion of UV-excited DNA fluorescent probes can constitute a pitfall leading to incorrect interpretation of imaging data. General comments: “UV-induced lesions” In the title and the text of this report the authors use a term “UV-induced DNA lesions”. The use of this term is misleading, since UV-induced lesions are generally defined as pyrimidine dimers and photoproducts. However, the authors refer to DNA lesions inflicted by 405nm light (which is not UV, see below) in the presence of a DNA-bound fluorescent dye Hoechst, and this leads to induction of a host of various lesions, not only “UV-induced”. When Hoechst 33342 has been introduced into live cells and exposed to 405nm focused laser light, it is (marginally) excited and acts as a photosensitizer. This leads to induction of oxidative damage and DNA breaks, i.e. not typical UV-induced lesions. “UV laser” The term ‘UV laser’ is used throughout the manuscript. This term appears incorrect, since the authors used a laser emitting 405nm wavelength light. By definition, 405 nm is visible light (and indeed it is readily visible by human eye, as opposed to UVA, UVB or UVC). I suggest to refer to the Toptica laser, which the authors used, as ‘blue laser”, as in the paper [Kong et al. 2009] which the authors cite. Hoechst photosensitization vs DNA labeling Fluorescent DNA probe Hoechst is described in two disguises in this paper – as a photosensitizer and as a counterstain. These two roles and the ensuing problems are not clearly distinguished and explained in the paper. If Hoechst or DAPI are added to live cells prior to microirradiation with a focused beam of light of 405nm wavelength, the dye acts as a photosensitizer (as correctly stated in Results). However, in the Abstract the authors state that “the measurements are performed in the presence of the blue intercalating dye Hoechst or DAPI which is used to label nuclear DNA”. This statement appears incorrect for two reasons: 1. Hoechst is usually added to live cells in order to photosensitise and yield massive, readily detectable damage, not to just label DNA (if Hoechst were to be used as a label to mark DNA, it could be added after microirradiation); 2. Hoechst and DAPI are not DNA intercalators, they are rather minor groove binders (the mode of binding is complex and depends on a number of factors, including the type of DNA and a DNA/dye ratio). Minor comments: It is unclear what the authors mean by referring to photoconversion of Hoechst, DAPI and VybrantDyeCycle and, in the same sentence and context, to blinking of YoYo described as “a change in optical properties”. What change of optical properties of YoYo do the authors have in mind? The authors state (in Discussion): “As an alternative nuclear marker, we suggest employing a fluorescently tagged protein that localizes at the nuclear periphery and does not interfere with the experimental process.” Why use such a complicated approach? It is much simpler to detect a transmitted light image, preferably using phase contrast or Nomarski interference contrast, and mark the outline of the nucleus in image overlay. The authors state: “However, there is evidence showing that DNA sensitization prior to laser exposure is not required:...” This is true, but again the way the authors put it is somewhat confusing and they refer to research in which UVA as well as visible light was used. Indeed, photosensitisation by exogenous DNA-binding compounds is never required – regardless of the type of light, UV or VIS. Moreover, adding a photosensitizer to the experimental system influences the type of damage. Thus, I suggest to distinguish two cases: using UV-excited dyes and UV or near-UV (405nm) light, and using dyes excited by visible light and visible light excitation. In the case (1) the exciting light (UV or 405) will induce typical UV damage (PP, PD). Adding a photosensitizer prior to microirradiation will result in photodynamic effect, and cause induction of more types of lesions, and more extensive damage. There is vast literature about the action of UV alone and photodynamic effect type I and II. Some reference to this field of knowledge should be made in this paper. Contrary to general belief, in the case (2) the exciting visible light alone, without any exogenous photosensitisers, will also induce DNA damage – single- and double-strand breaks, and recruitment of repair factors (Solarczyk et al., 2012, DNA Repair 1 ). In summary, indeed various types of DNA damage can be induced without adding photosensitisers to cells prior to microirradiation, not only when UV, or 405 nm light is used, but also when visible light is applied. I suggest to clarify these facts in the paper. A few inaccurate statements should be straightened out: “A common approach used to assess DNA repair factor binding in mammalian cells is to induce DNA damage with a UV laser and follow the movement of GFP-tagged proteins to the site of damage”. To be precise, induction of (local) DNA damage by a focused laser beam is used to detect recruitment of repair factors, but not their binding per se. “Movement of GFP-tagged proteins to the site of damage”. Movement of GFP-tagged proteins is not detected (this can be done by FCS) – only local increase of a concentration of a fusion protein is detected, and this arises from recruitment. The authors state: „exposing DAPI or Hoechst to a strong UV laser” - light intensities and doses of energy delivered to the exposed region of the nucleus (area?) should be given. Full information (dose) is lacking but it appears that the authors used an excessive power of 405nm light (12.8 mW at objective). DNA damage, especially in the presence of a photosensitizer, can be expected when using only microJ of energy (microW in the laser beam, seconds of exposure). This means that the photoconversion the authors describe most likely would have been less prominent, had a lower intensity and dose of energy been used. Applying excessive energy during microirradiation leads to such an extensive damage that relevant physiological studies may be impossible (Note that some images in the paper [Kong et al.] show microirradiation tracks in phase contrast images; the power which was used in this study was very high). I suggest that the authors state that the intensities (and doses of energy) they used may have been too high to induce DNA damage on the level encountered under typically encountered physiological conditions. Typo: “Here will illustrate the problem and suggest necessary controls.” Here we will. Hope this helps. 