This interesting manuscript investigates the CAPE 1.1 assessment in a difficult to access population range from 3 - 19 years old. While there is some indication regarding utility and validity of the CAPE 1.1, the impact of the findings is diminished by the small sample size and some minor issues. Introduction: 1. Authors provide very detailed information regarding CAPE 1.1 and also the aim of the study. However, since authors investigated the difference between non-target with target children on several measures, something that is not mentioned in the introduction, they should revised aim section by adding this information. 2. LPE specifier is part of the diagnosis of Conduct disorder. In the current paper it is mentioned that participants come from high-risk, difficult to access families. However it is useful to inform readers if those children exhibit symptoms that lead to the diagnosis of CD or any other comorbidity. Method: 3. In the participants section it is mentioned that children's ages ranged between 3 -19 years old. In the next paragraph the descriptive information of target children are not consisted (it is mentioned a range of 5-18 years old). It should be clarified if target children are the actual participants and if this is the case then why there are different descriptive statistics and range of age. 4. It is mentioned that 6 families were deemed unsuitable or declined. Authors should provide the reasons that lead to this decision (not in details). 5. In CAPE 1.1 description it is stated that a child with a diagnosis of ASD was included in the study. I am not convinced that a child with autism can participate in the current study. Despite their similarities in behavior and in empathy difficulties, ASD and CU traits have different underlying mechanisms. Thus, authors should not use the data of this participant or justify the decision of including them. Results: 6. A descriptive table will help readers to have a more clear idea of all basic demographics information. 7. In figure 1, authors provide very useful information regarding the differences between target and non-target children. However, it is not mentioned in the introduction and method section that authors will investigate this. Thus, it should be stated as an aim of the study and also in both measures and participants section. 8. Figure 4 (correlations) is very difficult to follow Discussion: 9. Discussion is well written and the limitation section discuss all issues that are raised (both in method and interpretation). However authors again do not mention anything about the non-target children. 