These reviewers suggest changing the title to: “Hypotheses, rationale, design, and methods for evaluation of a randomized controlled trial using Tocotrienol, an isomer of Vitamin E derived from palm oil, on the prevention of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting surgery”. We appreciate the opportunity to review the manuscript “A study protocol for a randomized controlled trial on the prevention of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting surgery using Tocotrienol, an isomer of Vitamin E derived from palm oil”. In this study, the authors aimed to test Tocotrienol, an isomer of Vitamin E derived from palm oil in the prevention of atrial fibrillation after myocardial revascularization surgery. The study is well designed, well written and well detailed in definitions and methods. However, some serious methodological failures should be avoided in order not to irreversibly compromise the study. It is known that myocardial revascularization surgery with the use of extracorporeal circulation adds non-physiological effects with direct damage to the myocardium. Such effects include: cardiac arrhythmias, low cardiac output, SIRS, thrombocytopenia, among others. The systemic inflammatory process is usually treated with corticosteroids. Thus, authors cannot ignore the differences between on-pump or off-pump. As suggestions, these reviewers recommend the following care in patient selection and data analysis. The surgery should be only on-pump or just off-pump. Patients with valvular heart disease cannot be included in patient selection. Aortic stenosis is often accompanied by myocardial hypertrophy, and Mitral insufficiency accompanies an increase in the left atrium. Both conditions facilitate the development of atrial fibrillation. The authors should include only patients with preserved left ventricular function. Ventricular dysfunction is one of the leading causes of AF. The use of corticosteroids should be prespecified and, preferably, avoided because of its known anti-inflammatory actions. Timing from randomization and consequently beginning of Tocotrienol or placebo to surgery could be a relevant issue. A short time since medication start and surgery could compromise a possible significant effect of the drug on AF development. A Holter monitoring must be installed only in the first 72 hours. It is known that the most sensitive moment for the onset of AF is the immediate postoperative period. However, the use of the Holter monitoring for a longer period, even if uncomfortable, may be useful. In statistical analysis, the stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis should include atrium data such as size and/or volume, and procedure-related variables, such as use of inotropes and other vasoactive drugs, cross-clamp and cardiopulmonary bypass time. All of these variables might be associated with the occurrence of AF after revascularization procedures and should be included in the final model. On the other hand, overfitting should be avoided. In the multiple logistic regression model for the analysis of the factors influencing the change in quality of life after CABG, the authors should also include in the model angina data such as angina presence or frequency. In order to assess whether Tocotrienol is associated to better quality of life measures, it would be helpful if the authors control for angina relief after surgery. 