A helpful article. A few recommendations that will help improve the accuracy and help avoid any confusion. One step that is missing I think is 'Preparing the research team for PPI'. Support and training are mentioned in relation to the public but this also applies to the research team. p1. 'The research methods of PPI...' I don't think 'methods' is the right word (eg 'informal discussions' is not a research method). Perhaps 'techniques' or 'The ways in which patients and public are involved in research...' p3. I think the sentence in the first para beginning 'In the UK, INVOLVE states...' should come at the end of that para. p3. 'Steps for how etc'. Are these steps? Or are they 'Issues to consider'? p3. 'Understand what patient and public involvement is'. A more accurate heading would be 'Understand your rationale for patient and public involvement.' And in the next two sentences you mention 'theory'. I don't think these are theories - I think it is about 'understanding the rationale or motivation for patient and public involvement.' p3 'How does patient involvement differ from patient participation?' The only step that is posed as a question - I'd change to 'Understanding how patient involvement differs etc'. And it would be worth adding in again to this section (I know it's already in elsewhere) INVOLVE's distinction between involvement and participation. p7 The list of acronyms includes both terminology and organisations. Confusing. Take out the organisations - if they're in the main body of the article then they should be written in full anyway. p11 'A first step....'. I'd reword to make less like an instruction and consistent with the rest of the article. So 'A researcher could search the internet etc. Another approach would be to contact migraine charities etc.' p11 Para beginning 'Lay or professional coordinators or link people...' Consider explaining what these terms mean. And replace 'whereas' with 'and'. Lose the sentence 'The qualitative research and PPI become synergistic' - it confuses the point being made in this section and I'm nort sure it's accurate. p11 'Decide who and how many patients to involve' - we've moved from people to patients. Needs to be consistent throughout. Also add in something about why you might want to consider having more than one person ie a) public can support each other b) helps redress the power balance in the room and c) the public can not always make a meeting and so, if you have more than one person, it reduced the likelihood that the public voice will be absent at any given time. p11 Replace the sentence 'Aim to find patients who represent the demogaphics etc' with 'Consider the demographic of those affected etc'. Some readers will take the first sentence to the extreme and it may become a barrier to involving people. I would also suggest losing the sentence 'It can be challenging to access 'typical' members etc' - I'm not sure what is meant by 'typical' here. Need to give some consideration here to the issues of 'representativeness' - when you have only one or two people involved in your research it is unlikely that can be 'the' voice of everyone but they can be 'a' voice. If you want something more representative then surveys etc might be a more appropriate answer. p11 The authors say that 'the more confident and financially secure are more likely to volunteer'. Need to add in something about researchers have struggled to access certain groups. The sentence 'A lack of resources' - not sure that 'less privileged' is a phrase I would use . Perhaps 'less well off' or something similar? p11 Need to be careful with the sentence 'Yet this is important..' - some ethnic minority groups might be offended that you are asserting that they tend' to experience lower health status' . Perhaps 'some groups tend to experience etc' p12 'Patients can contribute to three key functions etc'. Lose this sentence. I'm not sure that it's true. For example they can also be included in data collection (also applies to the penultimate bullet point in 'key messages' on page 15). p12 'AT an early stage a researcher is advised to discuss roles and task etc' - I would also add in here behaviours or responsibilities. p13 'INVOLVE has a Patient-Led-Research-Hub to support patients who want to puruse their own research.' Are you referring to INVODirect? This is more a list of organisations who support active PPI in research. p13 'Researchers wanting to study migraine etc'. Add on to the end of the sentence 'this entails.' (I read it at first as the patients doing aspects of the governance issues). p15 Either lose the final bullet point on the key messages - I found this confusing - or add in something like 'to ensure you get the public view'. 