 Summary Impression The authors describe an online resource for exploring germline cancer variants. The resource currently contains data from 1,006 samples representing a single cancer type, a single ethnicity, and a single centre. The authors have invited collaborators to help expand this to other cancer types which will add further value to what is already an excellent tool over time. We share the authors’ enthusiasm for intuitive data sharing, and agree that presenting variant frequencies from disease cases, as well as reference samples, is hugely valuable. Overall, the manuscript is very clear, and we anticipate that the intuitive web resource will be well received. We have a couple of high level comments, and some minor suggestions for the authors to consider. Comments The authors describe 2 uses for this data: variant-level analyses (i.e. interpreting individual variants, primarily in established disease genes), and gene-level analyses (assessing candidate disease predisposition genes). The resource in its current form is primarily suitable for the first. The case data and control data are unlikely to be technically matched sufficiently for case/control association testing at the gene level (burden tests), and the authors wisely do not provide this sort of comparative data on the gene page. So, while variant frequency data is important in interpreting genes, in our opinion the present resource is primarily valuable for variant interpretation. A critical strength of the ExAC project was the joint and unified analysis of aggregated data. The authors describe adopting the “ExAC framework”, but at present this represents only data from only a single source. As well as adopting the ExAC web architecture, it would be interesting to hear the authors' plans for data analysis going forwards - will CanVar seek to harmonise variant calling and analysis on data from disparate sources as it grows? Suggestions for consideration Readers are likely to know ClinVar as the go-to resource for germ-line variants in inherited diseases. It may be worth highlighting the complementary value of ClinVar CanVar - i.e. the addition of consistent frequency data. I would provide a little more detail on the case series in the section on “CanVar datasets" (introduction). In particular, are cases are all unrelated probands? I would add here that cases are all European (given in methods). Drs Huber Kim note that variants were limited to “germline variants that were identified as risk-associated” - I did not appreciate this from the manuscript, and think this is important to note if the dataset does not include all variants in protein-coding regions. Gene view Are variants annotated with ExAC frequencies even if they do not ‘PASS’ filters in ExAC? May be helpful to display the ExAC filter status as well as CanVar filter status. Would be helpful to indicate whether variants absent in ExAC were well covered - i.e. give some summary measure of ExAC coverage for all variant sites, since capture platforms and coverage profiles may be very different We understand that ExAC_AF on this page is non-TCGA ExAC frequency. Is this ethnicity matched too, since samples are all european)? Variant view It would be invaluable to incorporate ExAC frequencies into the frequency table (Fig 3e) - especially since the non-TCGA data is not accessible via click through to the web browser (only by download). Users may be misled by a link to the full ExAC dataset (with TCGA included). As data is added would be desirable to stratify by cancer type AND ethnicity The call rate is reported with 12 decimal places of precision Methods "Curation of colorectal cancer exome data within CanVar" May be helpful to indicate which of the technical parameters differ from ExAC where relevant. It would be interesting to hear about any challenges encountered in reconciling the data sets that may be relevant to others attempting something similar - Were there any problems with multi-allelic sites? e.g. GATK filters by site, rather than variant. Are multi-nucleotide polymorphisms phased and jointly interpreted? Any other technical challenges? Data availability Is the sites-only vcf available for download? This may be useful in addition to raw data available via application to EGA. Could add source code link to final sentence of the discussion. 