This paper is an opinion article, which discusses several areas where unresolved questions exist in the transition to more open scientific publication practices. The discussion is underpinned by survey data, although a full description of the survey and its results are not within the scope of the paper. Areas covered in this paper are publication delays in scientific publishing, peer review, communication between scientists and publishers, metrics such as the impact factor, models for open access publication, journals' formatting requirement, and boundaries imposed by traditional publishing on paper, which need not persist in a time with online publishing, but still do. The paper provides a timely discussion, based on survey data, and on relevant and valid arguments. The abstract promises to explore the notion of fairness from the points of view of many different stakeholders. This point of departure lacks clear justification. In particular, it is not obvious why changes in scientific publishing should need to be perceived as fair by publishers. Also, not all of the stakeholder perspectives are explicitly addressed in the main text. The survey data are available in two linked slide presentations. I recommend that the data be made available as a data frame in a non-proprietary file format. This will facilitate re-use and further exploration of the data set. Best practice is to use a repository that provides access to data in a format that is time-stamped, immutable, and permanent, and with a persistent identifier and an open licence. Documentation including metadata that describes how the survey was performed can be provided with the data or in this paper. In the current movement towards more open publication practices, it is important to find out how scientists and other stakeholders perceive barriers and possibilities. This paper makes a valuable contribution in gathering scientists' views and arguments surrounding publication practices. I am happy to approve it with a reservation about the format of openly published survey data.