The authors provided a systematic approach to identify six in vitro studies reporting on the influence of lithium on coronaviral infections. The discussion on the potential role of lithium is hypothetical and the proposed key target does not seem relevant in the context of COVID-19. Some comments: Ref 2: At 5 mM LiCl reduced viral RNA levels by 30% (p 0.001), this level is commonly lethal to humans (and when not fatal, may be associated with respiratory failure, a hallmark in COVID-19. In the same study, therapeutic levels did not work the same way, thus it seems that its antiviral effects are related to lithium’s overall toxicity; also considering the higher levels (10 and 20mM) showed a linear decrease in viral mRNA. Similar effects may be applied to references 3 and 4, which also describe supra-therapeutic levels of lithium as potential anti-viral, which is hard to translate into potential therapeutics. In line with the presented findings, lithium showed to ameliorate HIV-gp120-mediated neurotoxicity. GSk3-B is a widespread target for lithium effects and based its wide distribution in several organs and having several other subunits targeted as well as GSK-3B inhibitors failed in early studies with most of the related agents and did not mimic any clinical effects of lithium. Thus, the enthusiasm of its potential utility as a treatment target in drug development (e.g. mood disorders) has been significantly diminished in the last few years. Also, the risk or severity of QTc prolongation can be increased when chloroquine is combined with lithium, and Gsk-3 is not a target directly associated with COVID-19 in any published study so far. Effects of lithium on HIV seem much more beneficial than associated with worse outcomes and this potential effect seems to be relevant in the context. Description of safety and limitations are generic in terms of lithium effects, except for the QT prolongation in combination with chloroquine, do not highlight the specific aspects related to the author’s hypothesis, such as cell proliferation. Evidence for the antiviral effects of lithium in prospective clinical studies remains to be presented. Also, the suggestion of a similar role for lithium and zinc in this context of COVID-19 should be further explained in terms of molecular and ionic convergent effects. Lithium chloride does not have a direct virucidal effect on coronavirus infectious bronchitis virus infection (Harrison SM, et al. , ref 5). Before starting using lithium in COVID-19, a potential recommendation is a comprehensive evaluation of COVID-19 outcomes in subjects with Bipolar disorder on vs. off lithium treatment. 