The submitted manuscript deals with evaluation of MOSHMAOH that is nowadays an hot topic mainly for foods; a new approach for MOSH and MOAH determination in pure mineral oil based cosmetics and cosmetic raw materials using 1 H NMR spectroscopy is described. The NMR methods seem to be standard ones and well established, and already implemented in many instruments even if for different purposes. The technique used seems promising even though, as stated by the author it suffers of approximation: MOAH data are expressed as naphthalene-equivalents, while as known MOAH include a complex mixture of alkylated aromatics, mainly (mono- di- and tri-aromaticis). Maybe a better characterization of these different classes of aromatics could help in reaching better results. As known, PAHs are not typically of petrogenic origin, but mainly originate from combustion processes, so strictly speaking they should not be considered as MOAH (even though they can be present in trace amount in MOH mixture). This should be clarified in the introduction. The author compare results obtained with NMR with those obtained with on-line LC-GC by other authors, but a direct comparison on the same samples is lacking. A comparison with GCxGC data could be also very interesting. Furthermore, it seems worthwhile to check if the sensitiveness of the NMR method meets the requirement usually request for this kind of contaminants. Reference 21 is not cited in a pertinent way. The paper cited deals with optimization of a rapid SPE-GC-FID method for MOSH determination in vegetable oil (not suitable for MOAH determination) and it doesn’t report that 70-80% of mineral oil in olive oil is MOSH, letting to intend that the remaining 20-30% is MOAH (fortunately this is not true). Concerning MOSH content the author added…”Our results from the market samples show that this is almost 100%”. It is not clear if they refer to cosmetics or olive oil. In the latter case they should report the reference or show the data. The paper needs some revision before being reconsidered for indexing. 