This article reports the rationale and findings of a major piece of work undertaken by the Nuffield Council on Bioethics in 2014. The changes to the funding of research in the UK, due to recessionary pressures, and the increased emphasis on "research with impact" by major funders and the REF2014 process, provides the context for the work. The importance of the article lies in the way in which it provides a context and narrative to these wider changes. Government and funders develop and impose strategic policy decisions in a process; this article reports on how those decisions are experienced from the . The article presents a range of fundings derived from an extensive and comprehensive data collection process. The authors identify the limitations of the data set (self-selected participants for example), but nonetheless the study provides a rich source of stimulus material for discussion and debate. Some of the key findings include: The age differential in assessments of the worth of data sharing (15% of 35 year olds positive compared to 7% of 45 year olds). The importance of social benefit and the collective good as fundamental to scientific research. The tension between achieving collective good whilst promoting and supporting individual career progression. The dual role of competition as a spur to delivery of best work versus the pressure to take short cuts to achieve outcomes. These findings, in conjunction with the others reported, are clearly suggestive of a body of researchers who increasingly aware of the pressure to perform to an ever higher level. The article reports the tension experienced by researchers who are striving to generate work of value, but are also aware of the temptations of "cutting corners" to achieve. For this reason the article acts as a catalyst for further debate, and generates more questions than it answers. What are the unintended consequences of increasingly stringent research ethics review processes? What is the real impact of the impact agenda on research? Do REF type exercises discriminate between researchers and their work in positive or negative ways? How effective is peer review, and is it crumbling under the weight of research being generated? These questions, together with the important issue of gender equality being raised through the ECU Athena SWAN award and the emphasis on gender in Horizon 2020, and the changing nature of higher education in the UK, are all importantly raised by this article. The authors end with a series of sensible suggestions for future development. The value of the article lies in the fact that these suggestions are made on the basis of evidence generated from the scientific community. How these suggestions, and variations of them, are adopted and assessed will be an important, and as yet undetermined, outcome of this report.