 This paper examines the occurrence of intraspecific brood parasitism (INP) in the Silky Starling, whereby females lay eggs in the nests of other species. INP is widespread in birds (over 200 species) but because it is difficult to detect without detailed field or genetic studies, it is likely to be more common than currently believed. Simply documenting the occurrence of INP in new species, along with some estimate of its frequency, is quite useful because it will eventually allow us to gain a solid understanding of the factors that favor the evolution of INP through comparative analysis. The study of Silky Starlings by Zhongqui Li and colleagues uses two standard non-genetic techniques for detecting INP: the occurrence of multiple new eggs in 24 hours and morphological differences in eggs. These techniques have been criticized by some, who advocate that genetic techniques are the only proper way to detect INP. However, in my opinion, non-genetic methods can be very powerful when used carefully and properly. Thus, the power of these approaches depends entirely on how they are used—to yield convincing evidence for INP, nests need to be checked daily when parasitism rates are low (one parasitic egg per host nest), nests need to be checked at the same time of day each day, and it can also be helpful to know the time of day when eggs are normally laid. For example, if there is a 28 hour interval between nest checks, it would be possible to have two eggs laid by the same female, if the time of laying was just after the first check and just before the second nest check. In the present study, I am not convinced that the resolution of the data provide clear evidence for INP. I will discuss each of the cases. Nest box 26. The sequence of events was as follows: 3 eggs on the first nest check 3 new eggs when the nest was checked 4 days later 1 new egg 3 days after that These observations do not indicate that more than one egg per day was laid, nor do they necessarily indicate a very long pause between egg six and seven. Depending on the time of days when nests were checked and when Silky Starlings lay eggs, it is possible that there were no days where there were skips in laying (i.e. egg 7 could have been laid 24 hours after egg six) or perhaps there was a skipped day. Even with the later, a skip of one day is not powerful evidence for INP because some birds will occasionally skip a day between laying consecutive eggs. In sum, the evidence for this nest for INP is very weak. Nest box 27. The evidence from this nest was not laying sequence but egg color. From my own study of American coots, I often found that the last laid egg in a clutch was often paler in color. Sometimes the first laid egg can also be different. I think the pattern of last egg being different is quite widespread. I therefore believe that using egg color alone is very weak evidence for brood parasitism, especially because when dealing with the last egg laid in the clutch. Egg size is also not a very accurate indicator of INP because size often varies within clutches. Egg shape can be a pretty good indicator of INP but the validity of this method needs to be assessed for each species. One thing that was not clear was whether the authors numbered the first five eggs before the sixth egg was laid or whether you numbered the eggs after all six were laid. In other words, are you certain that the pale egg was not the last egg? Even if you can show this, I would then want to know if the pale egg was the first egg. Regardless, egg color deviation alone is pretty weak evidence for INP. Box 37. This seems fairly convincing as long as the egg was a new egg and not one that had been buried in the material. Based on the photograph, the egg looks pretty dirty. Are freshly laid eggs often dirty like this? As long as this example involves a new egg then I think this is fairly convincing evidence for INP. To sum up, I do not find most of the evidence for INP very convincing. I think it is too early to be trying to publish this work—bad data are worse than not having data yet for a species. I encourage the authors to not be in such a rush to get these data out and to invest more time carefully collecting data that will be more convincing. Check nests daily, measure the eggs to assess shape, and determine when the birds lay eggs (video cameras can be useful for this). I think it would be worthwhile checking two recent studies that assess some of the methods for detecting INP, one by John Eadie ( Journal of avian Biology 41: 163-176; 2010 ) the other by Hannu Poysa ( J. Avian Biol. 40: 453-456; 2009 ). I think you should check these out. I also think my recent review on INP with John Eadie in Annual Reviews ( Annual Reviews in Ecology Evolution Systematics 39: 343-363; 2008 ) would be a useful source for you to consult. I think the data from this species will eventually be very useful, but the study is not yet at the stage where it can contribute to our understanding of INP. 