I have now re-read the paper after the revision, and also the comments from Benjamin Kirkup which were very insightful and to the point. I think that a careful rephrasing of parts of the manuscript should be done, more clearly saying that the findings of 16S rRNA gene sequences from these bacteria doesnt necessarily mean that they are pathogenic to humans, as this trait will be dependent on many factors that are not covered with the current approach. I still think an inventory of bacterial species from waterfowl is interesting, as our current understanding of what microorganisms that are present in the environment and in wild animals is rudimentary. My expertise is stronger in avian biology than in phylogenomics and I think that the detailed comments from Benjamin Kirkup are very good for strengthening this paper. However, there were some points I raised in my initial review that I still think should merit attention. Specifically, I think that the biology of the study organism is left out more or less completely. Why was this duck species chosen? A few lines about its distribution, feeding behavior and tendencies to live close to humans would be helpful for your readers, especially those that do not have a background in ornithology. All ducks are not the same: they differ in ecological traits as well in their capacity to be infected and perpetuate pathogens. For instance, the influenza A virus which is mentioned in the paper show clear differences in prevalence and subtypes among different species of waterfowl, as well as displaying both spatial and temporal variation in virus abundance, subtype predominance and genetic lineages. At present, the paper is written as if the study species represents all ducks at all timepoints, and including some more details about the specific duck species could easily amend this. For instance, if one raises the potential risk arising from duck hunting it would be good to know that the studied species is a significant part of the hunting bag (my guess would be that dabbling ducks are more often shot than diving ducks, such as the Aythya americana ). Further, is this species common in urban environments, i.e. are people really exposed? Small comments: Consider whether water fowl or waterfowl should be used. In the introduction and elsewhere, Aythya Americana should be Aythya americana . Please also add the common name when the species first is mentioned. The end of the first paragraph in the results should be Gammaproteobacteria Does reference 27 really state that Campylobacter canadensis is linked to water related disease? I think this is not the case, but cannot access the paper in question at the moment. 