The authors have provided a clear update to the literature on thermoregulation of ant nests and also include interesting anecdotes from the literature, such as Lindauers experiment with bees on lava plains. The arrangement of the article focuses on species that regulate temperature by moving brood across a temperature gradient (e.g. Solenopsis ) vs. species that modify the thermal environment to maintain a core nest temperature (e.g. Formica polyctena ). This distinction is perhaps the most interesting part of the paper, but in its current form the organization is not clear. I have the following comments: The authors make their strongest argument for distinguishing between these two strategies in the second to last paragraph. This paragraph should instead be the last paragraph of the Introduction, which would help establish their argument earlier. In addition, several other sections throughout the manuscript could make this distinction more apparent (especially in Behavioural reactions of ant workers ). It may help to identify which species fit your definitions. Pogonomyrmex , Solenopsis invicta , Camponotus , and Acromyrmex fit into brood/fungus movers; Formica , Atta , Eciton , termites, and bees seem to fit more into core nest temperature maintainers. Likewise, the table does not clearly fit within the papers main theme. It may help to add a column that specifies whether each type of nest is associated with brood translocation, maintaining a stable core temperature, or possibly neither. One question that is not addressed in this paper is why these two strategies exist? There is some discussion about wet vs. dry thatch nests in open and forested areas, but I think it would make sense to describe the ecological conditions where each thermoregulation strategy is commonly used in more detail. The discussion about nest ventilation in Atta species is not quite accurate. Currently, there is little evidence that nest ventilation strongly impacts temperature; rather, nest ventilation facilitates CO 2 exchange. This has also been argued with respect to termite nests, where termite nest chimneys do not seem to affect nest temperature. 