The article by Matthieu Schapira and Rachel Harding "Open laboratory notebooks: good for science, good for society, good for scientists" is a clear presentation of the benefits of open notebook for the scientific community. The central argument is that one of the main benefits is an increased efficiency (both in time and cost) of the scientific process through the faster re-utilization of positive or negative results. The authors discuss in detail the challenges of the initiative and the results of the current openlabnotebook.org implementation and results. I liked in particular the straightforward discussion on the current incentive system from the authors. The perceived or real danger of being scooped is a clear obstacle to the efficient use of these. The arguments of why opennotebooks are good for scientists are clear and compelling although based mostly on anecdotal data. The implementation of the infrastructure is solid, reusing standard and long lasting components (zenodo, github). The search capacity across notebooks could have been detailed more. An component around the standardization of terms, use of controlled vocabulary (or even ontologies) could be added in the future. For instance, an extension of the figshare data documentation system would be helpful to label notebook appropriately. The uptake in both the building and the use of openlabnotebooks is promising, although absolute number of adaption are still limited since this is still at early stages. The challenges for wider adoption are clear - (namely, fear of being scooped, collaborators with non open practices, and fear that the time invested would not be worth (in terms of recognition), risk of non solid information being released. The solutions to mitigate these challenges are not as well developed, but as this is a new technology and practice, only the future will say if these are indeed going to prevent the openlabnotebooks developments. I think that the close involvement of both national and private funding agencies could rapidly solve for these adoption challenges in a top-down manner. Last, I have one question: what is the process to join the openlabnotebooks consortium? 