Lun, McCarthy and Marioni share a workflow for analysis of single cell RNAseq (scRNA-seq) data using software they have developed. The workflow is illustrated on two data sets of varying size and characteristic. The computational and statistical findings of the workflow are interpreted in their experimental context. Having a well-documented protocol for the analysis of scRNA-seq is an important contribution to the community, since it is still a wilderness in terms of methods and processing, for better or worse.That scRNA-seq is a quickly evolving discipline--and the implications this has for the workflow--forms the bulk of my criticism of this paper. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust the authors will verify the correctness of their code and reproducibility of the analysis when their packages are finalized in Bioconductor 3.4. I also trust that this workflow will be made available as a literate (e.g knitr) document so that readers won't have to cut and paste from their web-browser. This reviewer was able to reproduce the figures reported in the first data set after loading the development version of ` scater ` (now version 1.1.14). 1b. The main software package ` scater ` defines a `SCESet` inheriting from `ExpressionSet`, which has been superceded by `SummarizedExperiment`. SummarizedExperiment is more likely to scale to large data sets (it can store data out of core or in sparse matrix formats). In practice, this is not such a big deal since it's relatively easy to coerce between the two object types. 2. The title of this article stipulates that it is for "low-level" analysis of RNA-seq data, but the all-important question of how to process the data as many analysts will get them (short reads as .fasta files) is elided. (Pseudo)-Alignment and quantification is an important, and probably overlooked step in scRNA-seq analysis. Counting transcripts by counting overlaps with features, a la countOverlaps or htSeq is inefficient 1 , since many reads (30%-80% of those that map anywhere, in this reviewer's experience) do not align uniquely. Hence the need and value to use quantification tools that respect the degeneracy of multimapping reads, ie, RSEM, Star, Kallisto, Sailfish, et al . A low-level analysis thus may wish to consider remapping with an appropriate tool. Fortunately, it does appear that ` scater ` has provisions for doing (re)-alignment with Kallisto. 3. The authors may consider referencing other extant methods that could address areas of their workflow, especially methods that are adapted to deal with the non-normality of scRNA-seq data. For normalization, there is scone , which tests many different normalization procedures and optimizes over the "best" one. For identification of highly variable genes, there is Basics 2 , which applies a hierarchical Bayesian model to test for over-dispersion, as opposed to modeling departures from an overall mean-variance relationship. For single cell differential expression and gene set enrichment for bimodal distributions found in scRNA-seq, there is MAST 3 . For clustering, there is clusterExperiment . For multi-dimensional scaling on bimodal data, there is ZIFA 4 . All of the above, aside from ZIFA are R/Bioconductor packages. References 1. Li B, Dewey CN: RSEM: accurate transcript quantification from RNA-Seq data with or without a reference genome. BMC Bioinformatics . 2011; 12 : 323 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Vallejos CA, Marioni JC, Richardson S: BASiCS: Bayesian Analysis of Single-Cell Sequencing Data. PLoS Comput Biol . 2015; 11 (6): e1004333 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Finak G, McDavid A, Yajima M, Deng J, et al.: MAST: a flexible statistical framework for assessing transcriptional changes and characterizing heterogeneity in single-cell RNA sequencing data. Genome Biol . 2015; 16 : 278 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Pierson E, Yau C: ZIFA: Dimensionality reduction for zero-inflated single-cell gene expression analysis. Genome Biol . 2015; 16 : 241 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT McDavid A. Reviewer Report For: A step-by-step workflow for low-level analysis of single-cell RNA-seq data with Bioconductor [version 2; peer review: 3 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2122 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10234.r16243 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2122/v1#referee-response-16243 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 18 Oct 2016 Aaron Lun , Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, Cambridge, UK 18 Oct 2016 Author Response Thanks for your comments, Andrew. Our responses are as below. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust ... Continue reading Thanks for your comments, Andrew. Our responses are as below. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust the authors will verify the correctness of their code and reproducibility of the analysis when their packages are finalized in Bioconductor 3.4. I also trust that this workflow will be made available as a literate (e.g knitr) document so that readers won't have to cut and paste from their web-browser. This reviewer was able to reproduce the figures reported in the first data set after loading the development version of `scater` (now version 1.1.14). Yes, this was an oversight on our part. The revised verison will include a link to the Bioconductor workflow page, where users can simply run a command to automatically download the relevant data files and packages prior to running the workflow. 1b. The main software package `scater` defines a `SCESet` inheriting from `ExpressionSet`, which has been superceded by `SummarizedExperiment`. SummarizedExperiment is more likely to scale to large data sets (it can store data out of core or in sparse matrix formats). In practice, this is not such a big deal since it's relatively easy to coerce between the two object types. We considered the practicality of storing data in sparse matrix format. Unfortunately, most existing tools for downstream data analysis require a full-sized matrix as input, so any gains in memory efficiency during storage seem to be countered by the need to (repeatedly) expand the matrix at multiple analysis steps. Moreover, a sparse matrix only improves efficiency for raw count data where unambiguous zeroes are present; upon applying normalization and transformation steps, this may no longer be the case, such that a full-sized matrix will ultimately be required anyway. 2. The title of this article stipulates that it is for "low-level" analysis of RNA-seq data, but the all-important question of how to process the data as many analysts will get them (short reads as .fasta files) is elided. (Pseudo)-Alignment and quantification is an important, and probably overlooked step in scRNA-seq analysis. Counting transcripts by counting overlaps with features, a la countOverlaps or htSeq is inefficient1, since many reads (30%-80% of those that map anywhere, in this reviewer's experience) do not align uniquely. Hence the need and value to use quantification tools that respect the degeneracy of multimapping reads, ie, RSEM, Star, Kallisto, Sailfish, et al. A low-level analysis thus may wish to consider remapping with an appropriate tool. Fortunately, it does appear that `scater` has provisions for doing (re)-alignment with Kallisto. We find that conventional feature counting works quite well for read-based scRNA-seq data, having used this approach in several recent studies (Achim et al. , 2015; Kolodziejczyk et al. , 2015; Scialdone et al ., 2016). While ignoring multi-mapped reads during quantification is conservative, we feel that it does provide a greater degree of confidence in our downstream inferences. Certainly, there may be gains in power from using tools that extract more information from multi-mapping reads, but we do not consider this advantage to be so pronounced that it should be standard procedure for all scRNA-seq data analyses. For UMI-based data, there does not yet appear to be any clear "gold standard" approach for UMI processing into counts, so we have not provided any description of that step. In summary, we decided to start the workflow from the raw count data, rather than starting from read sequences, as conventional approaches for quantification described elsewhere seem to work well; to maintain some flexibility with respect to future developments in this field; and because our workflow focuses on the steps of the analysis that are carried out in R/Bioconductor, whereas most existing quantification tools require manual installation and execution from the command-line. References: Achim et al. (2015), Nature Biotechnology 33:503–509 Kolodziejczyk et al. (2015), Cell Stem Cell 17(4):471-485 Scialdone et al. (2016), Nature 535:289-293 The authors may consider referencing other extant methods that could address areas of their workflow, especially methods that are adapted to deal with the non-normality of scRNA-seq data. As you have stated, there are many alternative approaches that could be used in various parts of the workflow. However, we feel that it is beyond the scope of this article to enter into discussions about the relative advantages of different methods. In fact, this may undermine the pedagogical value of the workflow by providing too many options to inexperienced users. The methods we have described work well in a variety of situations, so we have chosen them for use in the various analysis steps. We have added a sentence to the discussion about the existence of alternative methods for low-level processing, and encouraged experienced users to explore them. Thanks for your comments, Andrew. Our responses are as below. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust the authors will verify the correctness of their code and reproducibility of the analysis when their packages are finalized in Bioconductor 3.4. I also trust that this workflow will be made available as a literate (e.g knitr) document so that readers won't have to cut and paste from their web-browser. This reviewer was able to reproduce the figures reported in the first data set after loading the development version of `scater` (now version 1.1.14). Yes, this was an oversight on our part. The revised verison will include a link to the Bioconductor workflow page, where users can simply run a command to automatically download the relevant data files and packages prior to running the workflow. 1b. The main software package `scater` defines a `SCESet` inheriting from `ExpressionSet`, which has been superceded by `SummarizedExperiment`. SummarizedExperiment is more likely to scale to large data sets (it can store data out of core or in sparse matrix formats). In practice, this is not such a big deal since it's relatively easy to coerce between the two object types. We considered the practicality of storing data in sparse matrix format. Unfortunately, most existing tools for downstream data analysis require a full-sized matrix as input, so any gains in memory efficiency during storage seem to be countered by the need to (repeatedly) expand the matrix at multiple analysis steps. Moreover, a sparse matrix only improves efficiency for raw count data where unambiguous zeroes are present; upon applying normalization and transformation steps, this may no longer be the case, such that a full-sized matrix will ultimately be required anyway. 2. The title of this article stipulates that it is for "low-level" analysis of RNA-seq data, but the all-important question of how to process the data as many analysts will get them (short reads as .fasta files) is elided. (Pseudo)-Alignment and quantification is an important, and probably overlooked step in scRNA-seq analysis. Counting transcripts by counting overlaps with features, a la countOverlaps or htSeq is inefficient1, since many reads (30%-80% of those that map anywhere, in this reviewer's experience) do not align uniquely. Hence the need and value to use quantification tools that respect the degeneracy of multimapping reads, ie, RSEM, Star, Kallisto, Sailfish, et al. A low-level analysis thus may wish to consider remapping with an appropriate tool. Fortunately, it does appear that `scater` has provisions for doing (re)-alignment with Kallisto. We find that conventional feature counting works quite well for read-based scRNA-seq data, having used this approach in several recent studies (Achim et al. , 2015; Kolodziejczyk et al. , 2015; Scialdone et al ., 2016). While ignoring multi-mapped reads during quantification is conservative, we feel that it does provide a greater degree of confidence in our downstream inferences. Certainly, there may be gains in power from using tools that extract more information from multi-mapping reads, but we do not consider this advantage to be so pronounced that it should be standard procedure for all scRNA-seq data analyses. For UMI-based data, there does not yet appear to be any clear "gold standard" approach for UMI processing into counts, so we have not provided any description of that step. In summary, we decided to start the workflow from the raw count data, rather than starting from read sequences, as conventional approaches for quantification described elsewhere seem to work well; to maintain some flexibility with respect to future developments in this field; and because our workflow focuses on the steps of the analysis that are carried out in R/Bioconductor, whereas most existing quantification tools require manual installation and execution from the command-line. References: Achim et al. (2015), Nature Biotechnology 33:503–509 Kolodziejczyk et al. (2015), Cell Stem Cell 17(4):471-485 Scialdone et al. (2016), Nature 535:289-293 The authors may consider referencing other extant methods that could address areas of their workflow, especially methods that are adapted to deal with the non-normality of scRNA-seq data. As you have stated, there are many alternative approaches that could be used in various parts of the workflow. However, we feel that it is beyond the scope of this article to enter into discussions about the relative advantages of different methods. In fact, this may undermine the pedagogical value of the workflow by providing too many options to inexperienced users. The methods we have described work well in a variety of situations, so we have chosen them for use in the various analysis steps. We have added a sentence to the discussion about the existence of alternative methods for low-level processing, and encouraged experienced users to explore them. Competing Interests: None declared. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 18 Oct 2016 Aaron Lun , Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, Cambridge, UK 18 Oct 2016 Author Response Thanks for your comments, Andrew. Our responses are as below. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust ... Continue reading Thanks for your comments, Andrew. Our responses are as below. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust the authors will verify the correctness of their code and reproducibility of the analysis when their packages are finalized in Bioconductor 3.4. I also trust that this workflow will be made available as a literate (e.g knitr) document so that readers won't have to cut and paste from their web-browser. This reviewer was able to reproduce the figures reported in the first data set after loading the development version of `scater` (now version 1.1.14). Yes, this was an oversight on our part. The revised verison will include a link to the Bioconductor workflow page, where users can simply run a command to automatically download the relevant data files and packages prior to running the workflow. 1b. The main software package `scater` defines a `SCESet` inheriting from `ExpressionSet`, which has been superceded by `SummarizedExperiment`. SummarizedExperiment is more likely to scale to large data sets (it can store data out of core or in sparse matrix formats). In practice, this is not such a big deal since it's relatively easy to coerce between the two object types. We considered the practicality of storing data in sparse matrix format. Unfortunately, most existing tools for downstream data analysis require a full-sized matrix as input, so any gains in memory efficiency during storage seem to be countered by the need to (repeatedly) expand the matrix at multiple analysis steps. Moreover, a sparse matrix only improves efficiency for raw count data where unambiguous zeroes are present; upon applying normalization and transformation steps, this may no longer be the case, such that a full-sized matrix will ultimately be required anyway. 2. The title of this article stipulates that it is for "low-level" analysis of RNA-seq data, but the all-important question of how to process the data as many analysts will get them (short reads as .fasta files) is elided. (Pseudo)-Alignment and quantification is an important, and probably overlooked step in scRNA-seq analysis. Counting transcripts by counting overlaps with features, a la countOverlaps or htSeq is inefficient1, since many reads (30%-80% of those that map anywhere, in this reviewer's experience) do not align uniquely. Hence the need and value to use quantification tools that respect the degeneracy of multimapping reads, ie, RSEM, Star, Kallisto, Sailfish, et al. A low-level analysis thus may wish to consider remapping with an appropriate tool. Fortunately, it does appear that `scater` has provisions for doing (re)-alignment with Kallisto. We find that conventional feature counting works quite well for read-based scRNA-seq data, having used this approach in several recent studies (Achim et al. , 2015; Kolodziejczyk et al. , 2015; Scialdone et al ., 2016). While ignoring multi-mapped reads during quantification is conservative, we feel that it does provide a greater degree of confidence in our downstream inferences. Certainly, there may be gains in power from using tools that extract more information from multi-mapping reads, but we do not consider this advantage to be so pronounced that it should be standard procedure for all scRNA-seq data analyses. For UMI-based data, there does not yet appear to be any clear "gold standard" approach for UMI processing into counts, so we have not provided any description of that step. In summary, we decided to start the workflow from the raw count data, rather than starting from read sequences, as conventional approaches for quantification described elsewhere seem to work well; to maintain some flexibility with respect to future developments in this field; and because our workflow focuses on the steps of the analysis that are carried out in R/Bioconductor, whereas most existing quantification tools require manual installation and execution from the command-line. References: Achim et al. (2015), Nature Biotechnology 33:503–509 Kolodziejczyk et al. (2015), Cell Stem Cell 17(4):471-485 Scialdone et al. (2016), Nature 535:289-293 The authors may consider referencing other extant methods that could address areas of their workflow, especially methods that are adapted to deal with the non-normality of scRNA-seq data. As you have stated, there are many alternative approaches that could be used in various parts of the workflow. However, we feel that it is beyond the scope of this article to enter into discussions about the relative advantages of different methods. In fact, this may undermine the pedagogical value of the workflow by providing too many options to inexperienced users. The methods we have described work well in a variety of situations, so we have chosen them for use in the various analysis steps. We have added a sentence to the discussion about the existence of alternative methods for low-level processing, and encouraged experienced users to explore them. Thanks for your comments, Andrew. Our responses are as below. 1a. The paper describes a currently-unreleased version of software. Other reviewers have indicated the difficulties this poses. I trust the authors will verify the correctness of their code and reproducibility of the analysis when their packages are finalized in Bioconductor 3.4. I also trust that this workflow will be made available as a literate (e.g knitr) document so that readers won't have to cut and paste from their web-browser. This reviewer was able to reproduce the figures reported in the first data set after loading the development version of `scater` (now version 1.1.14). Yes, this was an oversight on our part. The revised verison will include a link to the Bioconductor workflow page, where users can simply run a command to automatically download the relevant data files and packages prior to running the workflow. 1b. The main software package `scater` defines a `SCESet` inheriting from `ExpressionSet`, which has been superceded by `SummarizedExperiment`. SummarizedExperiment is more likely to scale to large data sets (it can store data out of core or in sparse matrix formats). In practice, this is not such a big deal since it's relatively easy to coerce between the two object types. We considered the practicality of storing data in sparse matrix format. Unfortunately, most existing tools for downstream data analysis require a full-sized matrix as input, so any gains in memory efficiency during storage seem to be countered by the need to (repeatedly) expand the matrix at multiple analysis steps. Moreover, a sparse matrix only improves efficiency for raw count data where unambiguous zeroes are present; upon applying normalization and transformation steps, this may no longer be the case, such that a full-sized matrix will ultimately be required anyway. 2. The title of this article stipulates that it is for "low-level" analysis of RNA-seq data, but the all-important question of how to process the data as many analysts will get them (short reads as .fasta files) is elided. (Pseudo)-Alignment and quantification is an important, and probably overlooked step in scRNA-seq analysis. Counting transcripts by counting overlaps with features, a la countOverlaps or htSeq is inefficient1, since many reads (30%-80% of those that map anywhere, in this reviewer's experience) do not align uniquely. Hence the need and value to use quantification tools that respect the degeneracy of multimapping reads, ie, RSEM, Star, Kallisto, Sailfish, et al. A low-level analysis thus may wish to consider remapping with an appropriate tool. Fortunately, it does appear that `scater` has provisions for doing (re)-alignment with Kallisto. We find that conventional feature counting works quite well for read-based scRNA-seq data, having used this approach in several recent studies (Achim et al. , 2015; Kolodziejczyk et al. , 2015; Scialdone et al ., 2016). While ignoring multi-mapped reads during quantification is conservative, we feel that it does provide a greater degree of confidence in our downstream inferences. Certainly, there may be gains in power from using tools that extract more information from multi-mapping reads, but we do not consider this advantage to be so pronounced that it should be standard procedure for all scRNA-seq data analyses. For UMI-based data, there does not yet appear to be any clear "gold standard" approach for UMI processing into counts, so we have not provided any description of that step. In summary, we decided to start the workflow from the raw count data, rather than starting from read sequences, as conventional approaches for quantification described elsewhere seem to work well; to maintain some flexibility with respect to future developments in this field; and because our workflow focuses on the steps of the analysis that are carried out in R/Bioconductor, whereas most existing quantification tools require manual installation and execution from the command-line. References: Achim et al. (2015), Nature Biotechnology 33:503–509 Kolodziejczyk et al. (2015), Cell Stem Cell 17(4):471-485 Scialdone et al. (2016), Nature 535:289-293 The authors may consider referencing other extant methods that could address areas of their workflow, especially methods that are adapted to deal with the non-normality of scRNA-seq data. As you have stated, there are many alternative approaches that could be used in various parts of the workflow. However, we feel that it is beyond the scope of this article to enter into discussions about the relative advantages of different methods. In fact, this may undermine the pedagogical value of the workflow by providing too many options to inexperienced users. The methods we have described work well in a variety of situations, so we have chosen them for use in the various analysis steps. We have added a sentence to the discussion about the existence of alternative methods for low-level processing, and encouraged experienced users to explore them. Competing Interests: None declared. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Ji H. Reviewer Report For: A step-by-step workflow for low-level analysis of single-cell RNA-seq data with Bioconductor [version 2; peer review: 3 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2122 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10234.r15987 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2122/v1#referee-response-15987 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 19 Sep 2016 Hongkai Ji , Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10234.r15987 In this article, the authors introduce a computational workflow to perform low-level analysis of single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data based on R and Bioconductor. The workflow takes a read count matrix as input, and it provides R commands for loading data, ... Continue reading READ ALL 