This article I believe is better suited as a “technical note” rather than a “research note” as it predominantly describes the methodology of creating a novel 3D printed model along with discussion of possible or presumed future implications and uses. There is no comparison, no survey data, no statistical data or analysis, or any p-values that ate pertinent in this paper for it to be a research note. That being said, the model is extremely visually appealing and can certainly be used for patient counseling, trainee education and interdisciplinary decision making. The underlying technique though may be applied in many other applications where an internal pathology is to be demonstrated within a normal structure or an organ, with many publications describing it either using Polyjet technology or through stereolithography with transparent resin. With respect to multiple sclerosis, however, the vast majority of cases do not have such a heavy load of white matter disease as demonstrated here, except for cases of primary progressive MS or advanced MS. So this model, exaggerates the possible use of 3D printing in MS, as authors themselves describe the case presentation to have an unusually high load of white matter disease. Another consideration is the cost of the model (which would help readers if it was described either ordered through Materialise or the cost of the Connex printer and material) and whether it adds benefit for that cost and the time needed for segmentation and 3D printing. However, as authors mention, this can and will likely change in the future both in terms of automation of segmentation as well as the cost. One consideration to take into account to improve upon the current model would be to also add another color mask that shows enhancement of lesions demonstrating degree of active disease (especially with newer multicolor Polyjet 3D printers that can print up to 6 non-support material colors). This may help clinicians in the acute setting determining the severity, extent or percentage of plaques involved in active demyelination. It can also be helpful in determining predominance in certain areas of the brain (as mentioned by authors) or for comparing to prior white matter lesion load or comparing with other previous acute presentations. With respect to the authors’ statement regarding the need for automated quantitative analysis of white matter disease, the specific role of 3D printings is questionable while the actual 3D volumetric measurement is of the essence, readily provided by the software. A 3d model may help clinicians determine whether the progression has occurred predominantly in a certain region of the brain for example. This, however, can also be done through virtual 3D visualization but also with the use of software calculations, probably even more accurately, if desired. Lastly, financial disclosure must be detailed under “Competing Interest” since second author is an employee of Materialise. 