 General comments This study investigated the EAG response of a parasitoid Microplitis croceipes to the volatiles emitted from its host, the cotton plant-fed Heliothis virescens larvae. 15 compounds were tested at the dose of 1 μg on the female antennae of M. croceipes . Different level of bioactivity of M. croceipes to these compounds were presented and discrepancy was observed between the relative abundance and level of antennal responses in parasitoids. In the end, the authors suggested that ecological relevance but not the relative abundance of these compounds weighted more on the EAG responses of M. croceipes . However, since there is no behavior bioassay showing that these host-released compounds were truly importantly in the host-seeking process, it is hard to tell the ecological relevance of those compounds (like decanal) with strong EAG responses. A more cautious conclusion would be appropriate. Specific comments Introduction: Please give more information about why the authors specifically stated that the Heliothis virescens larvae were cotten-fed in the lab. Will different food sources affect the compounds released from the insect bodies? Method: Please justify why mass concentration was used in preparing the compounds. Different chemicals possess various molecular weight and vapor pressure. Therefore, the number of molecules delivered onto the antenna may be dramatically different. In addition, only female wasps were used in the experiments. Apparently females need to find host to lay eggs. Just curious to know what the male's EAG responses to these compounds or if there are any related studies. Results: Since 50% of the EAG responses from blend volatiles were used as a standard to make comparison, it would be better to add the EAG response to the blend volatiles in the bar figure. In addition, please specify the EAG response to the control solvent (hexane). Discussion: The authors initiated a good start to discuss some compounds in the blend may function as background odors to enhance olfactory contract. There are many excellent reviews about the possible mechanisms behind this pheromone, such as Riffell and Hildebrand (2016).The authors may discuss a little bit about the mechanisms.