The manuscript prepared by Dr Benson Otarigho describes an in silico study to characterize the enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) from different Schistosoma species, and compare them with their orthologues from humans, mice and rats. Moreover, docking studies have been performed by evaluating the DrugBank library. Based on the findings described, out of the 12110 compounds tested, 26 compounds have been identified as Schistosoma DHODH binders, where 13 of them are approved drugs. Overall, I am not convinced that the work presents original findings. Moreover, there are many aspects in terms of methodology and interpretation of the results that should be carefully revised. My comments are based on the following points: DHODH is a very well characterized enzyme, including Schistosoma DHODH. Functional domain analyses and physical and chemical properties studies described in the manuscript, all data raised by online/automatic tools, do not bring any new contribution to the field. Moreover, several studies reported were based on amino acid sequences retrieved from different sources, including, for example, sequences retrieved from the protein data base. In this case, for example, the sequence for human and rat DHODHs (Figure 1) are found truncated. This, of course, was necessary for the crystallographic studies, but it can not be used for phylogenetic studies, analysis of intrinsic disordered regions, and analysis of protein-protein interaction. In fact, the use of the truncate sequences took the author to draw wrong conclusions such as: "The protein domain analysis (see Project 3, Extended data) shows that all analyzed proteins have the dihydroorotate dehy-drogenase domain (DHO_dh), while ShDHODH proteins have dynein light domains and transmembrane helix regions, which are not seen in the other proteins" First, the class 2 DHODH, including human and Schisto enzymes, possesses two domains: the dihydroorotate dehydrogenase domain and the membrane binding domain. It is important to describe both domains in order to differentiate class 1A and class 2 DHODH enzymes. Moreover, and very important, human/rat enzymes also possess the transmembrane helix regions, which was found omitted in the sequence retrieved from PDB. Figure 1 is overall very confusing. First the legend does not match with its content. Moreover, from Figure 1 one can not know which sequence refers to each organism. Regarding the 3D model: The author used the online tool SWISS-MODEL to automatically generate a 3D model for Schistosoma DHODH. Since this model was used as a template for the docking experiments, more information regarding the quality of the model should be provided. Moreover, other features of the model that directly impact on the docking results should be carefully presented and discussed. For instance: Schistosoma DHODH has an insertion of approximately 10 residues compared to all the previous described class 2 DHODHs. How has SWISS-MODEL dealt with that? Has the model included the FMN? Regarding molecular docking: Which proteins have been uploaded for docking? Where were the compounds found to bind Schistosoma DHODH? Are they found to bind in the "quinone binding site"? Even FMN? Figure 6 does not provide any information regarding the interaction between DHODH and the ligands. A picture prepared by LIGPLOT, for instance, can be more appropriated to describe the environment of a ligand bound to the protein. Leflunomide is a prodrug found to bind Schistosoma DHODH. Lefluomide is well known to display little or no effect on class 2 DHODH. An experimental evidence of this unexpected finding should be provided. Several other molecules have been identified. Some of them are already described as class2 DHODH inhibitors, others have not. For those, experimental evidences of such binding should be provided. 