 General comments Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue from Parkinson’s disease patients could provide important data on the pathogenesis of the disease. Electron microscopy of autopsy tissue, particularly after formalin fixation and embedding for light microscopy, is challenging as preservation is far from optimal. Despite this difficulty the authors have provided persuasive evidence of cytoplasmic structures that may be viral. However, although the authors have convincingly shown differences between Parkinson’s and control brain tissue I feel they should be more cautious in their rather definitive interpretation that there are enterovirus structures antigenically related to polio and coxsachie virus present. In addition I think the discussion should be expanded as indicated below. Major specific comments The ICH showed labelling for both coxsachie and polio virus antigen. What evidence is there in the literature that these viruses have common antigens which may explain their findings? In their studies was either pre-immune or non-immune serum used as a control? Does binding of the coxsachie antiserum block subsequent labelling with the polio virus antiserum and vice versa? The micrographs of the cytoplasmic virus factories in the Parkinson’s tissue are persuasive of enterovirus infection, particularly in view of the similarity to cytoplasmic structures in polio brain tissue and the absence in controls. However, the presence of nuclear virus particles would not be expected of an enterovirus infection. This observation should be more extensively discussed. In addition the extensive early em studies in the 1960s by authors such as Dales (Dales et al 1965 Virology 26, 389) should be cited. Is it possible to use haemotoxylin to stain nuclei in the IHC to confirm or not the presence of nuclear viral antigen? Table 3 summarises the em and IHC data showing that for 13 samples there was both em and IHC. All 13 were positive for virus factories by em but 8/13 and 7/13 were positive for staining with coxsachie and poliovirus antiserum respectively. Given that it may be expected that IHC is more sensitive since a larger area of tissue may be examined the authors should comment on the difference between the em and IHC findings. Minor comments I presume that the tissue was fixed in formalin, this should be stated in methods For the reader it would be helpful if a micrograph could be shown in which both ribosomes and VLPs are indicated Figure 7 legend states that an arrow indicates the nuclear membrane, I cannot see an arrow on this micrograph. There appears to be a core in one of the nuclear particles shown in figure 11, indicated by the arrow, can the authors comment. 