pRF mapping provides a quantitative description of cortical representations, including the spatial representation in visual cortical areas. While pRF parameters are extensively used to quantitatively compare across subjects and conditions, we are well aware that such parameters depend on both neural factors and on nuisance variables that are related to the dynamics of BOLD. However, we lack a precise understanding of how such nuisance variables might affect each of the pRF parameters. Morgan Schwarzkopf make an important effort in this direction and test the impact of static SNR (affected by MR field strength) and temporal SNR (affected by temporal filtering) on spatial pRF parameters in visual cortical areas. I have no major concerns with the study and only offer few suggestions that hopefully will increase the usability of the reported results: It would be useful to explicitly describe one (or more) models that predict changes of pRF parameters with SNR. I feel one intuitive (and probably wrong) model invokes a non-linear thresholding effect. The logic is, approximately, as follows: when BOLD responses are stronger, each voxel responds to a larger range of stimulus position and the pRF size is consequently increased. Is this one of the hypotheses that the study intends to test (and falsify)? This particular model would predict that beta values (indexing BOLD response amplitude) and pRF size estimates correlate positively. Since both indices were collected here, could the authors measure this (lack of) correlation? In addition, this model would incorrectly predict larger pRF size estimates at higher MR fields, under the assumption that response amplitude is positively related to SNR. Could the authors report whether this assumption (larger beta-values in the higher SNR, i.e. 3T, dataset) is correct for their specific dataset? Also, I wonder whether one could also expect variations of the other pRF parameter (pRF position), e.g. in the form of an attraction towards the fovea / screen borders / horizontal and vertical meridians. The text reports relatively high correlations between pRF center parameters at 1.5 and 3T, but this does not exclude systematic shifts in eccentricity or polar angle. The same applies to the effects of temporal filtering: can the authors exclude systematic shifts of pRF positions? I think that the figures could be more incisive if they were more compact. While I understand the importance of reporting single-participant’s data, I feel the need for gathering the data in fewer more illustrative plots. One possibility would be to use the format of scatter-plots comparing pRF parameters at 1.5 vs. 3T (so that the three subjects could be represented as different symbols within a single plot) - perhaps accompanied by a grand-average showing the expected relationship between pRF parameters and visual areas or eccentricity. It might be worth pointing out that the bias introduced by temporal filtering is linked to the regular sequence of visual presentations. Presumably, temporal filtering would have had no effect on pRF size if the visual stimulus used for retinotopic mapping varied its position randomly - instead of sweeping across the visual field. Sharing the raw data is sometimes very difficult, but clearly this is encouraged by many in the field. I wonder whether the authors could provide a justification for not providing .nii files (rather than the analyzed datasets, which are certainly sufficient for reproducing the figures but do not allow for reusing the dataset for novel investigations). 