Thank you for the opportunity to read your interesting work on evaluating US-guided lumbar puncture in the training of students and young doctors. Despite the interesting read, I have to make some comments. In general Reading your paper, I understand that the markings where the LP should be performed improve after using ultrasound. I'm not sure how this demonstrates that ultrasound aids/"may be highly beneficial"/adds a second level of security in learning. What is the first level of security? Also, It is not clear to me if the marking is alway correct after using ultrasound. US may often change the marking, but are the markings 100% correct after correcting? How do you define a secure training environment? It is stated in the title and discussion to be secure. But what elements contribute to this security? Please check spelling and grammar for readability. For instance the use of "laying" in both tables and the methods section. "Liner probe" Abstract Please be more exact in the abstract. For instance the methods section of the abstract. It is not clear to me that the markings are sometimes changed based on ultrasound. Introduction Second last paragraph: "using LP when teaching LP..." might not be correct. Methods section In what time period was the study performed? Since US is adopting progressively among (young) doctors, this is relevant information. Maybe you could provide the reader with some more information about the volunteers: age, BMI, previous illnesses (or the absense thereof). Inclusion/exclusion criteria of learners and volunteers? - Especially since you state the interviews that were held to determine the theoretical knowledge of the learners. How can you expect medical students and young doctors with apparently no experience with US imaging to identify the L3/L4 intervertebral space? Especially since "No additional instruction on reading the ultrasonic image was given." -- Also, some more explanation is needed why you refer to the paper by Speer 2013. Power calculation was based on what previous study results? Some explanation is needed here. Student's T-test? compared the number of correct markings without and with ultrasound. But these are paired dichotomous values. Perhaps a McNemar's test (or ANOVA?) is a far more appropriate test. Please consult a statistician on this matter. Results To my understanding you have determined the success rate of the landmark technique by letting the learners check with ultrasound? In other words: if all marks remain unchanged after US, the score would be 100% correct. In the methods section you described the investigator to judge all US markings to be "correct" or not. But these data are not reported in the results section or discussion. I suppose the sentence "All ultrasound markings were found ..." should be expanded with a confidence interval? What does current literature say about the accuracy of determining the correct intervertebral space by experienced clinicians? Is it always 100% correct? Please consider adding some descriptive statistics and confidence intervals? You didn't compare the accuracy of the landmark technique between sessions. Did the learners perform better in the second session when compared to the first? And in the third? I feel this information is vital since this might demonstrate any learning effect and thus substantiate the title. It might have been interesting to know how incorrect markings were distributed between too low and too high. Discussion "Using ultrasound clinically on a regular basis might be out of scope..." - this depends on the time and place where novice doctors are employed. Times are a changing! Thank you again for reading your interesting paper. I feel it still needs some work, though. 