In this article, Chen YW and his colleagues carried out virtual screening using the computational molecular modeling of the viral protein from SARS-CoV-2 or COVID-19 to identify therapeutics targets. The authors presented that 3CLpro protease enzyme of the SARS-CoV-2 is considered to be a promising drug target and repurposing accessible drugs to challenge the globally outbreaking of the SARS-CoV-2. The authors initially used the translated polyprotein (PP1AB) sequence of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV to prepare for protein structural model. Subsequently, they performed computational virtual screening against this against its using a library of purchasable drugs with the binding site grid. Among 7,000 repurposing drugs in the screening with their known side effects, the antivirals ledipasir or velpatasvir are potentially used against SARS-CoV-2 infection with minimal side effects. The manuscript is straightforward in both terminology and structure. The manuscript can be considered to be accepted with a minor revision and could be further improved with following points: Table 2 is mentioned prior Table 1 in the manuscript. More details of the setting and cut-off used in the virtual screening and analysis should be provided in the Method section. Table 1 is quite confusing. The importance residues of the SARS-CoV 3CLpro previously reported and the variant residues found in SARS-CoV-2 (this work) should be separated. The amino acid variants of each position should be included. Using the image with the annotation could be an alternative and more informative presentation. In Table 3, some information should be included in the table, such as molecular weight. In addition, the authors should discuss more about the results shown in the Table 3 to compare the binding energy different between A and B chains. In the conclusion, the authors proposed velpatasvir and ledipasvir as an attractive candidate. However, based on the virtual screening on the active sites of SARS-CoV-2 3CLpro model, both of them are not ranked as the top list in Chain A screening. Could you please explain this scenario? The results from other virtual screening package (such as Glide or FlexX) should be compared? To extend the interest of the topic as well as to compare the potential for using repurposing drug in COVID-19 treatment, the drug virtual screening with other viral enzymes might be performed and compared. In this case, since there are several clinical researches for using this drug family (e.g. Lopinavir/ritonavir) in COVID-19 treatment, therefore, the authors can compare the virtual screening model with the clinical outcomes. 