This is an excellent review of the genome project process and life cycle, that most valuably shows the reader how a genome project fits into the larger goal of biological research around a species. Dr. Papanicolaou's insights remind us how genome scale data "completely changed our perception of how biological research can scale in a world that transcends borders" and provides passionate enthusiasm and advice for those researchers and communities without genomes who wish to join this new world. Insight 1 tells us about the power and necessity of bioinformatics for not just assembly and annotation, but the genome wide analyses required to gain the most biological insight, but additionally warns us against relying on the "black box" that software can become without understanding how it works. I for one have fallen for this by following the conventional wisdom about what a particular software package does, but finding out only by inspection of the code that something else entirely is going on. Insight 2 places the genome project in it's rightful place as part of the experimental life cycle. The emphasis on experimental design in genomics is important - all to often in the past this critical step is ignored either due to cost reasons in collecting a sufficient data set compared with the urge to do something and call it preliminary data or simply out of bravado and not planning, with the result of very poor genome assembly quality and unreliable or un-interpretable downstream analyses. Dr. Papanicolaou outlines the importance of things like community curation to simply enable the community to look closely at the data and gene models - something that is vital to get an idea of how much to trust any conclusions coming out. but at the same time to match genome quality to the desired experimental requirements, to freeze genomes and annotations, and to get on with it and publish. This is excellent advice, and many a genome projects publication has been stalled for multiple years in the pursuit of better quality without the contaminant investment of resources, or in slow transition between the various steps of analysis dues to poor planning and training for the entire process of the life cycle. This part of the review is required reading for anyone contemplating a genome project, directing the thoughts of the reader to consider the longer term plan for the genome for his or her's lab, experiment or even for a larger community, and tailoring the experimental plan to fit. The insights on Data Sharing, and the requirement for pre-publication data sharing are critical, and point the reader to resources that will enable placing new genome datasets in public repositories with long funding horizons, stable futures, and academic reach around the board. More interesting to this reviewer, was the discussion on the difficulties in funding and publishing the improvement of draft genomes in the future. Although this is getting technically easier with he advent of longer read sequencing technologies, the manuscript is correct in noting the difficulties in publishing a fourth improved draft genome compared with the third - it is hard to say it is a significant improvement to our state of knowledge when closing say 75% of the gaps. I believe in the future we will still be interested in "effectively finished" archival genomes, and that these will be worth data notes in lower impact journals, but the option of "decouple publications from resources while at the same time respecting the value of genomics " to me seems like the correct way forward as we one day hope to have sequenced all species on the planet - i.e. to read the primary biological data for life on earth. Whilst we realize the genome sequence of the 10,000th bird species may not make the highest profile journal, not to have this sequence in the natural history museums of the future seems unthinkable. The human touch insight is dedicated to the need for researchers to look at data to correct gene models, to understand the limits of the dataset. New tools allow this to be done in a co-ordinated manner with groups of researchers from around the world, with the result that research can be accelerated around the world with the sharing of a single genome. This is particularly true today with the use of RNAi and Crispr gene manipulation techniques. In the milkweed bug community RNAi was the mainstay of comparative developmental research, but relied on degenerate PCR to identify genes and design probes. A draft genome quickly gave this research community the information to design all the probes they needed, but human curation was still needed to checkoff the number of genes in a family had changed from the Drosophila model, or that the automated gene model had got the sequence right before committing to a wet lab experiment, and that phylogenetic trees had confirmed that the researcher was manipulating the gene he or she thought she was, and not a paralog or a gene from a different but related family. Overall Dr. Papanicolaou has written an excellent guide to the genome project, the reading of which will profit anyone contemplating a genome project. It is well written, and whilst I have a few differences of opinion on minor points, they are in no means enough to prevent indexation. Overall I believe this manuscript merits immediate indexation with no modification necessary. Bonus points for remembering and reminding us of the role of Jim Kent.