Viviane Alves shows that a phospho antibody raised against mammalian eEF2 can specifically detect the phosphorylation status of its counterpart in C. elegans, EEF-2. This is conceptually a very important validation in the field, especially because antibodies produced to detect specific phosphorylation sites in mammalian cells very often do not cross-react with non-mammalian organisms. The challenge in making use of these antibodies is that successful detection may depend on the specificity and affinity of the antibody for the phospho-protein of interest and on the amino acids sequences surrounding the specific phospho site. To make matters worse, the sequence and size of phosphopeptides employed to raise these antibodies are not always provided by companies (including the anti phospho eEF2K antibody validated in this manuscript), making it hard to in-silico predict their cross reactivity before acquisition. Therefore, this manuscript will be highly valuable to prevent researchers interested in studying the regulation of elongation during protein synthesis in C. elegans to go through the laborious validation to detect the inhibitory activity of EEF2 in C. elegans under different cues. The author also provides the conditions and a very neat protocol for the simultaneous detection of phospho EEF2 with a loading control that will prove quite helpful for researchers, saving time and resources. The manuscript is clearly written and easy to read. The experiments are generally carefully performed with appropriate controls. Only minor suggestions and changes should be made (See below) Consider revising or changing the following points (minor suggestions) Inhibitory phosphorylation of eEF2K is elicited in response to different cues. Therefore, it would be really informative to emphasize that the phosphorylation signal observed in figures 2 and 3 is basal. Maybe this could be included within the results section. In addition, basal phosphorylation signal is quite high and possibly out of linear range, even with short exposures, which could be troublesome for those aiming to detect subtle differences in phosphorylation among different samples submitted or not to different stress conditions. Perhaps, it would be helpful to add a suggestion in the manuscript for the use of a higher anti-phospho EF2K dilution or alternatively, to make use of a weaker chemiluminescent substrate solution. Conclusion could emphasize the important validation that the load control (tubulin) can be specifically and simultaneously probed in the same membrane. The confirmation of the knockout for efk-1KO C. elegans strains is important to prove the specificity of the antibody against EEF2. However, the PCR result (figure 1) was not addressed in the results section, which starts with figure 2. Consider including a simple paragraph with this result in this section. Although the author made use of a semi-dry transfer apparatus and membranes are only rinsed in the buffer when this system is employed, it has been previously shown that the composition of buffers may influence the semi-dry transfer efficiency (www.nature.com/protocolexchange/protocols/2925). Therefore, the author could consider including the recipe of the buffer in table 3. Maybe I missed the point, but why were membranes first incubated with both anti-rabbit/anti mouse IgG-HRP and then incubated a second time with anti IgG-HRP against mouse only? (See material and methods section). In figure 3B, substitute short for long In the sentences: C. elegans processes eEF2 and eEF2K orthologues = substitute processes for possess . After washes, membrane was the incubated with secondary = substitute the for then . Used as a negative control of efk-1 activity = Change efk-1 for EF2K (the activity refers to the enzyme not the gene itself). Antibody for 40 minutes at room temperature, subject to new washes and incubated = substitute subject for subjected . Can be circumvented adding = substitute with: can be circumvented by adding Membrane using semi-dry transfer system = substitute with: membrane using a semi-dry transfer system 