In this clinical study, Liebrenz et al . addressed the association between Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) subtypes and lifetime substance-use disorders (SUD). This topic is of particular interest (Fatseas et al 2012), as there is a strong literature supporting a relationship between ADHD and SUD (Wilens 2004). An emerging issue is the relationship between SUD and ADHD subtypes (Inattentive, Hyperactive-Impulsive, and Combined). For instance, Tamm et al . found more severe SUDs for the Combined subtype (Tamm et al . 2012). Our team suggested that Combined and Inattentive subtypes might be associated with more severe addictive disorders (Hurmic et al ., CPDD annual meeting 2015). As stated in the manuscript, other authors reported the Hyperactive-impulsive subtype more likely to be associated to a comorbid SUD, or no difference. Data remains limited and this topic is still in debate. In this perspective, Liebrenz et al . conducted a cross sectional study with validated questionnaires assessing ADHD symptomatology and substance use, among 413 adults diagnosed with ADHD. They hypothesized that results would show statistical differences of lifetime SUD prevalence for specific substances, according to ADHD subtype. The main finding of this study was that the Inattentive ADHD subtype was significantly less associated than the Combined subtype to lifetime cocaine abuse/dependence (there was no difference for other substances). However, Hyperactive-impulsive and Inattentive subtypes were not statistically different for their association to any substance disorder. Liebrenz et al .’s work is a significant contribution – but not a breakthrough – to research on the relationships of ADHD subtypes and addiction. As reviewers, we noted the clarity of their manuscript, the justification of the study and the definition of their purpose in the introduction section. The method seemed valid to us and missing data (64 subjects) were correctly managed. However, we think that the strategy of analysis should have been more detailed in a specific paragraph. For instance, the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire is not explained. The Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB) would also have deserved a short presentation and explanation of their use in this study. Another point to argue is the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, as Rosler et al . (2006) stated that “on the basis of the WRI, DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made”, even if “considerable amount of overlap exists” (Rosler et al . 2006). Results are presented and discussed appropriately. The authors mentioned that assessment of substance use was based on ICD-10 criteria. However, for their analysis they pooled substance abuse and dependence in one category without giving the rationale for that choice. In ICD-10 and DSM-IV these are distinct entities. However, in DSM 5 these distinct categories have been combined with other adjustments into one unique category (Hasin et al 2013). The authors might clarify this use of ICD-10 in a DSM 5 perspective. The ICD-10 substance use categories might have allowed a more specific study of the association of addiction and ADHD-subtypes? The absence of statistical difference between Hyperactive-impulsive and Inattentive subtypes for association with any substance disorder was unexpected, especially for stimulants. Liebrenz et al . discussed the lack of statistical power of their study, which could explain the lack of significant differences. Thus, the hypothesis of a link between specific SUDs and specific ADHD subtypes remains open. In conclusion, the study of Liebrenz et al . illustrates the high rate of comorbidity between substance use disorders and ADHD in adults, and reports a specific relationship between cocaine disorder and ADHD Combined subtype. Further research with more statistical power may highlight other specificities of ADHD subtypes in the field of addiction. References 1. Fatseas M, Debrabant R, Auriacombe M: The diagnostic accuracy of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in adults with substance use disorders. Curr Opin Psychiatry . 2012; 25 (3): 219-25 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Hurmic H, Debrabant R, Kervran C, Serre F, et al.: ADHD and substance use disorders: Subtype and gender differences. Drug and Alcohol Dependence . 2015; 156 : e100-e101 Publisher Full Text 3. Tamm L, Adinoff B, Nakonezny PA, Winhusen T, et al.: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder subtypes in adolescents with comorbid substance-use disorder. Am J Drug Alcohol Abuse . 2012; 38 (1): 93-100 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Rösler M, Retz W, Thome J, Schneider M, et al.: Psychopathological rating scales for diagnostic use in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci . 2006; 256 Suppl 1 : i3-11 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Hasin DS, O'Brien CP, Auriacombe M, Borges G, et al.: DSM-5 criteria for substance use disorders: recommendations and rationale. Am J Psychiatry . 2013; 170 (8): 834-51 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Wilens TE: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and the substance use disorders: the nature of the relationship, subtypes at risk, and treatment issues. Psychiatr Clin North Am . 2004; 27 (2): 283-301 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Auriacombe M, Alexandre JM and Fatseas M. Reviewer Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r11890 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v1#referee-response-11890 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 19 Oct 2016 Michael Liebrenz , Psychiatric University Hospital, Research Group on ADHD, Zurich, Switzerland 19 Oct 2016 Author Response We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of ... Continue reading We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire. The WURS-k retrospectively assesses symptoms of ADHD in childhood and as such is part of the diagnostic process for adult ADHD. It is mentioned here for completeness, not because it was a target of analysis. 2.The reviewers ask for more detailed presentations of the Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB). We have now added the following two paragraphs on these tests: WRI: "The Wender-Reimherr Interview is the German version of the American Wender-Reimherr Adult Attention Deficits Disorders Scale (WRAADDS) for the assessment of adult ADHD. It allows a diagnosis of adult ADHD to be made. It contains seven scales for: attention difficulties, persistent motor hyperactivity, temper, affective lability, emotional overreactivity, disorganization, and impulsivity. Each scale is represented by 3–5 items. A sum score is formed per scale, and each scale has a diagnostic threshold. A diagnosis requires that sum scores for scales 1–2 must each exceed their threshold, and that for scales 3–7, 2 out of 5 sum scores must exceed their threshold." ADHS-SB: " The ADHS-SB is a self-rating instrument for the assessment of adult ADHD in German. It consists of 18 symptoms of ADHD derived from the DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria for ADHD. The degree of endorsement is rated on four levels: 0 = not at all, 1 = slightly, 2 = moderately, and 3 = severely. The total score is obtained by summing up the 18 individual item scores. Subsyndrome scores for ‘‘attention deficit’’, ‘‘hyperactivity’’, and ‘‘impulsivity’’ can also be obtained." 3. The reviewers question the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, stating that according to Rosler et al. (2006), DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made based on the WRI. This is true. However, the DSM-IV does not contain a specific diagnosis for adult ADHD, while the WRI is specifically targeted to adults. As Rosler also states "the question remains whether the DSM-IV criteria are adequate to characterize adult ADHD" (p. I/4) and "An advantage of the WRI could be the extended spectrum of adult psychopathology" (p. I/10). There is certainly room to argue for either diagnostic approach. Reassuringly, as the reviewers also note, the two approaches show considerable overlap. 4.The reviewers ask for the rationale for pooling substance abuse and dependence. The reason is primarily statistical: estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate. This also seems justified to us because both abuse and dependence describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire. The WURS-k retrospectively assesses symptoms of ADHD in childhood and as such is part of the diagnostic process for adult ADHD. It is mentioned here for completeness, not because it was a target of analysis. 2.The reviewers ask for more detailed presentations of the Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB). We have now added the following two paragraphs on these tests: WRI: "The Wender-Reimherr Interview is the German version of the American Wender-Reimherr Adult Attention Deficits Disorders Scale (WRAADDS) for the assessment of adult ADHD. It allows a diagnosis of adult ADHD to be made. It contains seven scales for: attention difficulties, persistent motor hyperactivity, temper, affective lability, emotional overreactivity, disorganization, and impulsivity. Each scale is represented by 3–5 items. A sum score is formed per scale, and each scale has a diagnostic threshold. A diagnosis requires that sum scores for scales 1–2 must each exceed their threshold, and that for scales 3–7, 2 out of 5 sum scores must exceed their threshold." ADHS-SB: " The ADHS-SB is a self-rating instrument for the assessment of adult ADHD in German. It consists of 18 symptoms of ADHD derived from the DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria for ADHD. The degree of endorsement is rated on four levels: 0 = not at all, 1 = slightly, 2 = moderately, and 3 = severely. The total score is obtained by summing up the 18 individual item scores. Subsyndrome scores for ‘‘attention deficit’’, ‘‘hyperactivity’’, and ‘‘impulsivity’’ can also be obtained." 3. The reviewers question the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, stating that according to Rosler et al. (2006), DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made based on the WRI. This is true. However, the DSM-IV does not contain a specific diagnosis for adult ADHD, while the WRI is specifically targeted to adults. As Rosler also states "the question remains whether the DSM-IV criteria are adequate to characterize adult ADHD" (p. I/4) and "An advantage of the WRI could be the extended spectrum of adult psychopathology" (p. I/10). There is certainly room to argue for either diagnostic approach. Reassuringly, as the reviewers also note, the two approaches show considerable overlap. 4.The reviewers ask for the rationale for pooling substance abuse and dependence. The reason is primarily statistical: estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate. This also seems justified to us because both abuse and dependence describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 19 Oct 2016 Michael Liebrenz , Psychiatric University Hospital, Research Group on ADHD, Zurich, Switzerland 19 Oct 2016 Author Response We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of ... Continue reading We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire. The WURS-k retrospectively assesses symptoms of ADHD in childhood and as such is part of the diagnostic process for adult ADHD. It is mentioned here for completeness, not because it was a target of analysis. 2.The reviewers ask for more detailed presentations of the Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB). We have now added the following two paragraphs on these tests: WRI: "The Wender-Reimherr Interview is the German version of the American Wender-Reimherr Adult Attention Deficits Disorders Scale (WRAADDS) for the assessment of adult ADHD. It allows a diagnosis of adult ADHD to be made. It contains seven scales for: attention difficulties, persistent motor hyperactivity, temper, affective lability, emotional overreactivity, disorganization, and impulsivity. Each scale is represented by 3–5 items. A sum score is formed per scale, and each scale has a diagnostic threshold. A diagnosis requires that sum scores for scales 1–2 must each exceed their threshold, and that for scales 3–7, 2 out of 5 sum scores must exceed their threshold." ADHS-SB: " The ADHS-SB is a self-rating instrument for the assessment of adult ADHD in German. It consists of 18 symptoms of ADHD derived from the DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria for ADHD. The degree of endorsement is rated on four levels: 0 = not at all, 1 = slightly, 2 = moderately, and 3 = severely. The total score is obtained by summing up the 18 individual item scores. Subsyndrome scores for ‘‘attention deficit’’, ‘‘hyperactivity’’, and ‘‘impulsivity’’ can also be obtained." 3. The reviewers question the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, stating that according to Rosler et al. (2006), DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made based on the WRI. This is true. However, the DSM-IV does not contain a specific diagnosis for adult ADHD, while the WRI is specifically targeted to adults. As Rosler also states "the question remains whether the DSM-IV criteria are adequate to characterize adult ADHD" (p. I/4) and "An advantage of the WRI could be the extended spectrum of adult psychopathology" (p. I/10). There is certainly room to argue for either diagnostic approach. Reassuringly, as the reviewers also note, the two approaches show considerable overlap. 4.The reviewers ask for the rationale for pooling substance abuse and dependence. The reason is primarily statistical: estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate. This also seems justified to us because both abuse and dependence describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire. The WURS-k retrospectively assesses symptoms of ADHD in childhood and as such is part of the diagnostic process for adult ADHD. It is mentioned here for completeness, not because it was a target of analysis. 2.The reviewers ask for more detailed presentations of the Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB). We have now added the following two paragraphs on these tests: WRI: "The Wender-Reimherr Interview is the German version of the American Wender-Reimherr Adult Attention Deficits Disorders Scale (WRAADDS) for the assessment of adult ADHD. It allows a diagnosis of adult ADHD to be made. It contains seven scales for: attention difficulties, persistent motor hyperactivity, temper, affective lability, emotional overreactivity, disorganization, and impulsivity. Each scale is represented by 3–5 items. A sum score is formed per scale, and each scale has a diagnostic threshold. A diagnosis requires that sum scores for scales 1–2 must each exceed their threshold, and that for scales 3–7, 2 out of 5 sum scores must exceed their threshold." ADHS-SB: " The ADHS-SB is a self-rating instrument for the assessment of adult ADHD in German. It consists of 18 symptoms of ADHD derived from the DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria for ADHD. The degree of endorsement is rated on four levels: 0 = not at all, 1 = slightly, 2 = moderately, and 3 = severely. The total score is obtained by summing up the 18 individual item scores. Subsyndrome scores for ‘‘attention deficit’’, ‘‘hyperactivity’’, and ‘‘impulsivity’’ can also be obtained." 3. The reviewers question the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, stating that according to Rosler et al. (2006), DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made based on the WRI. This is true. However, the DSM-IV does not contain a specific diagnosis for adult ADHD, while the WRI is specifically targeted to adults. As Rosler also states "the question remains whether the DSM-IV criteria are adequate to characterize adult ADHD" (p. I/4) and "An advantage of the WRI could be the extended spectrum of adult psychopathology" (p. I/10). There is certainly room to argue for either diagnostic approach. Reassuringly, as the reviewers also note, the two approaches show considerable overlap. 4.The reviewers ask for the rationale for pooling substance abuse and dependence. The reason is primarily statistical: estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate. This also seems justified to us because both abuse and dependence describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 28 Jul 2015 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 Version 2 (revision) 19 Oct 16 read Version 1 28 Jul 15 read read read Marc Auriacombe , Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Jean-Marc Alexandre , CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Melina Fatseas , CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Swantje Matthies , University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany Eliza Hoxhaj , University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany Joseph O'Neill , UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Los Angeles, USA Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Matthies S et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 07 Nov 2016 | for Version 2 Swantje Matthies , Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany Eliza Hoxhaj , Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany 0 Views copyright © 2016 Matthies S et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I have read the revisions made and I agree perfectly. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Matthies S and Hoxhaj E. Peer Review Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10511.r17430) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v2#referee-response-17430 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 O'Neill J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 17 Oct 2016 | for Version 1 Joseph O'Neill , Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Los Angeles, CA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 O'Neill J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The investigators determined the effect of ADHD subtype on the prevalence of substance use disorders (SUDs) in a large (413 patients) sample of (medicated?) adult ADHD. In line with expectations, the overall sample evinced high rates of lifetime substance abuse or dependence (26%) and occasional use (57%). The inattentive subtype was significantly less likely to abuse or be dependent on cocaine than the combined subtype. As indicated by the Bordelais reviewers, while not a major advance, this study is a perfect example of normal science in the sense of Kuhn and represents a worthwhile gain in our knowledge of ADHD. The authors list multiple clinical scales used to assess ADHD and state that SUD was assessed based on ICD-10 criteria. Like the Freiburger reviewers, the first question that occurred to me was whether any standardized instrument was administered to assess SUDs? Again, as asked by other reviewers, were the patients in the sample undergoing current pharmacological treatment? Presumably, many were on methylphenidate or other agents. It would be a good idea to cite some statistics for prevalence substance abuse and dependence in the general population around Zrich. Then the reader would have an idea how much higher prevalence is in the adult ADHD clinical sample. The investigators were commendably conservative in claiming significant results, restricting themselves to p -values ≤ 0.002, based on Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. It might be informative to discuss some of the other results that would have been significant under a less stringent cut-off. For example, nicotine abuse/dependence is twice as frequent and alcohol abuse/dependence is nearly ten times as frequent in the Combined as in the Inattentive subgroup. These may be worth commenting on. But I wouldn’t discuss any comparisons involving the Hyperactive-Impulsive subgroup, since they are too few (only 24 subjects). In the Introduction, the authors retell the diagnosis and subtyping of ADHD in DSM-III-R, ICD-10, and DSM-IV. They should add a line or two about DSM5, just to round out their brief historical review. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 O'Neill J. Peer Review Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r17021) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v1#referee-response-17021 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Matthies S et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 21 Sep 2016 | for Version 1 Swantje Matthies , Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany Eliza Hoxhaj , Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany 0 Views copyright © 2016 Matthies S et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The paper "Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorders: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study” covers, besides the well-known comorbidity of ADHD with substance use disorders (SUDs), a very interesting field of research concerning the associations between ADHD subtypes and substance use disorders. It adds to the knowledge and differentiates knowledge in focusing on ADHD subtypes. Particularly we noted the large sample size, as it allows more reliable results, the valid assessment of ADHD by using standardized instruments and third-party information and the well detailed statistical analysis. The applied methods appear overall reasonable and valid to us. We have some remarks that should be addressed: The authors mentioned that assessment of substance use was based on ICD-10 criteria. However they didn’t exactly explain their method to gather this data. We noted here the lack of standardized instruments. Furthermore they pooled substance abuse and dependence in one category. The rational for using this procedure should be given in more detail. We missed information about psychopharmacological treatment. This information might provide potential correlations of treatment/no treatment with substance use. Another question regards the comorbid disorders: It should be discussed that comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD 1 is also known to co-occur with SUD. Further, we wonder that only 6% of the patients had a comorbid personality disorder, which is low in contrast to some studies reporting prevalence rates of personality disorders between 25% and 78% among individuals with ADHD 2 - 5 . It is also important to make clear, how the authors assessed comorbid disorders. Did they use standardized instruments? The sample size of 327 represented on Table 1, page 4, does not correspond to the described sample size in the paragraph above “Results” (“…were compared with the remaining 349 subjects…” or “N=332-345, depending on questionnaire participants…”). In the discussion it might be interesting to explain the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. It would also be interesting to know about possible hypotheses and assumptions among the authors concerning the subtype difference in cocaine abuse/dependence. Are there neuropsychological or clinical differences between the subtypes which protect the inattentive subtype from cocaine dependence? The discussion should also comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. References 1. Philipsen A, Limberger MF, Lieb K, Feige B, et al.: Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder as a potentially aggravating factor in borderline personality disorder. Br J Psychiatry . 2008; 192 (2): 118-23 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Jacob CP, Romanos J, Dempfle A, Heine M, et al.: Co-morbidity of adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder with focus on personality traits and related disorders in a tertiary referral center. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci . 2007; 257 (6): 309-17 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Cumyn L, French L, Hechtman L: Comorbidity in adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Can J Psychiatry . 2009; 54 (10): 673-83 PubMed Abstract 4. Matthies S, van Elst LT, Feige B, Fischer D, et al.: Severity of childhood attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder--a risk factor for personality disorders in adult life?. J Pers Disord . 2011; 25 (1): 101-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Williams ED, Reimherr FW, Marchant BK, Strong RE, et al.: Personality disorder in ADHD Part 1: Assessment of personality disorder in adult ADHD using data from a clinical trial of OROS methylphenidate. Ann Clin Psychiatry . 2010; 22 (2): 84-93 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 19 Oct 2016 Michael Liebrenz, Psychiatric University Hospital, Research Group on ADHD, Zurich, Switzerland We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The reviewer asks us to elaborate on how ICD-10 criteria for substance use were assessed and why abuse and dependence were pooled. ICD-10 criteria were applied by a highly experienced clinician (DE) in a semi-structured interview. No official instrument was used. Estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate and seems justified to us also because both describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. The reviewer asks for information on psychopharmacological treatment. Unfortunately, such information is not available. The reviewer asks us to discuss and to clarify assessment of comorbidities. We have addressed these questions in the Methods and in the Discussion (Limitations) Section. We now state: “Comorbid disorders were diagnosed according to ICD-10 by DE in a semi-structured interview, again without an official instrument.” and “Furthermore comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD and is difficult to differentiate, is also known to be associated with SUD. However in this sample that relied for diagnosis of comorbidity on a semi-structured clinical interview, but not on additional instruments, we found only 6% of patients suffering from a comorbid personality disorder. This is low in comparison to some studies reporting prevalence rates between 25 – 78%.” The N=327 reflects the fact that not all patients diagnosed with ADHD fulfilled subtype criteria. Remember that in this study, ADHD was diagnosed according to Utah (Wender-Rheimherr), not DSM, criteria, and subtypes were constructed post-hoc using scores on the ADHS-SB questionnaire. This means that the diagnosis itself does not necessarily entail a subtype assignment, and vice versa. Thus, in about 20 participants ADHS-SB scores were not high enough to yield a subtype classification. This is now explained in the methods section under the heading "Assessment of ADHD symptomatology". The reviewer suggests to discuss the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. We have addressed these aspects in an expanded discussion section. We now state: “ On a different note van Wingen et al investigated structural brain abnormalities in this population and reported of significantly smaller grey matter volumes in the occipital cortex as well as smaller volumes in the putamen in ADHD patients with comorbid cocaine dependence when compared to those without this lifetime diagnosis. The authors of aforementioned study suggested that the differences in putamen volumes may reflect alterations in the availability of striatal dopamine transporters that are available for interaction with methylphenidate, thus giving some explanation for the finding that methylphenidate is less effective in patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence.” The reviewer asks us to comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. We now point towards research by Levin et al and have expanded the conclusion section: “ Furthermore a study among patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence receiving methylphenidate, demonstrated an advantage over placebo with regard to reduction in cocaine use in individuals who responded to ADHD treatment.” View more View less Competing Interests None. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Matthies S and Hoxhaj E. Peer Review Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r16482) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v1#referee-response-16482 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Auriacombe M et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 17 Feb 2016 | for Version 1 Marc Auriacombe , Addiction Psychiatry Team, Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Pôle Addictologie, CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Jean-Marc Alexandre , Pôle Addictologie, CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Addiction Psychiatry Team, Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Melina Fatseas , Pôle Addictologie, CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Addiction Psychiatry Team, Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France 0 Views copyright © 2016 Auriacombe M et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In this clinical study, Liebrenz et al . addressed the association between Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) subtypes and lifetime substance-use disorders (SUD). This topic is of particular interest (Fatseas et al 2012), as there is a strong literature supporting a relationship between ADHD and SUD (Wilens 2004). An emerging issue is the relationship between SUD and ADHD subtypes (Inattentive, Hyperactive-Impulsive, and Combined). For instance, Tamm et al . found more severe SUDs for the Combined subtype (Tamm et al . 2012). Our team suggested that Combined and Inattentive subtypes might be associated with more severe addictive disorders (Hurmic et al ., CPDD annual meeting 2015). As stated in the manuscript, other authors reported the Hyperactive-impulsive subtype more likely to be associated to a comorbid SUD, or no difference. Data remains limited and this topic is still in debate. In this perspective, Liebrenz et al . conducted a cross sectional study with validated questionnaires assessing ADHD symptomatology and substance use, among 413 adults diagnosed with ADHD. They hypothesized that results would show statistical differences of lifetime SUD prevalence for specific substances, according to ADHD subtype. The main finding of this study was that the Inattentive ADHD subtype was significantly less associated than the Combined subtype to lifetime cocaine abuse/dependence (there was no difference for other substances). However, Hyperactive-impulsive and Inattentive subtypes were not statistically different for their association to any substance disorder. Liebrenz et al .’s work is a significant contribution – but not a breakthrough – to research on the relationships of ADHD subtypes and addiction. As reviewers, we noted the clarity of their manuscript, the justification of the study and the definition of their purpose in the introduction section. The method seemed valid to us and missing data (64 subjects) were correctly managed. However, we think that the strategy of analysis should have been more detailed in a specific paragraph. For instance, the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire is not explained. The Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB) would also have deserved a short presentation and explanation of their use in this study. Another point to argue is the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, as Rosler et al . (2006) stated that “on the basis of the WRI, DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made”, even if “considerable amount of overlap exists” (Rosler et al . 2006). Results are presented and discussed appropriately. The authors mentioned that assessment of substance use was based on ICD-10 criteria. However, for their analysis they pooled substance abuse and dependence in one category without giving the rationale for that choice. In ICD-10 and DSM-IV these are distinct entities. However, in DSM 5 these distinct categories have been combined with other adjustments into one unique category (Hasin et al 2013). The authors might clarify this use of ICD-10 in a DSM 5 perspective. The ICD-10 substance use categories might have allowed a more specific study of the association of addiction and ADHD-subtypes? The absence of statistical difference between Hyperactive-impulsive and Inattentive subtypes for association with any substance disorder was unexpected, especially for stimulants. Liebrenz et al . discussed the lack of statistical power of their study, which could explain the lack of significant differences. Thus, the hypothesis of a link between specific SUDs and specific ADHD subtypes remains open. In conclusion, the study of Liebrenz et al . illustrates the high rate of comorbidity between substance use disorders and ADHD in adults, and reports a specific relationship between cocaine disorder and ADHD Combined subtype. Further research with more statistical power may highlight other specificities of ADHD subtypes in the field of addiction. References 1. Fatseas M, Debrabant R, Auriacombe M: The diagnostic accuracy of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in adults with substance use disorders. Curr Opin Psychiatry . 2012; 25 (3): 219-25 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Hurmic H, Debrabant R, Kervran C, Serre F, et al.: ADHD and substance use disorders: Subtype and gender differences. Drug and Alcohol Dependence . 2015; 156 : e100-e101 Publisher Full Text 3. Tamm L, Adinoff B, Nakonezny PA, Winhusen T, et al.: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder subtypes in adolescents with comorbid substance-use disorder. Am J Drug Alcohol Abuse . 2012; 38 (1): 93-100 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Rösler M, Retz W, Thome J, Schneider M, et al.: Psychopathological rating scales for diagnostic use in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci . 2006; 256 Suppl 1 : i3-11 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Hasin DS, O'Brien CP, Auriacombe M, Borges G, et al.: DSM-5 criteria for substance use disorders: recommendations and rationale. Am J Psychiatry . 2013; 170 (8): 834-51 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Wilens TE: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and the substance use disorders: the nature of the relationship, subtypes at risk, and treatment issues. Psychiatr Clin North Am . 2004; 27 (2): 283-301 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 19 Oct 2016 Michael Liebrenz, Psychiatric University Hospital, Research Group on ADHD, Zurich, Switzerland We appreciate the time and effort of Dr. Auriacombe, Dr. Alexandre and Dr. Fatseas and respond to their concerns below: 1.The reviewers ask us to explain the usefulness of the WURS-K questionnaire. The WURS-k retrospectively assesses symptoms of ADHD in childhood and as such is part of the diagnostic process for adult ADHD. It is mentioned here for completeness, not because it was a target of analysis. 2.The reviewers ask for more detailed presentations of the Wender Reimherr Interview (WRI) and the Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity Self-Report Scale (ADHS-SB). We have now added the following two paragraphs on these tests: WRI: "The Wender-Reimherr Interview is the German version of the American Wender-Reimherr Adult Attention Deficits Disorders Scale (WRAADDS) for the assessment of adult ADHD. It allows a diagnosis of adult ADHD to be made. It contains seven scales for: attention difficulties, persistent motor hyperactivity, temper, affective lability, emotional overreactivity, disorganization, and impulsivity. Each scale is represented by 3–5 items. A sum score is formed per scale, and each scale has a diagnostic threshold. A diagnosis requires that sum scores for scales 1–2 must each exceed their threshold, and that for scales 3–7, 2 out of 5 sum scores must exceed their threshold." ADHS-SB: " The ADHS-SB is a self-rating instrument for the assessment of adult ADHD in German. It consists of 18 symptoms of ADHD derived from the DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria for ADHD. The degree of endorsement is rated on four levels: 0 = not at all, 1 = slightly, 2 = moderately, and 3 = severely. The total score is obtained by summing up the 18 individual item scores. Subsyndrome scores for ‘‘attention deficit’’, ‘‘hyperactivity’’, and ‘‘impulsivity’’ can also be obtained." 3. The reviewers question the choice of the WRI to diagnose ADHD, stating that according to Rosler et al. (2006), DSM-IV diagnoses cannot be made based on the WRI. This is true. However, the DSM-IV does not contain a specific diagnosis for adult ADHD, while the WRI is specifically targeted to adults. As Rosler also states "the question remains whether the DSM-IV criteria are adequate to characterize adult ADHD" (p. I/4) and "An advantage of the WRI could be the extended spectrum of adult psychopathology" (p. I/10). There is certainly room to argue for either diagnostic approach. Reassuringly, as the reviewers also note, the two approaches show considerable overlap. 4.The reviewers ask for the rationale for pooling substance abuse and dependence. The reason is primarily statistical: estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate. This also seems justified to us because both abuse and dependence describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. View more View less Competing Interests None reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Auriacombe M, Alexandre JM and Fatseas M. Peer Review Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r11890) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v1#referee-response-11890 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "Adult attention-deficit\/hyperactivity disorder:...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v2&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Liebrenz M et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v2/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407",
 templates : {
 twitter : "Adult attention-deficit\/hyperactivity disorder: Associations.... Liebrenz M et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v2"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: Adult attention-deficit\/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use \u2013 a clinical study", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Research Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: Adult attention-deficit\/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use \u2013 a clinical study", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/6780/10511")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "10511");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "17024": 0,
 "17025": 0,
 "17098": 0,
 "17099": 0,
 "14219": 0,
 "17100": 0,
 "14220": 0,
 "14221": 0,
 "14222": 0,
 "17430": 14,
 "9686": 0,
 "9687": 0,
 "9688": 0,
 "9689": 0,
 "11225": 0,
 "16410": 0,
 "9690": 0,
 "13082": 0,
 "11226": 0,
 "16411": 0,
 "9691": 0,
 "13083": 0,
 "14875": 0,
 "11227": 0,
 "13084": 0,
 "14876": 0,
 "11228": 0,
 "14877": 0,
 "11229": 0,
 "16482": 20,
 "10598": 0,
 "10599": 0,
 "15720": 0,
 "10600": 0,
 "10601": 0,
 "15472": 0,
 "15473": 0,
 "15474": 0,
 "11890": 27,
 "15475": 0,
 "11891": 0,
 "15476": 0,
 "11892": 0,
 "17021": 15,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "8a5a41a4-6d23-4c81-b81d-23b33a4653be";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 