This review provides a balanced and comprehensive overview of the latest discoveries about the role of metabolism in plasmacytoid dendritic cell innate functions. This is a very original topic based on recent data supporting the idea that the glycolytic pathway as well as lipid metabolism may modulate the production of type I IFN by pDC or may be involved in this function after TLR7/9 triggering. In addition, this review provides new clues on how these metabolic pathways may be harnessed in pathophysiological contexts where pDC play a detrimental role. This review has a comprehensive view of all relevant literature in the field and summarized very well the fundamental concepts, but there are some minor concerns that need to be addressed as below. Abstract is clearly written, but the text could be reduced by omitting the section about the differences related to the origin of pDC. Page 3: PRR stands for Pattern (but not Pathogen) Recognition Receptors Page 3: I would suggest to add that i) human pDC are usually identified as CD4+ CD303+ CD123high and CD11cnegative (to highlight the difference with mouse pDC that are CD11clow), ii) irf7 is also a master genes that is shared between human and mouse pDC, iii) CD317 (known as BST2, PDCA1). Page 5: the list of references related to the regulatory functions of pDC is too short. Some major articles should be added (Ochando 2006, Goubier 2008, Hadeiba 2008, Irla 2010, etc…). Page 5 paragraph 2.4: when the authors discuss the role of pDC in diseases, they focus on autoimmune disorders, GVHD, atherosclerosis, and chronic viral infections but cancer was omitted. Yet, metabolic pathways are deeply altered in the context of cancer and I would assume that the innate functions of pDC would be modulated by the metabolic changes occurring in tumor microenvironment. This needs to be discussed. Page 7: when the authors discuss the role of glycolysis on pDC functions upon TLR7 triggering, it is not clear whether this is a global regulation of the transcription or whether this is specific of genes related to type I IFN pathway. Page 10: it is not very interesting but not clear to me how the massive decrease of intracellular cholesterol content is connected to the activation of STING/cGAS pathway leading to spontaneous type I IFN production in macrophages. This should be clarified. The figures nicely support and illustrate the main text of the review. Nevertheless, I would suggest to add a table summarizing the main effects of each metabolic pathway on pDC biology by comparing human versus mouse and TLR7 versus TLR9 stimulation. 