The title seems appropriate for the article content and the abstract provides a summary of the research aim, results, and major conclusion. The objective of the study was to determine the effect of GOgreen on algae species diversity in a field heavily cultivated (farmed) and subjected to herbicide application, which is reported to diminish microalgal species diversity (). Use of the product is purported to increase the content of green to blue-green algae, thereby increasing soil health with respect to pH and other parameters. The hypothesis is that the proprietary algal community preparations applied to the soil prior to cultivation of a corn crop would provide beneficial effects measureable in terms of pH, cation exchange capacity, organic matter content, and algal content (green, blue-green, diatoms). The second objective addressed the effect of the treatment on OM and CEC, which are pH dependent. The methodologies and analyses are well described and are appropriate for the research questions addressed pertaining to a proprietary microalgal product (GOgreen) applied through an irrigation system to corn plants (half acre plots) grown in soil previously treated with an herbicides and subjected to routine use for farming (consecutive planting/harvesting seasons). The premise is that the naturally occurring soil microalgal species, which contribute to soil health, are hindered by herbicide treatment. The algal species in treated soil sampled at a 6-inch depth were identified morphologically prior to the treatment, and at 4,6,7, and 8 weeks after seedling emergence, at V5 stage of plant growth, and at harvest. The experimental control consisted of adjacent plot of land that was not treated with the product. The conclusions appear to be justified based on the aim, methods, and results reported. The results suggested that treating soil with the product showed improvement in terms of organic matter content (increased when initial pH was greater than pH 8.0 but lower in soil of starting pH less than 8.0), cation exchange capacity, and increased diversity of certain (green and blue-green) microalgal species in soil samples monitored throughout the study. Some positive effects of the treatment were observed with respect to soil pH that is attributed to altered microalgal composition, and subsequently, with respect to CEC and OM. Initial pH readings in the plot were 8.3 and 6.8 in different parts of the field, respectively. They conclude that treatment with GOgreen resulted in improved OM content in the soil during the cropping season, but not longer than two months after harvest. Also, they conclude that increased OM was associated with differences in initial pH. The results are reasonably conclusive in favor of a transient modification in soil parameters due to the treatment with the proprietary microalgal preparations. The conclusions seem to indicate that the product must be applied at each planting. This is no different from the routine application of fertilizers and other conditioning agents used to improve soil structure and fertility, and so the product does appear to make a positive contribution to the soil for crop production (in this case, for maize). NOTE : the authors should double check the pH values in Methods the low pH is reported at 6.8, but in the results they mention pH 6.9 instead. The data inform the aims/methods; the methods are appropriately detailed such that the experiments could be reproduced in another laboratory. No discrepancies or format issues are apparent. The manuscript appears suitable for indexation based on my understanding of the topic, and review of the methods, results, and conclusions. 