The opinion article is well written and extremely documented, and the statements well supported by figures and data. It aims at giving a voice to Low-and-Middle Income Countries (LMICs) which are both affected by COVID-19, but also are going to be hit hard by the supply chain disruption in India. India and the rest of the world rely heavily on drugs, mostly generics, and vaccines manufactured in India. India is the main manufacturer of vaccines for UNICEF and of WHO prequalified medicines, i.e. those needed to respond to the major disease burden of LMICs. India itself depends on China, which produces about 80% of its APIs and has already been severely affected by COVID-19 as of December 2019. The pandemic is now affecting India. India is reacting like many countries by protecting its own and putting an export ban on many essential medicines. The disruption of the supply chain will impact LMICs, as they have no or very limited capacity and capability to manufacture and certainly to compensate swiftly. They cannot compete to procure drugs if prices are increased. There is a need for global cooperation and rapid action to maintain the supply chain from India towards LMICs. Is the topic of the opinion article discussed accurately in the context of the current literature? Yes the article provides extensive evidence of what is the supply chain and its interdependencies. It clearly identifies the high level of dependence on India (and China) by LMICs. Are all factual statements correct and adequately supported by citations? The authors highlight the complexity of the relation between China and India and the high dependency on Indian manufacturers for essential medicines for LMICs. All references are recent (2016-2020). Are arguments sufficiently supported by evidence from the published literature? In order to mitigate the risk of supply disruption, it would be good to recall some of the factors contributing to the world’s dependency on India and China in LMICs as well as HMICs (for example 80% of EU medicines are manufactured in either India or China). Such dependency has increased dramatically over the years, due to both countries’ investments in pharmaceutical business and competitiveness, resulting in much lower costs of medicines. Low cost was always hailed as a success, as it allows accessible and affordable medicines in LMICs. What was overlooked was the dependency and its potential consequences in case of severe disruptions of the whole of India, China or both, which could have been predicted from any viral pandemic. Causes are not the focus of this opinion, but this vulnerability will remain. The reasons for low costs would require a specific analysis (e.g. competitiveness, patent laws, state subsidies, economy of scale, social and environmental aspects) and would justify a separate article. Are the conclusions drawn balanced and justified on the basis of the presented arguments? The conclusion is very clear and in line with the arguments. It is however quite general, stopping short of making proposals on how to mitigate the risks of supply chain disruption for LMICs. For example, to ensure equitable supply of limited production, which neutral body or international organisation(s), should or could take the lead? When a large proportion of the world including India is in lock-down, the countries’ economies are hard hit or even crashing, without a vaccine immediately available to limit the spread, it will take more than goodwill to reverse the national priority or protection approaches (in India and elsewhere), and to ensure international collaboration towards equitable supply. Some ideas should be added to the conclusion. 