This is an important paper - and sadly still needs to be written in 2018 - as open science should clearly be the default for the maximum rate of progress in any field. It is clear that we are headed this way but the rate of change could certainly be faster. In addition to the comments from the other reviewers I offer the following constructive points: Although this is an opinion piece I would encourage the authors to avoid all unsubstantiated claims. Ideally every fact not derived from the authors' own work should have a citation. Although I agree with the first line - the article would be stronger if the footnote offered either a substantial list of referenced arguments for it -- or wait until the end to make the claim. Instead of simply saying open source software - it would be better to use FOSS (and explain the difference). To be correct in the definition of open science - the use of free and open source hardware should be included in addition to FOSS. I am not sure that open science is benefited by "the half-baked ideas, the napkin sketches, the first drafts, and the failures." For example, engineers working on water purification technology should not publish their tech until they are sure it works unless it has warning notices all over it. It would be interesting to speculate on why engineers lag so far behind say physicists in making their work open access. Is it because the various engineering societies have more restrictive publishing agreements than the major publishers? There are some examples of method to quantify the impact of research on society. There is a rich literature showing high ROIs for industry funded research for the business world. In addition using the concept of downloaded substitution value one can calculate the value to society for open source scientific hardware designs as well as software. Increasing societal impact of research + you make a good point about the scientists in the Global South - but you should consider going one step further and encouraging engineers working on technologies that can solve the problems of the world's poorest people to make sure they are released as open source appropriate technologies. Impact - you can make a stronger case. Patenting slows innovation (and there are a ton of studies showing this) and increases costs for consumers. One of the most clear recent examples is the staggering decrease in costs and increases in performance of 3D printers following the open source release of the RepRap project. Engineering journals + most of them do offer some sort of open access policy - either to post preprints or pay for open access. Open workflow should encourage the use of FOSS and FOSH whenever possible. pg 5 seems overly pessimistic and also does not cite proof. I have found that most researchers are sympathetic to open science and that many forward-thinking institutions are pushing open access pretty hard. Even just going to article level metrics - where OA has an advantage for citations should be useful and already has a built in incentive. Something should be said about open source business models. Patents are not the only way to go -- i.e. RedHat is a multi-billion per year open source company. Finally, many of your suggestions are good but could be strengthened if you hone in on university leaders self interest for encouraging them to actually implement them. 