 Although the subject matter is of great interest, there are many scientific concerns regarding the methodology, which greatly limit any clinical or scientific relevant conclusions to be made. Among these concerns is that the three groups are unbalanced regarding co-morbidities, and the documentation of type of anesthesia other than sedation and narcotic medications, and indeed specification of the type of surgery each patient underwent is lacking. For example, did any patients receive general anesthesia? Was there pre-operative intubation? In addition, there is also no analysis offered to determine power in order to assess significant differences among groups and similarly, no simultaneous comparison (e.g., ANOVA) among the 3 groups of interest; OSA, OSA (compliant and non compliant). Patient selection for CPAP was apparently not standardized, nor was the use of PAP post-operatively standardized or protocolized. It is also not clear from the study description how much O 2 supplementation was provided and under what conditions (e.g., awake, sleep) was it allowed prior to considering a “deviation from the standard protocol”. Overall, there is a lack of standardization of the approach immediately, preoperatively, perioperatively, and post operatively emerging from the study description. Furthermore, there is no clear physiologic or clinical rationale regarding the use of CPAP pre-surgery being protective in this setting, a crucial consideration and an important conclusion one might have made given the gist of these results, particularly since the “no OSA” group likely contained OSA patients. “Compliance” itself was not documented either subjectively or objectively and many upper airway obstruction events were seen even in the “non OSA” group. Additionally, there was no apparent standardization of approach pre-surgically for the identification and treatment of OSA or for any other pulmonary co-morbidities. Therefore, there is no clear imperative here from which to draw conclusions regarding post operative complication risk, as the overall non-standardization of the methodology and the allowance of clinical bias and design unbalance compromises the scientific validity of such data. Thus, while the subject is of great interest and importance, adjudication regarding the importance of identification and pre-, peri-, and post- operative treatment of OSA in obese patients undergoing the particular bariatric procedure these patients underwent continues to warrant randomized clinical trials rather than retrospective data. 