New ideas about the way oestrogens might affect the growth, differentiation and functional development of cancers, including those of the breast, are always welcome. The authors Opinion Article questions whether giving oestrogens (rather than the more common anti-oestrogens) may merit exploration as an alternative treatment for breast cancers when provided in combination with agents that alter inflammatory signalling pathways. A limitation of the commentary is that it has focused on data from studies using breast cancer cell lines such as the MCF-7 cells cited in the studies by the Perillo group 1 - 3 . A limitation of all studies using tissue-culture adapted cell lines such as MCF-7 is that they do not reflect the genomic heterogeneity we now appreciate exists in different breast tumours 4 , only a proportion of which are considered classically activated by oestrogens because they are ER alpha positive. In spite of these reservations the authors do raise some interesting points. Firstly, they highlight the potential for inflammatory mediators such as those that activate the NFB signalling pathway as targets for therapies in breast cancer treatment. One example provided is the data from the Perillo group, reporting that inhibition of IKK kinase specific inhibitor BAY11-7082 might be beneficial in switching the effects of oestrogens from anti- to pro-apoptotic. These studies are in agreement with those from a number of other authors claiming that combination therapies are likely to be beneficial in treatment of this malignancy. Notably, there is an interesting paper by Biswas et al. published in 2004 5 which examines how NFB activation in breast cancer specimens might have a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Notably, in the Biswas paper, they report results suggesting that activated NFB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumours. This paper, as well as the recent genomic proflling of breast cancers from 2000 patients 4 highlights the importance of considering the both the immediate microenvironment of the tumour as well as the adjacent non-tumour tissue. Notably, in considering how oestrogen therapy might be utilised, it is important to take into account the hormonal status of the woman (pre or post menopausal) as well as the compelling data that has demonstrated intra-tissue oestrogen biosynthesis in fat and other cells close to the malignant epithelial cells in situ 6 . A paper that has just appeared in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism by Savolainen-Peltonen and colleagues 7 is particularly relevant. In this paper, the authors compared the metabolic pathways producing active oestradiol in breast subcutaneous adipose tissue of postmenopausal women with and without cancer, and these showed there were differences depending on whether the adipose tissue was proximal or distal to a tumour. If the tumour is already bathed in high concentrations of oestrogen either from the periphery or local biosynthesis then addition of more ligand is unlikely to be effective. The local inflammatory environment of the tumour is an important factor in tumour progression and it is influenced by activation of NFB activity leading to production of inflammatory mediators such as TNF, IL-1 and prostaglandin E2 from adipocyteassociated macrophages and COX-2 inhibitors have been cited as effective in reducing recurrence of cancer 8 . Local increases in inflammatory mediators in turn stimulate adipocyte aromatase expression/activity and hence oestradiol production 9 that may be particularly relevant to obese women 9 , 10 . Thus, when considering suppression of NFB activity in combination therapy there may be many context-dependent impacts on the tumour microenvironment to consider. The role of NFB activation as a regulator of inflammatory signalling is particularly important to consider in the context of endocrine resistant breast cancer which cannot be addressed using MCF-7 cells. A new paper in Molecular Cellular Endocrinology by Litchfield et al. 11 notes that regulation of endocrine-resistant breast cancer cells may also be mediated by other transcription factors such as COUPTFII. So the keys questions to be addressed in considering the value of the future prospective advanced within this Opinion piece are the following: Are studies in isolated cell lines such as the one described really relevant when it comes to translating new therapies into practice? Is inhibition of inflammatory mediators such as that using the BAY compound really most effective in cells that are not actually estrogen responsive?This merits further investigation. Finally, how can we move forward with the field? In our opinion, an excellent way to advance these studies would be to conduct further investigations using methods which better reflect the microenvironment of an intact tumour in situ , this should include studies on the interplay between malignant epithelial cells, fat and vascular and inflammatory cells as this likely to influence response to therapy and it cannot be under-estimated that the individual responses to oestrogens by these different cell types may vary considerably. Examples of such studies currently include 3 being explored in the context of breast cancer, including organoids, tissue slices or xenografts. These approaches are more likely than studies in MCF-7 cells to inform choice of new combination therapies for testing in clinical trials; oestrogen combined with NFB inhibition should be tested in these systems 12 - 14 . References 1. Perillo B, Di Santi A, Cernera G, Ombra MN, et al.: Phosphorylation of H3 serine 10 by IKKα governs cyclical production of ROS in estrogen-induced transcription and ensures DNA wholeness. Cell Death Differ . 2014; 21 (9): 1503-1503 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 2. Perillo B, Di Santi A, Cernera G, Ombra MN, et al.: Nuclear receptor-induced transcription is driven by spatially and timely restricted waves of ROS: The role of Akt, IKKα, and DNA damage repair enzymes. Nucleus . 2014; 5 (5). PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 3. Perillo B, Ombra MN, Bertoni A, Cuozzo C, et al.: DNA oxidation as triggered by H3K9me2 demethylation drives estrogen-induced gene expression. Science . 2008; 319 (5860): 202-206 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 4. Curtis C, Shah SP, Chin SF, Turashvili G, et al.: The genomic and transcriptomic architecture of 2,000 breast tumours reveals novel subgroups. Nature . 2012; 486 (7403): 346-352 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 5. Biswas DK, Shi Q, Baily S, Strickland I, et al.: NF-kappa B activation in human breast cancer specimens and its role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2004; 101 (27): 10137-10142 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 6. Simpson HW, Candlish W, Pauson AW, McArdle CS, et al.: Genesis of breast cancer is in the premenopause. Lancet . 1988; 2 (8602): 74-76 PubMed Abstract | Reference Source 7. Savolainen-Peltonen H, Vihma V, Leidenius M, Wang F, et al.: Breast Adipose Tissue Estrogen Metabolism in Postmenopausal Women with or without Breast Cancer. J Clin Endocrinol Metab . 2014. PubMed Abstract | Reference Source 8. Bowers LW, Maximo IX, Brenner AJ, Beeram M, et al.: NSAID Use Reduces Breast Cancer Recurrence in Overweight and Obese Women: Role of Prostaglandin-Aromatase Interactions. Cancer Res . 2014; 74 (16): 4446-4457 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 9. Subbaramaiah K, Hudis C, Chang SH, Hla T, et al.: EP2 and EP4 receptors regulate aromatase expression in human adipocytes and breast cancer cells. Evidence of a BRCA1 and p300 exchange. J Biol Chem . 2007; 283 (6): 3433-3444 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 10. Subbaramaiah K, Howe LR, Port ER, Brogi E, et al.: HER-2/neu status is a determinant of mammary aromatase activity in vivo: evidence for a cyclooxygenase-2-dependent mechanism. Cancer Res . 2006; 66 (10): 5504-5511 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 11. Litchfield LM, Appana SN, Datta S, Klinge CM: COUP-TFII inhibits NFkappaB activation in endocrine-resistant breast cancer cells. Mol Cell Endocrinol . 2014; 382 (1): 358-367 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 12. Walsh AJ, Cook RS, Sanders ME, Aurisicchio L, et al.: Quantitative optical imaging of primary tumor organoid metabolism predicts drug response in breast cancer. Cancer Res . 2014; 74 (18): 5184-5194 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 13. Sun X, Mao Y, Wang J, Zu L, et al.: IL-6 secreted by cancer-associated fibroblasts induces tamoxifen resistance in luminal breast cancer. Oncogene . 2014; 33 (35): 4450 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 14. Holliday DL, Moss MA, Pollock S, Lane S, et al.: The practicalities of using tissue slices as preclinical organotypic breast cancer models. J Clin Pathol . 2013; 66 (3): 253-255 PubMed Abstract | Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Saunders P. Reviewer Report For: Estrogen as Jekyll and Hyde: regulation of cell death [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :161 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.5075.r6196 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-161/v1#referee-response-6196 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Reader Comment 25 Sep 2014 Wen Zhou , Case Western Reserve University, USA 25 Sep 2014 Reader Comment The observations made by Dr. Saunders were very pertinent and allowed us to alter the manuscript in several key points. Below we address each one of the reviewer comments. We ... Continue reading The observations made by Dr. Saunders were very pertinent and allowed us to alter the manuscript in several key points. Below we address each one of the reviewer comments. We hope to have provided all the information needed regarding the work submitted and that the manuscript is now suitable for publishing and archiving. Alterations were signalized in the text. Responses: "A limitation of the commentary is that it has focused on data from studies using breast cancer cell lines such as the MCF-7 cells cited in the studies by the Perillo group. A limitation of all studies using tissue-culture adapted cell lines such as MCF-7 is that they do not reflect the genomic heterogeneity we now appreciate exists in different breast tumours, only a proportion of which are considered classically activated by oestrogens because they are ER alpha positive … Are studies in isolated cell lines such as the one described really relevant when it comes to translating new therapies into practice?" We thank Dr. Saunders for her comment. Perillo used an experimental approach to evaluate the molecular interaction of both ER and other signaling pathways in MCF-7 cells, as described in many journal publications ( Garcia et al ., 1992 ; Planas-Silva et al ., 1999 ; Sun et al ., 2012 ). In these works an evaluation of the biological effect of the molecular interaction was assessed as Perillo group performed in their work. Thus, we believe Perillo’s cell line based studies are meaningful and relevant to find novel targets in hormone responsive cancers. Still, we have altered the manuscript, avoiding the reference to other proportion of breast tumors which are not so responsive to hormone therapy. Although it has been previously reported that ER positive cancers make up to two thirds of newly diagnosed breast cancer cases, we agree with Dr. Saunders that it is important to appreciate the highly existed heterogeneity under the name of breast cancer, to take into account the hormone status of women, and to better understanding the tumor-stromal microenvironment. "Notably, there is an interesting paper by Biswas et al. published in 2004 which examines how NFκB activation in breast cancer specimens might have a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Notably, in the Biswas paper, they report results suggesting that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumours… Is inhibition of inflammatory mediators such as that using the BAY compound really most effective in cells that are not actually estrogen responsive? " We agree with Dr. Saunders that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumors. Perillo’s study we referred in our opinion article also support this point, as “BAY (IKKα inhibitor) only” induced more apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 (ER-negative) cells compared with MCF-7 in their Figure S1C. However, the point to make here, as shown in original Perillo paper, is that estradiol combined with BAY has been more potent in inducing apoptosis in ER positive cells compared with each agent alone in either cell lines. Perillo’s study revealed the previously hidden pro-apoptotic property of estrogen in physiological concentration range. On this stand, it inspired us to write this opinion article, and we think it was an interesting observation and worth attracting more attention as well as the warm discussions we have thus far achieved. "Finally, how can we move forward with the field? In our opinion, an excellent way to advance these studies would be to conduct further investigations using methods which better reflect the microenvironment of an intact tumour in situ, this should include studies on the interplay between malignant epithelial cells, fat and vascular and inflammatory cells as this likely to influence response to therapy and it cannot be under-estimated that the individual responses to oestrogens by these different cell types may vary considerably. Examples of such studies currently include 3 being explored in the context of breast cancer, including organoids, tissue slices or xenografts. These approaches are more likely than studies in MCF-7 cells to inform choice of new combination therapies for testing in clinical trials; oestrogen combined with NFκB inhibition should be tested in these systems." We thank Dr. Saunders for her comments and have changed part of our content according to her suggestion. The observations made by Dr. Saunders were very pertinent and allowed us to alter the manuscript in several key points. Below we address each one of the reviewer comments. We hope to have provided all the information needed regarding the work submitted and that the manuscript is now suitable for publishing and archiving. Alterations were signalized in the text. Responses: "A limitation of the commentary is that it has focused on data from studies using breast cancer cell lines such as the MCF-7 cells cited in the studies by the Perillo group. A limitation of all studies using tissue-culture adapted cell lines such as MCF-7 is that they do not reflect the genomic heterogeneity we now appreciate exists in different breast tumours, only a proportion of which are considered classically activated by oestrogens because they are ER alpha positive … Are studies in isolated cell lines such as the one described really relevant when it comes to translating new therapies into practice?" We thank Dr. Saunders for her comment. Perillo used an experimental approach to evaluate the molecular interaction of both ER and other signaling pathways in MCF-7 cells, as described in many journal publications ( Garcia et al ., 1992 ; Planas-Silva et al ., 1999 ; Sun et al ., 2012 ). In these works an evaluation of the biological effect of the molecular interaction was assessed as Perillo group performed in their work. Thus, we believe Perillo’s cell line based studies are meaningful and relevant to find novel targets in hormone responsive cancers. Still, we have altered the manuscript, avoiding the reference to other proportion of breast tumors which are not so responsive to hormone therapy. Although it has been previously reported that ER positive cancers make up to two thirds of newly diagnosed breast cancer cases, we agree with Dr. Saunders that it is important to appreciate the highly existed heterogeneity under the name of breast cancer, to take into account the hormone status of women, and to better understanding the tumor-stromal microenvironment. "Notably, there is an interesting paper by Biswas et al. published in 2004 which examines how NFκB activation in breast cancer specimens might have a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Notably, in the Biswas paper, they report results suggesting that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumours… Is inhibition of inflammatory mediators such as that using the BAY compound really most effective in cells that are not actually estrogen responsive? " We agree with Dr. Saunders that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumors. Perillo’s study we referred in our opinion article also support this point, as “BAY (IKKα inhibitor) only” induced more apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 (ER-negative) cells compared with MCF-7 in their Figure S1C. However, the point to make here, as shown in original Perillo paper, is that estradiol combined with BAY has been more potent in inducing apoptosis in ER positive cells compared with each agent alone in either cell lines. Perillo’s study revealed the previously hidden pro-apoptotic property of estrogen in physiological concentration range. On this stand, it inspired us to write this opinion article, and we think it was an interesting observation and worth attracting more attention as well as the warm discussions we have thus far achieved. "Finally, how can we move forward with the field? In our opinion, an excellent way to advance these studies would be to conduct further investigations using methods which better reflect the microenvironment of an intact tumour in situ, this should include studies on the interplay between malignant epithelial cells, fat and vascular and inflammatory cells as this likely to influence response to therapy and it cannot be under-estimated that the individual responses to oestrogens by these different cell types may vary considerably. Examples of such studies currently include 3 being explored in the context of breast cancer, including organoids, tissue slices or xenografts. These approaches are more likely than studies in MCF-7 cells to inform choice of new combination therapies for testing in clinical trials; oestrogen combined with NFκB inhibition should be tested in these systems." We thank Dr. Saunders for her comments and have changed part of our content according to her suggestion. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Reader Comment 25 Sep 2014 Wen Zhou , Case Western Reserve University, USA 25 Sep 2014 Reader Comment The observations made by Dr. Saunders were very pertinent and allowed us to alter the manuscript in several key points. Below we address each one of the reviewer comments. We ... Continue reading The observations made by Dr. Saunders were very pertinent and allowed us to alter the manuscript in several key points. Below we address each one of the reviewer comments. We hope to have provided all the information needed regarding the work submitted and that the manuscript is now suitable for publishing and archiving. Alterations were signalized in the text. Responses: "A limitation of the commentary is that it has focused on data from studies using breast cancer cell lines such as the MCF-7 cells cited in the studies by the Perillo group. A limitation of all studies using tissue-culture adapted cell lines such as MCF-7 is that they do not reflect the genomic heterogeneity we now appreciate exists in different breast tumours, only a proportion of which are considered classically activated by oestrogens because they are ER alpha positive … Are studies in isolated cell lines such as the one described really relevant when it comes to translating new therapies into practice?" We thank Dr. Saunders for her comment. Perillo used an experimental approach to evaluate the molecular interaction of both ER and other signaling pathways in MCF-7 cells, as described in many journal publications ( Garcia et al ., 1992 ; Planas-Silva et al ., 1999 ; Sun et al ., 2012 ). In these works an evaluation of the biological effect of the molecular interaction was assessed as Perillo group performed in their work. Thus, we believe Perillo’s cell line based studies are meaningful and relevant to find novel targets in hormone responsive cancers. Still, we have altered the manuscript, avoiding the reference to other proportion of breast tumors which are not so responsive to hormone therapy. Although it has been previously reported that ER positive cancers make up to two thirds of newly diagnosed breast cancer cases, we agree with Dr. Saunders that it is important to appreciate the highly existed heterogeneity under the name of breast cancer, to take into account the hormone status of women, and to better understanding the tumor-stromal microenvironment. "Notably, there is an interesting paper by Biswas et al. published in 2004 which examines how NFκB activation in breast cancer specimens might have a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Notably, in the Biswas paper, they report results suggesting that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumours… Is inhibition of inflammatory mediators such as that using the BAY compound really most effective in cells that are not actually estrogen responsive? " We agree with Dr. Saunders that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumors. Perillo’s study we referred in our opinion article also support this point, as “BAY (IKKα inhibitor) only” induced more apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 (ER-negative) cells compared with MCF-7 in their Figure S1C. However, the point to make here, as shown in original Perillo paper, is that estradiol combined with BAY has been more potent in inducing apoptosis in ER positive cells compared with each agent alone in either cell lines. Perillo’s study revealed the previously hidden pro-apoptotic property of estrogen in physiological concentration range. On this stand, it inspired us to write this opinion article, and we think it was an interesting observation and worth attracting more attention as well as the warm discussions we have thus far achieved. "Finally, how can we move forward with the field? In our opinion, an excellent way to advance these studies would be to conduct further investigations using methods which better reflect the microenvironment of an intact tumour in situ, this should include studies on the interplay between malignant epithelial cells, fat and vascular and inflammatory cells as this likely to influence response to therapy and it cannot be under-estimated that the individual responses to oestrogens by these different cell types may vary considerably. Examples of such studies currently include 3 being explored in the context of breast cancer, including organoids, tissue slices or xenografts. These approaches are more likely than studies in MCF-7 cells to inform choice of new combination therapies for testing in clinical trials; oestrogen combined with NFκB inhibition should be tested in these systems." We thank Dr. Saunders for her comments and have changed part of our content according to her suggestion. The observations made by Dr. Saunders were very pertinent and allowed us to alter the manuscript in several key points. Below we address each one of the reviewer comments. We hope to have provided all the information needed regarding the work submitted and that the manuscript is now suitable for publishing and archiving. Alterations were signalized in the text. Responses: "A limitation of the commentary is that it has focused on data from studies using breast cancer cell lines such as the MCF-7 cells cited in the studies by the Perillo group. A limitation of all studies using tissue-culture adapted cell lines such as MCF-7 is that they do not reflect the genomic heterogeneity we now appreciate exists in different breast tumours, only a proportion of which are considered classically activated by oestrogens because they are ER alpha positive … Are studies in isolated cell lines such as the one described really relevant when it comes to translating new therapies into practice?" We thank Dr. Saunders for her comment. Perillo used an experimental approach to evaluate the molecular interaction of both ER and other signaling pathways in MCF-7 cells, as described in many journal publications ( Garcia et al ., 1992 ; Planas-Silva et al ., 1999 ; Sun et al ., 2012 ). In these works an evaluation of the biological effect of the molecular interaction was assessed as Perillo group performed in their work. Thus, we believe Perillo’s cell line based studies are meaningful and relevant to find novel targets in hormone responsive cancers. Still, we have altered the manuscript, avoiding the reference to other proportion of breast tumors which are not so responsive to hormone therapy. Although it has been previously reported that ER positive cancers make up to two thirds of newly diagnosed breast cancer cases, we agree with Dr. Saunders that it is important to appreciate the highly existed heterogeneity under the name of breast cancer, to take into account the hormone status of women, and to better understanding the tumor-stromal microenvironment. "Notably, there is an interesting paper by Biswas et al. published in 2004 which examines how NFκB activation in breast cancer specimens might have a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Notably, in the Biswas paper, they report results suggesting that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumours… Is inhibition of inflammatory mediators such as that using the BAY compound really most effective in cells that are not actually estrogen responsive? " We agree with Dr. Saunders that activated NFκB is predominantly detected in ER negative rather than ER positive breast tumors. Perillo’s study we referred in our opinion article also support this point, as “BAY (IKKα inhibitor) only” induced more apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 (ER-negative) cells compared with MCF-7 in their Figure S1C. However, the point to make here, as shown in original Perillo paper, is that estradiol combined with BAY has been more potent in inducing apoptosis in ER positive cells compared with each agent alone in either cell lines. Perillo’s study revealed the previously hidden pro-apoptotic property of estrogen in physiological concentration range. On this stand, it inspired us to write this opinion article, and we think it was an interesting observation and worth attracting more attention as well as the warm discussions we have thus far achieved. "Finally, how can we move forward with the field? In our opinion, an excellent way to advance these studies would be to conduct further investigations using methods which better reflect the microenvironment of an intact tumour in situ, this should include studies on the interplay between malignant epithelial cells, fat and vascular and inflammatory cells as this likely to influence response to therapy and it cannot be under-estimated that the individual responses to oestrogens by these different cell types may vary considerably. Examples of such studies currently include 3 being explored in the context of breast cancer, including organoids, tissue slices or xenografts. These approaches are more likely than studies in MCF-7 cells to inform choice of new combination therapies for testing in clinical trials; oestrogen combined with NFκB inhibition should be tested in these systems." We thank Dr. Saunders for her comments and have changed part of our content according to her suggestion. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Young SL. Reviewer Report For: Estrogen as Jekyll and Hyde: regulation of cell death [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :161 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.5075.r5459 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-161/v1#referee-response-5459 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 11 Aug 2014 Steven L Young , Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.5075.r5459 In this opinion manuscript, Zhou and Zhu highlight recent research that suggests estrogen can act on opposing signaling pathways to either promote proliferation or cell death in breast cancer cells and, further, that the signaling can be biased toward cell ... Continue reading READ ALL 