This article gives a comprehensive overview of the involvement of patients, carers and members of the public in health research. It is well written and addresses some important thorny issues in regards to involvement. The article is likely to be useful for researchers new to involvement. Also, as someone who has been facilitating involvement for some time it is very useful to see all this information pulled together. Partly due to the comprehensiveness, I suggest some of the information in boxes and supplements could be cut down. The sheer volume of information might confuse novice readers. For example, the authors point to the many different and overlapping terms used in this field. For a new author it might be more helpful if the information about all these terms was reduced so that the article focuses on the substantial differences rather than the terms used. I found boxes 1 and 2 quite overwhelming to read through at the beginning of the article. Perhaps it would help if they were supplementary files instead of in-text? Another example is the definition of ‘participating’ – I found the introduction to participatory action research here quite confusing because this can be a study design where involvement and participation happen in tandem or are intersected. Overall, I would have liked to see less of the detailed information on various websites and terms, and more incorporation of the thorny issues, e.g. where research and involvement intersect, and discussion about what we can do about this. It is these aspect of the article that are most interesting, in my view. But the attention to this would depend on the purpose of the article. Some other comments: In Box 3, which gives an overview of the involvement process, I would suggest not using the term bias, because this is commonly used for samples. I agree with the point made – and it is important as often ignored in involvement guidelines – but I think it would be better not to use bias and instead say something about whether the topic of the research is contentious amongst different groups of patients (or something to that effect). Also in Box 3, bullet number 7 mentions roles and responsibilities. I would suggest the agreement of these needs to come much earlier in the process. For example, this could come under point 1 – when the researcher familiarises themselves with involvement. What roles would they like patients, carers or members of the public to have? I really like Tables 1 and 2 – these are super useful overviews. I am not clear what purpose Supplement 1 has, this relates to my previous point on the brevity and detail of information. In Supplement 2 I find some of the examples lacking in purpose and clarity beyond saying that involvement can happen. I don’t find that most of the examples provide new information that isn’t available elsewhere in many different formats. However, some examples are very interesting and could merit more space. These are: Example 2 about the cautionary tale – this is a new point that I have not heard before; Example 6 which gives a very interesting example of when qualitative research and involvement overlap (again, would merit more discussion); Example 9 which is very brief but points to how protectionist policies can exclude people from participating (a common reason for not involving children, young people, people with disabilities, the frail elderly and other vulnerable populations) – I don’t think this has been considered in-depth by policies intended to increase participation; Example 10 is good on details on how researchers can work collaboratively with patients/carers/members of the public and will be of interest to people looking for new involvement ideas. You describe patients as primarily fulfilling three functions when they are involved in research: research decision-making, enhancing the patient perspective, how to capture knowledge. I suspect many involved patients/public advisors will object to this as being too limiting. In my own work I have seen at least three additional kinds of input: 1) public advisors helping researchers plan involvement in their research, 2) public advisors helping with dissemination and collaboration strategies (recently a public partner pointed out that the researchers had not asked for a letter of support to a very key national charity which could really help with dissemination), and 3) what I’d call ‘hidden or obvious talents’. Examples of the latter are patients drawing on their previous careers or hobbies, or other talents for seeing new aspects of an established research method. A parent carer we work with decided to use VideoScribe to disseminate some research she had initiated, she then presented about this software at a research seminar, and the research programme bought the software as a direct result of hearing her talk about it. In this example the function of the involved parent was to influence the dissemination and communication strategy of a whole programme of work. I hope these comments are useful. 