The authors have performed a quantitative analysis of platelet spreading on either collagen or fibrinogen coated surfaces. The battery of methods applied is pretty impressive: DIC, RICM (also called IRM), FM (with SIR-tubulin), cryoEM, SEM and quantitative image processing. Together these measurements provide interesting new insight into an important part of wound healing. In particular, this study reveals a surprisingly large role of microtubules, which are known to be important for platelet biology due to the marginal band, but here are also shown to insert into actin-based filopodia, which probe the surface in a “tapping” phase and later initiate lamellipodia. This study also shows the important role of different integrins selected by different matrix components (or blocked by plasma components like the VWF), leading to more complete spreading on collagen. All in all this study is an important advance for a quantitative understanding of the platelet spreading part of wound healing. There are a few issues that should be addressed in a revision: Platelet activation: the time point cero for the start of spreading seems to be defined by contact with the matrix-decorated surface. Later in the study additional activation by thrombin is mentioned. However, usually platelets are activated by thrombin or ADP at the beginning, and with variable doses. It should be explained why the study has been performed without such design (or if the reviewer misunderstood this part). Relation to marginal band (MB): the new data on the microtubules is intriguing, but the relation to the marginal band is not clear. It is mentioned that the microtubules inserted into the filopodia arise from the MB. Can this be explained in more detail? Is this process regulated, e.g. by changing motor activity in the MB? It is well known that the MB coils after activation (compare e.g. Diagouraga et al. J Cell Biol 204: 177–185, 2014 1 ) and I wonder if this can be seen in Fig. 4. Role of actomyosin: coiling of the MB is related to cortical contractility (compare above reference). Moreover it is well known that platelets also form stress fibers (compare Tanaka and Itoh, J Struct Biol 124: 13–41, 1998 2 ) and recently it has been shown with traction force microscopy that they build up actomyosin-based traction forces with a time delay in regard to area spreading (Hanke et al. Soft Matter 14:6571-6581, 2018 3 ). For the general understanding of how the different processes are orchestrated during platelet spreading (as summarized in Fig. 10), it would be helpful to also explain the role of actomyosin contractility. Comparison collagen versus fibrinogen: for most of the study these two conditions are treated symmetrically, but important Fig. 2 only shows data for collagen. I suggest to show the same analysis also for fibrinogen, if possible. This way it would also fit better to Fig. 3. 