The authors describe 9 patients who were treated with an adrenocorticotropic hormone - Acthar Gel for their active SLE. This report is a retrospective study from 5 academic centers describing the effectiveness of the gel in 9 patients with SLE. This begs the question how was the study initiated? The article should really be limited to 8 patients as Patient 9 was lost to follow up and therefore did not satisfy the described inclusion criteria. The authors list the limitations of their study in the discussion. The following are questions that arise from the paper What and how many patients were excluded from the study as not meeting study criteria. In other words the patients included all seemed to do well on the Acthar Gel, however were there patients who were on the gel for less than 6 months (thereby not satisfying inclusion criteria ) who did not do well. What were the actual doses of the gel - a mean dose is listed without any standard deviation. As this is a retrospective study the listing of improvement, especially the definition of 50% improvement would have to be a guess as this would not necessarily be recorded in the patient's chart. While it is a small sample size the statistics should include a mean and standard deviation. This is especially the case when the authors list the improvement of the SLEDAI 2K decreasing 3.5, what is this decrease from? There is one significant outlier a sick patient with an initial SLEDAI of 16 who after using the Acthar Gel reduced the SLEDAI to 4, although she was the only one whose arthritis did not improve on Acthar Gel administration. What is the real benefit from using this medication. After all one is merely changing from one type of steroid to another. Is the benefit the ease of administration, less side effects or less long term complications It will be of interest to see the results of the current clinical trials in SLE nephritis, in the 2 patients in this study with nephritis the Acthar Gel was either ineffective or its effects wore off .