The authors describe a method and the associated software, Veridical, for assessing the effects on pre-mRNA splicing of predicted splicing-affecting mutations. To do so the program compares splicing effects, measured by the supporting read counts, in variant-containing (disease) samples against a distribution derived from very large numbers of , either normal tissue from the same individual or samples from healthy individuals. The idea is ingenious and novel as applied to mutations affecting splicing, although not in general (see VAAST [ Yandell et al. 2011 ], which exploits the availability of large numbers of samples to identify likely deleterious variants; it is also the premise for the HapMap and 1000 Genomes projects). The software is fast and practical, being able to test thousands of variants in hundreds of samples within hours. This is the first software of its kind, and if accurate it will be a very valuable resource for clinical genomics. That being said, while the article provides proof-of-concept and clearly demonstrates the potential of the tool with specific examples, there are several missing pieces that are needed to provide the readers with a view of its overall performance and limitations and to help them use it effectively. Major comments: The article shows numerous positive examples, however there is no indication of the tools performance in general. The authors should include the results from running the tool on a full data set, to give potential users an idea of the expected outcome. Also, several other tools (e.g., MATS , Miso , SpliceTrap ) have been developed for the related problem of discovering alternative splicing events and comparing them among samples. MATS in particular, allows differential splicing analyses with multiple replicates. Ideally the paper would include a comparison with MATS on the data set analyzed; this comparison is informative even if MATS is used with only a subset of the samples. The method uses the YJ-transformed distribution of supporting read counts across the to determine a p-value for the variant, and thus judge its significance and impact on splicing. This is an interesting concept that assumes that with large numbers of sample and batch effects will even out; hence, large numbers of samples are required to ensure accuracy. Since these are absolute (non-normalized) counts, however, the method may not work if the variant sample is obtained with a different method, e.g. by rRNA depletion of total RNA whereas most normal samples would come from polyA+ libraries. The authors should clearly discuss this and other possible limitations of their approach. Related to the above, the authors mention on several occasions the difficulty in identifying intron inclusion (II) events, in particular the large number of false positives. Indeed, IIs are generally difficult to predict due to the presence of intronic reads () from unspliced RNA. The levels can vary from sample to sample and across the genome, depending on the sample preparation, gene expression level, splicing efficiency, etc. By comparing read counts exclusively among samples and without taking into account the gene- or genome-level background, Veridical is likely to produce many false positives. In particular, the 14 supporting reads in the left intron on Figure 4 seem hardly sufficient to indicate an II event, all the more as there is a larger number of reads in the neighboring intron (not predicted to be II). The authors should provide other type of evidence for this event. The mathematical formulas for the various classes of supporting reads and their locations (page 4, continued on page 6) are hard to understand. It would greatly help the readers to include a figure showing schematically the event and read location with respect to the introns and exons. Minor comments: As another reviewer pointed out, the software requires a registration to obtain a temporary license for 30 days, after which the availability and terms of use are unclear. This mode of distribution is not a problem, but the terms should be clearly stated in the manuscript. Also, this is a stand-alone software and not a web tool as implied by the article. The authors use the term splice sites throughout the manuscript (I assume meaning aberrantly activated), but some of the events discovered could be alternative exon ends. It would be helpful to clarify in the context. This is a potentially very powerful and useful tool. I gave the article an Approved with reservation because it is critical to include results in the aggregate to complement the showcased examples, as well as to discuss its limitations. I will gladly change once these few issues are addressed.