The authors cloned and sequenced the distal promoter region of the PD_CbNPR1 gene of chili pepper Berangkai, a genotype from West Sumatera that produces large yields but is prone to gemini virus infections. The sequence data was analyzed using several bioinformatics tools, and a number of cis-acting elements were identified. My biggest concern with this study is why focus on NPR1 to improve resistance to geminivirus infections? The examples they cited involve resistance to bacterial pathogens. The authors should cite examples of geminivirus resistance mechanisms that have been identified in other plants in their introduction and explain why NPR1 is a good target to enhance geminivirus resistance. Another concern with this study is why did it focus on the distal promoter, and how was the distal promoter defined? In Figure 1 the authors define the core promoter as extending from - 4050 to the Transcription Start Site. How was this defined? Has the Transcription Start Site been experimentally verified, and has the core promoter been analyzed elsewhere? I would expect to find most of the critical control elements within the core promoter, and these would be the most promising elements to engineer to enhance NPR1 expression. A third concern is that it only compares this genotype with the source of the reference sequence. In order to use this sequence to provide insight into resistance to geminivirus infection they must compare it with resistant cultivars. In their Nova et al. (2019 1 ) paper they state that there are various chili pepper genotypes used in Indonesia. Are any of these more resistant to PepYLCV than Berangkai? Their statement that Berangkai produces large yields but is prone to geminivirus infection implies that other varieties are more resistant but produce lower yields. In order to be useful for improving geminivirus resistance in chili pepper this study must identify sequences that vary between resistant and susceptible varieties which can then be tested experimentally. 