Thank you for submitting this interesting paper. However, I am not sure regarding the rationale - although you have highlighted this at the beginning of the paper - but even more unlikely currently with travel bans, etc., as a result of COVID-19. This is because I believe Ebola is currently confined to the Congo (and hopefully now reducing) with ongoing steps in the neighbouring countries to prevent the infection spreading. I am not sure therefore of the hypothetical situation regarding Ebola in Indonesia - so good to discuss this more to put the findings into context. This is because we have seen similar WTP approaches in Brazil for hypothetical and potential vaccines in key infectious disease areas (different to the situation in Indonesia currently with Ebola), with the need to balance the availability of the vaccine against other protective measures - so good to expand on this in the Introduction. Refs include: (i) Godoi IP et al. Consumer Willingness to Pay for Dengue Vaccine (CYD-TDV, Dengvaxia(R)) in Brazil; Implications for Future Pricing Considerations 1 ; Muniz Jnior RL et al. Consumer willingness to pay for a hypothetical Zika vaccine in Brazil and the implications. Expert review of pharmacoeconomics outcomes research 2 and Sarmento TTR et al. Consumer willingness to pay for a hypothetical chikungunya vaccine in Brazil and the implications. Expert review of pharmacoeconomics outcomes research 3 . This builds also on studies discussing the economic impact, etc., of infectious diseases such as dengue - Godoi IP et al. Economic and epidemiological impact of dengue illness over 16 years from a public health system perspective in Brazil to inform future health policies including the adoption of a dengue vaccine. Expert review of vaccines 4 . In addition - good to compare the findings and differences in WTP between different groups for the Ebola vaccine in Indonesia and Brazil as both middle income countries. This can include difference in WTP for a vaccine and any potential rationale. This is very different to just concentrating on e.g. US nationals in West Africa - with very different income levels in Brazil - more akin to Indonesia. 