This is a morphological study on histochemical similarities between vomeronasal and MOE sensory neurons in mouse during pre- and postnatal development with regard to the distribution of transcription factor Atf5 . The expression of ATF5 depends on the histone demethylase Lsd1. ATF5 staining of samples from Lsd1-mutants revealed negative results. The expression of ATF5 also seems to require PERK. There was no ATF5 staining seen in Perk -/- mutants. The observations are original, interesting to a wide audience and deserve publication. However a few issues need to be addressed prior to final acceptance of this paper: Photomicrographs need to be presented at higher magnifications and in higher quality. The overall morphology of the mouse VNO is most likely known to the majority of readers. So one low power image may be enough to give an overview. All other pictures should be at higher magnifications in order to reveal the details described in the results section. Micrographs showing ATF5 staining alone can be omitted since sections counterstained with DAPI provide the same information. It seems that ATF5 is confined to the sensory epithelium only in newborn mice. In both E 18,5 and PNE 35 animals ATF5 seems to occur also in cells of the non sensory epithelium. This observation needs to be mentioned in results and discussion. This is mere histochemical study. Neither physiological nor molecular data are presented. Therefore these aspects need to be discussed more cautiously. Minor points: p.2, line 1: There are more than 2 olfactory organs in rodents: In addition to the MOE and the VNO there are Grneberg ganglion and, Septal organ. p.2, line 3-4: The introduction also need to mention the non-sensory epithelium of the VNO p.2, line 12: A reference is necessary here. p.2, line 36: The definition of the abbreviation OR is missing. p.7, methods: How many mice were examined? There are still a few typos throughout the text. Lettering of figures (small letters) should match lettering in captions (capital letters). 