This paper describes the structure and role of the Dutch Techcentre for Life Sciences (DTL), with a specific emphasis on the DTL Data programme. The DTL is an important initiative in the Netherlands to support effective and efficient data-intensive life science research throughout the Dutch research community by facilitating the connection of researchers with computational tools, expertise, and infrastructure. As the first reviewer has identified, there are some structural issues in the presentation of this paper that could improve its focus and clarity. There are also some more minor issues, for instance a lack of background on certain referenced programs when first mentioned (ELIXIR is introduced in the second paragraph of the Introduction, but not defined until several paragraphs later; not all readers may be familiar with the program). Elaborating on the first reviewers point about e-infrastructures, it would be helpful for the authors to relate the model described in the paper, as developed for the DTL, to other possible models that exist, for instance the National Centers for Biomedical Computing in the US (see e.g., http://jamia.oxfordjournals.org/content/jaminfo/19/2/151 ) or bioinformatics core facilities in place at a more local level (see e.g., the discussion at http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/27/10/1345 ). Given the emphasis on data management and computing infrastructure of the DTL Data programme, cloud-based generic e-research infrastructure supported at a national level (e.g. for social sciences research or the Australian National eResearch Collaboration Tools and Resources (NECTAR), e.g., the Genomics Virtual Laboratory and other Australian research infrastructure programs ) are also relevant. I believe that understanding how the DTL Data model is different or unique in the global context is important to support the authors goals of providing insight to new efforts. Furthermore, it would be helpful to more clearly distinguish the role of the DTL from the national centres for computing to which the DTL is aligned (p. 4). There are a few minor issues with wording choices that the authors may wish to revisit, e.g. the phrase "the path to professionalisation" -- in what sense is the organisation being "professionalised"? (this recurs in the phrase "professional data stewardship") -- and the phrase "unconscious incompetence" which sounds perhaps more severe than the authors intend.