The authors provided an excellent description of a case of pneumocephalus (PC) after epidural catheterization, without evident dural puncture, with very informative discussion of the pathophysiology, symptomatology and management. The authors discussed briefly some of the advantages and disadvantages of using loss of resistance to air (LORA) versus loss of resistance to saline (LORS) in identifying the epidural space. The authors provided three recommendations for the prevention of PC after epidural catheterization, which are not necessarily supported by empirical evidence or consensus of practitioners. The three recommendations are: 1. Use LORS instead of LORA to minimize the likelihood of PC after epidural catheterization. This recommendation is not supported by empiric evidence or consensus of practitioners. Indeed one of the cited references in support of this recommendation indicates that all three reported cases of PC occurred after LORS; and that the general practice in UK is about 50% LORS and 50% LORA. 43 in main article As the authors noted, one of the potential disadvantages of LORS is clouding the certainty of the occurrence of dural puncture. 27 in main article Another potential disadvantage of LORS is creating a pocket of fluid in front of ligamentum flavum that allows placing the epidural catheter in front of ligamentum flavum instead of the epidural space. The argument that LORS minimizes the likelihood of PC after epidural catherization is not clear cut and not the overriding consideration in choosing LORA vs. LORS. 2. Minimize the amount of air when using LORA. When using LORA, most practitioners would argue in favor of limiting the amount of injected air to 1-2 ml, and against the use of multiple confirmatory injections of air into the epidural space. However as the presented case demonstrate, PC can occur even when performing LORA with approximately 3 ml of air and without evident dural puncture. 3 . LORA should not be used after dural puncture. This recommendation is not supported by empiric evidence and not universally endorsed by practitioners. As noted above, LORA can be more advantageous than LORS at detecting dural puncture. As for the immediate management of dural puncture, interventions can vary from inserting a catheter into the intrathecal space to reattempting the epidural catheterization at a different lumbar level. No specific technique has proven an advantage or disadvantage regarding the risk of PC. Indeed, as the presented case demonstrates, PC can occur even when LORS is used after initial LORA without excessive amount of air and without evident dural puncture. It is worth noting that post-dural puncture headache (PDPH) can co-exist and outlast headache due to PC. One of the referees (IV) reported a case of PC for 3 days, followed by resolution of PC and subsequent occurrence of typical PDPH, which resolved with treatment with epidural blood patch ( Velickovic Pavlik, 2007 ). Overall, the authors presented a well-balanced case report and discussion, which can serve as a handy review for diagnosis and management of PC after epidural catheterization.