Goal, structure and results of the report are described very clearly. The report is comprehensible, understandable and verifiable. The results include enough data about the socio-demographic aspects in medical history etc. The results mirror also, and this is very important, individual and personal statements which are related to the individual sessions in the group as well as to the individual patients and their concerns. The combination of both kinds of results seems to be a helpful illustration so that somebody who didn’t join the group can imagine better what the patients experienced in the group; personally and bodily. This also gives a deep inside into the therapist`s perspective, the therapist’s awareness and perception. The structure (six sessions in the group) is short and long enough to establish a process of body self-experience. The group-setting invites to get a really competent overview of what had happened and why it happened. I guess that the distinction between positive effects on the group-level in comparison with the individually perceived treatment could be very interesting for future research. It’s remarkable that the authors refer elaborated on various literature of the field of body-psychotherapy. This could be an important step to better integrate body-psychotherapy in the field of psychosomatic medicine. What is urgently needed. There are some remarks I want to add and which could be considered in future research: It could be helpful to define the specific concept of body-psychotherapy in the group and thus included relevance of psycho-educative aspects. It would be very helpful to get a better understanding of a specific concept of body-psychotherapy which was used in the group. The field of body-psychotherapy offers a very big variety of approaches in body-psychotherapy. It could be helpful to better understand the background. This understanding could be necessary to better understand and interpret the results of such a study. According to the literature on working with body-psychotherapy in the group with cancer-patients there is more literature being available of course for many years. It could be interesting to discuss the results of such a study on the background of scientific research in the period of the last 25 years. 