 The article describes a useful plugin for Cytoscape which can be used to align protein interaction networks, including GO annotations. It is an extension of a previous paper where they presented the algorithm. This fact should be clearly mentioned, and the functionality and use of this kind of analysis should also be showed. The authors should also solve the following points: Abstract The abstract should better explain what kind of alignments it makes. It could be confused with sequence local alignments. Introduction What does mean? It appears on the web site but not in the actual manuscript. Comparing PPI networks of evolutionary distant species can help to understand some mechanisms . Indicate what mechanisms. Local network alignment aims to compare networks of different species, in order to find conserved protein complexes or pathways . Include reference. The introduction section is too short. Cytoscape should be introduced. What is it, what are the advantages from it and why was it chosen. They should also explain what a network alignment algorithm is. It is a not a usual algorithm. Its utility must be adequately motivated prior to show the new algorithm. In addition, the introduction should show that GASOLINE algorithm was previously published in another article. Is there any difference with the original algorithm? This is a very important issue because the difference with the previous article must be clear. Implementation the number of iterations of Gibbs sampling in the bootstrap phase / in each extension step of the iterative phase . Explain what that is. GASOLINE is very fast; it computes the results on 25 networks in a few minutes . If it is a result from the previous article, please indicate this or move this to the results. What is the ISC score? Index of Structural Conservation . But it is not shown in this manuscript. Results The test took 350 seconds on our computers. Perhaps the authors should indicate what kind of computer was used. Figure 2 should be used to highlight and describe the different panels and information in them. Conclusions It should indicate potential and practical uses of GASOLINE to solve biological problems. Typos Please, review the syntax. For example, estabilshed and some English sentences. 