This paper analyses the results of a questionnaire completed by a group of non-scientists. The questions focused on how the participants currently engage with science and how they might like to do so in the future. Overall the paper provides a well written description of the study and highlights the key results. This paper will be of particular interest to those within the science community who are heavily engaged in promoting and/or carrying out pubic engagement events as it highlights that the current model of outreach which is favoured by many providers does not overlap with those activities favoured by participants in this study. This highlights that when designing events in order to engage and reach the widest possible audience the public should also be consulted. Minor comments Introduction Science festivals are discussed in the introduction but there is little description of the other outreach methods/events that were mentioned within the questionnaire. It might be of use to also give examples of some of the other engagement methods. Methods it would be useful to apply some statistical analysis to the results, although I appreciate that statistical analysis may be limited by the sample size of the study. Major comments Method The paper analyses a questionnaire which was distributed via the authors social media accounts. This method of distribution may significantly bias the results obtained. In particular I would expect respondents who had answered a questionnaire advertised in the digital environment to encourage more online engagement from scientists, which was found. This should be considered when discussing the results. Similarly, although the authors refer to respondents as representing the 'general public' it could be argued that the respondents already have a enhanced level of scientific engagement, since they engage with the authors social media and chose to compete the questionnaire. This bias should also be addressed by the authors. Overall I think this is a worthwhile and thought provoking preliminary study and hope that the authors will continue the work in the future. I would be very interested to see if the same conclusions can be drawn from a wider participant group and to look in more detail about what engagement methods the public find the most worthwhile.