This is a post hoc study from the CARINEMO trial, which shows the relationship between NNRTI concentrations virologic failure resistance, which is an important addition to the literature showing the value of ARV concentrations as objective adherence measures. In general, the article is well written. Specific comments: 1. Title: The title doesn't reflect what was actually done - I suggest something like: "Efavirenz and nevirapine concentrations as predictors of virologic failure resistance: a substudy..." 2. Abstract, results: in last sentence "mid-dose concentration" is used - this is true for EFV, but not NVP (it's a trough) - rather use C 12 throughout. Mid-dose concentration is also incorrectly used elsewhere in the paper. Clarify that in ROC analyses VL was done at week 12 24. 3. Introduction: 2nd paragraph, 1st sentence: delete hyphen in "ART-included" 4. Methods: It's clear from the CONSORT diagram that participants with undetectable NNRTI concentrations at all time points were excluded (incidentally the number is missing from the CONSORT diagram, please correct) - this exclusion criterion should be in the methods (I would personally not have excluded them, but no need to re-analyse). Clarify in adherence section that pill counts were used as the measure in analyses, not the other two measures. I object to the categorisation of adherence using the threshold of 95% as this is not evidence-based - an early study (Ann Intern Med. 2000;133:21-30 1 ) of mostly unboosted PIs suggested this threshold, but that was a small study (n=99) of ARVs that are no longer relevant - despite this the threshold remains inappropriately used by many researchers. Numerous studies (e.g. Ann Intern Med. 2007;146:564-573 2 ) have shown a relatively smooth dose response relationship between NNRTI adherence virologic outcomes. I suggest change the analysis plan based on the distribution of their pill count data (e.g. lowest quartile/tertile or the above/below median). The use of the term "virologic escape" is eccentric - this term is usually used to reflect detectable virus in a compartment (typically the CNS) despite undetectable plasma VL. I suggest use either virologic failure or categorise as suppressed/unsuppressed. It's unclear if undetectable NNRTI concentrations were included in the P10 group (they should have been). Also, please state how undetectable NNRTI concentrations were handled in the ROC analyses (usual to take mid-point between zero the limit of quantification of the assay). 5. Results: It's unacceptable to use P = NS; the calculated value should be given. I found the statement below surprising given the findings of the main trial: "There was no influence of the choice of the NNRTI component or the CD4 cell count at baseline on factors associated with virological escape at week 48." The aOR was 1.8 for virologic failure in those randomised to NVP - although 95% CIs did cross 1 P was this does not mean there is no effect - the statement should be modified. 6. Discussion: Their statement "Our study confirms that an adherence rate below 95% is independently associated with an increased risk of virologic escape..." is not borne out by their data as they did not explore other thresholds. 