This is a novel and interesting study on the role of ephrin-A1 expressed in the host in breast cancer lung metastasis. The role of ephrin-A1 in the tumor microenvironment and the metastatic niche is poorly understood. This manuscript addresses this gap in knowledge by systematically investigating how ephrin-A1 expressed in tumor immune cells, the tumor vasculature, the lung vasculature and the lung microenvironment affects lung metastases formed by 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells. These studies uncover a new role of host ephrin-A1 in promoting the formation of lung metastases by breast cancer cells and in tumor recurrence. Overall, the manuscript is of high quality and most conclusions are well supported by the data presented. I only have several suggestions that the authors might want to consider. The authors conclude that host ephrin-A1 does not affect the growth of the primary tumor. In contrast, they find that ephrin-A1 present in the microenvironment promotes primary tumor recurrence as well as the growth of lung metastases. However, the primary tumors were seeded by injecting tumor cells mixed with Matrigel. I wonder whether the use of Matrigel might create an artificial microenvironment that obfuscates possible effects of host ephrin-A1 on the primary tumor, particularly at early stages of tumor development. The authors should indicate in the Methods the volume of Matrigel used and mention also in the Results that the tumor cells were injected mixed with Matrigel. They could also briefly mention in the text the possible effects of Matrigel on primary tumor development (or discuss why they believe using Matrigel is not a significant issue). In some instances (such as Fig. 3A, dendritic cells panel, and possibly Fig. 5B) the authors find that there is no statistically significant difference between mice with different genotypes. However, n (presumably indicating the number of mice) is small in some groups and the variability of the data is high, so it could be argued that analysis of more mice could yield a more definitive result. Perhaps the conclusions could be stated more cautiously in these cases. On page 3, left column, third paragraph, ref. 43 does not report a tumor suppressive role of ephrin-A1 but rather the opposite. Very minor points: Animal models section in the Methods: In a couple of sentences, it would seem better to say “female littermates” rather than “gender-matched littermates” since only females were used. Specify in the figure legends for the histograms whether the dots represent the number of mice. Page 10, right column, 3 lines from the bottom. “Higher” would be better than “increased”. Page 11, right column, second paragraph, line 13. It should be “have” not “has”. 