This review paper is an important modern perspective on bacterial persistence and expression of disease. The role of ‘stressed’, atypical, cell wall-defective, cryptic, pleomorphic forms in chronic inflammatory diseases in clinical medicine and especially in diagnostic pathology and clinical microbiology is grossly neglected and overlooked. This paper warrants publication for its timely approach to a vastly important overlooked topic in science and medicine and its relevant, useful 890 cited references. I see no point in further elaboration on semantics: persistence vs. dormancy. In my opinion, regardless of terminology preferred (or debated) the relevant and important fact is identity of atypical forms in tissues, their basic biology and their relationship to disease. Although there is provocative circumstantial evidence linking pleomorphic forms suspected of being bacterial in origin in a wide array of chronic diseases, many were categorized as autoimmune, unrelated to microbes (unambiguous proof lacking). While the persistence of stainable forms (various structures) are often seen in tissue specimens utilizing histopathologic and bacteriologic stains, most are discarded as insignificant staining artifacts and debris, and especially in the absence of non-cultivable bacteria from accompanying specimens. In my opinion, this is a primary reason the significance of such stainable findings has been ignored in clinical medicine and has stymied their identity as causative agents of disease. Furthermore, even when there may be growth of atypical bacterial forms on artificial culture media, bizarre (non-standard) morphologic, biochemical, physiological characteristics of the isolated organism in vitro , the findings are most often disregarded as “contaminants”. Permit me to digress and cite such an example of an unidentified pleomorphic form isolated from patients with interstitial cystitis (a chronic, debilitating disease of unknown origin). These atypical isolates were subjected to elaborate, microbiological, immunological, biochemical, physiologic and electron microscopic characterizations. The findings (data) were presented at the American Urological Association annual meeting, only to have a well-known academic urologist and interstitial cystitis specialist congratulate the researchers for the elaborate experimental description of an ‘artifact’. Obviously with that type of unexpected and disappointing comment, there was nothing more to be said, other than, thank you! So there you have it: The regrettable dismissal of a potentially important finding in a disease of unknown origin by an individual who could not see the forest through the trees and without evidence to substantiate the claim that the finding was an ‘artifact’. The 14 topics and subsections outlined in Figure 4 of the review set the stage for the “dramatics” – ‘mind map’ – that follows. In itself this graphic may have been enough when accompanied by germane references instead of lengthy written discussions for each topic since much is d vu , gleaned over a period of many decades from published findings. On the other hand, it is often useful to repeat, for emphasis, and especially to call attention to neglected topics, which I suspect was the intent. Although the tables and graphics are worthwhile, it does take time to digest it all, meaning it may have been possible to shorten the paper. Two important publications (not cited in list of 890 references): companion papers by Green et al in Infection and Immunity, 1974, Oct; 10 (4): 889-914 and 915-927; demonstrated the phenomena of microbial persistence and reversion with Streptococcus faecalis L-forms in human embryonic kidney cells, followed by a proposed reproductive cycle for a relatively stable L-phase variant of Streptococcus faecalis . I call these publications to the attention of the authors because of their possible application to the fundamental basis of persistence by ‘stressed’, atypical bacteria in chronically diseased human subjects. Essential to the thesis of Green et al is that small, electron dense, non-vesiculated L-forms were shown to be the central (core) element in bacterial persistence in these experimental studies. The researchers concluded that depending on the stimulus received, these dense forms might be considered as undifferentiated cells, with the capacity to develop along several different routes. In vitro , the dense form was observed to divide and bud rapidly. In addition, the dense forms appeared to be capable of growth and development within vesicles of mature mother forms. When these forms were released from the vesicles into the surrounding fluid medium, further growth occurred, resulting in the development of immature and ultimately mature mother forms. Under conditions unfavorable for L-form growth, these dense forms developed first into transitional forms and then into the bacterial form. These dense forms might therefore be considered as undifferentiated ‘stem cells’ with the capacity to develop along several different routes, depending upon the stimulus received. Hence, in applying these findings to altered forms created in vivo (humans) these may take up intracellular and/or extracellular residence; possibly establishing a sort of immune protected parasitic relationship persisting/surviving phagocytic action, and creating subtle pathologic changes in the host during a prolonged period of tissue persistence. This might translate into an etiology for chronic inflammatory diseases, when the ‘stressed’ bacteria increase in numbers and overwhelm the normal biological functions of the host. I further propose that in vivo persistence of these bacterial elements escape immune surveillance partially, completely, or may integrate with host cell organelles to create bacteria-host cell-antigen complexes which could provoke immunopathologic consequences. Highly relevant, recently published data on modifications of gene expression, modes of division for stressed bacteria, and the paradoxical finding of peptidoglycan in L-forms are pertinent to the hypothesis that atypical, pleomorphic bacteria are the organisms responsible for persistence and expression of disease. Finally, it is hoped that the Kell, Potgieter, Pretorius timely, interesting and provocative review will call attention to this highly significant, too often overlooked subject. In my opinion, this review calls for a scientific/medical challenge: 1) to motivate visionary scientists and clinicians to investigate the fundamental origins of bacterial persistence in chronic diseases; 2) to unambiguously identify tissue persisting forms utilizing modern molecular technology, and 3) to design elegant experiments to provide convincing scientific proof (or disprove) that extracellular and or intracellular stainable bodies observed in histopathologic specimens and dense bodies at the electron microscopic level (culture negative) are bacteria existing as ‘stressed’ altered forms in tissues and not tissue or staining artifacts. Proof of the above hypothesis would open new arenas in clinical diagnosis, management and treatment of numerous chronic inflammatory human diseases of unknown etiology and might even extend to a bacterial cause for certain malignancies (as previously proposed many decades ago).