Summary: The article builds on an important recognition that current paper-based discharge forms do not contain information required for expected quality of post-discharge care and its coordination. The authors have designed an intervention to improve documentation in discharge forms, which includes a re-design of the form, and educational sessions for physicians who fill the forms. While the intention is clear, the study has some significant limitations in its executions and/or reporting: 1. The theory of change for their implementation of "a new discharge card design to improve the reporting of discharge summaries" is not clear - how and why were the changes made (both the restructured form and the educational sessions) expected to improve reporting? 2. Introduction/referencing: The approach for the redesign is not adequately described. 3. Ethical issues: Discharge forms can and often contain identifiable patient information. The authors should describe how the data was collected, stored and analysed while ensuring safety and confidentiality of the data. 4. Methods: How did the old and new forms differ? The forms are central to the study, but the authors do not describe how they differed. 5. Methods: The data appear to be from two samples (old and new discharge cards), but comparisons were analysed using a one sample t-test. This appears wrong. 6. Methods: Details on the intervention (dates and numbers of cards analysed, etc) provided are inadequate. 7. Results: Different parts of the form (demographics identifiers, drug-related information, in-patient management, follow-up) are presented in separate tables and figures. The reader does not get an overview of how the old and new forms were compared, under which categories, and how what numbers of cards were analysed for each category. Ideally the numbers of discharge summaries analysed and the p-values of the differences should be presented along with the percentages. 8. Discussion: The authors present results from a previous study in the first paragraph, which is confusing. 9. Discussion: The statement "Although this shows a significant improvement, it does not meet our goals" refers to a goal that is not described or justified. 10. Discussion: The negative results (decrease in documentation of co-morbidities and date of follow up) are not discussed. These are clearly important information that can affect quality of follow-up. 