 There seems to be an error in this sentence in the abstract – ‘The difference (3.1%) was not statistically significant (p=0.36; OR 1.29, 95% CI 0.71-2.33, p=0.41).’ – two different p-values are reported and the incorrect one should be removed. This is a paper about the financial incentive SWAT and not the SCIMITAR+ trial – the title seems to suggest that this is the trial report for the SCIMITAR+ trial. Something like ‘The effect of contingent financial reward to improve retention; A randomised study embedded within the SCIMITAR+ trial’ might be better. This SWAT has minimal power to answer a research question by itself, but as the authors rightly say it is an important addition to the body of evidence. I find the term ‘not statistically significant’ potentially misleading because it seems to suggest that the intervention wasn’t effective whereas the confidence intervals are very wide, and appear consistent with previous results. I’d recommend removing reference to ‘statistical significance’ and instead using terms like ‘it is unclear whether….’, given the very wide confidence intervals. The description ‘This SWAT evaluated the effectiveness of a contingent financial reward - 10 cash in addition to a routinely provided 10 voucher - versus no contingent financial reward, on improving the retention rate in the SCIMITAR+ trial’ is difficult to understand. It seems like the intervention is the offer of a contingent financial reward rather than the reward itself (which happens after outcome measurement) – should this perhaps be ‘the effectiveness of the offer of a contingent financial reward’? The 10 voucher happens in both arms so perhaps this should say ‘versus the routinely rewarded 10 voucher alone’ – unless I’m misunderstanding what the control group is here. It says ‘contingent financial reward’ in some places and ‘financial incentive’ in others – are these the same thing? It will be helpful if one term were used consistently. It says that analyses were ‘on an intention to treat basis’ but 11 randomised participants that withdrew before the 6-month visit were excluded from the analysis; this is not really compatible with a true ‘intention to treat’ analysis which aims to preserve randomised groups. Perhaps clearly describe the analysis population rather than calling it ‘intention to treat’ – e.g. the analysis population was participants randomised to the SWAT who had not withdrawn by time X days before due visit. Consider a sensitivity analysis including all randomised participants. The observed effect size was 3.1%; there is lots of uncertainty in this estimate so ideally it shouldn’t really be used to infer the likely cost effectiveness of future studies – instead, I’d recommend considering each end of the confidence interval (or perhaps the upper end as a best-case scenario) when considering cost per additional person retained. I don’t understand the sentence ‘Due to the sample size of this SWAT, it is most likely generalisable to the larger host trial population of patients with severe mental ill health disorders.’ A large sample size does not guarantee generalisability, and as noted the sample size is not really large enough to draw conclusions about this population. I think this point needs to be constructed more clearly. For the secondary outcome of ‘proximity to due date’, I’m really interested to know whether the proportional hazards assumption holds. It would be helpful to include a Kaplain-Meier curve and/or some comment about assumption checking. 