Roelands et al present a web application that provides real-time analysis and visualization of a large compendium of microarray datasets generated from primary breast cancer biopsies. The uniqueness and distinct utility of this dataset is the focus on immune-related signatures. Before discussing potential shortcomings according to this reviewer's opinion, the authors should be commended for investing the energy and resources to develop and implement a focused public repository that would facilitate further analyses. Although the overall objective behind this website and tools is laudable, I believe that the approach followed, as presented in the manuscript, has several potential shortcomings that would be worth addressing. Regarding the protocols followed, I would echo the comments by the first reviewer and question the use of MAS5 and COMBAT, given that more robust algorithms are now available. This may be a key issue given the quantitative nature of many of the indices used. Also, it is not clear that this approach removes bias between the older Affymetrix platforms and the newer ones (PLUS2.0). On page 5 it is mentioned that "the 22,268 probe sets present in each of these platforms were included", but the PLUS 2.0 chips include twice as many. They probably meant to say "present in all platforms". In terms of whether sufficient details were provided to allow replication, it would be great if the authors provided the complete set of scripts used to pre-process and normalize the data included in the analysis. This will allow transparent assessment of the methods and replication of the dataset if needed. Related to the type of data included, I believe that the resource would be more valuable if additional clinically-relevant information was provided with each sample. For example, disease progression clearly depends on treatment and treatment information is missing entirely - we do not know whether patients even received any treatment at all. It would be useful to curate treatment information available in the original datasets. Also, it may be worth providing annotations for additional immune signatures (e.g. Rody et al , 2011 1 ) and also of additional breast cancer subtypes (e.g. Lehmann et al , 2016 2 ). This will allow a more thorough assessment of the overlap between the various signature-defined subtypes. Finally, although there are not as many profiles from breast cancer metastasis available in GEO, it may be worth considering curating those and including them in the platform. It would be extremely interesting to know how the immune signatures differ between primary and metastatic samples, and whether the trends suggest immune evasion. Finally, from a usability standpoint, I have a few suggestions outlined below: - Although the functionality may be available, I found it very difficult to filter samples based on a particular feature. For example, I was trying to do the HLA-G by ICR group analysis only for the ER-negative or basal cases, but could not find an easy way to do that. - It would be useful to provide tools for correlational analysis of two or more genes (e.g. co-expression patterns) and heat maps. The one gene at a time visualization is very restrictive. Minor points: Worth considering having another table after Table 1 that summarizes the immune subtype signatures and annotations with references. Intrinsic subtype signatures used can also be summarized in that table. That will also eliminate the need to explain the acronyms (e.g. Table 2 is marred by too many acronyms IMS, IBC, IDS, ICR that are not explained). When running the HLA-G example as outlined in the manuscript, I was presented with 4 different HLA-G transcripts with no explanation as to what was the difference between them. Are these different probe sets? If so, that should probably be explained. Also, in that case, is there a recommendation as to which of these probe sets is the most representative (e.g. based on specificity, range, variance etc). 