The article "The ubiquitous and ancient ER membrane protein complex (EMC): tether or not?" presents the distribution of EMC components across eukaryotic diversity. Using a strictly bioinformatic approach, Wideman identified homologues of the majority of the EMC in every major eukaryotic supergroup, suggesting that this complex was likely present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor. One of the most interesting findings of this study was the identification of two previously unreported EMC components (Emc7 and Emc10) in yeast. In fact, the in silico findings presented here are supported by previously published co-immunopreciptation study (Jonikas et al , 2009) that identified these two components. Surprisingly, the EMC also seems to be present in some organisms that possess highly reduced mitochondria (i.e. mitochondrion-related organelles; MROs). Although beyond the immediate scope of this study, it would be interesting to correlate the presence of various TOM components in these with the various EMC components. Perhaps a brief comment on this in the discussion would be informative - especially since the interaction of TOM and EMC is known in yeast. In another review for this article , Sujoy Lahiri commented on the assignment of the Drosophila and Anopheles Emc8 as Emc9 on the Homologene database (NCBI). It appears as though these organisms have only one homologue of Emc8 (OR Emc9) by BLAST. It would be helpful if the author could comment on this observation - is this a mistake by Homologene? A phylogenetic analysis of these two related proteins could be helpful to determine the evolutionary origins of these proteins in animals. They also brought up concerns about the homology between these two proteins - however I think the author addresses this in the methods section where he states ...Emc8 and Emc9, which are related).... A system so fundamental to the cellular biology of eukaryotes is likely the result of vertical inheritance, however phylogenetic analysis of each component could help solidify this hypothesis and exclude any concerns over lateral gene transfer. Also, a single sentence describing if any of these components have distant homologues in prokaryotes (especially the recently described Lokiarchaeota) could also be informative for a non-expert audience (such as this reviewer). The data presented by Wideman (2015) is well within the scope of F1000Research and will be an invaluable resource for those studying the interactions between the ER and the mitochondria. I have no major concerns on the article and fully support its continued publication in F1000Research.