The manuscript by Orengo et al. describes the proposed activities of the ELIXIR 3D-Bioinfo user community. This is a useful and necessary contribution to describe the scope and plans of a new ELIXIR user community. The introduction provides a recapitulation of the uses and relevance of structural bioinformatics in different contexts. As the authors note, this is a mature field where several key data resources and initiatives alredy exist. The manuscript reads well and tries to make convincing arguments for the proposed activities. Specific comments: From the scientific point of view: Limits of structural data. Structural data is very important for many purposes, and the authors make this point clearly. However, it has also limits which should be spelled out clearly to avoid the impression of being a panacea. One limit is the availability of experimental data, with some molecules defying structural characterization. A more specific limit is also related to intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs). This is a different (sub-)field which is not covered by 3D-Bioinfo and has spawned a separate ELIXIR user community with different priorities dictated by the lack of structural data. Conformational variability. This important aspect is mentioned several times and forms a continuum between fully rigid proteins on one end and IDPs at the other. It is important to clarify this concept in the manuscript. By doing so it also offers areas for further collaboration in ELIXIR across user communities. Proteomics Standards Initiative (PSI). Part of the Human Proteomics Organization (HUPO), it should be referred to as HUPO-PSI. This is the main standardization body in the field and an obvious choice for promoting the standards 3D-Bioinfo aims to establish. As such, it should be introduced in the manuscript and its implications discussed. Of note, at present there is no HUPO-PSI working group in the areas covered by 3D-Bioinfo. Activity 1. The PDBe-KB part is well described and convincing. There is clear potential for synergies on representing IDP data. Activity 2. The dscription appears somewhat repetitive and its focus may be improved. OpenEBench is a good idea for CAMEO and CARPI, but how can integration be optimally achieved? The comformational modeling portal part is also a bit unclear, especially in light of the overlap with IDPs. A suggestion would be to highlight this as a way to foster collaboration with the IDP user community. Activity 3. The relevance of protein-ligand interactions is out of question. Since this field is of such pharmaceutical relevance, it is also quite mature. It is however not immediately clear what novel benefit 3D-Bioinfo can provide in terms of instrastructure beyond coordination. Activity 4. This is scientifically perhaps the most "novel" part of the proposed activities, as nucleic acid structures have traditionally been a minority in the field. The description seems more typical of a COST Action setup though and the link to ELIXIR should be improved. E.g. how can the ELIXIR services help to achieve the goals of this activity? Future 3D-Bioinfo activities. This section appears somewhat redundant. In the Green Chemistry example it is unclear how this relates to ELIXIR. ISCB. Given the prominent role of at least one main author in the ISCB leadership, this reviewer was expecting a stronger commitment regarding synergies with the society and its COSIs (most notably 3D-SIG). The goals clearly overlap and can benefit from each other. From the ELIXIR point of view: Platforms. The description of interactions with ELIXIR platforms appears to denote a somewhat cursory knowledge of their activities. The interaction with OpenEBench is well described and convincing. The Data platform description is good for PBDe-KB but after this does not appear related to platform activities. The Compute platform description is also unclear. In all cases, the question is: how will 3D-Bioinfo make convincing use of platform services? Other user communities. A more thorough description of synergies with existing ELIXIR user communites would be welcome. This should also be separated from non-ELIXIR initiatives (e.g. Instruct, iNEXT, etc.). Of note, the IDP user community is already established and not proposed. Likewise, "Synthetic Biology" should probably be Microbial Biotechnology. The Proteomics community is an easy connection but missing. Other communities, e.g. Plants, may also be relevant. In general, it would be good to have specific items for collaboration listed. Minor points: The manuscript is somewhat redundant and a bit lengthy at 16 pages without references. Streamlining it would improve focus and can contribute to mitigate some of the concerns above. The text refers extensively to "Europe" and "European" resources, ca. 60 times throughout. While this is a truism for ELIXIR, it sometimes feels just a bit too much emphasis in its present form. Figure 1 contains data for the PDB up to the year 2016 (a), 2017 (b) and 2018 (c). It should be updated and unified with data until 2019. When listing COST Actions (p. 8, left column, bottom), a unified format should be used. I.e. either list all titles or none. 