The method presented in this manuscript is of interest to the education community, in that it describes concisely how to use DAVID, a widely-used tool for analysis using GO. However, some points should be addressed to make the method presented here more realistically usable by other schools wishing to introduce this tutorial: How are the Gene Ontology, and ontologies in general, introduced to the students? Clearly what is presented in the manuscript is not sufficient. Can the authors provide easily accessible introductory tutorials? I am surprised by how much high school students are expected to know about genes and their function, for example when the activity of RAB5A is described. Can the authors provide recommended pre-requisites for this tutorial? Likewise, the authors intend to demonstrate how to do a gene profiling, but don't describe what is the purpose of this test. Nowhere do authors mention 'annotation' or 'curation'. It is important to explain this concept – how genes come about to be linked to GO terms. There are many sentences in the text that are unclear or imprecise: The authors state "“Ontology” is not a commonly encountered term and there are several definitions that are related to philosophical concepts.", and then go on to explain only one of these concepts: "In the context of information science, as described here, “ontology” is concerned with the representation, formal naming and classification system with the purpose of describing the relationship categories and properties of the data." In this context, I am not clear what the authors mean by a "classification system". The importance of the GO term system becomes apparent when analyzing the organization of genomes (...)": As formulated, this information is incorrect. Section "Making sense of a gene": that title isn't clear; change title to something along the lines of "Overview of gene function with GO". This section doesn't explain how to get this information from the DAVID site. This is essential if this method is meant to be used by other groups. Section "Gene profiling in DAVID": No tools on the DAVID website are named "Gene Profiling"; on the DAVID website I get 0 results when I search on "profiling". The authors should either rename the section with the name of the DAVID tool being described, or at the very least explain what they mean by gene profiling. The first sentence of that section is "DAVID is primarily a clustering program that groups genes based on different criteria related to GO terms." However, the protocol, demonstrated in Video 1, only shows how to obtain all the functional annotations of all genes from the list inputted, there is no clustering analysis here. The graph that provides clustering is the "Functional Annotation Clustering", but I couldn't get it to work; I get an error message stating that there are too many genes on my list (3000), which by the way was incorrect. The authors state that "DAVID links to other databases that contain complementary information like The Gene Ontology". This is incorrect: the Gene Ontology is the source of the data (annotations) presented in DAVID. The Gene Ontology therefore does not contain complementary information; it contains the source data. (Note also that DAVID is much out of date with respect to the GO data; the last update was in 2018, and the previous one in 2009. This should not impact the ability to use this tool for demonstration purposes, but for research project, as those mentioned by the students in their comments, the gene enrichment analysis tool from the GO website should be favored, as its data is updated monthly). Screenshot 3 describing Figure 4: The authors state " You will see a notice: “Multiple Species, have been Detected”"; I don't see this text in the page. I do see "Select to limit annotations by one or more species"; maybe this is what the authors are referring to? In that case, for the DEMOLIST sets, there are not multiple species, there is 'human' and 'unknown'. It looks like the 'unknowns' are genes that DAVID cannot map (if you follow the link to Ensembl you will notice it is not there). Students should understand this limitation if they are faced with it: identifiers are unstable, some identifiers may disappear. It's unfortunate that DAVID provides examples containing these unknown identifiers, but if one does the analysis with the 'human list', you are excluding the genes in the 'unknown' list. Screenshot 6 describing Figure 7: Keyword search, only demonstrates how to use the built-in functionality of a browser to search text in a web page. While this is good knowledge to have to successfully navigate web-based resources, this is not relevant here. There is a mistake in Video 2: When the list is selected from the Random Gene List generator tool, the button 'Copy' should be used, not 'Paste'. In this case, it worked because probably the list was already in the clipboard. Again, this is pretty basic web browsing or even text management knowledge, I don't think it needs to be part of this tutorial. There are no answers to Entry ticket questions 5, 6, and 7. Typos and errors: Figure 2 'David' should be DAVID. Question 4 Table 1 should be 92% (11/12) and not 96%. Lists are inconsistent: sometimes lines end with a period, sometimes not. I strongly recommend that these points are addressed before the manuscript is indexed. 