Page 3(Methods) You should describe the number of selected villages included in this study. Actually it was 21; isn’t it Page 3 (Study Participants) How did you get the sample size “500”; by using formula or soft ware? You better describe the sample size calculation in details. What do you mean that the sample size was estimated to be 500, based on the multiple logistic regression analysis, as described previously? Where and how you describe it? I cannot find it at anywhere! And you have selected four (4) from 26 townships and five (5) villages from each selected township. It made the number of villages included in your study to be (20). However, the actual number of villages included was (21). It is better to explain why it becomes 21, rather than 20. Page 3 (Assessment of Variables) Do we need to describe with/from whom the respondents received (or) sought PN care; either MW (mid-wife) or LHV (lady health visitor) in the operational definition of “utilization of full PNC? This is just my suggestion. You can decide not to describe! There are three types of determinants/factors associated with the outcome variable ( independent variables such as age, education, average monthly per-capital income, male involvement and accessibility to PNC service, explanatory variables such as knowledge of post-natal danger signs and perception on TBAs, and important independent variables such as birth order, number of AN visit and misconception regarding post-natal practices) in your study! Why do you classify these into three categories? Based on what (or) Why? Is it possible to describe simply (for example, the variables considered as determinants of utilizing full PNC in this study were ------ [or] the present study considered -------- as independent variables)? Or main independent variables were ---- in this study. Those variables ------ were considered as confounders in the present study Please try to be consistent in utilizing the name of variables. (At first you use the name of independent variable as accessibility to PNC service but later you use its name as accessibility to the [nearest] health center . Accessibility to the nearest health center seems to be more relevant. Another one is concerned with perception on TBA . Although you use the term perception , later you changed it to acceptance . I think “acceptance” is more appropriate. Page 6 (Discussion) Please insert the in-text citation for the description of (less than 50,000 MMK; the amount below the international poverty line as determined by the World Bank). Page 89 (Conclusion) Based on the findings of your study, maternal education level/status was found to be significantly associated with utilization of full PNC. Therefore, you better add the statement/conclusion regarding with that variable into your conclusion! (For example, maternal education or education of women especially in rural area should be enhanced/improved in order to promote the utilization of full PNC or something like that). 