This manuscript presents some exciting pattern aberrations observed in the eyespots of the Io Moth, including specimens obtained from drug injections, a wild-caught individual, and previously undescribed collection specimens. I enjoyed reading the manuscript and thank the author for publishing this. The reported phenotypes provide valuable information on the formation of eyespot rings in this particularly spectacular species. I noticed the following minor issues. What was the rationale for injecting mannitol? Serfas and Caroll (2005) - Carroll with two r (typo) Methods: "Ten randomly selected pupae were injected" Please provide more details if possible on the staging. Were they tender and relatively fresh? Is there a way to determine the maximum age they were at, or a time estimate based on their cocoon spinning? 5mg of heparin is a large dose, so it may have killed the younger pupae, while the aberrant female came out by chance by being at a more resilient stage (or was accidentally injected with much less compound) Methods, please confirm the injected concentration of the injected heparin (apparently 0.5mg/uL), and provide the exact origin of the compounds (sodium salt? molecular weight? manufacturer?) Figure 1 Legend: the abbreviation for DI BR and EIII are missing. The author is wrong calling the outer black line "EIII". Schwanwitsch 1956 and Henke 1936 (in 3 other Saturniids) suggest this is MI (central symmetry system outer band). I am personally inclined to say that while it may not be M1 in A. io ... it is certainly not EIII "A less aberrant male, whose prepupa was injected with 5mg of heparin a day before pupation, also emerged" I believe the author meant "A less aberrant male, whose prepupa was injected with 2.5mg of heparin ONE day before pupation, also emerged" "Heparin injection must have enhanced or prolonged the process of expansion of black pigment once it formed in the black ring around the blue scales." There is a way to deepen the discussion here, and I will try to explain briefly (feel free to use this suggestion). The A. io Discal Spots (DI = Discalis I element of the Schwanwitsch pattern homology system) are stereotypical patterns that are always overlapping with the discal crossvein. Martin and Reed (2010) suggests that these spots always express the wingless morphogen in Lepidoptera, and Martin and Reed (2014) also shows that DI elements are responsive to heparin treatment in nymphalids. Interestingly, heparin is known to enhance wingless signaling in Drosophila: Baeg et al. (2001), Binari et al (1997) and Greco et al (2001). Thus, the eyespot ring expansions observed upon heparin injection here suggest the exciting possibility that wingless, or perhaps other heparin-sensitive morphogens, are deployed during pre-pupal and pupal development to pattern different aspects of the discal ocelli structure. To be honest, the current insight about melanization is a little too phenomenological, because melanin pigment synthesis happens much later in development and there is no known interaction between heparin and melanin biosynthesis... 