The second version of this manuscript has been extended and now contains additional descriptions of the object class used by the bcbioRNASeq package as well as the functional analysis aspects. The text is well written and easy to follow, and the package is likely to be a welcome addition to the toolbox for users working with the bcbio pipeline to process their RNA-seq data. However, I think there are still aspects that can be improved, in particular with respect to the reproducibility of the provided results and figures. The package is still referred to as a "Bioconductor package" in the Introduction, but as far as I can see, it is not submitted to Bioconductor. If the authors don't intend to submit it there, I would recommend describing it as an "R package" instead, as was previously pointed out. Judging from the session info provided in the GitHub repository, the code in the workflow was run with an old version of R (3.4.1) and Bioconductor. One of the used functions (enrichMap, from the DOSE package) is deprecated in the current Bioconductor release, and may be removed in the near future. Moreover, running the commands in the manuscript (or the ones provided in the workflow.R script in the GitHub repository) do not always generate the same figures as are being shown in the article (and in addition, the code in the manuscript is different from the one in the workflow.R script). The differences are mostly minor, but this still reduces the reproducibility of the workflow. Minor points: The "counts" assay is described as containing "raw counts, generated by salmon and imported with tximport". However, if I understand correctly this slot may also contain other types of "count-like" abundances generated by tximport (depending on the value used for countsFromAbundance). The legend of Figure 2B says that all samples "are well within recommended ranges, having [...] almost 90% of reads mapping". However, there are several samples with mapping rate below 70% in the figure. The legend of Figure 3 says that sample classes (defined by the interestingGroups argument) are indicated in different colors, but in the figure, each sample has a different color. In the "Genomic context" part of the QC section, the text suggests that the results of plotExonicMappingRate() and plotIntronicMappingRate() show the exonic and intronic mapping reads as a fraction of the total number of reads ("Ideally, at least 60% of total reads should map to exons"). However, I believe the plots show the fraction of the mapped reads that map to exons and introns, respectively. This could be clarified. In the "Number of genes detected" section, Figure 2D-E should be Figure 2E-F. In the "Correlation of covariates with PCs, the text says "PCs with FDR 0.05" while the code uses fdr = 0.1. The code in the "Specific genes plot" requires a "library(DEGreport)" to run. The third code chunk in the "Functional analysis" section doesn't run (missing a comma after ont = "BP"), the fourth code chunk requires a "library(tibble)" to run, and the sixth code chunk similarly requires a "library(DOSE)". In the legends of Figures 14-16: P-adjusted values - adjusted P-values. 