In their paper “Fast analysis of scATAC-seq data using a predefined set of genomic regions” Giansanti et al. suggest an efficient strategy to analyse scATAC-seq data using kallisto and bustools . The paper is clearly written, the proposed strategy is well conceived and tested, and it will be useful for many researchers in the field of regulatory genomics. Clear advantages of this strategy are the reduced requirements in terms of computational resources and shorter execution times, when compared to other pipelines such as cellranger-atac . This comes at a cost, most notably the chance of missing signals at regions that are not present in the reference set. Nevertheless, in my opinion evaluations about this being a limitation has to be made on a case-by-case basis, and the authors clearly pointed this out (among other limitations) in the discussion. The authors also provide access to the full code, datasets and documentation to reproduce the analyses. A wide range of parameters was tested, both in terms of handling and modifying the input sequences to make them suitable for kallisto , and in terms of pre- vs post- processing the genomic partition considered for indexing. Combinations that return results that are highly concordant with those obtained with cellranger-atac were highlighted. The authors then demonstrated the robustness of the biological inferences made using their strategy by showing a very large overlap with the results achieved by cellranger-atac (in terms of different groups of regions marking distinct clusters and clusters annotation based on label transferring from scRNA-seq data). I am wondering if a natural application of this strategy would simplify the characterization of chromatin state at highly repetitive regions of mammalian genomes (e.g. indexing a database of transposable elements). This task would otherwise be quite difficult to handle explicitly with pipelines such as cellranger-atac . I only have two minor comments: Can the authors provide more details about the analysis described in the paragraph “Identification of marker regions”? How were the cell groups defined? How were the top 1,000 peaks for each group selected/identified? Fig. 1C: description of the blue curve seems to be missing. 