The manuscript of Prechl and Czirjak provides a thoughtful review of the interface of endothelial cells and soluble factors of complement and antibodies in the pathogenesis of SLE and related diseases. I would recommend to the authors that they also consider the work of two independent groups on the effects of autoantigen specific IgM in the development of post ischemic injury to the vasculature 1 , 2 . Candidate auoantigens have been identified (i.e., annexin IV, non-muscle myosin heavy chain II) 3 . Overt apoptosis of the endothelial cells may not be an absolute requirement for the expression of modified self antigens that then become accessible to IgM molecules. Furthermore the authors comment that products of complement activation are involved in the clearance of injured and apoptotic cells, but there is extensive evidence that deposition of C1q or MBL are themselves sufficient to serve as eat me signals 4 , 5 . Complexes of (auto) antigen and IgM can therefore enhance phagocytic clearance as they can further enhance MBL and C1q recruitment 6 . References 1. Kulik L, Fleming SD, Moratz C, Reuter JW, et al.: Pathogenic natural antibodies recognizing annexin IV are required to develop intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury. J Immunol . 2009; 182 (9): 5363-5373 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 2. Zhang M, Takahashi K, Alicot EM, Vorup-Jensen T, et al.: Activation of the lectin pathway by natural IgM in a model of ischemia/reperfusion injury. J Immunol . 2006; 177 (7): 4727-4734 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 3. Zhang M, Alicot EM, Carroll MC: Human natural IgM can induce ischemia/reperfusion injury in a murine intestinal model. Mol Immunol . 2008; 45 (15): 4036-4039 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 4. Navratil JS, Watkins SC, Wisnieski JJ, Ahearn JM: The globular heads of C1q specifically recognize surface blebs of apoptotic vascular endothelial cells. J Immunol . 2001; 166 (5): 3231-3239 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 5. Taylor PR, Carugati A, Fadok VA, Cook HT, et al.: A hierarchical role for classical pathway complement proteins in the clearance of apoptotic cells in vivo. J Exp Med . 2000; 192 (3): 359-366 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 6. Chen Y, Park YB, Patel E, Silverman GJ: IgM antibodies to apoptosis-associated determinants recruit C1q and enhance dendritic cell phagocytosis of apoptotic cells. J Immunol . 2009; 182 (10): 6031-6043 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Silverman G. Reviewer Report For: The endothelial deprotection hypothesis for lupus pathogenesis: the dual role of C1q as a mediator of clearance and regulator of endothelial permeability [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :24 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6504.r7993 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-24/v1#referee-response-7993 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 11 May 2015 Jzsef Prechl , Diagnosticum Zrt, Budapest, Hungary 11 May 2015 Author Response Thank you for taking the time to read and constructively comment on our hypothesis. We have incorporated some of the suggested papers as references. Actually we tried to build our ... Continue reading Thank you for taking the time to read and constructively comment on our hypothesis. We have incorporated some of the suggested papers as references. Actually we tried to build our hypothesis mostly on human data, because of the known differences in complement regulation between human and mouse. It was of course unaviodable to utilize murine experimental observations, but we kept it to a minimum. Nevertheless, some of the references are murine experimental data and biochemical observations probably hold for the human as well. More caution is probably needed when biological phenomemon and specific immune mechanisms, as specificity of natural antibodies, are considered. A careful comparison and analyis of human and murine data is probably required but this exceeded the scope of this hypothesis paper. Thank you for taking the time to read and constructively comment on our hypothesis. We have incorporated some of the suggested papers as references. Actually we tried to build our hypothesis mostly on human data, because of the known differences in complement regulation between human and mouse. It was of course unaviodable to utilize murine experimental observations, but we kept it to a minimum. Nevertheless, some of the references are murine experimental data and biochemical observations probably hold for the human as well. More caution is probably needed when biological phenomemon and specific immune mechanisms, as specificity of natural antibodies, are considered. A careful comparison and analyis of human and murine data is probably required but this exceeded the scope of this hypothesis paper. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 11 May 2015 Jzsef Prechl , Diagnosticum Zrt, Budapest, Hungary 11 May 2015 Author Response Thank you for taking the time to read and constructively comment on our hypothesis. We have incorporated some of the suggested papers as references. Actually we tried to build our ... Continue reading Thank you for taking the time to read and constructively comment on our hypothesis. We have incorporated some of the suggested papers as references. Actually we tried to build our hypothesis mostly on human data, because of the known differences in complement regulation between human and mouse. It was of course unaviodable to utilize murine experimental observations, but we kept it to a minimum. Nevertheless, some of the references are murine experimental data and biochemical observations probably hold for the human as well. More caution is probably needed when biological phenomemon and specific immune mechanisms, as specificity of natural antibodies, are considered. A careful comparison and analyis of human and murine data is probably required but this exceeded the scope of this hypothesis paper. Thank you for taking the time to read and constructively comment on our hypothesis. We have incorporated some of the suggested papers as references. Actually we tried to build our hypothesis mostly on human data, because of the known differences in complement regulation between human and mouse. It was of course unaviodable to utilize murine experimental observations, but we kept it to a minimum. Nevertheless, some of the references are murine experimental data and biochemical observations probably hold for the human as well. More caution is probably needed when biological phenomemon and specific immune mechanisms, as specificity of natural antibodies, are considered. A careful comparison and analyis of human and murine data is probably required but this exceeded the scope of this hypothesis paper. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Radic M. Reviewer Report For: The endothelial deprotection hypothesis for lupus pathogenesis: the dual role of C1q as a mediator of clearance and regulator of endothelial permeability [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :24 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6504.r7494 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-24/v1#referee-response-7494 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 23 Feb 2015 Marko Radic , Microbiology, Immunology and Biochemistry, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6504.r7494 Prechl and Czirjak present an attempt to synthesize several aspects of lupus pathogenesis. In many respects, the opinion article reviews well known territory and the novel aspect is that the authors seek to include a role for complement C1q in ... Continue reading READ ALL 