The manuscript in question describes different methods to visualize data acquired through MRI/fMRI scans in a three-dimensional manner. This is something that is sometimes done in current neuroimaging research, but that is rarely done in a standardized manner, which makes this guide timely and relevant. In many cases, researchers choose to use 2D images instead, which can sometimes distort or omit information, as fMRI depictions are derived from an inherently 3-dimensional signal. The current manuscript separately describes ways to visualize clusters of activation (i.e. activation as it would be found when running an fMRI experiment) and anatomical regions of interest. It also provides hyperlinks to download relevant visualization software. The author goes into sufficient detail to include, for example, information on price and OS compatibility of different software packages. Also, the text provides details about how to create the images within a particular software package, or functions that increase user efficiency. Information like this, in addition to several informative illustrations in the manuscript, will make this text particularly useful for many people working in neuroimaging, and I am convinced that the publication of this manuscript will lead to a fruitful online discussion about the best ways to visualize and report 3D brain data. The title, abstract, and structuring of the manuscript are well-written and appropriate for its purpose as a brief guide. Overall, this concise and informative guide is useful, interesting, and well-written. I recommend its indexing after some very minor comments (listed below) have been addressed to increase the readability of the manuscript. Minor suggestions: While the term could be considered to be a household word, I would still recommend to spell it out as three-dimensional (3D) or 3-dimensional (3D) the first time the term is used in the text. Likewise, the term glass brain is intuitive, but not always used in the same way by all researchers. A quick description of the concept at the first mention of the term in the text would make the manuscript more accessible to the general reader. 