In the current manuscript, authors reviewed the seroprevalence of HEV in mothers and newborns admitted at Medani hospital (Sudan): The paper addresses a very important issue, since there are few published data on the seroepidemiology on HEV infection in pregnant women and no one available from that country. However, some concerns should be addressed before its acceptance: 1. The English hasn’t met the standard of publication and should be polished carefully; 2. The introduction section of this manuscript should be completed as follows: Key facts about HEV infection should be added such as the geographical distribution ( currently available at the discussion section), transmission, virus life cycle, risk factors and protective factors which justifies the inclusions and exclusions criteria along with clinical findings (signs and symptoms, treatment and prevention). Nevertheless this is a study on seroprevalence of HEV infection, pointing out few information on the disease may improve the quality of the text; The “aim” of the study which is the reason why authors have been decided to write the article, should be entitled and /or underlined. Furthermore, since the fact that the improvement of the sanitary and hygiene conditions along with the antenatal screening of pregnant women for HEV infection is a specific target of the work, as specified in the discussion section we would point out this outcomes even in the aim section of the paper 3. Moving on the Material and Methods section we suppose that it would be better to enlist the inclusion variables summarized in table 1 as long as the risks factors collected in table 2. In addition, authors should describe better the way to gather data (questionnaire and blood samples collected from women along with the corresponding infants umbilical cord). Finally, would be better to express the age interval of pregnant women eligible for the study (not only the mean). 4. With regard to “discussion and conclusion section” we would divide it into two sub-sections. In the discussion, we would remove (or briefly summarize) the epidemiological data in order to focus on the transmission of the infection. As can be expected, we would better distinguish between the fecal-oral route and the vertical transmission of HEV. In fact the first one explain the overlap of pregnant women and general population affected by HEV infection: this may justify the necessity of improve sanitary and hygiene conditions; while the second one may explain the high prevalence of anti-HEV IgG in newborns that can lead to a high neonatal mortality and justifies the necessity of promoting antenatal screening of pregnant women in order to take further precautions to prevent perinatal HEV transmission.