The authors attempt to demonstrate niche genetic algorithms outperform traditional GA at de novo protein folding. They select a specific NGA, termed DSGA, to compare to traditional GA. They simplify the task of de novo protein folding into a two-dimensional problem and model amino acid interactions as hydrophilic or hydrophobic. The protein energetics use a binary approximation where the of the protein is improved by 1.0 for every pair of residues that are hydrophobic and adjacent but not neighbor amino acids. Amino acid placements are limited to two-dimensional grid coordinates. The authors demonstrate that their model of protein folding can produce local optima using one ten-amino-acid sequence. The authors next use a sequence of twenty amino acids to test whether DSGA can produce a better conformation, according to their fitness function, than a traditional GA. The authors present the results of fifteen independent optimization trajectories for DSGA, traditional GA, and traditional GA that is allowed to run for additional generations. This is important because DSGA is more computationally demanding, so there would be no advantage to DSGA over traditional GA, if GA could accomplish equivalent performance to DSGA just by running additional generations to make up for the increased computational time of DSGA. The results show that DSGA is able to find the globally optimal conformation for all fifteen optimization trials, while traditional GA and traditional GA with additional generations find the optimal conformation in none of the fifteen trials. It is unclear until examination of Figure 1 what configurations on the grid are considered (i.e. are amino acids diagonally placed to one another considered adjacent?). The authors refer to their fitness function as calculating the free energy of the protein. However, they give no data of how their fitness function quantitatively relates to free energy. Therefore, the authors must not refer to free energy, but should use terms such as fitness function or . This would also remove the discrepancy that the authors refer to free energy, but large positive values resulting from their method indicate success. The authors include twice the explanation that positive values resulting from their method should be interpreted as negative values of free energy, and negative values resulting from their method should be interpreted as positive values of free energy. This explanation will be unnecessary and it will be easier for the reader to understand the results, which provides readability incentive in addition to the scientific necessity for the authors to remove the use of the term free energy. As this is submitted as a Software Tool Article, in the Materials and Methods section, the authors should give explanations and any related references for what is happening in steps six through thirteen in their implementation of the DSGA pseudo-code in Table 1. The authors should provide a reference for the basis of their traditional GA implementation. In the Results section, the purpose of Figure 1 and the purpose of the description of the four amino acid protein are unclear. Does it demonstrate that with only four amino acids there already exist multiple optima? If so, a plot similar to Figure 2 should be shown. Is it just to give a simple demonstrative example of the model for protein folding? If so, it should not fall under the heading of Multioptimum problem. The title for Figure 2 should be revised because the use of the word is ambiguous. In the Conclusions section, the authors claim that DSGA, which is specialized for multiple optima domains, produces better results than a traditional GA. This statement must be qualified to fall within the scope of their study: using their model of protein folding, DSGA produces better results than a traditional GA on one twenty-amino-acid sequence. The authors must specify what they mean when they say better results. Perhaps, they mean configurations with higher fitness function values. Within the constraints of their model for protein folding, the scope of the study could be broadened by testing amino acid sequences with shorter and larger length and differing hydrophobic and hydrophilic composition. This could for example demonstrate at what length is traditional GA successful and at what length does DSGA fail. Similarly, the results and conclusions summarized in the last paragraph of the Introduction must be revised to fall within the scope of the experiments. Specifically: Here we show that protein folding is a multi-optima problem The authors need to change the wording to reflect the scope of their study. The authors only show that a simple model of protein folding produces a multi-optima problem. The authors could state that protein folding is a multi-optima problem and provide a reference, and then state that they show a simple model recapitulates the multi-optima nature of the problem. and as a result NGAs are better suited for a solution. Is this the authors hypothesis? The authors should clarify their hypothesis and make it clear when they are stating their hypothesis. Are the authors attempting to show NGAs are better suited due to the problem having multiple optima? Are they only trying to show NGAs are better suited? The use of the phrase as a result suggests the former. However, the experiments performed suggest the latter ‑ that the authors are hypothesizing only about the performance of DSGA versus traditional GA. The experiments and results dont provide any evidence as to what could be the reason for the performance difference. The authors perform no experiments to test whether the improved performance is due to an ability to overcome multi-optima ‑ such as a control experiment utilizing a single-optimum problem or sequence. When clarifying their hypothesis, the authors must specify in relation to what are NGAs better than. The hypothesis should not refer to the general class of NGAs, when only a single specific type, DSGA, is tested. Further, the authors need to define how they quantitatively measure better suited. Lastly, the authors need to define what they mean by . (1) the DSGA is very adept at predicting the folded state of proteins, which was shown by selecting a 20 amino acid protein and modeling all the folds and all possible combinations; The results do not provide evidence to support this conclusion. The results cannot show DSGA is very adept because the authors do not specify a quantitative measure by which very adept is defined, so there is no way to conclude this. Additionally, the ability of DSGA to successfully optimize the conformation of a single twenty amino acid sequence cannot be extrapolated to mean that DSGA can successfully optimize the conformation of amino acid sequences in general. Further, the phrase folded state of proteins must be qualified to fall within the scope of the study; specifically, that the folded state of a protein in the study is represented by a hydrophilic-hydrophobic model of amino acids on a two-dimensional grid coordinate system. "(2) the DSGA is better than a traditional GA and better able to derive the correct folding pattern of a protein. Similarly to the statement in the Conclusion section and above, this statement must be qualified to fall within the scope of their study. The results do not support the unqualified statement that DSGA is better than a traditional GA. The protein folding problem presented in the paper and used to compare DSGA to traditional GA is only a single, very specific optimization problem. This single specific optimization problem cannot be used to make the general statement that DSGA is better than traditional GA. It is unclear what the authors are comparing DSGA to when they state that DSGA is better able to derive the correct folding pattern of a protein. Also, the authors need to specify how they measure and qualify that the folding pattern of a protein is represented by a hydrophilic-hydrophobic model of amino acids on a two-dimensional grid coordinate system. The authors must clarify that a protein is a specific twenty amino acid sequence. The appropriate conclusion the results support is that, using the authors model of protein folding and their fitness function to score conformations, DSGA produces conformations that score better than a traditional GA on a specific amino acid sequence with length of twenty amino acids. ​ Similarly, the conclusions in the Abstract must be revised to fall within the scope of the experiments. ​ DSGA is very adept at predicting the folded state of proteins. Please see comments in 7.3. above. DSGA is better than a traditional GA in deriving the correct folding pattern of a protein. Please see comments in 7.4. above. ​ Lastly, the title must be revised to clarify the scope of the study: ​ Niche Genetic Algorithms are better than traditional Genetic Algorithms for de novo Protein Folding. The title must indicate the extent to which de novo protein folding is simplified: using a two-dimensional grid with a hydrophobic-hydrophilic amino acid model and binary scoring scheme. The title must also indicate the comparison between niche genetic algorithms and traditional genetic algorithms was made using a single specific niche genetic algorithm. Further, the title must indicate the two algorithms were compared using a single specific twenty-amino-acid sequence. 