This is an exciting report by Wheeler et al. , assessing the meaning of pain after a traumatic labour in a subject who has never experienced anything similar. This case is paramount for highlighting the importance of a detailed study of patients with inherited channelopathies. Neuropathic pain has been established by IASP as pain arising as a consequence of damage to the somatosensory system. In this case the patient describes positive sensory phenomena in the form of buzzing and squeezing which is troubling and is accompanied by numbness which is often regarded as negative phenomena (positive and negative sensory abnormalities often co-exist in neuropathic pain states) so I would recommend changing the terms sensory loss for both sensory gain and loss. One issue is whether what the subject describes is more akin to paraesthesia rather than pain as understood by healthy subjects in whom NaV 1.7 is functional. The IASP definition of pain is actually fairly broad including the term unpleasant sensory experience. In the current case this sensory disturbance is an anatomically plausible distribution with evidence of a lesion to the somatosensory system. The evidence comes from MRI that shows nerve root compression as a consequence of a haematoma. It would be helpful to have more sequences in order to demonstrate bilateral involvement and neurophysiology to define the extent of the nerve damage (sensory and motor). The thermal and mechanical sensory testing is thorough and I would only recommend the authors to add the baseline temperature at which they started the assessment e.g. added as part of the figure legend. Finally, I would vouch for the use of the neuropathic pain symptom inventory for assessing in more detail the symptomatology of the subject ( Bouhassira et al., 2004 ). In general I believe this a relevant case that illustrates the need to carefully delineate new sensory symptoms in patients with congenital inability to experience pain and emphasises the distinct nature of neuropathic versus nociceptive pain states.