The phenomenon described in this paper is well known and documented in many papers. However, it has never been directly examined and explained in detailed. Therefore, it is nice and useful to have a focused study to describe and dissect such apparently anomalous behaviour once and for all. I fully agree with the Authors that the formation of micelles is the most likely explanation. We have come across this same phenomenon several times and I have always discussed this fact with my students hypothesising the formation of micelles as the most likely reason behind this. A brief explanation of some anomalous binding curves can also be found in some of our published papers, most recently in Sun et al. (2012). When a ligand capable of forming micelles also has affinity for the protein, we observe a decrease of fluorescence, followed by an increase when titrating the protein (the U curve observed in this paper). When the ligand has poor affinity for the protein, we only observe a constant increase in fluorescence. Sometimes we have also recorded a complex behaviour: the intensity of fluorescence experiences an increase at low concentration values of the ligand, then drops when more ligand is added. In this case, the phenomenon could be explained by assuming that the ligand enters the binding pocket without displacing the fluorescent probe. As the Authors point out such facts can occur and have been documented with OBPs and CSPs. The increase of fluorescence in such case would be the result of the increased hydrophobicity of the binding pocket due to the presence of a ligand, usually a highly hydrophobic molecule, as in the case of many pheromones of Lepidoptera and Diptera. As the concentration of the ligand increases, competition with bound 1-NPN can take over producing a decrease in fluorescence. This study could be complemented (but not necessarily) by monitoring the intrinsic fluorescence of the tryptophan, which appropriately is located inside the binding pocket of the protein. Particularly in the case of DEET, which is an aromatic compound, if the molecule binds to OBP without being able to displace 1-NPN, we should observe a strong quenching of the tryptophan fluorescence. Overall the paper is well written and the observed phenomenon clearly described and explained. I have only one minor concern: The Authors report the emission spectrum of 1-NPN alone (in Tris buffer at pH 7.4) with a maximum around 470 nm and in the presence of protein at about 440. In my experience, I found that 1-NPN in buffer produces a peak with a maximum at 480, which is shifted in the presence of a binding protein to values generally between 400 and 410 nm, in some cases even below 400. This has been observed with a large number of OBPs, including some of mosquitoes, although not with the specific OBP used in this study. I suggest that the Authors double check these data, also in relationship to the instrument calibration.