Chinmayi and co-workers studied hydroalcoholic extract of P. granatum peel (PGPE), prepared by microwave assisted extraction method for its quorum-modulatory potential against two different human-pathogenic bacteria viz. Chromobacterium violaceum and Pseudomonas aeruginosa . This is a very significant work to produce antimicrobials. The following minor comments should be considered before acceptance of this article. "Though the modern medicine has almost always focused on search of purified active molecules as therapeutic leads, knowledge of Indian/Chinese/Arabian traditional medicine makes us aware of a variety of plant extracts and inorganic formulations prescribed for management of infections". Cite the references. "One such widely mentioned item in these ancient systems of complementary and alternative medicine, including the Indian system Ayurved , is Punica granatum L. extracts". Cite the references. "In India, Tunisia, and Guatemala, decoction of driedpeels of P. granatum is employed externally as well as internally as an astringent and germicide, and utilized for treating aphthae and diarrhoea". Cite the references. "Klebseiella Pneumonia" Spelling mistake is there. It should be corrected as klebsiella pneumonia. "Incubation temperature and time for C. violaceum , L. plantarum , and B. bifidum was 37C, and 22–24 h". Cite the references. "Antibiotic susceptibility profile of the bacterial strains used in this study was generated using the antibiotic discs- Dodeca Universal – I, Dodeca G - III – Plus, and Icosa Universal -2 (HiMedia, Mumbai)". Cite the references. "The plant name was checked against http://www.theplantlist.org on April 20, 2018. Collected peels were shade-dried, before being used for extract preparation. Biological activity of the plant fruit even depends on the time and season of productions". This fruit is generally produced in season in the Northern Hemisphere from September to February and in the Southern Hemisphere from March to May. Please comment on this. Authors are being also suggested to carry out the same experiment using the Peels of P. granatum were procured from different times. (optional) "Purity of each of the extracted pigment was confirmed by running a UV-vis scan (Agilent Cary 60 UV-visible spectrophotometer). Appearance of single major peak (at the λ max x reported in literature) was taken as indication of purity". Cite reference. Fig 4 is not clear and acceptable in the present form. Please prepare a high resolution figure as per the authors instruction. Why did the author do molecular docking study? It should be clearly mentioned in the methods section along with references 1 , 2 . Docking score is not the ultimatum measurement of potency or binding affinity of the ligand. I suggest giving the figures of mode of ligand-receptor interactions and discussing the crucial interacting amino acids of the protein. "One ethnomedical practice reported from the Paliyar tribe from Tamilnadu in India involves taking internally, dried fruit coat of P. granatum after grinding and mixing with water, to treat stomach ache and diarrhoea (Duraipandiyan et al., 2006)". Correct the typographical error of Tamilnadu. The present version contains many grammatical and typographical errors. Authors are suggested to do these corrections. "Inoculum standardized to 0.5 McFarland turbidity standard was added at 10% v/v, to the media supplemented with required concentration of PGPE, followed by incubation at appropriate temp for each organism". Correct the spelling error of temp. Separate conclusion should be given based on experimental and in-silico results. 