This article describes potentially important research that should enable exploration of the likely barriers to, and opportunities for, increasing effort to reduce unplanned pregnancies among young people in rural areas of northeast Thailand. An impressive sample size of professionals (103) was involved, although 25 to 28 in each of the groups/workshops is rather on the high side. With such a large group in a workshop format, there is a risk of socially desirable responses being made, some of the participants not feeling able – or confident enough - to voice their opinions, etc.; having said this, the context does enable a wide range of views to be gathered relatively quickly. Alongside the group sessions some questionnaire data from young people were collected (see the supplementary material); I must confess, however, to finding the questions that were asked to be rather vague, and the response options were not specified. For example, what assumptions can be made regarding whether or not a young person has had dinner with, or enjoys nightlife with, or has a sleep over with, etc. someone from the opposite sex? Is it assumed that sex took place on these occasions? Further, a tighter translation of the instrument would assist readers. The literature review is brief but highlights some of the traditional barriers to working on sexual issues with young people; some studies are from Thailand while others are from the USA and drawn from WHO overviews. It is not clear to what extent the USA studies are of relevance to the Thai context, and this could be discussed more fully. Some greater attention could be paid to justifying the value of talking to front-line professionals on this topic; they are after all an essential component of the process of implementation of any new policy initiatives in the field. But, from this perspective, the results prevented are a little disappointing. It is difficult to separate out what seem to be the personal opinions of those involved in the research, rather than being professional assessments of what is required at a policy and implementation level. To be frank, little is reported that had not been reported already in other research (for example, the US research cited, and the earlier work of Chamroonsawat et al. (spelt as Chamroonsawadi in one place in the text). There are some specific issue that would have benefited from greater attention and/or reporting. These include the implications of quite a high proportion of young people being brought up by grandparents – what additional barriers (over and above those present for biological parents) are imposed by this? What suggestions were made (if any) for helping to overcome these barriers? Second, the phrase ‘cultural traditions and beliefs’ could benefit from unpacking further, and these workshops could have been a chance to explore these issues, whether they are still relevant, how they can be addressed, to what extent are they gendered, whether they are related to early marriage and the implications of this for birth rates, etc. Nothing is static, and change can occur – the issue is how and what is needed to speed it up? The suggestions for policy are very worthy, but what is preventing them happening? Resources? Attitudes? Fear? Shifting the ‘blame’ elsewhere? Some of the suggestions are rather vague, and would benefit from greater focus. One example concerns the mention of young people having greater access to pornography. The implication made is that access should be restricted, but achieving this is highly unrealistic; so what other approaches might be helpful to get young people more engaged in consideration of gender violence, pleasure, peer and partner pressures, etc., and relate more to the fast changing social environment in which young people are growing up? Finally, the fieldwork for this study was carried out in 2014. Since then, there have been two national conferences on early pregnancy in Thailand, as well as the passing of an Act of Parliament on the topic (based on a rights approach). These do not get any mentions, which is regrettable given the potential relevance of the data collected in this study to implementation. I would encourage the authors of this article to dig somewhat deeper into the wealth of material that must have been collected from the workshops and prepare further publications to provide assistance to the challenges facing the country in the implementation of the ambitious targets for reducing the rate of early births. 