This manuscript entitled "Epidemiology of zoonotic tick-borne diseases in Latin America: Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg?" suggests that more studies on TTBD (ticks and tick-borne diseases) are needed worldwide, and particularly in Latin America, but there is a dearth of available data published. Because the authors emphasized that their manuscript was not intended to be an extensive review article, but was originally presented as an opinion piece, I reviewed this manuscript as the latter. There is a lack of cohesiveness and transition between subjects within the manuscript and an overall lack of a common theme. There are also some minor errors in terminology and italicization throughout, which I will point out in each paragraph. In summary, while I appreciate the fact that this paper was originally intended to be a superficial review intended to emphasize the lack of research literature on ticks and TBD in Latin America, it does not do so in a cohesive manner, nor does it make a clear case for the need for further resources. Nevertheless, many Latin American countries would benefit from more resources dedicated to TBD research and surveillance. Should the authors reorganize and focus their attention to a specific objective, this might make for a stronger case. Specific Comments: The 1st paragraph gives a brief introduction to the impacts of TTBD on human and animal health, particularly in tropical and subtropical areas of the world. While it is interesting to point out that some TBD can be transmitted in other ways besides via ticks, I'm not sure that really supports the point of your manuscript. Make sure to be consistent in whether you use "tick-borne" or "tick borne" throughout the manuscript. The 2nd paragraph begins with an introduction to Latin America, but then goes directly into rickettsioses, followed by a paragraph each on ehrlichioses, babesioses, and a brief mention of borrelioses. This feels much like a listing of diseases that have no connectivity with the overall purpose of the article. To help this, a sentence or two to introduce what will be discussed in the coming paragraphs might help to outline what a reader might expect to see. Maybe something like…”Here we will briefly review the known literature and highlight the increasing incidence/discovery/etc of tick-borne pathogens…” There seems to be a missing word in " Rickettsia rickettsii were reported in rural and urban of Panama" "Until some years ago, R. rickettsia was the only tick-borne species of rickettsia present in Latin America. Nowadays" - 'Nowadays' is too colloquial. Perhaps "Presently" or "Currently" are better alternatives? There is what looks like an autocorrect error (" R. rickettsia " should be " R. rickettsii "). Question: Is it possible that other Rickettsia spp. were present already, but the older serological diagnostics that identified RMSF ( R. rickettsii ) were cross-reacting with them and were all recorded as RMSF? Many Rickettsia spp. are non-pathogenic and are instead obligate symbionts of the ticks in which they reside. 3rd paragraph: "specie" should be "species". The genus "Ehrlichia" should be italicized. 4th paragraph: I refer you to "Rickettsia species". Rickettsia capitalized refers to the genus and it should be italicized. If referring to the colloquial term used to refer to Rickettsiales, then it should be lowercase and not italicized (rickettsias). I believe the former applies in this sentence. "sp." indicates that the species designation is not known and is not italicized. 5th paragraph: "Till" should be "Until". The paragraph is almost entirely about babesioses worldwide, yet the last sentence briefly mentions Borrelia and does not flow at all. Borreliosis should be its own section, with a discussion on both Lyme borreliosis and relapsing fever variants. Perhaps the authors could mention the role that soft ticks play in relapsing fever, particularly since this is a problem in Latin America. 6th paragraph: If the purpose of this paper is to focus on Latin America and the paucity of work on ticks and tickborne disease relative to other parts of the world, there should be more focus on Latin America. The discussion of other countries detracts from this message. The only exception is in the context of potential TTBD flow between these countries via trade, human or animal migration, and impacts of climate change. Further, there is a sudden switch mid-paragraph to tickborne viruses (TBV). Is the purpose of mentioning TBV to say that TBV exist in Latin America, but no one has looked hard enough? There are a few review articles that may provide support for this, but I suggest that as it is here, there is no context and it feels like it was just added after-the-fact. Replace “vectorized” with “transmitted”. Note “Transmit” = verb, “vector” = noun. "Vectorized” isn’t really a word, or at least not commonly used North American medical entomology. 7th paragraph: I'm unclear on the purpose of this paragraph. Is it to highlight the advances in diagnostics that make it possible to detect TBD? If so, how does this support the overall theme of this article? The last sentence of the 7th paragraph is not clear and has several errors. "Etiological agents of the group of Rickettsial , including those in the genuses Anaplasma , Neorickettsia , Ehrlichia , and Rickettsia , are relevant and often vector-borne organisms of canines and felines, but also of bovine, live-stock and other animals, which appears to be a wide range of hosts". Could this be moved somewhere else to make a transition or taken out completely? “group of “Rickettsial” should be either “rickettsial pathogens in the…” OR “Etiological agents in the Order Rickettsiales” "live-stock" should be "livestock" “Genuses” should be “genera" The Order Rickettsiales is an Order and not italicized. Admittedly this order's taxonomy is problematic, but if you are going to refer to it, don't italicize it. Table 1: Your table is entitled “Examples of selected tick-borne diseases in Latin America,” yet contains tick species mostly localized to North America ( D. andersoni , D. variabilis , D. occidentalis , I. pacificus , and I. scapularis ). There was a review by Esteve-Gassent et al (2014) 1 that suggests that some of these species could potentially spill over the Mexico-USA border and therefore these species could potentially warrant further study. Your use of this table, however, does not provide any context and feels out-of-place and irrelevant. There have been several articles detailing known hard and soft tick species and their epidemiological significance from many different Latin American countries (e.g. Rivera-Pez in 2018 gives updates to Colombian Ixodidae 2 ; Mastropaolo 2014 reviewed both hard and soft ticks of Bolivia 3 ; Lopes in 2016 of Belize 4 , and Witter in 2016 from wild animals of Brazil 5 , just to name a few). There have also been reviews on tick species found in the Caribbean, Cuba, and Mexico. If you can obtain it, a valuable and comprehensive resource is “The Hard Ticks of the World (Acari: Ixodida: Ixodidae)”, by Guglielmone et al (2014) 6 , which contains summaries of all known hard tick species worldwide, including host associations and geographic distributions. Conclusion: I am afraid I don't see the relevance of this conclusion section to the rest of the article. What you need is to tie together what you have written and make a conclusion. What is your conclusion? Do we need more surveillance? More research? Better diagnostics? Better identification approaches? What are you trying to state that leads to your final concluding statement that this is "just the tip of the iceberg"? To say there is not enough data is sort of vague. More data is always better, but I myself have at least 100 references for literature on TTBD from Central and South America, and my list is not extensive. I would posit that you may need to rethink the purpose of your article. To state that there insufficient work on this topic in Latin America borders on insulting those who have spent careers working on these exact topics. There is an element that you have not discussed: the lack of infrastructure and/or funding to support continued vector surveillance studies. Are there reports comparing the estimated costs of these types of studies (surveillance as well as diagnostics)? If so, how does that compare to the estimated proportion of the national budgets that are specifically earmarked for vector-borne surveillance and public health efforts, and what part of that is allotted toward TTBD research? Perhaps this would strengthen your case for a call to action. 