This manuscript describes a case-control study carried out at the Mulago National Referral and Teaching Hospital to assess the possible association between the fok I gene and TB diagnosis. The cases were defined as newly diagnosed cases of TB and were matched to TB negative controls taken from health workers at the hospital. The minor allele frequency (MAF) was smaller than expected with the overall MAF = 7%. While some differences were found between TB cases and controls, none were statistically significant. It is a fairly straight forward analysis and Dr. Acen and colleagues made a valiant effort to explore this question. Some comments: The controls were chosen from health workers and trainees at the hospital (age and sex matched). This brings in some confounding as health workers and medial trainees tend to be different than the general population in terms of education, SES, etc. some of which include risk factors for TB. This needs to be addressed in the discussion as a limitation. Also, were the controls tested to confirm they do not have TB, this should also be mentioned. I am assuming the health workers are the controls, the wording is a bit strange. The manuscript needs to be proof-read by a native or more fluent English speaker The authors state that cases and controls were matched on sex, but the numbers (table 1) do not show this. There are 30 males in the TB group and only 24 in the controls. The main result of this paper is the OR of 3.2 presented in table 2. The authors claim that this is a real effect and shows a possible relationship between TB and the fok I gene. They neglect to mention the 95% CI that includes the null (0.3 – 31.8) in text which is misleading. With such small numbers and a non-significant effect this is not a meaningful finding. It argues that more research is needed, but it is hard to argue that there is a real effect shown in these data. Statistical Analysis section and Table 2: The authors list numbers (78.3 and 83.5) as means for use in a power calculation. What do these numbers stand for? If they are allele frequencies then that should be stated. With such low frequencies in the some of the cells, a chi-square test is not appropriate. A Fisher’s exact test should be used to determine p-values Why is FF used as a reference genotype but f used as reference allele? This makes the interpretation a bit more confusing. How were the p-values calculated for Table 2? This needs to be indicated. What is the p-value for the reference groups from? Table 3 The analyses based on sex needs to be described in the statistical analysis section. What was the impetus to compare frequencies based on sex? It seemed to come out of nowhere. The authors should focus more on the differences in MAF for fok I gene in their population compared to other published populations of different ancestry. 