Mice are widely used in the platelet research field - this is largely due to this species’ accessibility to genetic modification and intravital microscopy. However due to their small blood volume and size and the variable responses to surgical treatments, these experiments often require the use of significant number of mice to reproduce the experiments to get statistically significant data. Therefore there is a key need to identify 3Rs strategies to help platelet researchers minimise the harm done to mice used in this field. In this report, the authors provide an interesting and insightful review into the 3R’s approaches that have been applied to both ex vivo and in vivo studies of platelet function in mice. Taylor and Emerson provide excellent examples of how 3Rs approaches are being used and developed in their laboratory to help refine and reduce the use of mice in platelet research. Of the different approaches, the refinement of the thromboembolic model provides a particularly valuable case study into how 3Rs approaches can not only improve animal welfare but also improve the quality of the scientific data obtained. Whilst the authors discuss barriers to the dissemination of their technique, it would have been interesting to have seen more detailed description of these barriers, and a consideration of potential ways they could be overcome to further increase the 3Rs impact of this work. For example, a more detailed assessment of the training, financial and infrastructure needs required to adopt this technique and how this lead to the development of the cell counting model, would have provided an interesting insight into how to improve the impact of 3Rs interventions. The discussion of the uses of the thromboembolic and vascular injury models identifies some key differences between these models, however the review seems to more consider the relative merits of these two techniques as approaches to studying thrombosis generally, rather than perhaps more clearly describe their complementary roles in examining thrombosis and haemostasis – with the vascular injury models better replicating normal haemostatic reactions in the absence of a complete endothelial lining rather than true arterial thrombosis, whilst the thromboembolic model better reflects the processes of venous thromboembolism where coagulation is artificially triggered inside the intact venous system. However the key trigger of the acute cardiovascular events mentioned by the authors in their introduction is atherosclerotic plaque rupture. The review therefore would be benefit from a brief mention of animal models of plaque rupture to give a more complete picture of the field. Current murine atherosclerosis models are hampered by the lack of spontaneous plaque rupture with models using requiring a mechanical trigger to elicit the full pathological response 1 , therefore future 3Rs work may also be needed on common non-mouse models in rabbits, pigs and non-human primates 2 . For ex vivo studies, the authors provide some interesting case studies on how adoption of improved technology can pave the way to reduce blood volumes required to perform these studies, and as such reduce the number of mice utilised. The authors show that these have the potential to have a major impact in reducing the number of animals. However this section does not appear to fit with the title of the review – therefore the review is brief and omits some promising 3Rs ex vivo approaches. The most important omission is of studies aiming to replace the use of mice in platelet research by attempting to recreate the physical and chemical environments of the circulation ex vivo using microfluidic and tissue engineering techniques 3 . These are beginning to provide a viable alternative to current animal models, and should also be considered as a potential future target of 3Rs interventions in platelet research. Does the review provide an accurate account of the 3Rs landscape in that field / across fields? Partly 