I enjoyed reading the manuscript. It is a well conducted study with robust methodology and focusing on ‘community pharmacist referral’ which is an important aspect of community pharmacy practice. I thank the F1000Research for providing me the opportunity in reviewing this manuscript. The ‘simulated client method’ used in this research is suitable in evaluating the real-life practice happening at the community pharmacies. I have few concerns associated with the manuscript and are as below: Abstract: The result section of the abstract mentions about ‘non-pharmacist’. It would be nice to elaborate more on those non-pharmacists somewhere in the Introduction section. Though it is mentioned in the Results, para 2, one would like to know whether non-pharmacists are allowed to dispense medications. This may be useful for international readers. Similarly, in the result part the statement ‘two or more questions as opposed to no questions were significantly associated with a referral to a doctor’ doesn’t appear to be novel. It is understood that someone who had not asked any question will be unable to refer. Authors might consider other observations to be mentioned at this section of the abstract. Introduction: The paragraph 6, authors need to clearly mention which ‘baseline’ and ‘follow-up’ study are they mentioning. What is the relation between the current study and those previous studies. Are they the same sample? I also found some similarity with few of the previous publications by the author using the same 'acute diarrhea' scenario. Authors need to verify the contents and avoid any similarities. May be the Introduction section should elaborate more on the justification of this research. Why did all these studies used only ‘acute diarrhea’ as the scenario? This needs further elaboration. Methodology Under scenario and assessment, it is not clear how authors categorized ‘Diarrhoea being present for five days as well as a high fever (40C) are both considered to exceed the limits of self-medication’. I suppose even if there is presence of mucus and/or blood in the stool may be considered referral. I suggest more explanation on development of the scenario and content validation and why ‘Dysentery’ was excluded from the scenario. Results: In this research, 45.2% of the dispensers were ‘non-pharmacists’. If that is the case then how can we correlate the research findings to evaluate the Community Pharmacy practice? The term ‘non-pharmacist’ needs more elaboration. Probably in the Introduction section, as I mentioned elsewhere. Table 4, response 8. Dispensing of a medication 175 (87.9%). What were these medications. Were there any antibiotics? What happened to the rest 22.1%? Why they did not dispense medications? These are some missing information and needs to be incorporated in the Results section. ​​​ Discussion: The discussion can focus on reason for non-referral by the pharmacists. Are there skills related issues? Do the pharmacists possess adequate skills in assessing patients with diarrhea? These aspects may further enrich the discussion. Limitations : Authors could explore any seasonal impact on the finding. 