Results The QIIME microbiome analyses should be briefly described as far as the bioinformatics pipeline used and its details: clustering of OTUS? OTU picking? amplicon sequence variants (DADA2-ASV)? These should be specifically detailed. It does not seem that the rarefaction curve shows compete plateau, also what do the colors mean? PERMANOVA is used to mine for distinctions in microbiome composition. It is unclear how kruskal-wallis test was used in conjunction with Unifrac - KW is used for pairwise comparisons in multivariate space, not for multivariate data. PERMANOVA results (P values) should be accompanied by R2 and, Pseudo F values also. PERMANOVA models used should also be reported. "Kruskal-Wallis test revealed that the relative abundance of Prevotella , Capnocytophaga , Leptotrichia , Neisseria and Streptococcus ​​​​​​" Were these discriminant analyses made at genus or OTU/ASV levels? Also, it is recommended to show these results in box plots showing medians and variation of data, not in tables Authors make several assertions as to the character and typically reported nature of the markers discovered, in the context of "good/bad bacteria" - but many of the claims made are in the context of gut microbiomes not oral communities. For instance: "​​​​​​ Prevotella , associated with consumption of plant-rich diets" This claim may be true only for the gut microbiome not for oral communities. Also: "The relative abundance of Bifidobacterium, the ‘good bacteria’ commonly found in dairy products, was found to be highly elevated in men" - this may be associated with effect of dairy products in the gut not in the oral cavity. "These commensal oral bacteria may become opportunistic pathogens in immune-compromised states." please cite Fig 3- legends should indicate that a-b were based on Unw-UniFrac, and that C on W-UniFrac - Please depict % variation on axes It is not clear how the post-hoc Dun's test were conducted-0 is this still based on PERMANOVA? "The Kruskal-Wallis test generated by QIIME revealed no significant difference." This is not clear - compared to what? "There was a significant difference between waist circumference and saliva microbiome composition (weighted UniFrac, p-value = 0.022). ​​​​​" This is not clear - you mean differences between the microbiomes of subjects with different waist circumference? QIIME is just a software with plugins to perform statistical analyses - it is not clear when authors are using qiime or R and how these platforms would yield different results. Please avoid jargon as "generated by QIIME" "The saliva microbiome showed no significant difference between former smokers and never-smokers, suggesting perhaps the saliva microbiome may recover partially to an environment prior to smoking". This is unclear but also speculative. The discussion is highly speculative and should be toned down, mainly as far as the hypotheses behind the differences reported. Authors also seem to interchangeably extrapolate hypothesis on oral microbiome changes with gut microbiome changes in the context of lifestyle and diet (e.g. Prevotella) although diet may also be linked to oral microbiome modulation, this relationship is less clear, and taxa such as Prevotella, abundant in both gut and oral cavity, cannot be assumed to be modulated by diet in both sites 