The publication of this letter is both important and timely given the increased interest that statistical learning approaches applied to healthcare data are receiving. The original article emphasized a negative perception of potential adverse consequences of machine learning (ML). It did not fully highlight the current benefits of using large amount of information for clinical decision making and the potential for methodological improvement with regards to statistical learning approaches. The very field of ML is rapidly evolving as illustrated by the rapid growth of deep learning over the past years. Minor comments Content could potentially be enhanced with a discussion on the notion that, precisely due to the outlined potential misuses and consequences, a systematic and strategic use of ML approaches must be developed and used to facilitate the robust application of such methods to healthcare data. The authors of the letter rightly point out that ML has similar advantages and drawbacks as any other analytical approach applied in a clinical setting. However, they fail to explain how clinician deskilling, which can be a real consequence of automation, could be averted or indeed whether it is an acceptable outcome, given overall positive effects. This is separate issue to that of algorithm predictive accuracy. "Accuracy loss for experienced readers when using ML-DSS is valid, but more reflective of training needed” - Is this training to improve interpretation of ML-DSS output in cases where it hinders correct reading? This could be relevant in the context of a study, however, it leaves open the possibility that in busy clinical settings, readers would be more likely to rely on computer aided detection. The authors could also highlight the potential for upskilling clinicians in the understanding of ML methods, which can enhance their interpretation of DSS and other data-driven processes. Clinicians could be invaluable in spotting when algorithms go wrong, even (and perhaps especially) for cases where they’ve been shown to overall outperform humans. Finally, the authors would make their case stronger by citing examples that demonstrate "proof of clinically important improvements in relevant outcomes compared with usual care, along with the satisfaction of patients and physicians”, as a concrete counter-balance to the negative or inconclusive examples of the original article. 