The present manuscript by Anderson et al . "Reframing the science and policy of nicotine, illegal drugs and alcohol...." is a well-written succinct, compilation of the findings and suggestions obtained from the Addictions and Lifestyle in Contemporary Europe--Reframing Addictions Project (ALICE-RAP). The authors, and colleagues of associated publications, astutely highlight the need for a systematic lexicon for addiction science and policy. This lexicon is needed not only internationally but also intranationally at all levels of the private and public sector. Thus, the need to destigmatize addiction and recognize that it is a natural phenomenon requiring treatment, and not criminalization, in some individuals. This will require a "reframing of addiction" in order to facilitate the treatment of addiction. While progress has been made in recognizing that addiction is a medical condition, that progress has not been matched by efforts to destigmatize addiction. As long as addiction is not recognized as a natural phenomenon that isn't isolated to one substance, but includes multiple licit and illicit substances (and possibly behaviors/process addictions), the public and policy makers will continue to have a mind set that addiction represents a "wicked problem". Thus, addiction will continue to be criminalized with most funds targeting addiction policy being slated towards the criminal justice system rather than social and clinical medicine to treat the phenomenon. The authors put forth a hypothesis that the lack of consistent addiction policy not only internationally but also intranationally is the absence of a standardized measure of social, medical, economic, and civic damage resulting from addiction to different licit and illicit substances. Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) is a recommended way to address the health impact disparity observed across different classes of substance with abuse potential. DALYs can be used to determine Margin of Exposure (MOE) as a Quantitative Risk Assessment (QRA), which can be standardized across "substances of abuse". When this is done, as seen in Figure 1, it is clear that the licit substances ethanol and nicotine have a significantly greater deleterious "health footprint" compared to most illicit drugs. Yet, global addiction policy is not consistent in recognizing, nor addressing, this disparity. Finally the authors recognize and remind the reader that addiction policy is influenced by social, political and market place suppositions that are not evidence-based. Moreover, with the nontransparency of lobbying activity by multiple, and diverse, stakeholders on policy makers will resist a "reframing of addiction" in order for there to be consistent, equitable and humane policy both internationally and intranationally. As far as particular manuscript content goes, the authors discuss the relatively novel concept that plant neurotoxins, which many drugs of abuse mimic or contain, are evolutionarily conserved in the plant kingdom. Thus, these toxins dissuade animals from ingesting the plant. Contrarily, plant chemicals that promote ingestion, in and of themselves, through reinforcing and/or rewarding effects are evolutionarily "weeded out". This point is receiving greater support through the recognition that immune signaling, centrally and peripherally, plays an important role in the neurobiology of addiction.