In this article, the authors clearly demonstrate usefulness of their in silico methods to identify residues which are spatially equivalent but electrostatically different in cognate pairs in protein family, then provide in vivo validation of the method by measuring the enzymatic activity of the designed protein. Such focused mutation approach and the experimental validation allow us to identify minimal mutations, which are important for the enzymatic activity and also may shed light on the fate of, for example, the duplicated gene products; pseudogenization, subfunctionalization or neofunctionalization. Minor comments for improvement of article. The authors aimed to induce tributyrin hydrolysis in LesB using minimal mutations. They described either three (MUT1) or eight mutations (MUT2) in LesB protein, where MUT1 did not show tributyrin hydrolysis activity, but MUT2 did. However, I wonder if the number of mutations, eight could be minimal mutations or not. If the authors have other mutations introduced, such as between four and seven mutations in LesB, please explain them. In Fig. 1(a), amino acid positions are numbered, however, to which protein are the numbers? Also, please mark three active site residues of LipA (serine catalytic triad) in the figure. In Fig. 2(c), please indicate five amino acid residues (G363, E364, F366, F367 and T368) in another contiguous stretch. Also, please show the catalytic triad as well. In Table 1, please indicate to which amino acid residues a, b, c, d of active site atoms correspond, respectively. In Table 1, I dont understand amino acid positions, SER 164 , HIS 364 , and SER 74 in LesBMUT1, which are different from the positions, SER 165 , HIS 365 , and ARG/SER 75 in LesB/LesBMUT1, respectively. In text, page 5, a right column, line 18 from bottom, (LesBMUT1/LesBMUT2) modulate this EPD back to moderately positive again (+12.4 EPD units). would be (LesBMUT1/LesBMUT2) modulate this EPD back to moderately positive again (+19.3 and +12.4 EPD units, respectively). In text, page 6, a left column, it would be better to show the results of LesBMUT1, showing no hydrolysis activity in Fig. 3(a), (b). If the authors have the data of LesA, please show them together in Fig. 3(a), (b). In Fig. 3(a), LesBMUT1 should be LesBMUT2. In Fig. 3(b) and in Materials and methods, please explain what LesB4 is. In Table 3, whereas the EPD in the pair of LESA and LESBMUT1 are negative, the EPD in the one of LESBMUT2 is positive (+5.4), showing inconsistency of the presence of the enzymatic activity in LESA and in LESBMUT2, but not in LESBMUT1. Please explain this. In Materials and methods, cell culture and protein extraction, the extracted protein was quantified and used for the 4-MUB assay. Please describe how the authors normalized protein concentration in each sample to calculate mean and standard deviation values for the 4-MUB assay. In Materials and methods, a right column, line 14, what does the position p mean, which is described as in the alignment for the position p ?