Thank you for this interesting observation article and for the invitation to contribute my open peer review. In the beginning, the article tries to disambiguate different flavours" or implementations of open peer review (OPR) by identifying a number of OPR characteristics. Regarding this effort I would like to note the following issues that I think should be somehow addressed in a future version of the article: As already noted by Peter Binfield, the definition offered is limited to only one of the identified OPR characteristics, namely whether the reviews are signed or not. It is not clear what is the difference between reviews signed when the author receives them and disclosed reviews. It seems that in both cases the names of authors and reviewers are disclosed from the beginning of the review process. Is disclosure of the reviewers identity necessary to initiate a discussion between authors and reviewers? Perhaps what you refer to here is an infrastructure to allow multiple iterations during the review process, as provided for example by Frontiers. This is different from simply revealing the name of the reviewer. There is a clear distinction between an unsolicited comment on an article and a formal review process by expert peers that receive a review invitation either by an experienced editor or the authors themselves. What is the alternative to editor mediation in peer review, if we consider that unsolicited commentaries do not constitute formal peer reviews? Is there another model where formal peer review is not editor-mediated? I know we proposed such model that we called author-guided peer review in Perakakis, P., Taylor, M., Mazza, M., Trachana, V. (2010). Natural selection of academic papers. Scientometrics, 85 (2), pp. 553559 , but I am not aware of any implementations. I repeat that I do not think we should consider crowd-sourced comments as equal to formal peer reviews. And some other comments to consider: PLOS ONE clearly does not qualify as an OPR journal by any standards. Instead, I would be more interested to see a discussion on the implementation of OPR by Frontiers. I suspect there is a misunderstanding around the terms double-blind and single-blind review. The standard in most journals and disciplines is single-blind review where authors are blind to the name of the reviewer, but reviewers know the name of the authors. Double-blind refers to the process where neither authors nor reviewers are aware about the identity of each other. It is not entirely correct that PLOS ONE waives publishing fees for unfunded research. What they do is ask for proofs that authors cannot cover the APCs even from their own budget, sometimes even asking for personal financial records, which by the way I find unacceptable. Proving that there is no formal funding to publish the particular research is not enough to waive APCs. I definitely agree that a comparison table is needed. I detected that the references to the articles by Lawrence are missing. Please double check that all references are included. Thank you again for the opportunity to participate in this process that is very close to my ideal model of OPR and I will be looking forward to a revised version of your manuscript.