The manuscript presents nice work in analyzing the SNPs in the human FOXC2 gene with a set of publicly available bioinformatics tools and identified 2 nsSNPs and several other UTR region SNPs with potential significance in Lymphedema. The pipeline of tools has been well described and it could benefit research and analysis of other important genes associated with diseases. As the authors pointed out, the findings need further confirmation. I would suggest the authors to address the following aspects: (1) Is there any relationship or coordintation among the identified SNPs? Do they belong to the same haplotype(s)? (2) What is the consideration or motivation to select the tools used for this study? For example, why did the authors choose GeneMANIA? All other tools in this study are used to analyze the SNPs in FOXC2 gene. GeneMANIA gives the result of the network involving FOXC2 with other genes. However, FOXC2 has been well introduced with multiple references at the beginning of this manuscript about its importance in Lymphedema. GeneMANIA does not show obvious help in SNP analysis focused in this study. (3) What is the criteria to identify the positive and negative SNPs for FOXC2, and why? How can false negative be avoided? Besides the above major reservations, I would like to ask the authors to clarify/correct the following: As pointed by the first referee, what is the total number of SNPs? The abstract and result sections indicated 448 SNPs and the discussion indicated 472 SNPs. How can the two numbers be calculated from 429 nsSNPs and 44 UTR region SNPs (429+44=473)? In both abstract and discussion sections, the authors indicate the results require further confirmation. Can the authors describe some possible methods, like experimental, clinical or statistical? Page 3, spell out NFATC1 when it appears at the first time . Page 3, rephrase “SNPs are located in vital regions of the gene, which may code for proteins located at the forkhead active domain of the protein or other sites, may severely affect the function of the TF.” Page 6, figure 3, the color codes are hard to distinguish in the network visualization. Use alternative method, or give a more detailed explanation. 