Overall, I think this is an interesting case presentation of a rare subtype of basal cell carcinoma, however, I think there are several points that need to be improved upon. There are several statements that should be amended. For example, BCC is the most common form of skin cancer, and it would be best to state this directly in the introduction. It is important to correct that skin tumors are not classified based on melanin concentration but on the identified cell of origin. Compared to other tumors, cutaneous SCC does not have a high risk of metastasis (~1.9-4%) so I would be careful about the wording there. Also, compared to other cutaneous malignancies, BCC does not have a high risk of recurrence. I would include additional important details regarding the patient, including her Fitzpatrick skin type, type of breast cancer, and if the location of the BCC was within the radiation field (unlikely given the description, but would be important to know). Follow-up information would also be helpful to report on the patient. I would also include in the discussion any demographic information that is available on patients with adenoid cystic BCCs as reported in the literature. You state that the adenoid cystic variant of BCC emerged from a pre-existing mole, however, no collision lesion was identified in the description of the histopathology. It would be interesting to the overall discussion if a nevus was identified adjacent to the BCC as this may have important implications. Regardless of whether or not a nevus was identified on pathology, this should be commented upon and is important for the overall description of the case. BCCs are often pigmented in patients with darker skin types, so this would be an important point to clarify. I do not think that there is enough evidence presented in this report or in the literature to suggest that adenoid cystic BCC has a poor prognosis as compared to BCC. I would remove this statement or provide additional evidence to back the claim. 