This is a published manuscript from 2018 dealing with clinical characteristics of migraine patients during a duration of 9 years of observation. This study has been conducted in outpatients in Iraq and has looked into several characteristics, including migraine types and subtypes, duration and frequency of acute attacks, severity, disability, effects on the quality of life, and complications. Suggested revisions: The first sentence of the abstract background must be revised to: TTH is the most common primary headache disorder (ref: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/headache-disorders ). Migraine might be the most common “disabling”, but the word is missing. There’s a point here to consider that if this is a longitudinal or cross sectional? Over 9 years have the patients been followed up? Or at one time point they have been seen in a period of 9 years? i.e. each patient has been only seen once or more during 9 years? The age range of 12 to 50 years includes puberty and pediatric migraine, the authors need to separate data presentation of children and adolescence from adults. It seems here teat pooled data have been presented. Another point is the classification and diagnosis of migraine. The authors have mentioned that they have done this study with the aim of understanding migraine and to come in with better diagnose. This is a bit complicated, because we have the IHC (that authors have also followed the beta version) that is published and one must follow in diagnosis. Therefore, the suggestion is that perhaps authors wanted to know what are the specific characteristics of migraine patients in this geographical location, ethnic background, or racial effects on pattern and characteristics if we consider that most patients have been local with same ethnic and racial background? This must be clarified so that the purpose of the study can become clear. Besides, authors might have proposed that it might differences from rest of population or other parts of the world, or other racial or ethnic backgrounds, and that is why they wanted to characterize there for better clarification of some specific factors that might influence special populations around the word differently. What about the menstrual versus non-menstrual migraine. Did the authors follow that? What about the drugs (any drug, including analgesics) and comorbidities? Hormone therapy is only for women or? Conclusion needs revision, because the authors need to compare their data with general data available or some other studies around the word to identify the commonalities and differences that might help in understanding differences of racial and ethnic differences in clinical characteristics of migraine patients. Besides, management means prevention, treatment, or both strategies here, is that correct? Authors need to discuss how based on their findings they may consider different strategies because this study does not really concern management so that cannot be concluded here. 