The author describes the history of the H5N8 avian influenza subtype by performing phylogenetic analysis of all H5 hemaglutinin and N8 neuraminidase gene sequences regardless of subtype. The objective of this analysis is to demonstrate reassortment events between the H5 and N8 gene segments to explain gaps in collection history of the H5N8 subtype. However, the quality of this analysis is doubtful for several reasons: foundational research on this subject appears to be ignored, assumptions are unclear and/or incorrect, the methods are subjective, strong assertions and conclusions are made with weak evidence, and the presented figures are often uninterpretable. In comparing this study to the published literature, the methods used are qualitative and highly sensitive to bias. I recommend the author uses other, more quantitative methods rather than reading the tree. Influenza A virus has been an important model organism to study the mechanisms of evolutionary change. In addition to mutation, migration, natural selection and genetic drift, genomic reassortment of influenza gene segments is a well-known, well-established mechanism of influenza evolution and diversity 1-8 . Scientists have been reporting reassortment events since the 1970’s, including several that have resulted in pandemic disease. While the author no doubt knows this, results and conclusions are posed in such a way as to lead the reader to believe reassortment is a novel discovery. Reframing these findings in the context of previous studies on reassortment would be a helpful means to avoid this. Alternatively, the author may wish to approach the subject with a question that delves deeper into the phenomenon of reassortment itself or further investigate the methods of its analysis, rather than stopping at the conclusion that reassortment exists. The author has also overlooked some important systematic studies demonstrating that persistence of LPAI subtypes through time is rare (if ever). The author asks whether the H5 and N8 associations are randomly distributed across the tree or do they cluster assuming adequate sampling (a dubious assertion). With the understanding that LPAI subtypes rarely persist in wild birds, the signal of persistence in domestic birds might be an artifact of systematic surveillance vs. outbreak investigation of an HPAI subtype. The methods in this analysis are also unclear and subjective. The author hopes to estimate whether or not H5 and N8 subtype genes associate persistently through time and space, immediately ruling out sampling bias and “cryptic expression” as causes for these associations. But what is meant by cryptic expression? And how was it assessed? Maybe branch lengths? To evaluate reassortment of the H5N8 subtype, the author compares phylogenetic analyses of the H5 and N8 genes. This is a valid method to investigate reassortment, especially if the goal of the manuscript is to report circulating genotypes. But, the author is making inferences or suggestions when the strength of those assertions has not been assessed. For example, the author, referring to the early H5N8, states, "Given that its sequence neighbours both before 1983 and afterward are from the H5N2 subtype it is plausible that the H5N8 hemagglutinin originated in the H5N2 subtype." Two immediate issues with this statement become clear: 1) there is no scale bar provided to allow the readers to assess how much evolution occurred on the branch leading to the H5N8 and 2) the ancestral state being H5N8 is equally likely. The author also makes inferences about the Gochang and Buan groups, but again, no scale bar is provided, the relationship of these two groups is not depicted, and the NA analysis shows them to be monophyletic (ie. single introduction into HPAI H5). It's unclear how robust this assessment of multiple reassortment histories is. Bootstrapping, as presented here, only provides support for the estimated bifurcation of a particular node, but provides no information on the strength of evidence for a reassortment event. For instance, a single sequence of H5N8 within a clade of sequences from a different subtype may indicate a reassortment event (assuming systematic surveillance, as the author does). However, the evidence for reassortment becomes less clear as in the case of the author’s claim that the Gochang and Buan sequences developed from a local reassortment. The author provides no evidence to test this claim except for the heterogeneity/homogeneity of the clade based on bootstrap values, which can be influenced by phylogenetic error. The author should consider using BATS to assess the probability of association given the phylogenies generated. Furthermore, the analysis provides no information on the extent of the circulation, context of surveillance, or number of infected or durations of circulation. All of these can affect branch lengths that might lead to incorrect inference of ancestral subtype. Additionally, the author might want to look at all H5N8 genomes to assess the relative diversity resulting from reassortment using for example tree-to-tree comparison methods. Within the past several years a variety of computational methods have been developed that can help test these claims of reassortment, both dependent 5, 9, 10 on and independent 11-13 of phylogeny. These listed methods would provide statistical support for reassortment events that would go beyond the subjective claims made by this author. One last recommended improvement for this article would be to focus on making the figures more readable and easier to interpret. Bootstrap values are often difficult to read as they are overlapped by branches and nodes. Coloring nodes by bootstrap value is probably not necessary since the values are listed, but if it is felt that the color coding must be included, the nodes should be enlarged, otherwise it is difficult to tell colors apart. In several cases these figures are uninterpretable. It also seems slightly misleading to keep the Gochang and Buan clades together for N8 phylogeny, but separate them into two figures when analyzing H5, especially without providing a tree to put these clades in context. There are also better ways to label taxa names than highlighting them in FigTree and taking a screen capture. While the reassortment history of the H5N8 subtype is an interesting subject, the analysis presented qualifies as an initial step in understanding the global dynamics of H5N8 reassortment and re-emergence. Improved analytical methods that provide quantitative support would greatly strengthen this paper and provide an empirical framework to test the robustness of the inferences made. Finally, those inferences must be presented in context of previously published works. References 1. Dugan VG, Chen R, Spiro DJ, Sengamalay N, et al.: The evolutionary genetics and emergence of avian influenza viruses in wild birds. PLoS Pathog . 2008; 4 (5): e1000076 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Pinsent A, Fraser C, Ferguson NM, Riley S: A systematic review of reported reassortant viral lineages of influenza A. BMC Infect Dis . 2016; 16 : 3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Webster RG, Bean WJ, Gorman OT, Chambers TM, et al.: Evolution and ecology of influenza A viruses. Microbiol Rev . 1992; 56 (1): 152-79 PubMed Abstract 4. Desselberger U, Nakajima K, Alfino P, Pedersen F, et al.: Biochemical evidence that. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 1978; 75 (7): 3341-3345 Publisher Full Text 5. Dudas G, Bedford T, Lycett S, Rambaut A: Reassortment between influenza B lineages and the emergence of a coadapted PB1-PB2-HA gene complex. Mol Biol Evol . 2015; 32 (1): 162-72 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Holmes EC, Ghedin E, Miller N, Taylor J, et al.: Whole-genome analysis of human influenza A virus reveals multiple persistent lineages and reassortment among recent H3N2 viruses. PLoS Biol . 2005; 3 (9): e300 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Karasin A, Schutten M, Cooper L, Smith C, et al.: Genetic characterization of H3N2 influenza viruses isolated from pigs in North America, 1977–1999: evidence for wholly human and reassortant virus genotypes. Virus Research . 2000; 68 (1): 71-85 Publisher Full Text 8. Lindstrom SE, Cox NJ, Klimov A: Genetic analysis of human H2N2 and early H3N2 influenza viruses, 1957-1972: evidence for genetic divergence and multiple reassortment events. Virology . 2004; 328 (1): 101-19 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Nagarajan N, Kingsford C: GiRaF: robust, computational identification of influenza reassortments via graph mining. Nucleic Acids Res . 2011; 39 (6): e34 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Svinti V, Cotton JA, McInerney JO: New approaches for unravelling reassortment pathways. BMC Evol Biol . 2013; 13 : 1 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Dong C, Ying L, Yuan D: Detecting transmission and reassortment events for influenza A viruses with genotype profile method. Virol J . 2011; 8 : 395 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. de Silva UC, Tanaka H, Nakamura S, Goto N, et al.: A comprehensive analysis of reassortment in influenza A virus. Biol Open . 2012; 1 (4): 385-90 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Rabadan R, Levine AJ, Krasnitz M: Non-random reassortment in human influenza A viruses. Influenza Other Respir Viruses . 2008; 2 (1): 9-22 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to state that we do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Bahl J and Hicks JT. Reviewer Report For: Complete analysis of the H5 hemagglutinin and N8 neuraminidase phylogenetic trees reveals that the H5N8 subtype has been produced by multiple reassortment events [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2463 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9969.r18901 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2463/v1#referee-response-18901 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 19 Jul 2017 Andrew Dalby , University of Westminster, Westminster, UK 19 Jul 2017 Author Response This is NOT a paper about foundations and the concept of reassortment. The reviewers are creating a straw-man argument and this is rhetoric and has no place in peer review. ... Continue reading This is NOT a paper about foundations and the concept of reassortment. The reviewers are creating a straw-man argument and this is rhetoric and has no place in peer review. The title is clear is saying that this is a specific case of reassortment. The paper has one and ONE only objective. To try and explain why H5N8 appears and disappears from our records of circulating influenza subtypes. I am NOT saying anything at all about reassortment which I accept fully. This is well established within the community and reference to that assumed knowledge is irrelevant to the aims of the paper. I have made all of my assumptions explicit and I have made all of my data and calculations available. Everything that I have done is fully reproducible and can be checked by anyone who wishes. This is vital for this sort of work and I will not compromise on this. In fact some data cannot be included because of groups from Hong Kong who make access to their data particularly difficult. The methods are identical to those used by the WHO H5 nomenclature project. They produced their trees using Fasttree. I used Muscle for alignment as it is recommended by the authors of Fasttree. Fasttree has 17,000 cites it is well known and widely used. This is about the tone of the writing and if you can name a specific claim then the wording could be changed but this does not alter the underlying analysis only the way it is interpreted. All trees were supplied as vector images but it appears that the online version has bitmaps which is not what I was expecting. The need for large images is to reduce my subjective choices of what data I show to you. They are needed to make it clear that H5N8 sequences are distributed widely across the H5 hemagglutinin and H8 neuraminidase trees. It would be easier to take a clade based numerical approach IF clades existed for the North American sequences but as yet outside the Guangdong lineage clade naming does not exist. Being qualitative does not mean that they are susceptible to bias. I can be quantitative and still biased. Bias is something that affects sampling and signifies not taking an appropriately random sample from a population. What the referees mean is that the trees I have shown are selective and possibly subjective. I am fully aware of this which is why all of the data from all of the trees is available. The referees can chose their own views of the data if they think that they can find a better way but it will show exactly the same pattern of reassortment I have shown in the paper. The paper is framed in the very clear way of saying what I am doing. I am looking at H5N8 reassortment. Not reassortment in general. Reassortment in particular in a subtype that is absent over a number of years when other H5 containing subtypes are circulating. There is nothing more and I would not even vaguely attempt to take the results in a more general direction because that would take a statistical analysis of all H5 subtypes including the common H5N2 and H5N1 subtypes which have no interest to me. The persistence of LPAI subtypes is something that could/should be mentioned but I do note that the referees cannot find a reference for these studies. As I have studied H9N2 before I am not aware of breaks in the history of that subtype which is a typical example of an LPAI. In fact I would dispute this claim strongly as completely unfounded based on the data. More recently I have been working on H7N2 which DOES show the same breaks in time but which is distinct because the sequence is not present in any other H7 containing subtypes either. This indicates that the issue is sampling and that the virus is circulating cryptically and is not sampled at all. I do not assert anything about randomly distributed. I say that they are widely distributed because they are. The word random never appears in the text and this is another straw-man argument. If I though that their distribution was a random process then I certainly would have mentioned it as one of my research areas is stochastic processes. If H5N8 was created by a single reassortment event then all H5N8 hemagglutinins would be in the same clade for both hemagglutnin and neuraminidase. I have made no hypothesis about their random distribution and I have made no attempt to carry out a test of this hypothesis by a combinatorial test which could be done. The good thing about influenza is that if a tree is locally polyphyletic with different subtypes and if the tree is correct then there HAS TO BE REASSORTMENT. I cannot have a part of the tree containing H5N1, H5N2 and H5N8 without the H5 hemagglutinin having reasserted with the 3 different neuraminidase genes. N1 does not mutate into N2 or N8 they are gained or lost in reassortment. For this reason I considered the findings obvious and simple to see but the referees seem to be showing me that this is not as obvious as I imagined. I dispute that LPAIs do not persist in wild birds, even if they don’t this is still not an objection that fits the observation that H5N8 is widely distributed in both the H5 and N8 trees. If it is in domestic birds you would know because it is not cryptic. Ducks stop laying and chickens die with H5N8. The HA and NA trees ARE sufficient evidence on their own. Adding the internal genes would give further evidence and if the referees want to go through a tree with 35,000 sequences for each of the internal genes in it then I am happy to let them. I have actually done parts of this analysis and I can include it if it is required and it supports what I have stated 100%. They are reassortment events and the PB2 genes at least show the same patterns as the H5 hemagglutnin and N8 neuraminidase. A problem with the internal genes is that they are often not sequenced properly or deposited. This is a particular problem for the PA segment. At some point if the entire clade is H5N2 and there is an H5N8 sequence within the clade then there has to be a reassortment for the N8 to appear. N2 does not mysteriously transform into N8 the N8 has to come from somewhere. The supposition where the tree is not well sampled are sketchy and as stated that is a plausible hypothesis not a definite event. The Gochang and Buan groups have been done to death and I myself have done a detailed BEAST analysis of them. These are NOT the focus of the paper which is the US clade where the H5N8 subtype appears and disappears from the timeline. These groups actually provide a positive control showing what I would expect to see if all of the US H5N8 sequences originated in a single reassortment event. In fact these groups disappear in the analysis of the internal genes. I did not set out to show anything about Buan and Gochang as that is already accepted knowledge. Bootstrap values actually only tell you about the ambiguity of the tree generated by that software using that data. They are a test of reliability and not of accuracy. If you have a biased sample then the bootstrap will be biased as well. They tell you nothing at all about phylogenetic accuracy and personally I consider them a poor statistical measure, but it is impossible to get anything published in phylogenetics without including them. Susan Holmes who worked with Brad Efron has written extensively about what they can and cannot tell you but this work is sadly under cited. Mostly it tells you if your sampling is adequate or inadequate and if you have regions of identical or near identical sequences as the order these are placed in the tree is ambiguous. I was being speculative about ancestral subtype. The key finding is that there is an ancestor that is from another subtype and not H5N8 as the H5N8 has to come from somewhere. That it did not come from somewhere once but multiple times is the issue and I can certainly shorten the paper by removing the speculative elements. I have used all of the available H5 and N8 sequences which means all of the H5N8 sequences available at the time I carried out the analysis. There will be more now showing exciting new findings in Taiwan and that the H5N8 is once more circulating in migrating birds. But as I stated this is not the point. I want to look at what happened in the past when H5N8 was sporadic. I am not looking at its present or its future. I want to say how it did reassort and evolve and for those older sequences complete genomes are lacking. What the referees are talking about is a totally different type of study. Which while interesting I will leave for others to carry out. They are not FigTree screen captures all were submitted as pdf files as vector images and can be enlarged to whatever size the viewer needs in order to see them clearly. This is a problem of journal production. The Gochang and Buan Clades are further apart in the H5 phylogeny which is why they were divided. I can put them together but I tried to make the figures as simple as I could. This is NOT a paper about foundations and the concept of reassortment. The reviewers are creating a straw-man argument and this is rhetoric and has no place in peer review. The title is clear is saying that this is a specific case of reassortment. The paper has one and ONE only objective. To try and explain why H5N8 appears and disappears from our records of circulating influenza subtypes. I am NOT saying anything at all about reassortment which I accept fully. This is well established within the community and reference to that assumed knowledge is irrelevant to the aims of the paper. I have made all of my assumptions explicit and I have made all of my data and calculations available. Everything that I have done is fully reproducible and can be checked by anyone who wishes. This is vital for this sort of work and I will not compromise on this. In fact some data cannot be included because of groups from Hong Kong who make access to their data particularly difficult. The methods are identical to those used by the WHO H5 nomenclature project. They produced their trees using Fasttree. I used Muscle for alignment as it is recommended by the authors of Fasttree. Fasttree has 17,000 cites it is well known and widely used. This is about the tone of the writing and if you can name a specific claim then the wording could be changed but this does not alter the underlying analysis only the way it is interpreted. All trees were supplied as vector images but it appears that the online version has bitmaps which is not what I was expecting. The need for large images is to reduce my subjective choices of what data I show to you. They are needed to make it clear that H5N8 sequences are distributed widely across the H5 hemagglutinin and H8 neuraminidase trees. It would be easier to take a clade based numerical approach IF clades existed for the North American sequences but as yet outside the Guangdong lineage clade naming does not exist. Being qualitative does not mean that they are susceptible to bias. I can be quantitative and still biased. Bias is something that affects sampling and signifies not taking an appropriately random sample from a population. What the referees mean is that the trees I have shown are selective and possibly subjective. I am fully aware of this which is why all of the data from all of the trees is available. The referees can chose their own views of the data if they think that they can find a better way but it will show exactly the same pattern of reassortment I have shown in the paper. The paper is framed in the very clear way of saying what I am doing. I am looking at H5N8 reassortment. Not reassortment in general. Reassortment in particular in a subtype that is absent over a number of years when other H5 containing subtypes are circulating. There is nothing more and I would not even vaguely attempt to take the results in a more general direction because that would take a statistical analysis of all H5 subtypes including the common H5N2 and H5N1 subtypes which have no interest to me. The persistence of LPAI subtypes is something that could/should be mentioned but I do note that the referees cannot find a reference for these studies. As I have studied H9N2 before I am not aware of breaks in the history of that subtype which is a typical example of an LPAI. In fact I would dispute this claim strongly as completely unfounded based on the data. More recently I have been working on H7N2 which DOES show the same breaks in time but which is distinct because the sequence is not present in any other H7 containing subtypes either. This indicates that the issue is sampling and that the virus is circulating cryptically and is not sampled at all. I do not assert anything about randomly distributed. I say that they are widely distributed because they are. The word random never appears in the text and this is another straw-man argument. If I though that their distribution was a random process then I certainly would have mentioned it as one of my research areas is stochastic processes. If H5N8 was created by a single reassortment event then all H5N8 hemagglutinins would be in the same clade for both hemagglutnin and neuraminidase. I have made no hypothesis about their random distribution and I have made no attempt to carry out a test of this hypothesis by a combinatorial test which could be done. The good thing about influenza is that if a tree is locally polyphyletic with different subtypes and if the tree is correct then there HAS TO BE REASSORTMENT. I cannot have a part of the tree containing H5N1, H5N2 and H5N8 without the H5 hemagglutinin having reasserted with the 3 different neuraminidase genes. N1 does not mutate into N2 or N8 they are gained or lost in reassortment. For this reason I considered the findings obvious and simple to see but the referees seem to be showing me that this is not as obvious as I imagined. I dispute that LPAIs do not persist in wild birds, even if they don’t this is still not an objection that fits the observation that H5N8 is widely distributed in both the H5 and N8 trees. If it is in domestic birds you would know because it is not cryptic. Ducks stop laying and chickens die with H5N8. The HA and NA trees ARE sufficient evidence on their own. Adding the internal genes would give further evidence and if the referees want to go through a tree with 35,000 sequences for each of the internal genes in it then I am happy to let them. I have actually done parts of this analysis and I can include it if it is required and it supports what I have stated 100%. They are reassortment events and the PB2 genes at least show the same patterns as the H5 hemagglutnin and N8 neuraminidase. A problem with the internal genes is that they are often not sequenced properly or deposited. This is a particular problem for the PA segment. At some point if the entire clade is H5N2 and there is an H5N8 sequence within the clade then there has to be a reassortment for the N8 to appear. N2 does not mysteriously transform into N8 the N8 has to come from somewhere. The supposition where the tree is not well sampled are sketchy and as stated that is a plausible hypothesis not a definite event. The Gochang and Buan groups have been done to death and I myself have done a detailed BEAST analysis of them. These are NOT the focus of the paper which is the US clade where the H5N8 subtype appears and disappears from the timeline. These groups actually provide a positive control showing what I would expect to see if all of the US H5N8 sequences originated in a single reassortment event. In fact these groups disappear in the analysis of the internal genes. I did not set out to show anything about Buan and Gochang as that is already accepted knowledge. Bootstrap values actually only tell you about the ambiguity of the tree generated by that software using that data. They are a test of reliability and not of accuracy. If you have a biased sample then the bootstrap will be biased as well. They tell you nothing at all about phylogenetic accuracy and personally I consider them a poor statistical measure, but it is impossible to get anything published in phylogenetics without including them. Susan Holmes who worked with Brad Efron has written extensively about what they can and cannot tell you but this work is sadly under cited. Mostly it tells you if your sampling is adequate or inadequate and if you have regions of identical or near identical sequences as the order these are placed in the tree is ambiguous. I was being speculative about ancestral subtype. The key finding is that there is an ancestor that is from another subtype and not H5N8 as the H5N8 has to come from somewhere. That it did not come from somewhere once but multiple times is the issue and I can certainly shorten the paper by removing the speculative elements. I have used all of the available H5 and N8 sequences which means all of the H5N8 sequences available at the time I carried out the analysis. There will be more now showing exciting new findings in Taiwan and that the H5N8 is once more circulating in migrating birds. But as I stated this is not the point. I want to look at what happened in the past when H5N8 was sporadic. I am not looking at its present or its future. I want to say how it did reassort and evolve and for those older sequences complete genomes are lacking. What the referees are talking about is a totally different type of study. Which while interesting I will leave for others to carry out. They are not FigTree screen captures all were submitted as pdf files as vector images and can be enlarged to whatever size the viewer needs in order to see them clearly. This is a problem of journal production. The Gochang and Buan Clades are further apart in the H5 phylogeny which is why they were divided. I can put them together but I tried to make the figures as simple as I could. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 19 Jul 2017 Andrew Dalby , University of Westminster, Westminster, UK 19 Jul 2017 Author Response This is NOT a paper about foundations and the concept of reassortment. The reviewers are creating a straw-man argument and this is rhetoric and has no place in peer review. ... Continue reading This is NOT a paper about foundations and the concept of reassortment. The reviewers are creating a straw-man argument and this is rhetoric and has no place in peer review. The title is clear is saying that this is a specific case of reassortment. The paper has one and ONE only objective. To try and explain why H5N8 appears and disappears from our records of circulating influenza subtypes. I am NOT saying anything at all about reassortment which I accept fully. This is well established within the community and reference to that assumed knowledge is irrelevant to the aims of the paper. I have made all of my assumptions explicit and I have made all of my data and calculations available. Everything that I have done is fully reproducible and can be checked by anyone who wishes. This is vital for this sort of work and I will not compromise on this. In fact some data cannot be included because of groups from Hong Kong who make access to their data particularly difficult. The methods are identical to those used by the WHO H5 nomenclature project. They produced their trees using Fasttree. I used Muscle for alignment as it is recommended by the authors of Fasttree. Fasttree has 17,000 cites it is well known and widely used. This is about the tone of the writing and if you can name a specific claim then the wording could be changed but this does not alter the underlying analysis only the way it is interpreted. All trees were supplied as vector images but it appears that the online version has bitmaps which is not what I was expecting. The need for large images is to reduce my subjective choices of what data I show to you. They are needed to make it clear that H5N8 sequences are distributed widely across the H5 hemagglutinin and H8 neuraminidase trees. It would be easier to take a clade based numerical approach IF clades existed for the North American sequences but as yet outside the Guangdong lineage clade naming does not exist. Being qualitative does not mean that they are susceptible to bias. I can be quantitative and still biased. Bias is something that affects sampling and signifies not taking an appropriately random sample from a population. What the referees mean is that the trees I have shown are selective and possibly subjective. I am fully aware of this which is why all of the data from all of the trees is available. The referees can chose their own views of the data if they think that they can find a better way but it will show exactly the same pattern of reassortment I have shown in the paper. The paper is framed in the very clear way of saying what I am doing. I am looking at H5N8 reassortment. Not reassortment in general. Reassortment in particular in a subtype that is absent over a number of years when other H5 containing subtypes are circulating. There is nothing more and I would not even vaguely attempt to take the results in a more general direction because that would take a statistical analysis of all H5 subtypes including the common H5N2 and H5N1 subtypes which have no interest to me. The persistence of LPAI subtypes is something that could/should be mentioned but I do note that the referees cannot find a reference for these studies. As I have studied H9N2 before I am not aware of breaks in the history of that subtype which is a typical example of an LPAI. In fact I would dispute this claim strongly as completely unfounded based on the data. More recently I have been working on H7N2 which DOES show the same breaks in time but which is distinct because the sequence is not present in any other H7 containing subtypes either. This indicates that the issue is sampling and that the virus is circulating cryptically and is not sampled at all. I do not assert anything about randomly distributed. I say that they are widely distributed because they are. The word random never appears in the text and this is another straw-man argument. If I though that their distribution was a random process then I certainly would have mentioned it as one of my research areas is stochastic processes. If H5N8 was created by a single reassortment event then all H5N8 hemagglutinins would be in the same clade for both hemagglutnin and neuraminidase. I have made no hypothesis about their random distribution and I have made no attempt to carry out a test of this hypothesis by a combinatorial test which could be done. The good thing about influenza is that if a tree is locally polyphyletic with different subtypes and if the tree is correct then there HAS TO BE REASSORTMENT. I cannot have a part of the tree containing H5N1, H5N2 and H5N8 without the H5 hemagglutinin having reasserted with the 3 different neuraminidase genes. N1 does not mutate into N2 or N8 they are gained or lost in reassortment. For this reason I considered the findings obvious and simple to see but the referees seem to be showing me that this is not as obvious as I imagined. I dispute that LPAIs do not persist in wild birds, even if they don’t this is still not an objection that fits the observation that H5N8 is widely distributed in both the H5 and N8 trees. If it is in domestic birds you would know because it is not cryptic. Ducks stop laying and chickens die with H5N8. The HA and NA trees ARE sufficient evidence on their own. Adding the internal genes would give further evidence and if the referees want to go through a tree with 35,000 sequences for each of the internal genes in it then I am happy to let them. I have actually done parts of this analysis and I can include it if it is required and it supports what I have stated 100%. They are reassortment events and the PB2 genes at least show the same patterns as the H5 hemagglutnin and N8 neuraminidase. A problem with the internal genes is that they are often not sequenced properly or deposited. This is a particular problem for the PA segment. At some point if the entire clade is H5N2 and there is an H5N8 sequence within the clade then there has to be a reassortment for the N8 to appear. N2 does not mysteriously transform into N8 the N8 has to come from somewhere. The supposition where the tree is not well sampled are sketchy and as stated that is a plausible hypothesis not a definite event. The Gochang and Buan groups have been done to death and I myself have done a detailed BEAST analysis of them. These are NOT the focus of the paper which is the US clade where the H5N8 subtype appears and disappears from the timeline. These groups actually provide a positive control showing what I would expect to see if all of the US H5N8 sequences originated in a single reassortment event. In fact these groups disappear in the analysis of the internal genes. I did not set out to show anything about Buan and Gochang as that is already accepted knowledge. Bootstrap values actually only tell you about the ambiguity of the tree generated by that software using that data. They are a test of reliability and not of accuracy. If you have a biased sample then the bootstrap will be biased as well. They tell you nothing at all about phylogenetic accuracy and personally I consider them a poor statistical measure, but it is impossible to get anything published in phylogenetics without including them. Susan Holmes who worked with Brad Efron has written extensively about what they can and cannot tell you but this work is sadly under cited. Mostly it tells you if your sampling is adequate or inadequate and if you have regions of identical or near identical sequences as the order these are placed in the tree is ambiguous. I was being speculative about ancestral subtype. The key finding is that there is an ancestor that is from another subtype and not H5N8 as the H5N8 has to come from somewhere. That it did not come from somewhere once but multiple times is the issue and I can certainly shorten the paper by removing the speculative elements. I have used all of the available H5 and N8 sequences which means all of the H5N8 sequences available at the time I carried out the analysis. There will be more now showing exciting new findings in Taiwan and that the H5N8 is once more circulating in migrating birds. But as I stated this is not the point. I want to look at what happened in the past when H5N8 was sporadic. I am not looking at its present or its future. I want to say how it did reassort and evolve and for those older sequences complete genomes are lacking. What the referees are talking about is a totally different type of study. Which while interesting I will leave for others to carry out. They are not FigTree screen captures all were submitted as pdf files as vector images and can be enlarged to whatever size the viewer needs in order to see them clearly. This is a problem of journal production. The Gochang and Buan Clades are further apart in the H5 phylogeny which is why they were divided. I can put them together but I tried to make the figures as simple as I could. This is NOT a paper about foundations and the concept of reassortment. The reviewers are creating a straw-man argument and this is rhetoric and has no place in peer review. The title is clear is saying that this is a specific case of reassortment. The paper has one and ONE only objective. To try and explain why H5N8 appears and disappears from our records of circulating influenza subtypes. I am NOT saying anything at all about reassortment which I accept fully. This is well established within the community and reference to that assumed knowledge is irrelevant to the aims of the paper. I have made all of my assumptions explicit and I have made all of my data and calculations available. Everything that I have done is fully reproducible and can be checked by anyone who wishes. This is vital for this sort of work and I will not compromise on this. In fact some data cannot be included because of groups from Hong Kong who make access to their data particularly difficult. The methods are identical to those used by the WHO H5 nomenclature project. They produced their trees using Fasttree. I used Muscle for alignment as it is recommended by the authors of Fasttree. Fasttree has 17,000 cites it is well known and widely used. This is about the tone of the writing and if you can name a specific claim then the wording could be changed but this does not alter the underlying analysis only the way it is interpreted. All trees were supplied as vector images but it appears that the online version has bitmaps which is not what I was expecting. The need for large images is to reduce my subjective choices of what data I show to you. They are needed to make it clear that H5N8 sequences are distributed widely across the H5 hemagglutinin and H8 neuraminidase trees. It would be easier to take a clade based numerical approach IF clades existed for the North American sequences but as yet outside the Guangdong lineage clade naming does not exist. Being qualitative does not mean that they are susceptible to bias. I can be quantitative and still biased. Bias is something that affects sampling and signifies not taking an appropriately random sample from a population. What the referees mean is that the trees I have shown are selective and possibly subjective. I am fully aware of this which is why all of the data from all of the trees is available. The referees can chose their own views of the data if they think that they can find a better way but it will show exactly the same pattern of reassortment I have shown in the paper. The paper is framed in the very clear way of saying what I am doing. I am looking at H5N8 reassortment. Not reassortment in general. Reassortment in particular in a subtype that is absent over a number of years when other H5 containing subtypes are circulating. There is nothing more and I would not even vaguely attempt to take the results in a more general direction because that would take a statistical analysis of all H5 subtypes including the common H5N2 and H5N1 subtypes which have no interest to me. The persistence of LPAI subtypes is something that could/should be mentioned but I do note that the referees cannot find a reference for these studies. As I have studied H9N2 before I am not aware of breaks in the history of that subtype which is a typical example of an LPAI. In fact I would dispute this claim strongly as completely unfounded based on the data. More recently I have been working on H7N2 which DOES show the same breaks in time but which is distinct because the sequence is not present in any other H7 containing subtypes either. This indicates that the issue is sampling and that the virus is circulating cryptically and is not sampled at all. I do not assert anything about randomly distributed. I say that they are widely distributed because they are. The word random never appears in the text and this is another straw-man argument. If I though that their distribution was a random process then I certainly would have mentioned it as one of my research areas is stochastic processes. If H5N8 was created by a single reassortment event then all H5N8 hemagglutinins would be in the same clade for both hemagglutnin and neuraminidase. I have made no hypothesis about their random distribution and I have made no attempt to carry out a test of this hypothesis by a combinatorial test which could be done. The good thing about influenza is that if a tree is locally polyphyletic with different subtypes and if the tree is correct then there HAS TO BE REASSORTMENT. I cannot have a part of the tree containing H5N1, H5N2 and H5N8 without the H5 hemagglutinin having reasserted with the 3 different neuraminidase genes. N1 does not mutate into N2 or N8 they are gained or lost in reassortment. For this reason I considered the findings obvious and simple to see but the referees seem to be showing me that this is not as obvious as I imagined. I dispute that LPAIs do not persist in wild birds, even if they don’t this is still not an objection that fits the observation that H5N8 is widely distributed in both the H5 and N8 trees. If it is in domestic birds you would know because it is not cryptic. Ducks stop laying and chickens die with H5N8. The HA and NA trees ARE sufficient evidence on their own. Adding the internal genes would give further evidence and if the referees want to go through a tree with 35,000 sequences for each of the internal genes in it then I am happy to let them. I have actually done parts of this analysis and I can include it if it is required and it supports what I have stated 100%. They are reassortment events and the PB2 genes at least show the same patterns as the H5 hemagglutnin and N8 neuraminidase. A problem with the internal genes is that they are often not sequenced properly or deposited. This is a particular problem for the PA segment. At some point if the entire clade is H5N2 and there is an H5N8 sequence within the clade then there has to be a reassortment for the N8 to appear. N2 does not mysteriously transform into N8 the N8 has to come from somewhere. The supposition where the tree is not well sampled are sketchy and as stated that is a plausible hypothesis not a definite event. The Gochang and Buan groups have been done to death and I myself have done a detailed BEAST analysis of them. These are NOT the focus of the paper which is the US clade where the H5N8 subtype appears and disappears from the timeline. These groups actually provide a positive control showing what I would expect to see if all of the US H5N8 sequences originated in a single reassortment event. In fact these groups disappear in the analysis of the internal genes. I did not set out to show anything about Buan and Gochang as that is already accepted knowledge. Bootstrap values actually only tell you about the ambiguity of the tree generated by that software using that data. They are a test of reliability and not of accuracy. If you have a biased sample then the bootstrap will be biased as well. They tell you nothing at all about phylogenetic accuracy and personally I consider them a poor statistical measure, but it is impossible to get anything published in phylogenetics without including them. Susan Holmes who worked with Brad Efron has written extensively about what they can and cannot tell you but this work is sadly under cited. Mostly it tells you if your sampling is adequate or inadequate and if you have regions of identical or near identical sequences as the order these are placed in the tree is ambiguous. I was being speculative about ancestral subtype. The key finding is that there is an ancestor that is from another subtype and not H5N8 as the H5N8 has to come from somewhere. That it did not come from somewhere once but multiple times is the issue and I can certainly shorten the paper by removing the speculative elements. I have used all of the available H5 and N8 sequences which means all of the H5N8 sequences available at the time I carried out the analysis. There will be more now showing exciting new findings in Taiwan and that the H5N8 is once more circulating in migrating birds. But as I stated this is not the point. I want to look at what happened in the past when H5N8 was sporadic. I am not looking at its present or its future. I want to say how it did reassort and evolve and for those older sequences complete genomes are lacking. What the referees are talking about is a totally different type of study. Which while interesting I will leave for others to carry out. They are not FigTree screen captures all were submitted as pdf files as vector images and can be enlarged to whatever size the viewer needs in order to see them clearly. This is a problem of journal production. The Gochang and Buan Clades are further apart in the H5 phylogeny which is why they were divided. I can put them together but I tried to make the figures as simple as I could. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Macken C. Reviewer Report For: Complete analysis of the H5 hemagglutinin and N8 neuraminidase phylogenetic trees reveals that the H5N8 subtype has been produced by multiple reassortment events [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2463 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9969.r17349 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2463/v1#referee-response-17349 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 02 Nov 2016 Catherine Macken , Bioinformatics Institute, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9969.r17349 The author examines the emergence of avian influenza A viruses (AIAV) having the H5N8 subtype, using genomic sequences from a publicly available influenza sequence database. He points out, correctly, that isolates of H5N8 AIAV has been reported sporadically, but infrequently, ... Continue reading READ ALL 