The authors present a novel "Term Enrichment Analysis" algorithm, which expands on previous work by Bauer et al. (2010). The provided implementation of the algorithm as a stand-alone web interface is very well-designed and user-friendly. The availability of a command-line implementation in C++ ensures that the method can be incorporated in diverse workflows. I do, however, have some major criticisms about the presentation of the method in the manuscript as well as the validation method used. Major points: My main problem with this manuscript is that the description of the algorithm is very terse and hard to understand. In particular, the following points need clarification: The algorithm model needs to be described in less mathematical terms. The present description makes it very hard for a biologist to understand the merits of the algorithm. The biological meaning or impact of the mentioned hyperparameters A 0 and A 1 needs to be added. The authors claim as one of the advantages of their algorithm that " Integrating out probability parameters improves sampling efficiency and allows for higher-dimensional models where, for example, we observe multiple gene sets and give each term its own probability π j or each gene its own error rates (α i , β i )" However, they do not mention any procedure for estimating these parameter values. A detailed example of such a procedure would greatly benefit the manuscript. Related to the previous point: It seems that there are quite a few parameters in this algorithm that can be adjusted. While the implementation provided does seem to suggest sensible default values, it would be good if the authors could prove the robustness of their method by validating a test set against a range of parameter values. The second major concern I have with this manuscript is lack of rigour and detail in the applied validation procedures. It is not clear at all to me what is meant with "the autocorrelation of the term variables for a dataset". This concept needs to be explained in more detail, ideally with an example. In the tuning step of the MCMC kernels, the authors used a test set of only 17 genes. Typical transcriptomics experiments yield, especially in mammals, up to thousands of differentially expressed genes. It would therefore be good to repeat this analysis with increasing test set sizes (e.g. 10 - 100 - 1000). Possibly the biggest issue I have with this manuscript is that the authors compare the performance of their algorithm to that of a simple hypergeometric test, using simulated data. As several authors have already pointed out before, the hypergeometric approach is a poor strategy for doing gene set analysis 1 . Validation should be against more sophisticated "frequentist" algorithms such as TopGO 2 , PADOG 3 , SetRank 4 , ... as these algorithms also deal with the multiple hypothesis testing problem by considering the overlap between different term gene sets. Ideally, a benchmarking strategy on real biological data, such as the one suggested by Tarca et al. 5 would be used. Minor Point: Most of the literature refers to this type of analysis as "Gene Set Enrichment Analysis" GSEA. It would be good if the authors at least refer to this term as well. 