This manuscript describes an in vitro assay strategy for testing the effects of antifungal compounds on the activity of Hos2 deacetylase large scale screens.The goal is to find compounds that could be used as facilitators in combinatorial drug treatments for azole resistant Candida albicans infections. Although in vitro assays are sometimes useful for developing in vivo strategies, they are not ideal for screening and identifying optimal drugs. As shown in this study by the authors, the recombinant Hos2 they generated exhibits paradoxically tubulin-specific deacetylase activity and not Hos2 specific activity. This finding seems to undermine their intent, because anti-tubulin deacetylase activity or anti-human HDAC6 activity demonstrated in vitro could be an artifact of the recombinant protein. In addition, anti-tubulin and anti-HDAC6 activity might result in adverse side effects on human host functions and thus affect the specificity of the primary drug. It is surprising that the recombinant Hos2 did not show any activity in acetylating either the human or Candida histone H3 in vitro , despite the fact that several earlier studies in C. albicans has demonstrated that Hos2 is involved in morphogenetic programs by affecting chromatin function. In addition, an isolated study has demonstrated the efficacy of a Hos2-specfic inhibitor on azole-resistant strains of C. albicans (Pfaller et al. , 2009) , which is quoted by the authors. The authors do state in the introduction that Hos2 is not a typical deacetylase and has been described by the Candida Genome Database as a member of NAD-dependent sirtuins. The authors data show that their recombinant version lacks this activity, but does exhibit inhibition by classical inhibitors of histone deacetylases. In addition to this major problem there are a few other aspects of the paper that need to be addressed: Firstly, Figure 1 and Figure 5 do not have error bars to indicate reproducibility of the data. Also, a statistical analysis of data sets would be useful to indicate the significance of the results. Secondly, the units in Figure 2 and Table 2 need to be consistent with the units described in the text. Thirdly, since Figure 4 shows the effect of recombinant Hos2 on only tubulin, the title needs to be changed to indicate that the assay was not done with purified histones. Finally, it is not clear what fold activity (in Figure 1B) and fold activation (Figure 5) refer to. 