The paper reports a molecular dynamics simulation study of the glucose transporter GLUT1 using all-atom and coarse grained force fields, in combination with a conserved elastic network. Using essential dynamics analysis and comparison of various distances the authors compared the dynamics of the wild type protein to pathogenic variants in the outward occluded and inward open states. This procedure enabled the prediction of the effect of mutations on the dynamics of GLUT1 and GLUT3. The manuscript requires a few clarifications to improve my understanding: As I am not very familiar with the mechanism of glucose transporters, I would like a few sentences describing how these proteins work, thus giving more context to the different conformational states I o and O o . Also in the conclusion, a bit more context as to how the states interconvert and the impact of the mutations on these transitions would aid my understanding tremendously. The manuscript reports results on mutations at positions 92, 93, 333 and 334, which are highlighted in Fig. 1. Only mutations 92 and 93 are discussed in the introduction. For more context, the mutations at 333 and 334 should be discussed in the introduction as well. What motivates the cut-off of 1 angstrom for including constraints in the elastic network? Would 1.5 angstrom or 2 angstrom work as well? As essential dynamics analysis is performed on both all-atom and coarse grained simulations, I assume only C-alpha positions are included. Is this assumption correct? What do the two eigenvectors shown in Fig. 2 mean? My interpretation is that EV1 is the transition from the O o to the I o state, and that EV2 is the transition from the all-atom to coarse grained-constrained description. If this interpretation is correct, would the conclusion be correct that the dynamics sampled in the different force fields overlap? The O o and I o states as sampled with the consdyn and the AT approach seem quite different in Fig. 2. What could be the explanation for this difference? Snapshots of the conformations at the maxima of the probability histograms would help my understanding of the differences as introduced by the mutations. I do not understand how the overlap in the distributions in Table 2 is computed. What is the unit of the shift in Table 2 and of the distances in Fig. 3? 