This is a stimulating, original and thought-provoking and, so, I recommend publication. I see nothing incorrect, so no changes are requested by me as a referee. Some thoughts provoked in my mind are as follows. First: is engineering really as cut-and-dried as we suppose? A cursory reading of fly-by-wire disasters suggests that the elegant theorems of classical control theory may not be as powerful as one would wish. My impression is that engineers are acutely aware that new technologies such as "cyber physical" systems 1 , which are most akin to biological systems, are necessitating a complete rethink of the conceptual foundations of their subject matter. Even for more traditional technologies, it is not obvious to me that engineering is as purely “deductive” a subject as we might like to think as we board an aircraft, using the word “deductive” in a way that I may be misconstruing as Frank’s usage. Second: to use Dawkin’s convenient metaphor, could a sighted watchmaker really design a “simpler” immune system, for example, than a blind one? If so, is that to do with historical aspects of evolution/population sizes/mutational spectra and so on? If so, what sort of science are we as biologists looking to create: one that says, for example: genome duplication events and large population sizes are responsible for … what? This would be restricting our thinking about evolution to providing explanations of the contrasting failings of different groups of creatures. More interesting to me is what I believe Frank is suggesting: the blind watchmaker may have much to teach the sighted ones. This is particularly so in the case of Artificial Intelligences. These are of great interest as both biologists and engineers are only at the starting gate of understanding, and we are all dealing with the question of the design of systems which have a tiny number of component types – “neurons”. I expect to see a unification of psychology and AI engineering in the near future. Time will tell whether any notions that may have floated around in classical thinking about evolutionary genetics will advance this program. 