The manuscript PPI layouts:BioJS components for the display of Protein-Protein Interactions by Salazar and colleagues briefly illustrate the BioJS component for the interactive html5-based visualisation of PPI. The manuscript is easy to read and provides a quick, yet useful introduction to the BioJS PPI visualisation tools. The component described in the manuscript and the BioJS project in general are a welcome initiative. The PPI interaction tools was straightforward to assess thanks to support for the online edition, simple implementation, and its distribution to the bioinformatics community under an open access license. Below, I have a few suggestions: BioJS component section In the first paragraph the sentence "The use of BioJS gives visibility to the components so that they can be [discovered] by third parties...". Do the authors mean that the individual component will benefit from the BioJS visibility, or is there a specific discovery mechanism? M. tuberculosis example network While I appreciate that it is not easy to find the right balance between a simple yet biologically relevant illustration of the tool, I believe that the paragraph that describes the interaction network could be improved. For example, some proteins are named and described while others are not. While reading the description of the code generating the network in Figure 1 and 2 and using the jsFiddle instance, several questions arose that could be addressed in the manuscript. the authors provide a UniProt identifier. Could the nodes be links to the relevant protein UniProt pages? Could other identifiers be used and how would the links to other arbitrary pages be defined? What is the use of the species name in the protein instance definition? Is it mandatory? Are there examples of PPIs with multiple species? Graph annotation. Is it possible to use different symbols for the nodes? How to annotate the edges (through colours and/or labels)? Any comments on the use of node colours as a means to illustrate additional meta-data: are specific colour palettes (for continuous data for example) or transparency available? PINV The PINV application is a step further than the examples described in the manuscript, that possibly deserves a bit more description in the text and could guide the reader on how to build up from simple cases to more complex applications. Before Figure 2 Instead of using the object Biojs.InterationsD3 it uses Biojs.InteractionsBundleD3 and [the] rest of the script is exactly the same. Compliant browsers The authors repeat the requirement for compliant browsers. I was wondering if examples of compliant browsers could be provided to guide users new to html5 and issues related to browser compatibility. 