In this paper Mayada et al. analyzed the prevalence of thyroid disorders in PCOS patients and controls prospectively enrolled at the Baghdad Teaching Hospital. The study included 70 women aged between 13 and 45 years old (50 PCOS patients and 20 controls) and for each of them an accurate personal and familiar history, details about menstrual cycle, symptoms of hyperandrogenemia and thyroid disorders were collected. Moreover, BMI was calculated and LH, FSH, TSH, T3 and T4 were measured. The study has several points to be improved or better elucidated. Major comments: The study is methodologically limited by the small number of enrolled patients, unclear and different inclusion/exclusion criteria for cases and controls, the total absence of normal values and inaccurate citation of literature on this item. In the introduction the pathophysiology of PCOS should be described in a clearer way, distinguishing between risk factors of PCOS and consequences of hyperinsulinemia. Both in abstract and introduction, PCOS diagnosis criteria must be clearly defined, according to Rotterdam criteria. Study design and setting: lines 9-10. The listed symptoms are not symptoms of thyroid dysfunction. Are the authors endogrinologists? I suggest to reconsider the whole study with colleagues more expert in gland function and alteration. Study design and setting, line 7: "last pregnancy". It is better to consider previous pregnancies and abortions. In order to have information about axis functionality, estrogen and progesterone should be measured too. Moreover, the authors should specify in which phase of the menstrual cycle (when cycle is present) blood test was performed. They have to give more methodological details: when the blood test was performed (morning? fasting?). Which methods were used to measure hormones in the lab? Normal ranges? Also FSH is significantly different among cases and controls. Table 1: please specify how values are expressed, mean? min-max? median? When min-max are reported, also median should be given. Inidcate normal values. The authors state that TSH "was significantly greater" in PCOS subjects. What do they mean? Higher than what? Than controls? Than normal ranges? In table 3, there should be clearly defined criteria for “elevated” and “decreased”. These are not scientific terms At the end of results, the authors wrongly refer to Table 4. Reference 9 is inappropriate. End of discussion: do the authors mean that thyroid hormones are useful in PCOS diagnosis? I completely disagree. Conclusions: It seems that if subclinical hypothyroidism is diagnosed and treated, PCOS is cured. It is a wrong message and not supported by data from the present study Minor comments: Reference 2 is not correct. Please provide reference of the first published Rotterdam criteria. Introduction, line 9: "disruption" is not acceptable. Alterate function is better. “The genetic cause of high LH is unknown”. In the AACE guidelines a possible explanation is suggested. End of introduction: "If it secretes hormones too fast". Too fast is not a scientific term, please rephrase. Free thyroid hormones where measured, thus the acronyms fT3 and fT4 should be used 