The authors already made improvements in this revised version of manuscript based on my previous comments. However, I still have some minor questions: As I have stated earlier in my previous comments, the sample size is too small to perform correlation analysis because only one GI positive manifested as moderate diarrhea. The authors should then not use term “correlation” in the objective (last paragraph of introduction section), as well as in the title. How can the authors make correlation analysis if they had only one GI positive samples? Thus, the term "correlation" is not supported by their data. Therefore, I highly recommend to change to a more general title, such as “Clinical manifestation of norovirus infection in children aged less than five years old admitted with acute diarrhea in Surabaya, Indonesia: a cross-sectional study” or “Norovirus infection in children aged less than five years old admitted with acute diarrhea in Surabaya, Indonesia: a cross-sectional study”. The authors mentioned, “Genogroup diversity can be checked using immunochromatography and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)". Previously I was only concerned about electron microscopy, but I just realized that is it true that genogroup diversity can also be determined by immunochromatography? Please support your statement with solid references. Please change “severer” to “more severe” (in introduction section). I have mentioned this previously, but the authors did not make any changes. In the Discussion, the authors mentioned, “We did not perform gene sequencing for norovirus DNA.” Comment: Norovirus is an RNA virus, not DNA virus. Please change. In the Discussion, the authors mentioned, “One of the possible contributing factors is because we did not use positive controls for our PCR; therefore our result might have high false positive result.” Comment: high rate of false positive result mostly due to unproper negative control, not positive control or due to high contaminations. In contrast, positive control is employed to reduce false negative results. The best way to confirm the PCR results is by performing sequencing of some or all positive samples. The authors should modify this issue in the next revision. 