This paper is a very useful addition to the goal of characterizing the disease burden from food contaminants. It applies appropriate, and for some contaminants state-of-the-art, analytic approaches. The fact that virtually all exposure to the four contaminants evaluated comes from food illustrates the importance of the exercise. There are a few issues that deserve attention: It is difficult to tell from the manuscript whether the dose-response information for dioxins is from the epidemiologic study cited or from the animal studies. It is unfortunate that further information on the dose response refers to a manuscript in preparation and thus unavailable. What is the appropriate weighting for a substance that causes infertility? Presumably some number of affected individuals would want to reproduce and the exposure is effectively causing an entire lifetime of YLL for the child not born. I appreciate very much the effort to consider uncertainty in the projections from this analysis. However, it is very important not to imply greater characterization of uncertainty than has occurred. In this analysis the uncertainty bounds presented are primarily based on ranges for specific parameters in the models used to estimate YLL and YLD. Model uncertainty, for example, is not considered. Insofar as dose-response data for dioxins were generated from animal data (see point above) there is considerable quantitative uncertainty introduced by using animals as a model for humans. Similarly, in the case of aflatoxin it is recognized that a “bottom up” rather than “top down” model of analysis yields very different estimates of risk and uncertainty and it is not clear which is the better approach. Statements like that in paragraph 2 of the results section “The DALY estimates for aflatoxin and dioxin have the least uncertainty..” are likely to be misinterpreted. The smallest calculated uncertainty is not the same as the smallest range of actual uncertainty if all sources have not been considered. 