Thank you for giving me the opportunity to read this manuscript. It was very interesting. As opinion pieces are not supposed to be very long I understand that not all concepts/constructs could have been explained in detail. I think the article is about the definition of reproducibility and should be understood as such. I would advise acceptance with minor changes. Comments: Introduction The aim of the article is clear but the title is not. I would advise adding a change to the title to 'What is reproducibility? - a definition proposal'. I would advise repeating at least one of the most known definitions in order to ease the reading to general audience. Readers must understand the flaws of existing definitions in order to embrace the new one(s). Perhaps this one: NSF report as “replicability,” which refers to “the ability of a researcher to duplicate the results of a prior study if the same procedures are followed but new data are collected.” 1 or some other. Discussion When you state “we were surprised that these outcries cited above were not accompanied by a formal definition of the concept of reproducibility”. I wonder what do you mean by formal, a statistical definition or a more narrow definition, or a more exact definition? Please make your statement more clear if possible. I really like Box 1 and the 2 definitions proposed. The first model might work and be valuable for life sciences and biomedicine, while the second can be more used in psychology and other social sciences. Figure 1. is very clear with clear examples. I especially like example 5 and the explanation in the discussion. Conclusion Of course, the concept of reproducibility should be distinguished from validity. If a measurement is not valid there is no need for replication at all. But if you think the general audience is misunderstanding the terms and that they have to be distinguished please give a short definition of validation in brief, because it is a widely used term in psychology but not in other disciplines. 