In this correspondence, two well-known European authors’ editors, Dr. Valerie Matarese and Ms. Karen Shashok, raise two very interesting points to enhance the core competencies (CC) list for biomed journal editors in Moher et al (2017). They aptly argue that the perspective from authors is essential to define journal editor CC and thus inappropriate to be overlooked. Then they indicate that authors’ editors can give insights on authors’ behalf when reliable author opinion is not readily available by calling attention to the work of authors’ editors and their advantage over journal editors in familiarity with authors in different contexts. The two points they suggest to be added to the CC list of Moher et al (2017) are not only insightful but also very caring for most EAL (English as an additional language) scholars who often struggle to publish in a language they do not have much control. The first one is that the CC list should re-include journal editors’ competence to give useful feedback on language and writing to authors instead of relying on standardized reviewer reports where this aspect is simply judged “acceptable” or “unacceptable”. In a highly globalized academic community where biomedical journals are at the very forefront of globalization, it is unrealistic to expect most reviewers to give concrete language and writing feedback to researchers, particularly EAL ones. Therefore, it seems incumbent on journal editors to possess this as a core competence. What I am thinking here is that journal editors may also need more knowledge of authors’ editors. This is because EAL researchers need to be referred to the right authors’ editors for support when fixing the language and writing problems goes beyond their own capacity. The second competence Matarese and Shashok suggest to add is that journal editors should be able to interpret results of plagiarism-detection software sensibly and sensitively rather than simplistically relying on arbitrarily set maximum-text-overlap percentages. As is known to writing researchers and authors’ editors, text re-use is an important, if not the most, way for EAL scholars to learn academic writing and compose papers in English. Journal editors’ lack of ability to tell the difference between plagiarism and well-meant text re-use can render them to punish the innocent and alienate EAL scholars from their journals, as convincingly argued by the two authors of this piece. Overall, I find the suggestions of Matarese and Shashok very useful to refine the CC list for journal editors, as given in Moher et al (2017), in a well-crafted text. Their effort to support EAL scholars in ways beyond working on manuscripts should be commended. Therefore, I recommend that this correspondence be indexed as soon as possible. If they would like to add that journal editors also need to have the ability to refer EAL scholars to proper authors’ editors, I would appreciate this piece even more.