This manuscript describes the biojs-io-biom toolkit, which includes a conversion library and server for re-formatting Biological Observation Matrix (BIOM) files between versions 1.x (JSON-formatted) and 2.x (HDF5-formatted). The conversion library itself is extremely useful, since it will allow users to convert quickly between BIOM file formats without having to go back to the command line (e.g. QIIME) and easily reformat files for use in various applications. I do not have the necessary javascript expertise to comment on the codebase and conversion server backend, so I will offer some general comments on the practical applications outlined in the text: Since this project is based on the Phinch framework, I find the "Blackbird" rebranding of the fork to be very problematic. The "Blackbird" instance is really just an updated release of the Phinch framework, with some bug fixes, added features, and implementation of the new BIOM conversion server. The rebranding/renaming is confusing for the end user (see comment by other peer reviewer below), and mistakenly implies a number of scenarios that are not accurate: 1) that the authors were involved in the original development of data visualization tools, 2) that the Blackbird rebranding and design changes were approved from by the original developers, and 3) the "Blackbird" project represents a significant expansion or retooling of the current Phinch framework. I’m fully aware that this is open source software and the authors are free to reuse and share the Phinch codebase, but I don't really see the utility of the "Blackbird" rebranding, and creating an additional web instance that mostly replicates the functionality of http://phinch.org will confuse end users. Since the authors here are really community contributors to the original Phinch project, I would recommend eliminating the "Blackbird" rebranding of the project, and reverting back to Phinch branding (citing the framework release as Phinch v2.0). We will then initiate a pull request to update the bug fixes and integrate the new biojs-io-biom source code to be live on http://phinch.org The visual layout for Phinch (name, logo and visualization layout) was thoughtfully constructed, and the new Blackbird logo and visual modifications will likely interfere with “brand recognition” that should be attributed to the original Phinch framework. Once this pull request is initiated and completed, the “Application” manuscript text should be updated to reflect the live implementation of the conversion library on a v2.0 Phinch framework at phinch.org . Other minor comments: Can you please provide details on how and where the "Blackbird" instance and biom-conversion-server are currently hosted (e.g. Amazon AWS)? Please list the public landing page for the applications mentioned in the text (in case users want to access these tools directly) - e.g. https://biomcs.iimog.org The biom-conversion-server does not appear to be backwards compatible (I could not upload and convert a BIOM 1.x file to 2.x format) - this one-way conversion functionality is should be clearly indicated in the first paragraph of the “Application” section. In addition, if users try to upload a BIOM 1.0 file they should be presented with an appropriate error message (I didn’t see one - the tool just froze when I attempted to upload a BIOM 1.0 file). There are other BIOM conversion servers that exist, e.g. implementations within the Galaxy framework - see https://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repository/display_tool?repository_id=b3ae8ca9317b000echangeset_revision=501c21cce614 - these alternate tools should be mentioned in the text. How does the biom-conversion-server compare with (and potentially improve on) such Galaxy based tools? 