The paper by Amorim et al. deals with the role of bacteriophages in STEC-infections. The authors have earlier demonstrated that the stx genes can be expressed within eukaryotic cells, provided the prophage-carried stx- DNA is introduced there in naked form, i.e., in transfected plasmids. In the present work, the authors wanted to test/prove the hypothesis that the stx- carrying prophage upon induction in vivo could contribute to the toxin production. They also tested whether the polysaccharide chitosan has anti- stx phage effect. I have some major and minor points: Major Bacteriophage inactivation assay: The experimental design of the bacteriophage inactivation assay uses only one concentration of chitosan. To demonstrate specificity, dose dependence should be demonstrated. In addition, the in vivo dose of chitosan was not indicated in the methods section (100 l/mouse of 5 ml/ml chitosan was given orally to mice as indicated in the Effect of chitosan in vivo section. The mouse experiments were performed with too small a number of mice. Figure 1A of growth curves is missing a crucial control. What happens to E. coli C600 under the ciprofloxacin treatment? Figure 1B: The lack of the 4 hr column in chitosan 4h post-induction does not seem logical to me. There should be a ca 6000 PFU/ml column similar to that one in the induced 4hr sample. This discrepancy should be explained. Figure 2: the PCR experiment does not provide evidence of transduction. The definition of transduction is that DNA moves from one cell to another. PCR detects the phage DNA either free in the cell cytoplasm or packed in endocytosed phage particles. Therefore, the authors need to demonstrate that infective phage particles disappear from infected cells. The experiment also does not exclude the possibility that phage particles are just adsorbed on the cell surface. The experiment reported in figure 3 should also include bacterial counts from the organs as it is very likely that live E. coli bacteria, after a massive dose of 10 13 bacteria per mouse, end up in the organs. Therefore the authors should demonstrate that the GFP response is not from bacteria infected by the GFP-phages. The Figure 4 experiment was performed with only 4 mice. Such an experiment should not be shown in a publication. In addition, different chitosan doses should be tested here also. Minor Introduction, paragraph 3: This statement on the low number of bacteria during infection should be backed up with a reference. Materials and Methods: Dr Alison Weiss is thanked twice for same strain. One time should be enough. In addition, in the acknowledgements she is thanked a third time. The bacterial strain designation in the latter is given differently than elsewhere in the text. Transduction of Eukaryotic Cells: C600TOX:GFP is a bacterial strain, not a non-pathogenic phage. EHEC infection: The final concentration of CFU/100l/mouse needs revision. Figure 2 legend: The path the sample takes in the gel is called the lane, not line. 