The research seems to be performed well, but some remarks can be made with regard to the description and application of the research results. The objective of the paper is to quantify the costs and benefits of animal activity for society. Animal activity is related to ecosystem services. In this paper one ecosystem service is analysed: birds eating almonds in almond orchards in southern Australia. When birds eat pre-harvest almonds it is considered a cost and post-harvest consumption of almonds is regarded a benefit of bird activity. The benefits are associated with the prevention of fungal infection. Hence, the title is somewhat misleading. It should be more precisely: The net return from animal activity in agro-ecosystem services: trading off costs and benefits from ecosystem services. For an economic analysis, the context of the research objective should be clear. Are birds considered a pest by farmers (or the society) and are they looking for measures to reduce the nuisance. In that case the optimal measure to reduce the costs of bird eating almonds could be computed using a cost benefit analysis, taking into account various measures. A costs benefits analysis is usually estimated for the ex-ante evaluation of a project. The project is not clear in this paper. Costs are computed based on an analysis of branches of almond trees that are netted to prevent birds eating almonds before harvest. But although it is not explicitly stated in the paper, netting entire trees does not seem to be an attractive measure. Shooting to scare is mentioned as a measure, but this measure is not analysed (as a difference between shooting and no-shooting). It seems that shooting was practiced during the analysis, the impact of shooting on the results is not analysed explicitly. The benefits of almond removal by birds are calculated based on various assumptions on nut removal by the farmer (mechanically or by hand) and on the (labour) costs associated with this nut removal. Using actual (bookkeeping) information of the orchard (or similar orchards) would lead to a more robust analysis. The real benefit is the prevention of fungal infection. The author is not aware of Australian guidelines on the acceptable quantity of mummy nuts to prevent infection. His assumption that 2 nuts per tree is acceptable will affect the confidence interval of the results. The generalized linear model with a binominal response used (page 5) needs to be elaborated in more detail to enable a review. Also the spatial configuration (based on edge and interior trees, and height sectors of trees) of the orchard needs to be described in more detail. The paper aims to more accurately reflect the outcomes of animal activity for society. It is not clear how these results can be applied by other orchards. Is the amount of birds feeding in the orchard representative for other orchards? Application of the results by farmers also depends on the assumptions used by the author. How sensitive are the results for the almond market price, the (increasing) acreage of almond plantations, variability in weather (and climate), the labour costs, the trend in mechanical shaking of trees? Do the results vary over years? The paper describes a partial analysis of ecosystem services of almond eating birds, e.g. other services these birds provide for society are not included. A more economically grounded approach will be necessary for a more complete analysis of these services to advice farmers or to inform the society on the value of nature. 