Y. Hu, N. Furtmann, D. Stumpfe, and J. Bajorath report on a conceptual extension of their well-exemplified activity cliff concept from the previously established graph-based two-dimensional representation to a three-dimensional version by factoring crystallographically solved high-resolution complex structures of respective ligands into the comparative analyses of sub-structural molecular changes linked to changes in activity. With that extension into three-dimensional space they account for ligand-target interactions, thus providing activity cliff-forming compound sets a design-relevant context that is of immediate assistance when embedded in a molecular design campaign. This clearly is a useful enrichment of the toolbox of computational, as well as medicinal chemists. The authors provide all the relevant molecular similarity and potency difference criteria underlying this analyses that are essential for the definition of activity cliff-forming compound clusters, together with a sound description of all methodological details. While the traditional 2D cliffs were based on e.g. Tanimoto similarity and the size-restricted matched molecular pair concept, introduced by the Bajorath group earlier, 3D cliffs are based on mutual molecular similarity for ligands for which high-resolution complex structures are available. Obtained 3D activity cliffs were further enriched to 3D-cliff-MMP extended sets by including molecular similarity considerations to active compounds for which no x-ray structure is available. In total, app. 17.000 MMP cliffs have been identified at more than 300 distinct biological targets revealing close to 1.300 activity clusters. Cumulatively, 600 3D cliffs have been detected involving app. 60 distinct protein targets, respectively. In Table 2, the authors provide a comprehensive overview of the target landscape and underlying statistics for the detected 3D activity cliffs. In addition, all relevant data are accessible and an open access data deposition in ZENODO has been established. It is especially the extended 3D-cliff-MMP datasets in which ligands with experimentally determined binding modes and interaction patterns serve as probe compound for closely related active analogues with available SAR information that bears a huge potential to extrapolate medicinal chemists understanding of structure-activity relationships from a pure comparative framework into a 3D direct design concept. An immediate interrogation of the binding sites functionalities becomes amenable to a previously restricted indirect design approach. It will be interesting to see as to whether the 3D activity concept introduced in this contribution can be extended to a better understanding of structure-selectivity relationships of compound sets acting e.g. at different isoforms of densely populated target families. Summarizing, this contribution laid the basis for migrating a formerly indirect design-restricted tool for comprehensive SAR analysis into 3D space, actually into the binding pocket of investigated ligand sets, thus increasing the interpretability and the feasibility of identified cliff information for the community of practicing medicinal chemists