 Abstract The authors mentioned that "GIT1 expression in tumour cells was scored and statistical correlation analyses were carried out". Authors should point with arrow to all tumour cells showing stain of GIT1 in tissue and differentiate between expression of GIT1 by cancer cells and stromal cells. "We observed that loss fo GIT1 expression in the metastasis was associated with a shorter time to recurrence, poorer overall survival, and a shorter median survival time." Authors should explain here that loss of "GIT1 expression" by which cells? Tumor metastatic cells in the lymph node or by cell populations of the lymph nodes (example: immune cells)? In material and methods scoring of GIT1 is only in tumor cells so which cells are scored in lymph nodes. Please note that the cell populations of lymph nodes (LNs) is different from that of the tumor microenvironment and authors depends on scoring of GIT1 expression by the tumor cells (less in LNs) so this should be clarified by authors, since the IHC microscopic images provided is confusing and may show non-specific stain. Methods "All primary site tumours were ER+ and 91% of them PR+." The authors should include ER- (ER negative) patients as a control to the studied group to provide their hypothesis that ’ the expression of GIT1 in breast cancer could serve as a useful biomarker for the management of breast cancer patients in general and for ER+/LN+ patients in particular." Although the paper depends mainly on IHC the auhtors did not mention appropriate chromogen/substrate used to develop the color visualized using the microscope. This section should be written in details. I cannot read the Dataset files provided by the author, the columns and rows overlap. Statistical analysis "Chi-square statistical test was used to determine association between GIT1 expression and lymph node metastasis (Table 3)" What type of correlation test used here? Do the authors correlate between GIT1 expression in primary tumor and the "number of metastatic lymph node" this section should be clarified? Results The Supplementary Figures S1, S2 and S3 representing microscopic images for GIT1 show non-specific stains. The authors should present better microscopic images with high magnification showing the pattern of GIT1 by carcinoma cells and stromal cells. "Spatial intratumoural heterogeneity of GIT1 expression in ER+ breast cancer: When we compared GIT1 expression in primary tumours with that of their counterpart lymph node metastases surprisingly we observed a significant decrease of GIT1 expression (p=0.0054, Table 3)." The authors did not take in consideration that cellular population of LN is different from that of carcinoma cells. A better IHC images should be presented showing which cell population express GIT1 in each of carcinoma tissues and lymph nodes. "A comparison of GIT1 expression between ER+ and ER- tumours in two independent Datasets demonstrated a significantly lower level of expression in ER+ tumours compared to ER- tumours (8,11)." The references (8,11); assess GIT1 at mRNA level not at the protein level, in the present study authors should include ER- patients and their associated lymph nodes as control group to ER+. Discussion Should be re-written presenting the mechanisms of GIT1 in carcinogenesis and scientific explanation for the authors findings "loss of GIT1 expression in the metastasis was associated with a shorter time to recurrence, poorer overall survival, and a shorter median survival time". 