This study develops SVM and RF algorithms built upon previously learned gene signatures of therapeutic response to breast cancer. The algorithms are applied and compared to predict patient survival under different treatment conditions in METABRIC data. The analyses and comparisons are robust and this study provides a useful assessment of biologically-driven classifiers. The three major areas that require improvement before the article is indexed are as follows, and described in further detail below. The methods require further clarification to distinguish differences between this study and the previous study as well as the parameters of the machine learning algorithms. Accuracy in the results must better distinguish results on independent test and training sets. Classifiers must be put in the context of other existing genomics classifiers used in breast cancer and/or previously published in Mammaprint data. Title and Abstract Acceptable Article content Methods Abbreviations SVM and RF must be spelled out as Support Vector Machine and Random Forrest on first use in Methods. Writing in SVM learning subsection of Methods requires clarification to distinguish which of these methods were developed in the previous Molecular Oncology publication and which were developed as part of this publications. Details about the SVM learning algorithm are included in the caption to Figure 1, but must also be included and completely described in text for the corresponding section of the methods. No equations are provided to describe the role of the parameters C and sigma. It is also unclear whether this greedy search is implemented by the Matlab function fitcsvm or uses custom code developed by the authors. Results Need to specify whether reported accuracies are computed with leave-one-out cross validation or 9-fold cross validation (described in Methods). Ideally, given the size of METABRIC data they would be calculated on independent training (first 1000 patient samples) and training (last 1000 patient samples) datasets. AUC must be computed separately for discovery and validation sets (Table 2). It is unclear whether the previous validation set described in the sentence “Predictions for the METABRIC patient cohort, which was independent of the previous validation set” refers to a validation set used in this publication or the previous publication. Covariates such as ER/PR or PAM50 subtypes must be included in a table describing the sample cohorts. Accuracy must be computed separately for these co-variates or they must also be included as co-variates in the machine-learning model. Ideally accuracy would be compared to existing breast cancer classifiers (e.g., using code from Marchionni et al., BMC Genomics , 2013) and/or survival curves reported in the literature. Conclusions Must be discussed in the context of existing genomics classifiers for breast cancer (e.g., OncotypeDx and/or Mammaprint). Results must be put in context with other predictions on METABRIC data, e.g., outcomes from the DREAM contest. Data Acceptable