This manuscript describes a new method for karyotyping using the antibody raised against Ser28-phosphorylated Histone H3 (H3S28P). Using this method, the authors obtained the results suggesting that Okinawan Oikopleura dioica somatic cells contain three sets of chromosomes. Specific detection of O. dioica ’s phosphorylated H3 by the antibody has been proven in other papers, shown in Table 1. The data presented in this article are therefore reliable, and the conclusion seems appropriate. However, after I read to the end of the article, I did not really understand what the main aim and novelty of this article were. Which is the main aim, development of a new karyotyping method or determination of the number of chromosomes in diploid O. dioica somatic cells? Although the article type is “BRIEF REPORT”, clearer statements and more detailed explanations are required. I hope that the following comments are useful for the authors. All of my comments are for presentation and description. Major concerns: The Introduction section starts with the history of karyotyping. This implies that the development of a new karyotyping technique appears to be the main aim of this study. The authors intend to argue the advantage of the karyotyping method using H3S28P-specific antibody. However, the authors observed fairly large variation in the number of H3S28P signals (number of centromeres). Shoguchi et al. (2005) (cited in this article) clearly showed 14 pairs of chromosomes of the Ciona intestinalis genome by means of Giemsa staining and FISH. While the size of the genome in O. dioica is a half of that in C. intestinalis , the number of chromosomes in O. dioica is about one-fifth of that in C. intestinalis . Therefore, readers may feel that the average size of the O. dioica chromosomes is large enough to be examined by the standard methods. If the development of the new method is really the main aim of this study, I would like the authors to describe merits of this new method in further detail. Without sufficiently convincing explanations, the authors’ method appears to be a less sophisticated alternative to the standard karyotyping methods. Particularly, discussion is required for the observation of seven or eight signals within a single nucleus. It will help if the authors explain why the standard methods are not applicable to O. dioica . If the authors’ main aim is to determine the number of chromosomes in Okinawan O. dioica , they should explain more about particularity of this species. Is there a hypothesis that Pacific and Atlantic O. dioica are different species? If not, is there the possibility that different populations (Pacific and Atlantic) have different numbers of chromosomes within the same species? The number of chromosomes is highly variable even between closely related species. However, to my knowledge, the number of chromosomes is essentially invariant within a species. Uncommon exceptions are chromosome reorganization in Ascaris embryos and Paramecium macronuclei. Although the authors discuss the discrepancy in the number of the O. dioica chromosomes (n = 3, or n = 8), I felt that the argument has already been settled (on n = 3) by the extensive genome sequencing (Denoeud et al. , 2010). If the authors want to insist that the number of chromosomes in Pacific O. dioica may not be three, more detailed biological information (rationale) is necessary. Minor points: In Table 1, “Ganot et al. ” should be “Ganot Thompson”. Similarly, “Feng et al. (2018)” should be “Feng Thompson (2018)”. I guess that “ddH2O” (page 4 line 17) is double-distilled H 2 O. Anyway, “ddH2O” is a laboratory-specific jargon. Similarly, I guess that “ON” (page 4 line 23) means “overnight”? These abbreviations cannot be recommended to be used in articles. Since the authors have knowledge that some somatic cells are polyploid in O. dioica. Therefore, they had better clearly state that the cells shown in Figure 1 are not the case. Although the authors state that 32~64-cell embryos were used for Giemsa staining, they did not tell the developmental stages they used for the antibody staining (in the second paragraph of the Results section). Are they also the early embryos? And do they consist exclusively of diploid cells? 