This manuscript describes proof of principle for accessing the data contained within the European genome-phenome archive (EGA) via Galaxy analysis environment. This is a very timely and important development as it would dramatically increase the utility of resources such as EGA. This is because continuous accumulation of new data and development of new technologies will undoubtedly result in the need to reanalyze previously generated datasets and to combine them with newly acquired research outcomes. Having ability to securely request and analyze the data via Galaxy makes such re-analyses straightforward and convenient resulting in more researchers performing these tasks. My hope is that this would will push other sites with similar data (e.g., dbGaP) to implement similar software solutions. I have several comments: To access the data a user must have necessary security credentials. One the data is transferred into Galaxy it leaves the EGA filesystem. How do authors secure this particular Galaxy instance? Other sites housing protected data will need this information to make the decision on whether to adopt a similar strategy. It is necessary to explain why the Galaxy instance for EGA access requires a minimum of 30 GB RAM and 100GB disk space. It seems that these requirements are dictated by data size and types of tools (i.e., STAR tools require considerable amount of memory to perform analyses of RNAseq data). Again other sites adopting Hoogstrate’s et al . approach should be aware of the fact that Galaxy itself requires little resources. Instead the underlying tools and data would dictate hardware specifications. Galaxy Toolshed is introduced in the paper with little explanation of what it is. A couple of sentences descripting this “AppStore” will be helpful to reads who are not familiar with Galaxy’s ecosystem. While it is a good starting example, it would be helpful to show that one can generate more concrete results with Galaxy beyond just filtering STAR-fusion output. Is there any interesting bit of biological information that can be added to the paper? When I tried to access a history at https://bioinf-galaxian.erasmusmc.nl/galaxy/u/yhoogstrate/w/ega-vcap-rna-seq-demo browser has timed out.