 General Comments: This work describes an experimental approach to introduce native mass spectrometry to undergraduate students. The author provides sufficient context for the choice of Ribonuclease A as the target protein, and describes the use of mass spectrometry under “native” conditions. This work also introduces undergraduates to practical use of mass spectrometry by providing “expected” m/z tables and shows the effect of adducted species on mass spectrometry signal. Plainly stated, the proposed experiment did not meet the initial hypothesis of the author. One major limitation to this study was the use of an ion trap mass spectrometer, which the author states as being the only available instrument at the academic institution. Additionally, the data from this study results in negative dissociation constant values for the lowest ligand concentrations, but reasonable dissociation constants at the highest ligand concentration. The author attempts to describe these results relative to other similar studies. As a result, this work describes the “potential and pitfalls” of attempting this experiment, which is useful for undergraduate students that are early in their scientific career. Suggestion ( no change requested ): For future investigations and undergraduate studies, it would be beneficial to use centrifugal desalting columns in an attempt to remove the phosphate adducts. This would result in improved ion response, less convoluted spectra, and would introduce undergraduate students to common sample preparation used in native-like protein MS experiments. Suggestion ( no change requested ): For future investigations and undergraduate studies, a native MS technique that has been used to address the upper m/z limitation of ion trap is to “supercharge” proteins 1 . This can be done by adding as low as 1% v/v sulfolane or m-nitrobenzyl alcohol to the sample. Additional comments to conclusion ( minor revisions requested ): There are two issues that the authors addresses regarding the data from this study. (1) The observation of negative dissociation constants and (2) decreasing PL abundance at the highest L concentration. To point (1), although these experiments are being performed under native conditions (i.e. non denaturing solvents), there are still other factors during electrospray ionization that need to be considered during native experiments. For example, Benkestock, et al 2 show data that suggests that the “capillary-to-cone” distance and the electrospray probe internal diameter can affect the PL to L ratios. To point (2), the decrease in PL abundance at the highest L concentration may be due to non-specific binding as described in the already cited Kitova et al. (2012) 3 (Section 2.4 and Figure 3). The author should add a couple sentences to the conclusion addressing how “non-ideal” ionization conditions and non-specific binding could have affected the measurements. 