This is a timely and important article. Indigenous peoples continue to voice the importance of culture and language revitalization for their well-being. As a result, more and more research is being conducted linking language and health in Indigenous populations. A review or summary of that work is needed, hence the current article. I commend the authors for undertaking this vital task. Generally, the article is well written and informative. However, I found that some sections were not thoroughly explored and the authors would do well by deepening their literature review and expanding on their ideas. My comments are as follows: I suggest the authors capitalize the term “Indigenous” throughout the article. Abstract, third sentence: it is not clear what the authors mean by “communities” here. Also, compared to what population is their “lowered health status”? Abstract: it would be useful to add a sentence on how language revitalization is thought to improve health. Introduction: the authors state that this current article is a survey. This is a bit confusing. The authors should be clear on what type of article this is. It is not a quantitative survey, systematic review, meta-analysis, review, or literature search. As the article is now, an “opinion piece” seems more appropriate. However, I’m hoping that the authors can expand on many of their ideas and explore the known literature further. In which case, the article may be appropriately termed a “review”. Introduction, paragraph 3, last sentence: I’m not sure that the references cited support the claim being made that language shifts have caused the health deficits we see today among Indigenous populations. Perhaps the authors can rework this sentence. Health status: this is one of the sections that seems lacking in its scope. Perhaps the authors can expand and describe some of the major health disparities among Indigenous populations. Some epidemiological data would be helpful to the reader to understand the scope of the disparities. Indigenous language loss and language use: it would be helpful to the reader if the authors provided examples of some of the Indigenous languages. What are some of the major Indigenous languages worldwide? How many are there? How many have been lost? It would also be helpful if the authors provided some data on how much Indigenous languages are being spoken today around the world and in North America. Existing studies and why focus on language sections: These sections in particular need to be expanded upon. Are the authors able to conduct a formal literature search? Perhaps with keywords? Also, the authors may want to explore and include other literature that has explored the relationship between language/culture and emotional/mental health. The extensive writings of Laurence Kirmayer come to mind as a good place to start. What is explicitly missing from this article is the how piece... How does language revitalization lead to better health? Is it due to enhanced sense of identity (as Chandler and Lalonde argue)? Enhanced spiritual health? Enhanced sense of community/belonging? The provision of strong role models that teach the language? Protection from early life traumas? There is also an entire field of neurological research that has looked at how learning multiple languages can impact the brain and health. The authors would do well to explore these different areas and give the reader an idea on the how . Even looking into some of the qualitative research with Indigenous peoples suffering from some of the major health problems that Indigenous populations face (e.g. diabetes) would be beneficial as often language/culture is brought up as a key determinant of health in these studies. Moreover, has there been research that has shown not shown a relationship between language and health? Lastly, second paragraph, last sentence: Has there been work done that specifically examined language loss and sense of spiritual well-being? I was pleased that the authors recommend that future studies aimed at language revitalization include assessments of health outcomes. Perhaps the authors could expand on what these health assessments may look like? What should be measured and how? Conclusion: It would make more sense perhaps to include and expand upon the Berry 2012, Gone 2015, and Tullouch 2013 references in the “existing studies” or “why focus on language” sections. Last paragraph of conclusion: the ideas presented in this paragraph seem to come out of nowhere as they have not been discussed earlier in the article. Again, the authors would do well to really spend some time reading and then summarizing in the “existing studies” or “why focus on language” sections the known literature on how and why language revitalization may lead to improved health. These sections are the place (as opposed to the conclusion) to introduce and describe in-depth the other contributors related to speaking an Indigenous language that may be responsible for improved health status. 