 Summary This study is designed to examine an interesting topic of whether and how subtle linguistic cues may prevent unethical behaviors. The proposal is generally well written. However, I have some concerns, which I address below. Introduction: It is not clear to me why the authors decided to replicate Bryan et al . (2013) 1 among many other studies. I understand from the proposal the reason why they chose Experiment 3 of Bryan et al . (2013) over Experiment 1 or 2. I also understand that the sample size in Experiment 3 of Bryan et al . was not sufficient and thus the results may require replication with a larger sample. However, I do not understand the importance of replicating their results in addressing the research question of whether and how subtle linguistic cues prevent unethical behaviors. The authors should elaborate on this issue to clarify the significance of their study (e.g., “It is important to replicate Bryan et al .’s study as it has a significant impact on this field.” or “The protocol of Experiment 3 is useful and applicable to future studies. Therefore, the robustness of their findings should be tested carefully). Please state in the second to last paragraph of the Introduction that, unlike Experiment 1, Bryan et al . (2013) used a coin-tossing task in Experiments 2 and 3. Otherwise, this paragraph is hard to follow. The procedure of Experiment 1 in the current study is not described sufficiently. Please state that the cover story (examination of a paranormal phenomenon) is exactly the same as that of Experiment 3 of Bryan et al . (2013). It is also necessary to specify how the authors will explain to their participants about the relationship between the coin flips and the amount of reward. Bryan et al . (2013) used the following description: "The instructions acknowledged that the laws of probability dictate that people would, on average, make $5, although some would ‘make as much as $10 just by chance’ and others would ‘make as little as $0’”. If the procedure is identical to that of Experiment 3 of Bryan et al . (2013) except for the use of the Japanese language, stating so would help readers understand the protocol. The authors list the following two points as the reason why they plan to direct participants’ attention toward the ethical reminder in Experiment 2. (a) First, there was no significant difference in the rate of cheating between “don’t cheat” and the baseline (i.e., no ethical reminder) conditions in the study by Bryan et al . The authors conjecture that participants in Bryan et al .’s did not pay sufficient attention to the ethical reminder. (b) Second, Their preliminary experiment has revealed that the Japanese translation of the expression “don’t be a cheater” (嘘つきにならないで), compared to that of “don’t cheat” (嘘をつかないで), is less familiar to Japanese speakers and thus may attract more attention. Such difference in familiarity may produce results similar to Experiment 3 of Bryan et al. (2013), irrespective of whether the expression bears a strong link to self-identity or to the action. To address these concerns, the authors are planning to add “cheating (’don’t cheat’) with task” condition, in which they test whether participants paid attention to the ethical reminder. As for (a), I am not sure whether the lack of difference in cheating rates between “don’t cheat” and the baseline conditions in Bryan et al .’s study necessarily means that the participants did not pay attention to the ethical reminder. The cheating rate was significantly lower in “don’t be a cheater” condition than in the “don’t cheat” condition in their study. Doesn’t this mean that the participants paid sufficient attention to the ethical reminder? As for (b), I agree with the authors that ethical reminders that attract more attention may prevent unethical behaviors more strongly. However, I do not understand what hypothesis the authors will test using the protocol of Experiment 2. Are they trying to show that it is attention to ethical reminders, rather than the linguistic expression linked to self-identity, that prevents unethical behaviors? If so, how do they interpret the results of Bryan et al . (2013)? I do not understand the task of the “cheating with task” condition in Experiment 2. Will the authors use this task to classify participants into those who paid attention to the ethical reminder and those who did not, and analyze the cheating rate separately for these two groups? Or is the task just for bringing participants’ attention to the ethical reminder before the coin-tossing task? 