The author has described a practice of continuous EEG monitoring in an intensive care unit in a University Hospital in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. I have a number of comments that will help readers better understand what these data mean, and how they might reflect on the implications for ICU practice. Method (page 3) In the first paragraph (line 8) the author describes "CEEG are requested by ICU physician or neurologists according to the clinical needs". In order to understand the significance of some of the analyses provided, it would be helpful to know what were the inclusion criteria, or the 'standard operating procedure' for the ICU. For example, were all patients comatose, and the clinician was unable to assess a clinical response? In the first paragraph (lines 13-15) the authors describes "The duration of CEEG monitoring is decided by the neurology consultation or ICU physicians": In order to understand the significance of some of the analyses later in the manuscript, it would be helpful to know when CEEG was started and finished in relation to admission and discharge/death. It would also be helpful to know the timing of when NCS occurred. Since this population has been gathered from ICU admissions, it would be helpful to have some description of ICU severity-of-illness, according to the risk-adjustment score used by the unit. The examination of any illness feature that might be associated with death needs to be adjusted for severity of illness. There were 62 observed deaths in 200 cases - what was the expected number of deaths from the admission data? Results (pages 3 and 4) The presentation of findings in the Results section and the Abstract is a little confusing: The author has a starting population of 202 patients undergoing CEEG monitoring. Then, the denominators being used in the data summaries are n=120, and n=200. I think that a flow chart would help here. Table 2 can be summarized as text, which will make room for a flow-diagram and better review of the data presented in Table 3. Table 3 needs some attention to data accuracy. For example, in Row 2 (Hospital stay data) the percentages add up to 101%, which is just a rounding error. In Row 3 (Hospital stay data) the percentages add up to 99%. Yes, the author has found some associations with death, and length of stay, but does the information gained from CEEG have the potential to help with decision making? For example, if we imagined that CEEG was a 'diagnostic test', then: The pre-CEEG probability of death in this population was 31%. The finding of EEG-seizures could change your pre-test to a post-test probability of death of 39%. I don't think that physicians would find this a helpful piece of information. That is, it is not about death, rather it is something we should use to identify a need for treatment, for example. Similarly, the pre-CEEG probability of hospital stay 1 month was 32%. The finding of periodic or rhythmic patterns could change the pre-test to post-test probability of hospital stay 1 month to 34%. Again, I don't think that physicians would find this a helpful piece of information. Obviously, both of these points would need to be tested and validated in a prospective study (as well as knowing details of when these CEEG features were found), but it may lead to a change in emphasis in the first paragraph of the Discussion. Discussion (pages 3 and 4) Based on the above results, one could conclude that identifying EEG seizures on CEEG does not provide a significant 'quantum' in prognostic evidence. Similarly, identifying periodic or rhythmic patterns on CEEG does not provide a significant 'quantum' in identifying cases that will be likely be in-hospital 1 month. I am wondering whether the focus should be on 'what are we doing the CEEG': surely it is to identify something that we can/should treat; and, to identify something that will help us determine that we no longer need to do CEEG. 