In the manuscript by Guet-McCreight and Skinner, the authors use two variants of an OLM compartmental model to probe the impact of in vivo-like synaptic activity on membrane voltage fluctuation behavior and the differential recruitment of voltage-gated conductances. Overall the paper provides interesting insights into how synaptic inputs differentially impact voltage-gated conductances in dendrites and the cell body. Further, the impact of in vivo-like inputs on dendritic membrane voltage dynamics is particularly interesting as it dramatically increases the timescale of fluctuations and creates “plateau-like” depolarizations. In addition, the authors show that differences within the two biologically based OLM models can lead to substantial differences in dendritic voltage behavior and that these differences are enhanced when driven by in vivo-like inputs. Major Issues: Although many of the results noted above are interesting. It would be helpful to use the models in order to achieve a greater mechanistic understanding of what is observed. In particular, the prevalence of slower voltage depolarization in dendrites and disruption of spiking would benefit from some mechanistic insights that could be generalized to other model neurons. What factors (dendritic geometry, local input resistance etc.) lead to this behavior and does the presence of certain voltage-gated conductances enhance or disrupt these results? At it stands, the manuscript is largely descriptive of modeling data. The enhancement of IH in dendrites under in vivo-like inputs is noted but the mechanism (see above) is not explored. Why does IH conductance recruitment increase in dendrites? Are the results related to the slower time scale of voltage fluctuations under these conditions? Minor Issues: Overall, the discussion focuses on IH. However, many of the results noted (e.g. slower voltage depolarization, enhanced difference between models under in vivo-like inputs) are very interesting and likely more generalizable than the specific issues of IH in OLM cells. It would be helpful to explore these issues in the context of what others have shown in terms of in vivo recordings and dendritic activity (e.g. SL Smith … M Hausser, 2013). 