Reviewing this paper has taught me about reactive angioendotheliomatosis, a condition about which I knew little before. As such this is a relevant report for indexation. However, it can be made more concise and some of the grammar can be corrected. Abstract is excellent, except aspirin was being used as an anticoagulant. Some suggestions: Para 1: No reason for The patient was --- and ---with a history of mild hypertension, taking hydrochlorothiazide and metoprolol. Instead: A 49 year old female legal assistant with chronic leg pain, panniculitis of unknown cause, and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APLS) presented for a further opinion related to lumps in her skin Para 3: Review of systems revealed no pain or swelling of her joints, no fever, chills, night sweats nor weight change. Para 4: She had known hypercholesterolemia and hypertension, for which she was taking metroprolol and hydrochlorothiazide. She had had no previous significant thrombotic events, but to say she had never had an anticoagulant is not really correct as she was on daily aspirin and in this situation the hydroxychloroquine was being used to help decrease blood viscosity also. May be is a question of definition. Para 5: MPL needs defining and the units for Beta-2-glycoprotein need correcting. Sentence 3: suggest: Rheumatoid factor, SSA/SSB and smooth muscle and RNP antibodies were negative. Para 6: delete prior to Para 7: "a dermatopathologist" presumably one of the authors. IHC needs defining Discussion Para 1: Sentence 3: "without atypia and display" - delete have been demonstrated to Para 3: Sentence 2: needs correcting Para 5: Sentence 1: delete in In this case, it is likely that the findings of RAE and panniculitis are both associated with the APLS. Sentence 3: delete in the literature. Change: rather than in with the first known case reported in 2000 Sentence 5: delete in the literature Sentence 7: remove Sentence 8: Only or is needed, not both Sentence 9: remove . Why do you need as this is not mentioned again? should be .