The fact relies on that cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are more prevalent in women after menopause; the researchers compare the lipid profile and atherogenic index in pre- and post-menopausal women. They included a total of 150 women and estimated BP, FBG and lipid profile and finally, they determined the atherogenic markers like BMI, AIP, VAI, BAI, and CRI-I for the interpretation. They found a significant rise in lipid profiles except for HDL-C in post-menopausal women compared with pre-menopausal women. Mean AIP, VAI, BAI, and CRI-I (p0.0001) were significantly increased in post-menopausal women compared to pre-menopausal women. Higher levels of BAI and CRI-I were significantly associated with post-menopausal women after even adjusted for age and BMI factors. At the same time, they reported a positive correlation of TC, TG, VLDL-C and non-HDL-C with atherogenic markers AIP, VAI and CRI-I in post-menopausal women. With these findings, they conclude that postmenopausal women have an adverse change in lipid parameters with an increased atherogenic index and they are more prone to have cardiovascular diseases. Comments: I found the manuscript interesting from an epidemiological point of view, which has the value to describe the lipid profile and atherogenicity in a group of pre and postmenopausal women from Ghana. The age range for postmenopausal women was 40-55 years and for pre-menopausal was 30-40 years in the method section. In the result section (table 1), the mean age of post-menopausal women was reported to be 59.637.42. How is this possible? Socio-demographic factors like lifestyle interventions, education levels, social status, ethnicity, etc. may also influence the findings of this study. It will be useful (and interesting) to have a table with a more complete description of the women included in the study. The author mentioned, “We, therefore, sought to assess cardiovascular and atherogenic risk among pre and post-menopausal women in the Cape-Coast municipality.” The selection criteria and sample size do not reflect this statement. The selection of the study population is not clearly defined. They approach for the convenient sampling, it is better to define inclusion and exclusion criteria for both pre and post-menopausal women separately. They recruit healthy women attending the hospital. The question remains why healthy women do attend the hospital. Were they completely healthy or apparently healthy? Wide range of age of study population required larger sample size. Even author mention that the sample size limit this cross-sectional study, this relative smaller sample size may sometimes miss-lead the conclusion. I recommend including significance of atherogenic index (AIP, VAI, and BAI) in introduction section because this study focused on the investigation of these parameters. Table 1: The average weight of post-menopausal women (6.218.82 kg)? I recommend using the same SI unit (cm or m) for height, WC and HC. I recommend using the maximum 3 digits after decimal and uniform for all variables (all tables and figure). Mention the criteria to define pre-diabetes in study population at least in the method section. It is better to include the abbreviation section in the manuscript. Please use cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C). Title of the tables should not be end with a full stop. Even though the findings are more interesting, interpretation and discussion part is poor. The author reported the association of the atherogenic index with menopausal status with respect to adjusted for age and BMI. The discussion part is poor to justify this analysis. There are some typo errors especially in abbreviations (mainly on abstract) and grammatical errors in the manuscript. 