In the current perspective, the authors have lucidly briefed that shifting of dietary-pattern from ‘Western-style’ dietary habits to a ‘Mediterranean-style‘diet effectively target gut microbiome interactions by diversifying and increasing the richness of gut microbiome which can justifiably help in prevention and treatment of various chronic diseases like obesity, diabetes, cancer and aging-related diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease. In a quintessential and step-by-step manner, the authors have well described the usefulness of the Mediterranean-style diet which represents a promising, efficacious, and holistic approach to restore host heath. In this article, the authors have discussed the nutritional characteristics of a typical Mediterranean-style dietary pattern along with their components having an association with various health benefits. Briefly discussed the adverse effects of TMAO released from Western-style diet over beneficial effects of SCFA released during dietary fermentation of complex carbohydrates present in Mediterranean-diet. Thus authors have also suggested some underlying mechanisms by which the purported health benefits of MD can be exerted. The authors have justified the use of non-human primates as an ideal model to dissect diet-microbiome interactions in human health and disease after drawing evidence from the fact that the diet-microbiome network is universally consistent in human and animal studies. In a nutshell, the manuscript is nicely written with sufficient facts and figures and the following comments are suggested for each section of the manuscript wherever they may apply Comments: It could be better if a tabular description of Western-style’ dietary habits and their components would also be made highlighting the difference in components. Release of metabolites such as SCFA is now well recognised as epigenetic modifiers which could be an alternative underlying mechanism of beneficial effects of Mediterranean-style dietary pattern due to the abundance of prebiotic and polyphenolic components which may also be highlighted in proposed biochemical pathways. Writing “Mediterranean dietary pattern” as rich in minimally processed or unprocessed food, unlike a Western-style dietary pattern appears faulty because cooking and frying used in these dietary patterns are also a form of food processing hence it is suggested to use different terminology to differentiate between processed / un-processed/ cooked foods. In the introduction section sentence “mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids such as fish and olive oil” could be written as mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids consumed through fish and olive oil. Under the heading “Mediterranean diet: the intangible cultural and nutritional dietary pattern” the sentence “A Mediterranean-style diet typifies a nutritionally balanced diet, characterized by intake in high amounts and frequency of important sources of fibers” may be modified as “A Mediterranean-style diet typifies a nutritionally balanced diet, characterized by high and frequent intake of important sources of fibres”. It would be better if some references are cited with “Table 1”, if available. In Table 2, Figure 1 and 2, use different yet consistent colours for ↓↑ respectively. Under the heading “Microbiome-mediated pro-health effects of MD: purported and speculated mechanisms” the sentence “Thus, the array of microbial metabolites in the host gut from dietary fermentation…... is too long hence better to modify for more clarity. Similarly under the heading “Effect of MD on NHP microbiome: similar findings as seen in human and rodent studies” the sentence “Altogether, these findings from our cohort of the MD-fed NHPs demonstrate that the positive modulation of the gut microbiome....... is very lengthy may be re-written for better understanding 