The version I have seen is basically sound but needs some attention to the issues that I raise below. As a native (UK) English speaker, I can endorse that the English in this version is correct (with the exception of a couple of missing words noted below) and clear. The statistical treatments are appropriate and are judged to be correct. The study has some importance relating to the efforts to distinguish little understood spiritual and transpersonal experiences from the more bizarre and perhaps pathological ones. Given the major constraints of the word count then the paper is acceptable but it is less than commendable that no hint of the complexity of the issues has been made in the paper. The article focuses rather exclusively on one singular conception of dissociation – that by Colin Ross and co-workers and their the DES-T scale. According to this view there is a normal continuum to dissociative experiences along with a cut-off point for the more bizarre types of experiences, which are seen then as an expression of pure pathology. The eight questions from DES-T that were selected for this study are those highlighting this potential diagnosis. There are of course other conceptions – such as those of Watson and co-workers - and at least a half dozen other tests of dissociation (Watson, 2001 1 ; Watson Loftus, 1999 2 ). The authors write “Claims of such abilities have been considered symptoms of dissociative disorders” which is partially true but it is equally true that contact with dead (or even living) spirits is often considered to be symptomatic of individuals being psychosis-prone that is schizotypy – and if there is no distress to warrant a main DSM-diagnosis or DSM axis of personality disturbance - then this is labeled “happy schizotypy”. Indeed, found amongst the authors’ battery of tests and questions which number some 70 or more, are a set relating to just this. From this presentation it is clear that this study is only a minor part of a larger one, which will be or is being ”milked” for several papers. This is of course nowadays a standard practice (but involving naturally some major weaknesses) with internet studies. What is perhaps here rather misleading is that the study is presented to the potential responders as ”a study of genetics of extended human experience” – a presentation which might be considered a little disingenuous in the context of the issues in the current paper(s). This brings up the issue of what I think needs to be dealt with before indexing: how the context of the presentation might have influenced the major finding that the authors report and which the reviewer Prof. Ross attributes much importance to, namely that mediumship claimants were twice as likely as non-claimants to end up on the ill-side of the pathology cut-off. Although together 42% of the respondents endorsed communicating with the dead - the so-called ”AIR experiences”, it should be emphasized that AIR experiences were not the same as trance in that so-called channeling and clairaudience experiences might fall under this. Indeed it is surprising that a simple question concerning trance states does not seem to have been included since such individuals might have formed an interesting core group. The Noetic Sciences website under the aegis of which the (Surveymonkey) study was conducted, is dedicated to studying ”interconnectiveness” so it seems likely that those viewing the website and willing to answer the huge multitude of questions were highly motivated to confirm the mission of the website. This may well have created response biases. The authors write: ”Notably, the top five endorsed DES-T items were consistent with an AIR experience.” (Personally I think the addition of yet another acronym and neologism in the form of AIR only adds confusion to the overladen terminology in this field – it would surely have been better to keep to the explicit term mediumhip.). Accordingly I think their comment should be extended here so as to make some concession as to how the above findings can be vulnerable to the above mentioned influence. Page 1 line 6 from bottom: should read than non-claimants Page 3 line 3 from bottom should read (presumably) of pathological dissociative 