I enjoyed reading the bibliometric analysis of scientific output of physiotherapists from India. The manuscript is interesting but requires improvement in its content. My suggestions are given below: Abstract: Author 1 : “….determined by producing the most articles” should be revised to “determined by publishing the most articles” Introduction: Author 2 : “…….Indian physiotherapists up until 2018 (this study took place in 2019)” please delete “(this study took place in 2019)” Author 3 : “…..this study intended to conduct a bibliometric….” should be revised to “this study was planned to conduct a bibliometric” Methods: Author 4 : “…..the following term” should be revised to “……the following keywords” or “……the following query”. Author 5 : Instead of “physical rehabilitation”, authors could have used “rehabilitation”. Also, authors could use the term “exercise therapy” or “manual therapy” or “manipulative therapy” because not all papers use the terms physical therapy or physiotherapy. Please add space between “AND” and “AD”. Author 6 : Please explain the Web of Science indexes (i.e. SCI-EXPANDED, SSCI, AHCI, CPCI-S, CPCI-SSH, ESCI, CCR-EXPANDED, IC) in full-form. Author 7 : I think there is a typo here “……to gather information….” and should be revised to “…..to gather information on…”. Author 8 : Inclusion criterion 3 (Fig 1) should be “publications with at least one physiotherapist with institutional/author affiliation from India listed as a co-author”. In addition (related to criterion 1), did the authors include peer-reviewed journal publications or meeting abstracts and other document types? Author 9 : What is the significance of adding “Correction”? The common practice is that this category of papers is EXCLUDED from the analysis. Author 10 : “……the information related to h-index was obtained from the Incites in WoS”: please explain h-index and its use here. Author 11 : Please explain the VOS parameters used and cite their original source. Author 12 : “…..used in this study are proprietary…” should be “…..used in this study is a proprietary….” Author 13 : Statistical analysis should present the bibliometric parameters in detail. Results: Author 14 : “Between 1999 and 2008….” this paragraph should be in the past tense, please revise. Author 15 : “….published 174 articles, 35.58%” should be revised to “published 174 articles i.e. 35.58%”. Author 16 : “…11 were journals based” should be revised to “…..11 journals were based”. Author 17 : “average citation of 0.17” should be revised to “average citation per paper as…”. Author 18 : Fig 2: Please check the heading for Flowchart for VOSviewer analysis – I suspect some errors there. Author 19 : Table 1 (please cross-check with the textual description): I see publications depicting a fluctuating pattern - the only rise is seen after 2010 until 2016. Why don't the authors compare the growth according to the strata of 5 years? Author 20 : Fig 3: It would be good to present the citation trend along with the number of publications - please see these papers. For example, see these papers: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31766944 ; https://doi.org/10.3390/clockssleep2020010 . 1 , 2 Author 21 : Table 2-5: I think it would be appropriate to list the top 10 instead of 20 – again, this is a common practice in bibliometric studies. I would also want to see top-10 highly cited papers. Author 22 : Table 2: It would be interesting to discuss the impact factor and SJR ranking ( https://www.scimagojr.com/journalrank.php ) of these journals. This will reflect the quality and visibility of these journals. I see that most of these journals are indexed in the ESCI - the lowest level of WoS indexes. Author 23 : “International Journal of Scientific Study”: I could not find this journal in the Master List search ( https://mjl.clarivate.com/search-results ). I am not really sure about the authenticity of this journal – it looks rather like a questionable journal to me, so I am not sure how its content came up in the results. Please double-check. Author 24 : “The top 20 institutions ……. displayed in Table 4” – this does not look grammatically correct and needs revision. These could be organized in two tables as national (within India) and international (outside India) collaborations. Author 25 : “An article’s keyword may represent its primary…..” needs citation. Author 26 : It would be better to exclude “Physiotherapy” and “Rehabilitation” from the map because they will certainly be the most used. The readers of this paper would rather be interested to see what other terms had frequent occurrence. The authors should also discuss the map (Fig 4) to reflect upon which keywords tend to occur together. For instance, keywords in green (i.e. management, trial, children, diagnosis, surgery, India) tend to belong to the same cluster and are likely to co-occur together. What was the minimum value set for the co-occurrence of a keyword? For example, see this paper: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31766944 . 1 Author 27 : Table 3: the column for h-index should come to the right of total citations. Iqbal ZA does not have Indian affiliation, so these names don’t correspond well with the caption of the table. I believe these could be organized in two tables as national (within India) and international (outside India) collaborations. If this is not possible then the authors are advised to revise the caption of the table to bring more clarity in it. Author 28 : Table 4: Please revisit the caption for clarity. Authors should add a column “collaboration” and categorize it as national and international. Author 29 : Table 5: Six institutions with 4 papers are presented but I don't understand how they are ranked (according to the number of citations or citations/paper). As of now, it appears as if they are listed alphabetically. The common method in bibliometric studies is to rank them based on the number of citations. Discussion: Author 30 : Overall, this section is just the repetition of the results and fails to integrate what is known about the topic and what was found. Author 31 : Concerning these two points: “Exploring the reasons…..critical issue” and “This implies that……other researchers”. These are vague arguments – I believe that this would be due to several factors, including the quality of the journal (indexing, metrics), ease of publication (acceptance rate), focus (audience/readership), APCs and reputation to the scientific community. I think authors have failed to give a balanced view here. Most of these journals appear to be of low-quality. Just a point for your understanding is that the IJPT was once involved in deceptive practices (please see this paper: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27924967 ) 3 , but it has probably improved its practices and has gotten into ESCI. Author 32 : Collaborating authors: It would be appropriate to discuss the average h-index (and its range) and average citations to the papers by Indian authors. Author 33 : I still have confusion regarding the organization and presentation of findings of this paper in the results and discussion sections. Collaborating authors, institutions, and countries should have been leading authors, institutions and countries. Collaborations between countries, institutions, and authors should better be presented through VOSviewer as done in these papers: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31766944 ; https://doi.org/10.3390/clockssleep2020010 . 1 , 2 Author 34 : What is the clinical implication of these keywords? Please discuss. Author 35 : Please add a section about the limitations of this study. Conclusions: Author 36 : The decrease in papers during 2017 and 2018 was not “drastic”, please rephrase this. Author 37 : “…….though there are high-quality publications…” this stands as a mere claim and won’t be meaningful without presenting the top-10 highly cited publications. Language grammar: Author 38 : I noticed grammatical errors at several places, please revise accordingly. 