Do et al . perform statistical analysis on previously published RNAseq data from Letourneau et al . (2014) and their own new data to test the prominent and intriguing new hypothesis that trisomy 21 may cause up and down regulation of groups of genes associated with specific physical domains on different human chromosomes (Letourneau et al ., 2014). These were called gene expression dysregulation domains (GEDDs). Additional evidence suggested that GEDDs may be conserved across human cell types, and surprisingly, may relate to equivalent syntenic domains in the mouse genome after analysis of the Ts65Dn mouse model of Down syndrome (DS) (Letourneau et al ., 2014). Here, Do et al ., first report that replicates from the Letourneau et al . (2014) dataset are more variable than one would expect as determined by principle component analysis (PCA). This is an important finding because identification of the purported GEDDs and their extrapolated conservation across tissue types and species depends on minimal variation across datasets. To better understand the significance of the apparent variation in replicate datasets (Figure 1A), it would be useful if Do et al . could also plot the percent variance aside each dot accounted for the first principal component. The procedure for data normalization should also be explained more thoroughly in the results section as this may significantly alter the apparent variance by PCA. Do et al . also find that data from the Letourneau et al ., 2014 study varies significantly from data from a previous study by the same lab that used human cells derived from the same source in ( Hibaoui et al ., 2014 ). Do et al. then analyze how gene expression changes across physical locations on human chromosomes. They replicate the original finding by Letourneau et al. (2014) showing that there are domains of up and down regulated genes from human iPSCS and fibroblasts derived from the same source. However, they also find that these domains fail to correlate with data derived from the same source but published in an earlier study from the same group (Hibaoui et al ., 2014). This finding raises significant doubt about the concept of conserved GEDDs if they cannot be replicated from tissue derived from the same individual and collected by the same research group. Do et al ., might do well to suggest explanations for the lack of correlation including specific analysis techniques and methodologies. Lastly, Do et al . find that RNAseq datasets from wild-type and the Ts65Dn mouse model published in the (Letourneau et al ., 2014) paper show considerable variation from their new set of mouse data as determined by PCA. They also show a lack of correlation between fold-change gene expression for both datasets across chromosomes. Together, this new analysis suggests a re-evaluation of the GEDDs concept related DS. Specific groups of physically-linked genes (domains) may indeed be up and down regulated in DS across individuals and perhaps in mouse models of DS. However, variation within and across RNAseq datasets appears to prevent defining these domains and generalizing them to other individuals and species with current methods of analysis.