It is a pleasure to provide my comments and highlight some issues in your well-conceived and well-conducted re-analysis of dataset generated and assembled by Vahey et al ; this latter study was conducted to investigate changes in transcript abundance in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells/PBMCs prepared from blood sampled from human volunteers who were recipients of three doses of the recombinant RTS,S vaccine containing a protein named Circum Sporozoite Protein/ CSP. Of note the CSP is displayed at the surface of by the human- invasive 3D7 Plasmodium falciparum developmental stage population named the invasive sporozoite population. The invasive properties of sporozoite population reflect maturation within the salivary glands of the blood-feeding Anopheles stephensi / A.s and is transmitted when these blood-feeding anopheline mosquitos are 1. either probing the skin. 2. or sampling their blood meals, whether it is one or the other process it is coupled to delivery of both saliva A. stephensi saliva molecules and sporozoites. Your re-analysis did allow generating interesting data sets with the identification of an interferon transcriptional signature at day 1 post-vaccination, correlating with protection, as well as the identification of distinct interferon transcriptional signatures at days 3 and 14 post-vaccination correlating, at these time points, with reduced or lack of protection of study subjects from subsequent challenges with sporozoites delivered by insectarium reared-blood-feeding Anopheles hosting mature sporozoites in their salivary glands When concluding your re-analysis and the putative model accounting for the contrasted interferon signatures monitored at day 1 and days 3 and 14 post RTS,S vaccination, please could you also consider another biologically sound variable , namely the potentially contrasted ratio profile of the Anopheles saliva molecules-binding IgE/IgG: indeed you are aware that infants and adults who share durably the habitats of blood feeding Anopheles spp are more frequently exposed to Anopheles females that do not act as Plasmodium sporozoite vectors but that deliver saliva in the dermis a site where many saliva derived agonists are rapidly sensed by immune sensors the T cell receptors and the membrane Ig receptors included; such features are reflected by the ability to detect saliva –reactive T cells and saliva-reactive Ig molecules in the blood at very early times points post either skin probing or blood sampling by blood feeding insects. Please note that blood- feeding Anopheles does not transmit malaria – the latter term is expected to depict only the symptoms that occur over the asexual P. falciparum intra- erythrocytic developmental program : the blood feeding Anopheles delivers saliva while transmitting sporozoites that will further reach the hepatocytes where proceeds the generation of P. falciparum merozoites that are invasive for erythrocytes . Please could you review the Fig 3 legend: " Figure 3. Proposed immunological mechanism determining protection – or lack thereof – in adult human individuals to whom was inoculated the RTS,S vaccine. Our model infers that the interferon signatures observed on days 1, 3 and 14 post-vaccination correlating with outcome of the processes that deploy post the co-delivery of Anopheles saliva and P. falciparum sporozoites , are the result of engagement of Fc receptors by immune complexes. According to our model no interferon signatures should be observed following administration of the first vaccine dose of the CSP- containing RTS,S vaccine , in absence of pre-existing immune effectors/regulators reactive to P. falciparum Circum Sporozoite Protein/CSP. The injection of the first two doses of vaccines should elicit a humoral response, which in non-protected individuals is dominated by CSP- binding IgE rather than IgG. CSP- Ig- immune complexes should form when the third vaccine dose is administered. The transient interferon response elicited in individuals who develop a protective response and that we observed at Day 1 could be mediated by engagement of the FcγR by IgG-CSP immune complexes as has been described earlier in the context of influenza vaccination) 22 . Our model predicts that IgE-CSP complexes form in non-protected individuals and cross-link the high affinity IgE receptor at the surface of cells of the myeloid lineage . FCER1 engagement would in turn mediate reduction in levels of IFN-inducible (IFI) transcripts that is observed on days 3 and 14. This reduction of constitutive levels of IFN inducible transcripts in the non-protected group would be countered at least partially on Day 1 by residual IgG-IC response in subjects displaying mixed IgE/IgG humoral responses. If this is indeed the case the levels of M1.2 reduction on Day 1 in individuals displaying CSP-binding IgE should be inversely correlated with levels of CSP-specific IgG." Many thanks for your attention