This is an important study in that in that it is exploring the feasibility of an online intervention for PTSD that includes eye movement desensitization as well as CBT. These early stage research studies evaluating novel interventions are important prior to controlled trials and it will be interesting to see how future research can identify the benefits of each component of the intervention. There were a couple of parts of the flow chart that could be a bit clearer – I too didn't follow where the 16 participants meeting all criteria came from. I also couldn't follow in the flow chart where the following information in the Attrition section fitted: “…one participant completed six lessons, but not the post-treatment assessments”, “Ten participants completed post-treatment questionnaires while eight completed follow-up questionnaires.” Regarding reference 11 (Klein et al., 2009) – there is a more recent paper about this same trial that includes follow-up data ( Klein et al., 2010 ) – of relevance given the comparison made to this trial. I think it is relevant to mention in the discussion that this was a telephone-assisted intervention (not entirely internet-delivered). I thought that the interpretation of the results would be facilitated if the authors made comment on which of the analyses (ITT or completer) they were placing weight on in drawing their conclusion and why. For example, in the discussion they state that “The results indicated significantly reduced symptoms of PTSD, depression, anxiety, distress, and disability between pre-treatment and three-month follow-up.”, but the disability measure was only significantly different between the groups when using completer analyses. It would also be useful if Table 1 also noted which of the mean differences were significant (rather than the reader needing to refer back to the text). I was also interested to know more about the worsening symptoms that some participants reported. Also, the Discussion states that 3/15 participants reported worsening symptoms but in the Results it reads as though five participants stopped using EMDR because they said it “led to an increase in re-experiencing symptoms”.