Harden et al. , provide the first deep sequence analysis of the T cell receptor in lesional and non-lesional skin collected from psoriasis patients. The authors simultaneously track and quantify of the V- (from DNA) and V- (from RNA) T cell receptor within the same skin tissue samples. The data suggest that the T cell infiltrate in full-thickness psoriasis lesions is clonally diverse and the authors could not reproduce previous results showing oligoclonal expansion of TCR ab within the skin.The authors do however suggest clonal enrichment of TCR in psoriasis patients, both in lesional and non-lesional skin, in comparison to healthy skin. The manuscript is straightforward but there are several points that the authors could comment or discuss further as listed below. Major concerns: The majority of infiltrating T cells in psoriasis are found in the dermal compartment of the skin with only a small population of T cells infiltrating epidermis. However, an enrichment of pathogenic IL-17 and IL-22 producing T cells in epidermis as compared to dermis of psoriasis has been shown in a number of reports ( Res et al. , 2010 ; Hijnen et al. , 2013 ; Cheuk et al. , 2014 ). Of interest, the oligoclonal T cell expansion shown by Menssen et al . (1995) in the same psoriasis plaques over time were detected in epidermis and intraepithelial oligoclonal T cell expansion was also suggested by Lin et al. (2001) . Without dissecting epidermis and dermis, it is difficult to draw the conclusion that psoriasis is a highly polyclonal response lacking oligo-clonal expansion. Intraindividual comparison of two lesional and two non-lesional samples would be interesting to determine the heterogeneity of T cell infiltration in different sites of inflamed and non-affected skin. Please comment on the skewed ethnicity between the healthy controls and the patient group analyzed. Could this affect the interpretation of the data, in which the authors showed overlap among NL and LS as compared to the controls? Did quantification of TCRg analysed in RNA or DNA give identical results or was a bias in the quantification introduced when analysing cDNA? Figure 3: How the overlap score is calculated is unclear. Is that equivalent to the fraction of shared sequences between all pair-wise sets of samples? A more detail description will be appreciated. Minor points: Abstract row 14: ...these close were often... should probably read ...these clones were often.... Figure 2: Out of 5 donors, 2 (or 3) did not show much difference in the total number of unique sequences between NL and LS. That was inconsistent with data from figure 1. Please comment on that. The sharing of specific TCR clones among different patients but absent in healthy controls is intriguing. Are these clones consistent with the infiltrating gd T cells in psoriasis described by Laggner et al. (2011) Figure 3: Were the pair-wised comparison from the same donor omitted or included in the calculation since some of the LS and NL were collected from the same donor? That would affect the interpretation statistical testing between the groups concerning the healthy control and the groups concerning only psoriasis patients. Please comment on that. Figure 3: The overlapping score or fraction of shared sequences between different donors in the case of TCR- is difficult to interpret since the donor HLA type is not shown. 