“Qualia” are always an interesting topic because it appears to bridge philosophy, psychology, physiology and our own experience in a way that very little can be argued beyond beliefs. Two questions are raised by this communication. The first one is whether humans share the same qualia and the second is whether an individual’s qualia can be influenced by the qualia of another individual. The first question has been examined by many experiments in vision research. One way to answer this question is to find exceptions to the shared qualia. For vision, an obvious example is the variation of opsin genes in retinal cones (OPN1SW OPN1MW or OPN1LW). There is also the contested possibility (Jameson et al, 2014; 2016) that a small proportion of women have 4 opsin genes (tetrachromat) – an occurrence that is common in many animals (birds, frogs, insects Scholtyek et al, 2017). Qualia are clearly affected by the different inputs from the retina containing variants of the opsin distribution in humans. Developmental color blindness is usually based on these variants. There is also acquired color blindness of toxic origin in the retina (Choi, 2017) or from selective cortical lesions that induce achromatopsia within a visual field with preserved vision (Beauchamp et al. 2000). Self-reports in case study of acquired cortical achromatopsia suggest that all qualia modes (conscious perception, imagery and dreams) are equally affected (Sacks, 1987). Finally, the most common manifestation of synesthesia involves color percept on black and white letters. Color synesthesia either acquired or developmental is associated with unusual connectivity between various brain areas and the “V4” area in the visual cortex (Amsel, 2017). Developmental synesthesia has a genetic component that is being examined (Tilot et al., 2018). These “abnormal” acquired variants and rare developmental variants are relatively clear demonstration that qualia, in this case color qualia, can differ among individuals. Many people with developmental color-word synesthesia are often unaware that their color qualia is different until they are older suggesting that many subtle variants are unknown because people are unaware that they are at variant with the general population. Several factors also appear to influence color perception and cognitive identification including aging, as well as language and culture I now return to the majority of humans that have the expected cones and opsins as well as brain connectivity that apparently produce typical color perception and we assume typical qualia. Do these prerequisites of color perception sufficient to produce a common color qualia in the majority of humans. Although the source of variation is enigmatic, two people can have very different sensitivities to wavelength and label the same physical stimuli very differently (Webster, 2014). The most important source of variation comes from the differences in macular and lens pigment density (Webster MacLeod, 1988). A common polymorphism in the OPN1LW gene produce a small but functional shift in the peak spectral sensitivity for long-wave light (Winderickx et al, 1992). Finally there is a large variation in the relative number of each of the three cones across people with normal vision (Hofer, Carroll, Neitz, Neitz, Williams, 2005). This lengthy introduction to this review suggest that humans, in general, do live in a delusional world where they think that all people experience the basic aspects of colour perception more or less exactly as they do. This delusion is mostly hidden behind our other delusion that even though colors are perceived the same, people can have preferred colors and can evaluate coloured garments as matching differently. However we know that social pressures can lead to temporary social consensus regarding the aesthetics of certain colours (e.g. the “avocado green” and “harvest gold” appliances of the 1970’s). The present experiment examines the impact of the knowledge of another person perceptual judgement can influence or bias another person. In order to remove qualitative estimates, the experimenter chose to measure evoked potentials. Two participants were tested at the same time and presented simultaneously (but out of view of the other participant) two pictures that could be either the same or two different pictures. Before each trial, each participant was told whether the other participant was viewing a pair of pictures that were the same or different. The question asked was whether knowledge of what the other participant was seeing (same/different) was sufficient to induce different evoked potentials patterns in the 4 conditions. The authors found that in the inconsistent conditions induced a slight variation in the P600 evoked potential in all electrode groups (e.g. the pictures presented were the same but the participant was told that the other person would see different pictures in their pair). The key event here is that the participants were misled about the pictures seen by the other participant – either by displaying a statement saying that the pictures would be different but were not OR that picture would be the same but were actually different. These two conditions were contrasted with two other conditions where the statements were congruent with the presentations. The authors argue that because the participants had no way of overtly knowing whether the statements were true or not, that information had to be exchanged directly from brain to brain. Although I understand the enthusiasm of the authors regarding this possibility, one has to realize that we do exchange information between brains using numerous sensory/perceptual channels – some of which are obvious (like language) and some less obvious. In the experiments, the authors did take pains to verify some of the obvious channels that would not rely on “brain-to-brain” information exchange. However because this type of exchange is considered very unlikely by most, the authors should be held to a much higher standard to eliminate all other possibilities – some of which could be very subtle. Although I have not experienced the testing situation, I can only offer some speculations. For example, it is likely that the luminance of the pictures presented on the two halves of the screen shared by participants resulted in some reflected glare that could be somehow be detected – possibly without consciousness. Also, the screen could present subtle differences when presenting two identical pictures compared to different pictures on the two half-screen portions. The point here is that exceptional claims have to be tested in several experimental contexts that are highly controlled before one allows the support of unconventional hypotheses. This is a typical human and scientific bias but not an unreasonable one. Sometimes this higher standard of proof slows down science progress but sometimes it uncovers uncontrolled variables that refute the unconventional hypothesis. An example of an additional test of the brain-to-brain hypothesis would be to use auditory information presented with soundproof earphones. As it stands, we have interesting results and the authors propose an unconventional hypothesis based on the absence, for them, of other alternative hypotheses. As the saying goes, additional data are needed. 