Many thanks for the opportunity to review this paper. Tanagra and colleagues present a concise, interesting and well discussed piece of research on their attempts to improve dietary practices in the workplace, using a ‘health belief model’ approach to improving awareness in the first instance of the main components of a healthy diet and food items which it is advisable to consume more sparingly (e.g. fried food). I particularly liked the focus for the most part on blue collar occupational groups and the relative homogeneity of the target population. This holds promise for being able to target higher risk occupational groups that are known to be less receptive to health promotion type interventions. It is relatively well established among advocates of public health interventions, however, that changing actual behaviour is a much greater challenge than improving awareness of risk factors, particularly around diet and eating practices. While the contrast between the improved knowledge and no real benefit in behaviour is certainly of interest in this well controlled setting, it is not a terribly surprising or novel finding in its own right. As the authors themselves also point out, this is a study population which already has a relatively healthy diet, so their scope for encouraging and achieving improvements is necessarily limited. The narrow sample characteristics of the sub-group participating in the post-intervention follow-up (90% women) also restricts any meaningful inferences around the influence of gender and occupational group (a fact also acknowledged by the authors). My most significant misgiving about the article in its present form however surrounds the established limitations of the ‘health belief model’ as applied to preventative public health interventions: “ The HBM is more descriptive than explanatory, and does not suggest a strategy for changing health-related actions. In preventive health behaviors, early studies showed that perceived susceptibility, benefits, and barriers were consistently associated with the desired health behavior; perceived severity was less often associated with the desired health behavior. The individual constructs are useful, depending on the health outcome of interest, but for the most effective use of the model it should be integrated with other models that account for the environmental context and suggest strategies for change.” [Extract from Boston University MPH content around ‘Limitations of the Health Belief Model’; http://sph.bu.edu/otlt/MPH-Modules/SB/SB721-Models/SB721-Models2.html ]. The call for looking at the environmental context in particular suggests a potential missed opportunity within the current study to examine the characteristics and quality of food catering within the workplace itself. Overall, as stated at the outset, I think this is an elegant and well-presented piece of research which certainly deserves to be published, but ideally needs some additional discussion around some of its methodological drawbacks. While the authors have acknowledged the short duration and sample size issues, there could be more discussion of desirability bias in self-reporting and ‘healthy-worker’ effects, the latter of which almost certainly will have diminished their scope for demonstrating improvements. Those relatively minor issues aside, there does need to be a fuller consideration of the limitations of the health belief model and the slightly confusing absence of any details on the types of catering and foods available within the workplace itself. In terms of specific essential revisions, I would suggest: Demographic characteristics (Table 2): the addition of a section within 'individual characteristics' on how this population compares with the general Greek population on BMI and smoking etc. Acknowledgement of the drawbacks of HBM and some description of the catering opportunities within the workplace itself, and if there are aspects of availability which could be improved to compliment the educational measures. Some additional discussion around the drawbacks of self reporting and to what extent other back-up measures, such as 24 hour recall diaries, had been considered to enhance and substantiate the quality of the data gathered. 