Commercial CBD products are usually crude extracts from whole hemp plant material, that are available for purchase in several venues. These extracts have been reported to contain cannabinoid mixtures rather than pure CBD, and are then mixed into edible oils to obtain CBD oil. They are marketed as being free of psychoactive component, i.e. THC. Anecdotal reports of THC-like side effects from these mixtures have been reported. Three hypotheses for these side effects are posed: i) direct pharmacological effect of CBD-for which there is little evidence, ii) the degradation of CBD to THC due to acidic hydrolysis in the stomach following oral consumption, and iii) THC directly contained in the products as a by-product due to co-extraction and enrichment or contamination. The article investigated the latter two of these hypotheses. CBD degradation: Differently concentrated CBD in methanolic solutions was evaluated in a range corresponding to typical amounts consumed in supplements based on commercial CBD supplied by Merck. These solutions were exposed to an artificial gastric juice at different incubation times and under different environmental conditions. In no case was there any conversion of CBD to THC in any of the samples. Indeed, if CBD is converted to THC in the stomach, among consumers taking CBD it would be expected that THC metabolites would be detectable in the blood and urine, but this has not been shown in oral CBD studies. THC contamination as a cause of side effects: A sampling of all available CBD products registered as food supplement in the German State Baden-Wrttemberg, other hemp extract products in retail, as well as products available at the warehouse of a large internet retailer were evaluated for THC content between December 2018 and July 2019. Of the 28 samples described in Table 2, none of the products was compliant with European food regulations and most of the samples contained THC, some at a dose that would be expected to lead to intoxication. Therefore, the results provided evidence that THC contamination in the CBD products is the most likely cause for the anecdotal THC-like side effects reported. Although it would have been even more informative to have a clear indication of the CBD content of each of the samples, the data clearly present evidence that the products are mislabeled and that THC-like side effects reported by patients is likely the result of contamination of the product with THC, which was the purpose of the study. This is an important manuscript that will clear up the misconception that CBD is converted to THC in gastric juices of users. 