Following a study on the differentiation of dual-fated Neuromesodermal Progenitors (NMPs) at the population level, Tsakiridis and Wilson describe here the ability of a single NMP cell to generate both neural and mesodermal derivatives. Using T(Bra)-GFP expressing EpiSCs, the authors performed a clonal analysis of NMP differentiation driven by a FGF2/CHIR regime. They show that single T(Bra)-GFP expressing cells can generate both mesodermal T(Bra)-GFP and neural Sox2 expressing cells in the same clone. This main finding demonstrates the neuromesodermal bipotency of in vitro derived NMP at the single cell level, recapitulating the behaviour of NMPs as identified by retrospective clonal analysis in the mouse embryo in Tzouanacou et al. 2009. Overall, the experiments presented are well designed and the results are carefully analyzed. However, the paper would benefit from improvement of specific points. Main comments: Methods The authors should comment on the use of the ROCK inhibitor Y-27632 in their protocol for cell sorting and during subsequent plating at low density. Experimental approaches Figure 2 describes the co-appearance of distinct T(Bra) + and Sox2 + cells from an NMP population treated by FGF2/CHIR as a way to induce simultaneously neural and mesodermal lineages. Why did the authors not perform neural and mesodermal differentiation in parallel using two distinct protocols? In this study, we are dependent on the previous finding that cells plated at low density give rise mainly (95%) to monoclonal colonies in the time frame of the experiment. It would be reassuring here if the authors had demonstrated that sorted individual T-GFP +ve cells were also Sox2 co-expressing at the time of plating even if this required immuno-cytochemistry, it would at least establish the proportion of bra/sox2 co-expressing cells in the starting conditions. Does the negative control in Fig3B represent WT EpiSCs treated with the FGF2/CHIR regime, or are they just undifferentiated cells? A good negative control would be to analyse T(Bra)-GFP undifferentiated EpiSCs as they will have the same genetic background as the NMPs analyzed later but wont express T(Bra). This control should be included as well. Figure 3C shows clones of various sizes in terms of cell number. Can the size of the clone have an impact on cell lineage identity? It would be good to standardize the analysis by looking at the different expression patterns in colonies with comparable cell numbers. Figure 3D and E, the authors comment on the appearance of T(Bra)/Sox2 double negative colonies, and suggest that they are likely to represent further differentiated derivatives. The authors should address this by looking at other neural and mesodermal markers, such as Pax6 or Sox1 and Paraxis. It would be very informative to know what those cells become. Indeed, the suggestion that a higher density of cells is needed for paraxial mesoderm differentiation might indicate that those negative clones are not mesodermal derivatives. Minor comments: In figure 1, the authors describe the establishment of an NMP population. Using a FGF2/CHIR differentiation protocol, they only obtain around 38% of T(Bra)-GFP/Sox2 coexpression, with maximum 60% of T(Bra)+ cells in the whole population. However, other studies show up to 80% of coexpression in the same conditions. The authors should comment on that. Figure 2B: the figure legend should indicate all nuclei instead of ell nuclei. The legend for figure 3 (D-E) is confusing and should be clarified.