This subject is relevant for the drug discovery community. The theoretical approach is potentially sound, as far as I can tell - but (full disclosure) while familiar with statistics and matrices algebra, I believe someone more competent in such mathematics should judge that part of the publication . The problem is genuine : Indeed, after more than a century of pharmaceutical research, it has become clear (owing to high throughput screening of large chemical libraries) that many drugs bind to multiple targets. This problem is compounded by other aspects such as tissue distribution , on- and off- dissociation constants , half-life and other pharmacokinetics parameters. Target and drug (*see below) specific elements influence the relevance of both polypharmacology and polyspecificity. Which begs the question, how relevant is target polyspecificity? The authors encode "structurally dissimilar drugs" in their definition (see Abstract and Introduction). This in itself is a slippery slope, considering Maggiora's 2006 Commentary that similar molecules do not always share the same activity landscape. The implication being that structural similarity does not always work. So, dis-similarity would have to be defined... at the 2D level (which fingerprints)? 3D? (shape? electrostatics? etc.). In my opinion, polyspecificity does NOT require "dissimilar" in the definition. Polyspecificity is relevant when one considers drugs co-administered simultaneously - with the possibility of exacerbating some side-effects or, perhaps, staying "on target". This is likely to occur, considering that 15% of U.S. adults are likely to use 5 or more prescription drugs (aka polypharmacy ). Thus, the issue of target polyspecificity is relevant and ought to be investigated more in the context of co-prescribed medications. The main topic of this paper is polypharmacology. The issue of potency appears to be brushed aside, as shown in the assumption that " drug-target interactions can be characterized as binary relations " (see Drug-Target Relationships). This, of course, implies that Drug D1, with a Ki of 1 nM (10 -9 M) has the same relevance for polypharmacology and polyspecificity as Drug D2, with a Ki of 1 mM (10 -3 M). In practice, this is not likely to be the case. Polypharmacology is not a binary issue of binding or not binding. The bi-partite drug-target network in Figure 1, therefore, not only has nodes and edges, but edges have values: D1 binds to target T1 with potency P1, D1 binds to T2 with P2 and so on... Which would change Table 2 into something more familiar to medicinal chemists, i.e., a Structure-Activity Table. The issue of what's "active" vs. "inactive" (e.g., Fig 3) is a somewhat subjective issue. Take for example ropinirole : "although the anti-Parkinsonian drug ropinirole is more potent at the D 3 receptor than the D 2 receptor by an order of magnitude, we annotate the D 2 receptor as the mechanism of action target because D 2 receptors, but not D 3 receptors, are expressed in the substantia nigra, the pathologically relevant tissue for anti-Parkinsonian drugs" . Our own DrugCentral entry shows other targets, such as the 5-HT 1A and alpha- 2B adrenergic receptors, with potency similar to D 2 receptors. Is that relevant? Should all targets with potency below 6 (on the negative log scale) be considered "inactive"? The answer to these questions depends on the problem at hand. By the same token, the issue of polyspecificity may be regarded differently given a target for which over 20 potent (approved) drugs are known (some Receptor Tyrosine Kinases fit this profile), compared to a target for which only 2 drugs are approved (e.g., cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6). Given the wealth of data for drug-target interactions from a variety of sources such as ChEMBL , DrugBank , DrugCentral or GuideToPharmacology , it is recommended that real examples are used in this paper. Although " data completeness " remains an issue, the authors can no doubt identify a subset of 20-50 drugs, say anti-depressants or anti-psychotics, for which a wealth of in vitro bioactivity data are available through various channels, including PDSP in addition to the above. That would provide clear and immediate utility to the upper and lower bounds for the degree of polypharmacology (Table 5), which would make this paper more impactful. The authors are clearly aware of this, as discussed in Conclusions... I found the discussion related to the limitations of network biology representations particularly interesting. Perhaps that section could be expanded... (*) Footnote. Two simple scenarios are discussed. These do not include target mutations (e.g., causing drug resistant cancers or infections), allelic variation, or other population-specific phenomena. The target is in the CNS, but the drug itself is an ABCB1 substrate (see for example the impact of ABCB1 on CNS side-effects ), or the drug lacks blood-brain barrier permeability - in which case the potency of the drug in vitro is irrelevant in vivo . The drug can have significant in vitro potency on many targets, e.g., dobutamine hits over 20 human targets according to DrugCentral . However, its half-life is 2 minutes. Therefore, these "off target effects" are irrelevant. 