Whatever merits this paper may have are undermined by its pejorative application of “simplicity” to “ecological intensification.” Much of industrial agriculture may indeed be “techno-simple” (few crops, uniform application of high rates of fertilizer, etc.) and “externalize a range of environmental costs.” But precision farming (sometimes called “ecological intensification”) is much less simple to implement – Cassman (1999) focuses on its challenges, rather than claiming that the approach is fully developed – and reduces those environmental costs. Yet, as written, this paper attributes simplicity and environmental costs to “ecological intensification”, rather than to the simpler but more-harmful methods this approach it is intended to replace. For example, “ecological intensification” is blamed for “reducing crop diversity” (p. 2-3). If the intent is reconciliation, as implied by the title, I would suggest “technological sophistication” and “ecological sophistication” as descriptions of these two approaches. The article raises the issue of space and time dimensions of biodiversity, making some important points, such as the challenging need for cooperation among farmers to address landscape-scale diversity. These issues aren't really explored in enough depth to be useful, however. For example, a one-sentence treatment of “cover crops and intercropping” describes them as “simple” options, vastly understating the challenges they can pose for farmers. Similarly, although Thies and Tscharntke (1999) did indeed show that “landscape structure is highly influential for mobile arthropod species in farmlands”, they also found that increasing noncrop land to 50% of total only reduced crop bud damage from 28% to 18%. With benefits this small, what would be the overall effects of taking 50% of ag land in a region out of production? Would the net reduction in production lead to price increases, undermining food security for the urban poor and stimulating clearing of forests for agriculture elsewhere? Although I endorse the stated goal of this paper, it would need to be completely rewritten to make a significant contribution. In particular, it would need quantitative data on actual outcomes (such as increased yield or reduced pollution) and not just proxies (such as more-abundant beneficials) resulting from precision farming or from increased biodiversity at different scales.