The manuscript entitled “Case Report: Simultaneously diagnosed gastric adenocarcinoma and pernicious anemia – a classic association” presented a case about a 61-year-old woman who suffered both pernicious anemia and gastric cancer, and even after various treatments later succumb due to advancement of the disease. The manuscript was well-written with all the essential details regarding the appropriate tests leading to the patient’s diagnosis and treatment. However, I have the following concerns: 1. Title: Please keep it simple. My suggestion: “Simultaneous diagnosis of gastric adenocarcinoma and pernicious anemia – a classic association.” 2. Abstract: It would be great to include the disease prevalence or mortality ranking since an Abstract is what readers would glance first and must represent the text. Once prevalence is mentioned, statistics must be indicated. There is GLOBOCAN 2018 statistics about the global ranking of prevalence and mortality to check and include. 3. Introduction: What is the median overall survival (OS) of gastric cancer since the disease is largely asymptomatic? Please check and add. 4. Discussion: I know the authors made mention of autoimmune destruction of the intrinsic factor (IF) glycoprotein leading to the perturbation of Vitamin D absorption. Is this the only pathogenesis of gastric cancer, or are there other possibilities? Please check and include so that readers would have the full picture of the etiology of the disease. Since the authors said part of their aims of the study is to increase clinical awareness of the classic association of PA and gastric cancer, due to the asymptomatic nature of gastric cancer, early diagnosis is quite challenging. Create one more paragraph in the Discussion to suggest remedies that would curtail identification of the disease in advance stages. Examples: Cut-off age to perform an annual screening of individuals, as it is commonly done for colorectal cancer. Family history of PA and gastric cancer should aid in identifying high-risk individuals and be screened for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) overexpression, a potent biomarker for poor prognosis, and expressions of both vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), and mutations of the P53 tumor suppressor gene (TP53). Screening high-risk individuals for the pathogen, H. pylori infections. Lastly, it will be excellent for the authors to use their experience to come up with feasible and preferred treatment options like surgical resection performed as total or subtotal gastrectomy; if chemotherapy is to be used, what drugs? 5-FU/leucovorin? Targeted therapy: Ramucirumab, a monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 2, anti-EGFR antibody, nimotuzumab, together with vitamin B12 therapy to resolve the anemia. 