There are two assumptions. That all EBOV species employ VP24 to subvert the host innate immune response by binding KPNA. That a single point mutation R140S can explain a lack of pathogenesis by REBOV in humans through a lost capacity to bind KPNA. Neither of these assumptions have been experimentally verified by the authors or elsewhere. At a minimum, it seems these assumptions would need to be addressed in silico through analysis of the KPNA for a susceptible host to REBOV. Minor concerns: Abstract "which is surprisingly non-pathogenic" ...to .."which is notably non-pathogenic in humans." "which is in turn is due to its inability to bind" ..to.."which is in turn due to its inability to bind ." Results and Discussion: Dataset 1 title and legend appear to be mislabeled as "search methodology to identify plant alpha helica-antimicrobial peptides in the PDB dataset"...should this not be labeled as."to identify filovirus VP24 alpha helices"? Major Concerns: Regarding Figure 1 and Figure 4: Like REBOV, Bundibugyo (BEBOV)and Tai Forest virus (TFV) also have substitutions at the R140 of ZEBOV. BEBOV and TFV have His and Gln in this position instead of the Arg of ZEBOV and SEBOV. As these are both pathogenic in humans, albeit perhaps less so, how might these substitutions compare to putative binding with KPNA? ZEBOV NTNHFNMRTQRVKEQLSLKMLSLI BEBOV NTNHFQMRTQHAKEQLSLKMLSLV ZEBOV NTNHFNMRTQRVKEQLSLKMLSLI TFV GTNHFQMRTQQAKEQLSLKMLSLV The added experiment of docking mouse KPNA to erVP24 is appreciated but does not address the important question of whether or not non-human primate KPNA has compensatory substitutions to restore the potential for binding Reston VP24. Following this line of thought, such compensatory substitutions would conversely not be expected to reduce binding with VP24 from other African species of EBOV. While the ability of single point mutations to abrogate protein-protein interactions is indeed well established, the ability of compensatory substitutions to restore intermolecular interactions is also well established. Would it not be more prudent to sequence KPNA from a non-human primate host susceptible to hemorrhagic disease caused by REBOV and test the hypothesis in silico? Understandably, access to non-human primate sequence is limiting making it difficult to address this concern. In light of the inability to validate these findings either experimentally or in silico with a susceptible host species for fatal disease with REBOV, I suggest that the observation of the R140S subsititution in REBOV and its forecast impact on pathogenicity, while intriguing, remains highly speculative.