I find this article both old-fashioned/out-dated in parts and filled with platitudes or assertions not substantiated by clear references. While some relevant literature is mentioned, the text fails to provide a coherent and balanced account for the naive reader attempting to understand the field. For example, embryonic ages mentioned appear to refer to human development (although this is not stated), yet assertions concerning the role of TCF4, for example, are included in these paragraphs. As far as I am aware most work on Tcf4 function has been done in chick, mouse or other model organisms (including that quoted by Kardon and colleagues). Essentially no data is available showing a functional role of TCF4 in human muscle connective tissue development. Instead, according to OMIM, TCF4 mutations contribute to neural and epithelial phenotypes in Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome and Fuchs Endothelial Corneal Dystrophy. Thus, while muscle involvement is a reasonable hypothesis based on conservation in evolution, and while genetic variations in people may in future reveal a role, to my knowledge no clear link is as yet apparent. A useful and informative review would make these issues explicit. There are sentences in this work, such as 'In this way, the method of Fascial Manipulation organized into six myofascial units, formed by mono and biarticular fibres as well as muscle spindles, were created for each segment.’, that are incomprehensible. For a start, this sentence is ungrammatical. But more seriously, it is meaningless. If Fascial Manipulation is a ‘method’, how can such a method be 'organized into six myofascial units’? The latter sound like anatomical structures in this sentence. At best, this is a very poorly thought-out sentence. At worst, it is an example of attempting to justify a medical treatment using obscurantist scientific jargon with no clear underlying meaning: blinding the naive with ‘science’. Another example is the use a a picture in Fig 5 of what may be human gluteus maximus muscle to demonstrate an unclear point about 'bony fishes’ and to conclude 'Hence, these fibres lengthened and they connected to a number of segments’. As far as I can tell there are no segments in the anatomical sense in the gluteus maximus. The idea/view being suggested here is totally unclear. Such non sequiturs are scattered throughout the manuscript. Beevor may have said 'the brain knows nothing of individual muscle action’ in 1940, but in 2015/6 this is no longer a tenable view. It is quite clear that individual muscle spindles provide feedback to the CNS concerning individual muscle movement and tension and there is no reason to suppose that such information could not be transmitted to the brain. The mentioning of Fascial Manipulation and PNF without clear explanation is a huge omission. One is tempted to ask whether the publication of this manuscript is more about acquiring a recently dated ‘paper’ to quote in other literature than to really illuminate a biomedically important issue? Certainly, I find the statements on new paradigms and the broad philosophical brain/body statements (including the ‘New Questions’ the least valuable parts of this manuscript as they are either not well explained or have already been answered. For example, the answers to the two questions in New Question 2 are an unequivocal ‘yes’ and ‘yes’. For Question 3 there is an abundance of answers already in the literature: the motor axons of the PNS, for example, carry the information from CNS to muscle in terms of patterened series of action potentials. I concur with Ben Feldman, with the exception that I would be more severe on the author’s use of the term ‘mesenchyme’. In my understanding of modern cell biology, mesenchyme is used to describe a tissue that is not epithelial and has no specific relationship to particular regions of the body or developmental origin of the tissue. Thus mesenchymes in different tissue can be derived from any germ layer and simply reflect a apparent lack of apical/basal polarity in the cells so described. 