Segerdahl and colleagues have replied clearly and thoughtfully to the issues raised by Davis et al. regarding the short paper in Nature Neuroscience. Their response seems collegial in tone, granting trans-atlantic cultural differences (e.g., the imperative “remember” might be received less positively in America than in Britain). Further, they recognize the benefits of a constructive discussion that is open to all, rather than admonishing the commentators for overlooking key statements and details (one of which was buried near the end of the legend of Supplementary Figure 2). On the whole, though, the discussion between these two camps resembles recurring disagreements between “splitters” and “lumpers” in pain research (e.g., see Berkley, 1980) as well as, more generally, the persistent controversy about functional localization in brain research. Nevertheless, a major difference between these two sides is that one group incorporates certain knowledge from work in the monkey, which to my mind is fundamentally significant. Davis and colleagues took issue mainly with the impression that Segerdahl et al. had proposed that the dorsal posterior insula (dpIns) is a “pain-specific” locus in human. That assertion is intimated in the initial portions of the paper, however the reply makes clear that the central issue is rather, why did the Multi-TI pCASL method reveal such “highly significant and robust” activation only in the dpIns after whole-brain correlation with subjective ratings of tonic “pain intensity” elicited by thermal modulation of post-capsaicin cutaneous hyperalgesia. This result is surprising because considerable prior evidence predicts that subjective feelings are associated with strong activation in the anterior insula and other sites (for review, see Ch. 7 in Craig 2015 2 ); apparently, that’s the reason that Segerdahl et al. submitted the short report instead of the full-length manuscript that they could (and perhaps should) have written. Davis et al. suggested that such a singular result could have resulted from faulty methodology, such as inadequate temporal sampling or underpowered statistics, but Segerdahl et al. convincingly rule out those two possibilities. Davis et al. rightfully point out that the “control” vibration results are inadequate to support a claim of pain specificity, although the “robust vibrotactile [PET] activation” they cite actually occurred in the mid-insula (see Ch. 6 in Craig 2015 2 ). In response, Segerdahl et al. claim that an innocuous thermal control stimulus, though desirable, would not maintain salience; however, imaging evidence suggests that an oscillating thermal stimulus would be salient and motivating (Hua et al. 2005; see Ch. 2 in Craig 2015 2 ). Davis et al. suggested also that inadequate anatomical registration of the ensemble of brain images could have obscured the expected activation in the anterior insula that had been observed in similar experiments by Henderson et al. (2007) and Owen et al. (2010). But, Segerdahl et al. rectified the misunderstanding of their anatomical protocol and explained the co-localization of the activation they observed in dpIns with the comparable results from several prior studies that had used different techniques (see Fig. 3 of the original paper). Indeed, the very precise localization of activation in the most dorsal extent of the posterior insula matches exactly the location of the terminus of ascending lamina I nociceptive-specific activity, which was demonstrated in the fundus of the superior limiting sulcus in the macaque monkey by the paper they cite (Craig 2014 6 ; see Ch. 5 in Craig 2015 2 ). Further, the antero-posterior somatotopic gradient identified in the monkey fits with the topographic order reported in the studies that Segerdahl et al. collated in Fig.3 and also with the posterior location of the “very specific ‘spot’” that they found. Lastly, Davis et al. challenged the interpretation of any activation locus as “pain-specific” and suggested that “the dpIns likely is involved in pain but overall is a non-specific perceptual way-station,” thereby ignoring the evidence in the monkey. Segerdahl et al. naturally replied that the evidence regarding multifactorial pain-related activation includes their “own substantial contributions,” meanwhile acknowledging the new conceptual contributions by the Multi-Voxel Pattern Analysis (MVPA) study of Wager et al. (2013) and by the correlative functional connectivity patterns found in individual subjects by Cheng et al. (2015) (from Davis’ lab). Yet, on one hand they cite attributions of higher-level cognitive and affective coding to the anterior insula in reviews by Garcia-Larrea Peyron (2013) and Craig (2015 2 ), and on the other they point out that the new MVPA findings “support the interpretation that a region like the dpIns (see Figure 3 of Woo et al . 2014) has an identifiable role in coding attributes about nociceptive driven painful experiences.” Hmm. Does that mean modality-specific? noci-specific? algosity (see Greenspan’s comments)? a “pain switch”? or perhaps, an embedded cluster of neurons? They cannot say. Instead, Segerdahl et al. reiterate and expand the carefully worded concluding statements of their original paper, saying: “A growing body of literature suggests that a subsection of the posterior insula is both anatomically and functionally well suited to serve a primary and fundamental role in pain processing.” And “Using … a newly developed procedure and analysis, we were able to identify the dpIns as subserving a fundamental role in pain and the likely human homolog of the nociceptive region identified from animal studies. Future work targeting dpIns activity might provide a window to explore fundamental mechanisms related to how pain emerges from nociception as well.” These ideas and words remind me of Chapters 5 and 6 of my book and I must certainly agree. OK, so far, so good. Yet, the central issue remains: why did their rigorous quantitative analysis demonstrate robust activation only in the contralateral dpIns? Now, I will make a suggestion. The published evidence in the monkey tells us that a somatotopically-organized region of posterolateral thalamus that contains only nociceptive neurons projects topographically to the dpIns (Craig, 2015 2 ; 2014 6 ). The thalamic region includes both nociceptive-specific (NS) and polymodal nociceptive (HPC for heat, pinch, and cold) neurons that receive monosynaptic input from lamina I spinothalamic neurons; an adjacent sub-region of thalamus similarly relays thermoreceptive-specific (COOL) activity to an adjacent sub-region of the dpIns (as depicted in Fig. 12 in Craig 2015 2 ). Both classes of nociceptive neurons in the monkey respond to topical capsaicin and become sensitized, with trajectories that parallel human pain reports (unpublished obs.). The HPC neurons constitute the only sensory channel that can quantitatively explain human reports of temporally summating second (burning) pain in response to repeated brief-contact heat stimulation (Craig, 2004) as well as pain reports in response to the thermal grill (Ch. 3 in Craig, 2015 2 ); we can posit that they are directly responsible for the pain reports in the study of Segerdahl et al. Thus, the terminus of the HPC sensory channel in the dpIns could alone explain the activation focus they observed. Particular components of the parallel NS (first, sharp pain) sensory channel most likely would also be involved. However, the anomalous innocuous cold sensitivity of HPC neurons and the evidence for the involvement of some HPC neurons in signaling muscle work, vascular distension, and tissue immune and metabolic conditions all indicate that this sensory channel is not a binary, pain-specific signal but rather has a much broader role in interoception (Craig 2015 2 ). Along with sensory channels representing many other specific and non-specific bodily sensations, such as cool, warm, itch, sensual touch, taste, hunger, and thirst, the dpIns is thus proposed to contain interoceptive cortex . Both Davis et al. and Segerdahl et al. alluded to this perspective and also cited the evidence for thermoreceptive-specific activity in the dpIns, but Davis et al. seemingly regarded this knowledge as support for the assertion that the dpIns does not have a specific role in pain, which is a misrepresentation. Yet, these considerations do not resolve the central issue. For instance, the HPC channel is also relayed to area 3a in the primary sensorimotor area (Vierck et al., 2013; Craig, 2015 2 ; 2014 6 ), but that region was not activated. More importantly, neither the mid-insula nor the anterior insula displayed activation, and both are normally associated with subjective reports of immediate feelings of pain. To my mind, the key lies in the instructions to the individuals who participated in the experiment of Segerdahl et al ., which can suggest what their brains were doing. Unfortunately, the exact instructions were not reported; we’re told only that they were asked to report the “pain intensity” at certain times and otherwise to remain focused on a fixation cross. We can surmise that, in order to perform as requested (and presumably earn a monetary reward), the participants (1) concentrated their attention on the intensity of sensation that originated from the stimulus site, but otherwise (2) ignored the ongoing feeling of unpleasantness as much as possible. Our brains are rather good at both tasks; first, we regard pain as a discriminative sensory capacity because we can focus our attention on the specific characteristics and the specific origin of the sensation, and second, as a homeostatic emotion that is crucial for survival, like hunger, pain has top motivational priority most of the time but can be inhibited when other emotional needs or goals are more urgent. Based on the available evidence for the neural correlates of focused attention and emotional feelings, that suggests (1) that focal activity at the somatotopically appropriate site in the HPC map within interoceptive cortex was enhanced by the center-surround (sombrero-like) modulation of endogenous attentional processes and (2) that activity that normally engenders the feeling of unpleasantness or pain was suppressed in interoceptive integration mechanisms in the mid-insula and anterior insula (and in related regions, such as area 3a and area 24c in the anterior mid-cingulate). To my mind, the mechanisms I propose offer a potential explanation for the singular observations of Segerdahl et al . They are incomplete – for instance, focal activation was not reported in the posterolateral thalamus and activity supporting the behavior of reporting the discriminative readout is missing – nonetheless, they provide practical inroads for future experiments. Most importantly, they incorporate knowledge about the crucial and specific role of dpIns in nociception and pain, and they build on the significant advance that the work of Segerdahl et al . has provided. References 1. Berkley KJ: Spatial relationships between the terminations of somatic sensory and motor pathways in the rostral brainstem of cats and monkeys. I. Ascending somatic sensory inputs to lateral diencephalon. J Comp Neurol . 1980; 193 (1): 283-317 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Craig AD: How Do You Feel? An Interoceptive Moment with Your Neurobiological Self. 2015; Princeton University Press (Princeton). 3. Hua le H, Strigo IA, Baxter LC, Johnson SC, et al.: Anteroposterior somatotopy of innocuous cooling activation focus in human dorsal posterior insular cortex. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol . 2005; 289 (2): R319-R325 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Henderson LA, Gandevia SC, Macefield VG: Somatotopic organization of the processing of muscle and cutaneous pain in the left and right insula cortex: a single-trial fMRI study. Pain . 2007; 128 (1-2): 20-30 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Owen DG, Clarke CF, Bureau Y, Ganapathy S, et al.: Measuring the neural response to continuous intramuscular infusion of hypertonic saline by perfusion MRI. J Magn Reson Imaging . 2012; 35 (3): 669-77 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Craig AD: Topographically organized projection to posterior insular cortex from the posterior portion of the ventral medial nucleus in the long-tailed macaque monkey. J Comp Neurol . 2014; 522 (1): 36-63 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Wager TD, Atlas LY, Lindquist MA, Roy M, et al.: An fMRI-based neurologic signature of physical pain. N Engl J Med . 2013; 368 (15): 1388-97 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Cheng JC, Erpelding N, Kucyi A, DeSouza DD, et al.: Individual Differences in Temporal Summation of Pain Reflect Pronociceptive and Antinociceptive Brain Structure and Function. J Neurosci . 2015; 35 (26): 9689-700 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Garcia-Larrea L, Peyron R: Pain matrices and neuropathic pain matrices: a review. Pain . 2013; 154 Suppl 1 : S29-43 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Craig AD: Lamina I, but not lamina V, spinothalamic neurons exhibit responses that correspond with burning pain. J Neurophysiol . 2004; 92 (4): 2604-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Vierck CJ, Whitsel BL, Favorov OV, Brown AW, et al.: Role of primary somatosensory cortex in the coding of pain. Pain . 2013; 154 (3): 334-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Craig A. Reviewer Report For: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: “Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula” by Davis et al. [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1207 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7854.r11308 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1#referee-response-11308 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 03 Nov 2015 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 1 03 Nov 15 read read Arthur Craig , Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, USA Luis Garcia-Larrea , Claude Bernard University Lyon 1, Lyon, France Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2015 Garcia-Larrea L. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 15 Dec 2015 | for Version 1 Luis Garcia-Larrea , NEUROPAIN Team, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center (CRNL), INSERM U1028, UMR5292, Claude Bernard University Lyon 1, Lyon, France 0 Views copyright © 2015 Garcia-Larrea L. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In their ‘response paper’, Segerdahl and colleagues endeavour to correct what they consider “important misunderstandings” made by Davis et al. 1 in their target article. Most of the points raised by Davis and colleagues are of technical nature, and question the validity of the methods used by Segerdahl et al. to reach their conclusions. Here Segerdahl et al. thoroughly describe the methods employed, correct misunderstandings, and on this basis judge that the extrapolation and inferences made by Davis and colleagues are not consistent with their target report 2 . Also, they take the opportunity to expand on a number of conceptual points that were made. The response is broadly divided in two parts, respectively technical and interpretative. From the technical point of view, they rebut a number of points advanced in the Davis et al. ’s paper, in particular their critique of the multi-delay ASL technique, the excessively long sampling intervals and the small number of control subjects, all of them contributing to a supposed underpower of the experiment. Segerdahl et al. vigorously correct several facts that seem to have been misunderstood in the Davis et al. ’s comment, in particular that brain MRI volumes were acquired every 8 seconds –and not 45–, and that the control experiment was completed on 12 participants –not 7 as implied in Davis et al . These are important particulars that could have undermined the reliability of the MRI data under question; the clarification appears appropriate, and lends support to the reliability of Segerdahl et al. ’s original results. I am unable to enter the highly technical discussion on the relative merits of uni- or multi-TI ASL methods. While the arguments advanced by Segerdahl to defend the superiority of multi-TI ASL appear solid, I must deplore that they are mostly based on their own productions, which limits generalisation. Reproducibility of functional imaging (or rather the lack of it) is a crucial problem 3 , 4 and quoting external sources on multi-TI procedures would have strengthened the authors’ argument. I support and share one of the main notions in the response of Segerdahl et al. , namely that they never claimed to have determined a sole ‘pain centre’, and that being fundamental for pain experience, as they wrote, does not equate being the sole region responsible for such experience. It seems clear to me that identifying a role for dorsal posterior insula (dpIns) in tracking pain intensity does not automatically promote the concept of a ‘single pain spot’. I would just add a nuance: while we have abundant experimental data of the dpIns coding properties under physiological conditions, this may not hold for neuropathic states where the dorsal insula is injured of highly deafferented, in which case the perceived intensity of pain may be coded by other areas –possibly including the insular cortex ipsilateral to the pain, which becomes disinhibited 5 . Also, and probably because of extensive cortical plasticity, long-standing destruction of both posterior insulae has been shown to be compatible with the ability to continuously rate the moment-to-moment level of pain 6 . Thus, the ‘fundamental’ role of the postero-dorsal insula tagged by Segerdahl et al. may be transferred to other networks in pathological conditions. The authors acknowledge the importance of one of the criticisms from Davis et al. ’s comments, namely the lack of direct statistical comparison between pain and innocuous stimulation. Indeed, showing that one region exhibits significant activity changes in one condition (pain) and not in other (vibration) does not allow affirming that the activity of both regions would have differed significantly had they been compared directly. The error of comparing significance levels without directly testing their difference is said to be especially common in the neuroimaging literature 7 , 8 . To respond to this criticism, now Segerdahl and colleagues performed a comparison of the correlation between CBF and intensity ratings during pain versus the correlation CBF / intensity ratings during vibration. This approach seems fair to me, although the formulation of the results remains ambiguous, and I remain unsure whether there was a significant difference between the two correlations, or a region X condition significant interaction –the straightforward result I should have expected. This could have been clarified further. The notion of a gradient in the processing of noxious inputs from the lateral operculum (SII) to its medial portion (OP2) and posterior dorsal insula (dpIns) appears well backed by the literature. For instance, the sites where electrical stimulation induce non-noxious thermal sensations in humans predominate in the inner operculum (OP2) while those evoking clear pain tend to concentrate in the posterior insula 9 . Also, while medial opercular sites responded to barely perceptive thermal increases, the posterior insular response only emerged clearly at noxious levels 10 . Such a gradient is difficult to explain on a simple afferent connectivity basis, as the primate’s spinothalamic system projects in similar proportions to the granular insula and its adjacent operculum 11 . Labelled lines entailing a significant predominance of nociceptive-specific afferents in the posterior insula might contribute an explanation 12 , but this is difficult to reconcile with classical data showing the predominance of low threshold units in this same area 13 ' 14 . Alternatively, functional differences between dpIns and operculum might reflect network properties, partially independent from those of isolated neurons. For instance, the posterior insula has a more extended connectivity pattern than the opercular region and S2 proper; the massive amount of afferent input to the insula may entail a greater background activity than in the operculum, hence obstructing the precise encoding of low-energy stimuli barely emerging from background noise. This might explain why posterior insula networks are biased toward encoding nociception despite the fact that approximately 70% of primate insular neurons can respond to non-noxious somatic inputs too 13 , and that intracranial recordings demonstrate posterior insular responses to non-noxious stimuli in humans 15 . Such a bias, however, reflects a progressive gradient, and not a clearcut functional cleavage, and failure to acknowledge this may lead us toward dangerous neo-phrenology. The suprasylvian operculum can also encode stimulus intensity in the painful ranges 10 , and the dpIns can also respond to non-noxious stimuli 16 . In conclusion, I believe the authors make clear their case that any notion of a ‘single pain centre’ in the human brain is absent from their line of thinking –and absent from the conclusions in their target paper. They also point out various methodological points that seem to have been misunderstood in the Davis et al .’s comment, while accepting the importance of others, such as the lack of direct statistical comparison between conditions. The important role we can ascribe to the dpIns should not be confounded with an absolute specificity of this area –especially when it comes to neuropathic lesions. And importantly, Segerdahl et al . acknowledge that the comments from Davis and her colleagues have triggered a most interesting, valuable and enlightening discussion, which should help many readers to get insight into current controversies on pain perception. To me, this is exactly how science advances. References 1. Davis KD, Bushnell MC, Iannetti GD, St Lawrence K, et al.: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula. F1000Res . 2015; 4 : 362 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Segerdahl AR, Mezue M, Okell TW, Farrar JT, et al.: The dorsal posterior insula subserves a fundamental role in human pain. Nat Neurosci . 2015; 18 (4): 499-500 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Bennett CM, Miller MB: How reliable are the results from functional magnetic resonance imaging?. Ann N Y Acad Sci . 2010; 1191 : 133-55 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Reardon S: Neuroscience in court: The painful truth. Nature . 2015; 518 (7540): 474-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Peyron R, Schneider F, Faillenot I, Convers P, et al.: An fMRI study of cortical representation of mechanical allodynia in patients with neuropathic pain. Neurology . 2004; 63 (10): 1838-46 PubMed Abstract 6. Feinstein JS, Khalsa SS, Salomons TV, Prkachin KM, et al.: Preserved emotional awareness of pain in a patient with extensive bilateral damage to the insula, anterior cingulate, and amygdala. Brain Struct Funct . 2015. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Poldrack RA, Fletcher PC, Henson RN, Worsley KJ, et al.: Guidelines for reporting an fMRI study. Neuroimage . 2008; 40 (2): 409-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Nieuwenhuis S, Forstmann BU, Wagenmakers EJ: Erroneous analyses of interactions in neuroscience: a problem of significance. Nat Neurosci . 2011; 14 (9): 1105-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Mazzola L, Isnard J, Mauguière F: Somatosensory and pain responses to stimulation of the second somatosensory area (SII) in humans. A comparison with SI and insular responses. Cereb Cortex . 2006; 16 (7): 960-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Frot M, Magnin M, Mauguière F, Garcia-Larrea L: Human SII and posterior insula differently encode thermal laser stimuli. Cereb Cortex . 2007; 17 (3): 610-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Dum RP, Levinthal DJ, Strick PL: The spinothalamic system targets motor and sensory areas in the cerebral cortex of monkeys. J Neurosci . 2009; 29 (45): 14223-35 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. Craig AD: Topographically organized projection to posterior insular cortex from the posterior portion of the ventral medial nucleus in the long-tailed macaque monkey. J Comp Neurol . 2014; 522 (1): 36-63 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Robinson CJ, Burton H: Somatic submodality distribution within the second somatosensory (SII), 7b, retroinsular, postauditory, and granular insular cortical areas of M. fascicularis. J Comp Neurol . 1980; 192 (1): 93-108 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 14. Schneider RJ, Friedman DP, Mishkin M: A modality-specific somatosensory area within the insula of the rhesus monkey. Brain Res . 1993; 621 (1): 116-20 PubMed Abstract 15. Perchet C, Frot M, Vartiainen N, Claude L, et al.: A comparison of the cerebral networks activated by painful and non-painful stimulations in humans: an intra-cerebral recording study. Paper to the 2015 European Congress of Clinical Neurophysiology . 2015; ID 304 : pp. 354 Reference Source 16. Björnsdotter M, Löken L, Olausson H, Vallbo A, et al.: Somatotopic organization of gentle touch processing in the posterior insular cortex. J Neurosci . 2009; 29 (29): 9314-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Garcia-Larrea L. Peer Review Report For: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: “Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula” by Davis et al. [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1207 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7854.r11550) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1#referee-response-11550 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2015 Craig A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 25 Nov 2015 | for Version 1 Arthur Craig , Atkinson Research Laboratory, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA 0 Views copyright © 2015 Craig A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Segerdahl and colleagues have replied clearly and thoughtfully to the issues raised by Davis et al. regarding the short paper in Nature Neuroscience. Their response seems collegial in tone, granting trans-atlantic cultural differences (e.g., the imperative “remember” might be received less positively in America than in Britain). Further, they recognize the benefits of a constructive discussion that is open to all, rather than admonishing the commentators for overlooking key statements and details (one of which was buried near the end of the legend of Supplementary Figure 2). On the whole, though, the discussion between these two camps resembles recurring disagreements between “splitters” and “lumpers” in pain research (e.g., see Berkley, 1980) as well as, more generally, the persistent controversy about functional localization in brain research. Nevertheless, a major difference between these two sides is that one group incorporates certain knowledge from work in the monkey, which to my mind is fundamentally significant. Davis and colleagues took issue mainly with the impression that Segerdahl et al. had proposed that the dorsal posterior insula (dpIns) is a “pain-specific” locus in human. That assertion is intimated in the initial portions of the paper, however the reply makes clear that the central issue is rather, why did the Multi-TI pCASL method reveal such “highly significant and robust” activation only in the dpIns after whole-brain correlation with subjective ratings of tonic “pain intensity” elicited by thermal modulation of post-capsaicin cutaneous hyperalgesia. This result is surprising because considerable prior evidence predicts that subjective feelings are associated with strong activation in the anterior insula and other sites (for review, see Ch. 7 in Craig 2015 2 ); apparently, that’s the reason that Segerdahl et al. submitted the short report instead of the full-length manuscript that they could (and perhaps should) have written. Davis et al. suggested that such a singular result could have resulted from faulty methodology, such as inadequate temporal sampling or underpowered statistics, but Segerdahl et al. convincingly rule out those two possibilities. Davis et al. rightfully point out that the “control” vibration results are inadequate to support a claim of pain specificity, although the “robust vibrotactile [PET] activation” they cite actually occurred in the mid-insula (see Ch. 6 in Craig 2015 2 ). In response, Segerdahl et al. claim that an innocuous thermal control stimulus, though desirable, would not maintain salience; however, imaging evidence suggests that an oscillating thermal stimulus would be salient and motivating (Hua et al. 2005; see Ch. 2 in Craig 2015 2 ). Davis et al. suggested also that inadequate anatomical registration of the ensemble of brain images could have obscured the expected activation in the anterior insula that had been observed in similar experiments by Henderson et al. (2007) and Owen et al. (2010). But, Segerdahl et al. rectified the misunderstanding of their anatomical protocol and explained the co-localization of the activation they observed in dpIns with the comparable results from several prior studies that had used different techniques (see Fig. 3 of the original paper). Indeed, the very precise localization of activation in the most dorsal extent of the posterior insula matches exactly the location of the terminus of ascending lamina I nociceptive-specific activity, which was demonstrated in the fundus of the superior limiting sulcus in the macaque monkey by the paper they cite (Craig 2014 6 ; see Ch. 5 in Craig 2015 2 ). Further, the antero-posterior somatotopic gradient identified in the monkey fits with the topographic order reported in the studies that Segerdahl et al. collated in Fig.3 and also with the posterior location of the “very specific ‘spot’” that they found. Lastly, Davis et al. challenged the interpretation of any activation locus as “pain-specific” and suggested that “the dpIns likely is involved in pain but overall is a non-specific perceptual way-station,” thereby ignoring the evidence in the monkey. Segerdahl et al. naturally replied that the evidence regarding multifactorial pain-related activation includes their “own substantial contributions,” meanwhile acknowledging the new conceptual contributions by the Multi-Voxel Pattern Analysis (MVPA) study of Wager et al. (2013) and by the correlative functional connectivity patterns found in individual subjects by Cheng et al. (2015) (from Davis’ lab). Yet, on one hand they cite attributions of higher-level cognitive and affective coding to the anterior insula in reviews by Garcia-Larrea Peyron (2013) and Craig (2015 2 ), and on the other they point out that the new MVPA findings “support the interpretation that a region like the dpIns (see Figure 3 of Woo et al . 2014) has an identifiable role in coding attributes about nociceptive driven painful experiences.” Hmm. Does that mean modality-specific? noci-specific? algosity (see Greenspan’s comments)? a “pain switch”? or perhaps, an embedded cluster of neurons? They cannot say. Instead, Segerdahl et al. reiterate and expand the carefully worded concluding statements of their original paper, saying: “A growing body of literature suggests that a subsection of the posterior insula is both anatomically and functionally well suited to serve a primary and fundamental role in pain processing.” And “Using … a newly developed procedure and analysis, we were able to identify the dpIns as subserving a fundamental role in pain and the likely human homolog of the nociceptive region identified from animal studies. Future work targeting dpIns activity might provide a window to explore fundamental mechanisms related to how pain emerges from nociception as well.” These ideas and words remind me of Chapters 5 and 6 of my book and I must certainly agree. OK, so far, so good. Yet, the central issue remains: why did their rigorous quantitative analysis demonstrate robust activation only in the contralateral dpIns? Now, I will make a suggestion. The published evidence in the monkey tells us that a somatotopically-organized region of posterolateral thalamus that contains only nociceptive neurons projects topographically to the dpIns (Craig, 2015 2 ; 2014 6 ). The thalamic region includes both nociceptive-specific (NS) and polymodal nociceptive (HPC for heat, pinch, and cold) neurons that receive monosynaptic input from lamina I spinothalamic neurons; an adjacent sub-region of thalamus similarly relays thermoreceptive-specific (COOL) activity to an adjacent sub-region of the dpIns (as depicted in Fig. 12 in Craig 2015 2 ). Both classes of nociceptive neurons in the monkey respond to topical capsaicin and become sensitized, with trajectories that parallel human pain reports (unpublished obs.). The HPC neurons constitute the only sensory channel that can quantitatively explain human reports of temporally summating second (burning) pain in response to repeated brief-contact heat stimulation (Craig, 2004) as well as pain reports in response to the thermal grill (Ch. 3 in Craig, 2015 2 ); we can posit that they are directly responsible for the pain reports in the study of Segerdahl et al. Thus, the terminus of the HPC sensory channel in the dpIns could alone explain the activation focus they observed. Particular components of the parallel NS (first, sharp pain) sensory channel most likely would also be involved. However, the anomalous innocuous cold sensitivity of HPC neurons and the evidence for the involvement of some HPC neurons in signaling muscle work, vascular distension, and tissue immune and metabolic conditions all indicate that this sensory channel is not a binary, pain-specific signal but rather has a much broader role in interoception (Craig 2015 2 ). Along with sensory channels representing many other specific and non-specific bodily sensations, such as cool, warm, itch, sensual touch, taste, hunger, and thirst, the dpIns is thus proposed to contain interoceptive cortex . Both Davis et al. and Segerdahl et al. alluded to this perspective and also cited the evidence for thermoreceptive-specific activity in the dpIns, but Davis et al. seemingly regarded this knowledge as support for the assertion that the dpIns does not have a specific role in pain, which is a misrepresentation. Yet, these considerations do not resolve the central issue. For instance, the HPC channel is also relayed to area 3a in the primary sensorimotor area (Vierck et al., 2013; Craig, 2015 2 ; 2014 6 ), but that region was not activated. More importantly, neither the mid-insula nor the anterior insula displayed activation, and both are normally associated with subjective reports of immediate feelings of pain. To my mind, the key lies in the instructions to the individuals who participated in the experiment of Segerdahl et al ., which can suggest what their brains were doing. Unfortunately, the exact instructions were not reported; we’re told only that they were asked to report the “pain intensity” at certain times and otherwise to remain focused on a fixation cross. We can surmise that, in order to perform as requested (and presumably earn a monetary reward), the participants (1) concentrated their attention on the intensity of sensation that originated from the stimulus site, but otherwise (2) ignored the ongoing feeling of unpleasantness as much as possible. Our brains are rather good at both tasks; first, we regard pain as a discriminative sensory capacity because we can focus our attention on the specific characteristics and the specific origin of the sensation, and second, as a homeostatic emotion that is crucial for survival, like hunger, pain has top motivational priority most of the time but can be inhibited when other emotional needs or goals are more urgent. Based on the available evidence for the neural correlates of focused attention and emotional feelings, that suggests (1) that focal activity at the somatotopically appropriate site in the HPC map within interoceptive cortex was enhanced by the center-surround (sombrero-like) modulation of endogenous attentional processes and (2) that activity that normally engenders the feeling of unpleasantness or pain was suppressed in interoceptive integration mechanisms in the mid-insula and anterior insula (and in related regions, such as area 3a and area 24c in the anterior mid-cingulate). To my mind, the mechanisms I propose offer a potential explanation for the singular observations of Segerdahl et al . They are incomplete – for instance, focal activation was not reported in the posterolateral thalamus and activity supporting the behavior of reporting the discriminative readout is missing – nonetheless, they provide practical inroads for future experiments. Most importantly, they incorporate knowledge about the crucial and specific role of dpIns in nociception and pain, and they build on the significant advance that the work of Segerdahl et al . has provided. References 1. Berkley KJ: Spatial relationships between the terminations of somatic sensory and motor pathways in the rostral brainstem of cats and monkeys. I. Ascending somatic sensory inputs to lateral diencephalon. J Comp Neurol . 1980; 193 (1): 283-317 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Craig AD: How Do You Feel? An Interoceptive Moment with Your Neurobiological Self. 2015; Princeton University Press (Princeton). 3. Hua le H, Strigo IA, Baxter LC, Johnson SC, et al.: Anteroposterior somatotopy of innocuous cooling activation focus in human dorsal posterior insular cortex. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol . 2005; 289 (2): R319-R325 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Henderson LA, Gandevia SC, Macefield VG: Somatotopic organization of the processing of muscle and cutaneous pain in the left and right insula cortex: a single-trial fMRI study. Pain . 2007; 128 (1-2): 20-30 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Owen DG, Clarke CF, Bureau Y, Ganapathy S, et al.: Measuring the neural response to continuous intramuscular infusion of hypertonic saline by perfusion MRI. J Magn Reson Imaging . 2012; 35 (3): 669-77 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Craig AD: Topographically organized projection to posterior insular cortex from the posterior portion of the ventral medial nucleus in the long-tailed macaque monkey. J Comp Neurol . 2014; 522 (1): 36-63 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Wager TD, Atlas LY, Lindquist MA, Roy M, et al.: An fMRI-based neurologic signature of physical pain. N Engl J Med . 2013; 368 (15): 1388-97 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Cheng JC, Erpelding N, Kucyi A, DeSouza DD, et al.: Individual Differences in Temporal Summation of Pain Reflect Pronociceptive and Antinociceptive Brain Structure and Function. J Neurosci . 2015; 35 (26): 9689-700 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Garcia-Larrea L, Peyron R: Pain matrices and neuropathic pain matrices: a review. Pain . 2013; 154 Suppl 1 : S29-43 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Craig AD: Lamina I, but not lamina V, spinothalamic neurons exhibit responses that correspond with burning pain. J Neurophysiol . 2004; 92 (4): 2604-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Vierck CJ, Whitsel BL, Favorov OV, Brown AW, et al.: Role of primary somatosensory cortex in the coding of pain. Pain . 2013; 154 (3): 334-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Craig A. Peer Review Report For: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: “Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula” by Davis et al. [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1207 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7854.r11308) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1#referee-response-11308 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "The dorsal posterior insula is not an island...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Segerdahl AR et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207",
 templates : {
 twitter : "The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves.... Segerdahl AR et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: \u201CEvidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula\u201D by Davis et al.", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Correspondence", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: \u201CEvidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula\u201D by Davis et al.", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/7287/7854")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "7854");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "11056": 0,
 "11308": 135,
 "11053": 0,
 "11054": 0,
 "11550": 82,
 "11055": 0,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "42fb135e-8957-4c5d-9fad-e3c0c132a58a";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 