 This is an interesting study dealing with the effects that facilitated plants may have on the performance of the reproductive success of the nurse species. As far as I am aware, this is the first study reporting such effects. The article is well written and is easy to read. The arguments provided in the introduction section support the hypotheses raised by the authors, and the methods used to test these hypotheses are sound. I believe that this paper makes an important contribution to the conceptual framework of positive interactions among plants along environmental gradients, mainly because it helps one to understand the outcome of these interactions in future climate change scenarios. I just have a few comments and queries about the methods used by the authors. The other sections of the article are clear and would not require major improvement. Materials and Methods : Specific comments In the subsection Study species, several sentences begin with the abbreviated scientific name of species ( S. acaulis ). Nevertheless, it is not appropriate to use the abbreviated name of the species for beginning a sentence. In this case, the full name of the species should be provided ( Silene acaulis ) while its abbreviated form ( S. acaulis ) must be used when the species is mentioned in the middle of a sentence. In the second paragraph of the subsection Study species the authors indicate that, besides S. acaulis , several other plant species are relatively abundant. My question on this issue is: Are all these other species beneficiary of S. acaulis or they are just sharing the habitat with this cushion plant? This should be clarified to understand the aim of testing the Stress Gradient Hypothesis. In the first paragraph of the subsection the authors indicate that they choose 20 female and male plants for the experiment. This caught my attention because in the previous sections of the article the authors stated that they used a gynodioecious population of S. acaulis and, therefore, male plants should not exist. I think that there is a mistake in this sentence, where instead of 20 female and male plants the authors should say 20 female plants and plants with hermaphroditic flowers. 