I think this is an excellent paper that offers a substantiated proposal that it is indeed time to initiate a randomized controlled clinical trial in cancer patients to determine if methadone therapy improves outcomes or mortality data. The public has become increasingly well-informed (thank you Dr. Google) and the idea that methadone may improve longevity in cancer is too titillating to ignore. However, the data is often controversial and by no means conclusive. Kremer does an excellent job reviewing what we do know to date on this topic and affirms that we are not in a position to support the uncontrolled distribution of methadone for this purpose. He does, however, suggest the time has come to “initiate randomized controlled clinical trials with methadone in cancer patients.” Additional comments: In more detail, Kremer provides the background on how the general public has become aware of the potential for methadone possibly improving outcomes in cancer patients. This has resulted in patients demanding methadone therapy when diagnosed with cancer, regardless of the presence of pain. A chronological history of preclinical findings (predating clinical observations) follows, dating back to the 1980s. Interestingly, high concentrations of methadone (but not other opioids) boosted the effect of vinblastine in multidrug resistant cells. Research groups from Germany, Spain, and Canada found that methadone induced apoptosis in cancer cells and was able to overcome chemotherapy resistance. Survival benefit was explored in several studies. The largest included almost 100,000 patients in the Veterans Affairs system. A hazard ratio of 0.56 was seen for survival benefit with methadone-treated patients vs. long-acting morphine in a cohort with non-metastatic cancer, non-HIV, and non-addicts. Several other studies also showed positive outcomes with methadone, although a retrospective cohort study from a Tennessee Medicaid database showed increased mortality with methadone. Two targeted investigations also showed beneficial effects with methadone, although they were small in size. Kremer concludes by asking more questions than he answers? Is methadone safer or provides benefits in cancer over other opioids? Going on the assumption that there may be something to the protective or beneficial effects of methadone in certain cancers, and possibly as an enhancer of doxorubicin. I agree with Dr. Kremer that it is “time to initiate randomized controlled clinical trials to test the efficacy of methadone as a therapy for cancer patients.” 