 Introduction The sentence beginning “After episodes in and out of candidate status,…”is nebulous and uninformative. What are the episodes that are alluded to? In order to provide necessary context, it would appear that those episodes should be described to some extent. Pertaining to the section describing the Texas CCA/As: a search of the referenced TCP document reveals no specific wording as it is characterized here. No specific language related to “ attempt to avoid habitat” is included in the referenced document. Why is the word “ attempt ” emphasized in italics? It is not verbatim from the reference. Clearly, there are differences in the NM and TX plans, but this passage characterizes the Texas document as intentionally or tacitly promoting disruptive oil and gas development. Another interpretation of the TCP would be that it allowed greater flexibility to enrollees as to conservation strategies. This section should be revised to more objectively and thoroughly present the differences between the TCP and NM CCA. Why isn’t the objective of the paper to evaluate actual protection of the DSL? That would seem to be a much more direct and appropriate test of the process and allow for comparison of each state’s effectiveness in carrying out the process. As written, outcomes of the predictions (results) appear to be solely affected by the CCA/As; as if no other factors drive oil and gas development approvals. Myriad other factors influence these outcomes, but none are listed here (and should be). This paper lacks acknowledgement and review of mitigating/confounding factors. Methods Data Identification Selection of DSL range and thus lands to be included in these analyses is critical. Justification for the selection procedure, or land masses included in analyses are not well documented in this manuscript. As for the Texas DSL range, the Hibbitts map is somewhat controversial and perhaps not well suited (in its entirety) for these analyses. Habitat designated as “low quality” likely does not and may have never supported viable populations of DSLs. Inclusion of those areas in these analyses is questionable and potentially confounding. What is the reference for the NM DSL range? It is difficult to determine if the authors are comparing apples and apples, or apples and oranges. Detailed maps and much stronger justification for inclusion of land in these analyses would be most helpful. Data Analysis This seems like an overly complicated way to evaluate some very simple questions. Why not simply use Chi -square analysis to determine application approval rate differences inside and out, before and after? For that matter, is the focus on approval rates or simply the numbers of new wells? The introduction speaks of approval rates, not numbers of new wells. Data presented only depict new wells, not applications that were approved or rejected. Results The authors switch back and forth between new well approvals and numbers of new wells. They are not the same. What about wells that were not approved? The figures indicate a reduction in number of wells in NM after implementation of the CCA, and no decrease in areas deemed “outside DSL range”. Clearly the delineation of inside versus outside seriously influences these models. The figure depicting new wells in Texas DLS habitat also show reductions in well development both inside and outside DSL ranges. Why is that? The slopes of these lines are not presented for evaluation. Also, the table of statistics is vague and confusing. What is the term “Year:in-habitat”? Is that an interaction term? Unclear as presented. With regard to the figure legends: there is insufficient documentation of the “strong avoidance requirements” in the NM plan as well as no substantiation of the “lacks strong avoidance requirements” claims about the TCP. As such, this manuscript appears, to some degree, to lack objectivity. Discussion These results indicate that (at best) oil and gas development has slowed in some areas in both states since about 2008. There is no definitive proof that the CCA/As were the cause. This is perhaps simply due to coincidence. These results could also demonstrate how comparing apples to oranges can lead one to whatever conclusion an author wishes to demonstrate. The objectivity and methods of this research are questionable. 