In this manuscript, the authors describe details of a Cytoscape 3.0 App: ReactomeFIViz. This app is intended to help users easily investigate genomic alteration data in the context of biological networks. The app allows users to obtain a network from the curated Reactome Functional Interaction database; map mutation, copy-number alteration or gene expression data onto the network; conduct a gene set enrichment analysis or module discovery on the simplified Reactome network; and finally, see the detailed pathway view provided by the Reactome Pathway Browser. The previous version of the App, which was compatible with Cytoscape 2, was introduced as a supplemental software tool in an earlier study (Wu, Feng and Stein, 2010 ). Since then, both Cytoscape extensions, the plug-in and the app, have actively been used by users. This has also been evident by the positive reviews the App has received on the Cytoscape App Store. Considering the rich functionality and the ease of cancer genomics analysis that the App provides to the users, we believe this app is of interest to many researchers working in the fields of Computational Biology, Cancer Genomics and Systems Biology. There is already extensive documentation about the App on the Reactome web site, however the manuscript fails to provide a general overview for non-experienced users. We have the following suggestions for the authors and if addressed, we believe, these will considerably improve the manuscript: In the abstract, the authors say ... pathways from Reactome and other pathway databases... . The paper, however, creates the impression that the App is highly dependent on the Reactome infrastructure and does not allow communication with other databases. We suggest that the authors remove and other pathway databases from the abstract or better clarify this point in the abstract. The details about the type of analyses and the statistical tests the App enables are provided in an earlier paper by the same group (Wu, Feng and Stein, 2010), but not in this paper. For readers that are interested in learning these details, we suggest the authors to add a sentence to the manuscript and refer to their earlier work for details. If the functionality and the implementation of these tests have changed since then, we suggest that the authors clearly list these new improved items in the paper for more clarification. As an example use case, the authors provide the details of a re-analyzed data set and mention that the results of these two analyses differ due to changes in Reactome FI networks. Curated databases are, of course, subject to changes over time; but it is not clear from the text whether it was the changed network that was causing the problem or the new version of the extension. We suggest that the authors provide the results of these two runs as a supplement to their paper for users to compare and contrast. The last sentence of the Implementation section says that the analyses were conducted in R, but can the authors clarify the requirements for this App? Do users, for example, need to install R to use this App? Related to this, the authors do not talk about the Cytoscape version that the App targets. Is the Cytoscape 2 PlugIn deprecated? Do authors suggest that users install the newer version in Cytoscape 3 as an App? Figure 1 provides details about the implementation and the architecture of the ReactomeFIViz App, however we think the manuscript needs a simple user flow diagram that shows where different types of data are obtained, the functionalities of the App and the output the users get. The mutation-based module discovery and differential survival analysis examples mentioned in the paper are good use cases, however it is not clear from the text what the App supports other than these examples. Finally, we suggest the authors to provide a supplemental step-by-step guide to replicate the results that they describe in the paper. For a new user, this may provide a good base to start using the software and for many researchers it might be more convenient to have such an article provided as a supplementary file to this paper. 