General comment This is a very interesting article that compiles information relevant to an emerging and widely disseminated infection in the American continent whose complications are still under study and its impact still to be known. Specifically, there are some aspects of the review that need to be considered: Objectives: - Clearly specified focusing on the cardiovascular involvement of Chikungunya virus infection, frequency of presentation, clinical manifestations and laboratory elements such as the electrocardiogram Methodology - Articles published in French have been left out, which could be a limitation considering that the largest series of cases and their complications came from France in relation to the big outbreak on La Reunion island, and many of them published in French. - The search criteria are wide: Chikungunya AND systemic manifestations, heart, cardiac. However, with these criteria, you could lose some reports of severe disease that do not appear under these search criteria. Chikungunya AND mortality or Death could be included. Also, more specific criteria could be used in order to answer the question the authors propose to find cardiovascular involvement in Chikungunya infection - The inclusion of dengue in the search and in the results escapes the objectives of this systematic review. There is no reference to the use of PRISMA checklist in this review, if it was used, make it more explicit in each of the items. Results It is confusing and difficult to follow what results are obtained from the systematic review (40 articles) and what results are from articles not included in the review. Table 1, which shows the frequency of the involvement of different organs in chikungunya can be absolutely biased since the inclusion criteria are articles with systemic involvement. According to the search criteria, the classical form of the disease has not been included overestimating the frequency of systemic involvement. It is not clear what criteria you used to classify an organ involvement as very common or extremely rare. According to the authors, an unusual manifestation occurs between 39-20%. This could be debatable. The clinical description of the disease in terms of acute, post-acute and chronic phase is irrelevant for the purposes of this review. Just mention the clinical aspects that are important for the objectives. In this sense, clarify the terms used as atypical manifestations, extra-articular manifestations, systemic disease, severe disease. They are used sometimes as synonyms and sometimes with a different meaning. It is confusing. It is difficult to understand why in table 1, cardiovascular manifestations are as frequent as 54% but does not appear to be so in the text of atypical presentations. The entire section of cardiovascular manifestations in dengue goes beyond the purpose of the study and should not be mentioned in the results. Comparisons with the cardiovascular compromise in chikungunya, which is appreciated, can be presented in the discussion. At the end of results and before management, the paragraph of studies determining the cardiovascular outcome in patients with chikungunya should be included in conclusions. Discussion It is not clear the meaning of the phrase cardiac compromise is not so common in isolated episodes. The authors do not clearly indicate the home take messages for this study and its main contribution. Limitations: authors do not mention the limitations of their study. Conclusions: Do not correspond to purpose of the study or objectives. References In the references, it is not clear what are the articles included in the systematic review and what are included for discussion. 