Our laboratory (Saikumar) published two manuscripts on the PMEPA1/TMEPAI gene product that acts as a molecular switch in converting transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-) from a tumor suppressor to a tumor promoter by suppressing canonical Smad signaling and promoting non-canonical PI3K/Akt signaling using breast cancer models. We have been invited to review and comment here on the correspondence paper by Dijkstra and Alexander. The correspondence titled "The NF-kB interacting long noncoding RNA (NKILA) transcript is antisense to cancer-associated gene PMEPA1 by Dijkstra and Alexander, provided an alternate explanation to the results presented by Liu et al in a recent publication A cytoplasmic NF-kB interacting long noncoding RNA blocks IkB phosphorylation and suppresses the breast cancer metastasis in Cancer Cell (27: 370-381, 2015). Although the novel finding of the later is that the long noncoding RNA designated NKILA is upregulated by immunostimulants due to the presence of a NF-kB binding motif in the promoter region of this gene which is located in the human chromosome 20q13.31. NKILA driven by NFkB acts as a negative feedback regulator of NFkB activation through a direct interaction with NF-kB p65-IkB complex, which was the basis for the negative effects on the events mediated by NF-kB signaling pathways. Importantly, these authors either ignored or failed to notice the similarities between NKILA and PMEPA1, another gene present in the same locus of chromosome 20. A simple BLAST search would have indicated the similarities between these two genes and their locations. Interestingly, NKILA appears to fit the description of a head-to-head antisense RNA for PMEPA1. Dijkstra and Alexander rightly noticed this omission and highlighted in their correspondence the following: i) Both NKILA and PMEPA1 genes are in anti-sense and sense orientation in the same region in chromosome 20; ii) Based on the overlap, Dijkstra and Alexander proposed a provocative hypothesis that NKILA transcript may have the potential to regulate PMEPA1. The authors are correct in pointing out that Liu et al. completely overlooked the existence of PMEPA1 and did not take into account in their discussion of the mechanism involving NKILA; iii) They rightly state that indeed future experiments should verify a link between NKILA and PMEPA1. Some of the issues they raised in the supplementary file 2 were scientifically valid. This correspondence is purely theoretical and short of much needed experimental data to show that NKILA negatively regulates PMEPA1 mRNA levels. However, in defense of the authors of the original paper, there is no evidence to suggest that immuno-stimulants like TNF- and LPS can induce PMEPA1. Overall the correspondence merits indexing with high importance because it will initiate research activity to identify the link between these two genes during inflammation.