 The main aim of the publication entitled “Using sheep genomes from diverse U.S. breeds to identify missense variants in genes affecting fecundity” is to establish a publicly accessible resource of sequenced genomes that represent popular U.S. sheep breeds. A key factor for the usefulness of such resource is the fold coverage. While in Introduction a “16x WGS resource” is mentioned, in Results it is indicated that: “the average calculated read depth (17.0)”, the submissions to the SRA database are all entitled “12x WGS of USMARC Sheep…” and the author’s website referred in the manuscript: “USDA, ARS, USMARC internet site” is entitled: “10x WGS of …”. The latter number would have indicated a limited utility for Genotyping-By-Sequencing (GBS) of SNPs, as the typical coverage is not evenly distributed along the genome, and many loci would lack the minimal coverage of 5x. This coverage allows detecting homozygotes with less than a 0.05% uncertainty, assuming ideal conditions of a 0.5 probability to detect an allele and no sequencing errors. Practically, detection rate is biased and sequence errors do exist. Therefore, the authors put much effort to estimate the rate of genotyping errors by comparing their genotypes with bead array data, concluding that no animals had a SNP genotype accuracy of less than 97%. Since this calculation of error rate involves errors introduced by both genotyping methods, a more straightforward approach can be considered by analyzing non-autosomal loci on chromosome X; there all genotypes must be homozygous. Table S1 offers such a possibility for the BMP15 gene; where two heterozygotes were encountered out of 288 genotypes, which indicates that either sequencing errors or contaminations may introduce 0.7% of the error. Indeed, sequence cross contamination is a known problem of sequenced genomes 1 ; and sequencing projects should be routinely controlled for DNA contaminants. As the authors did not refer to this problem, I tested one of their 923 submissions that has a median size (4.6 G bases, SRX2186704) by analyzing the sequence reads that do not map to the sheep genome (Oar_v4). Using the GAP5 software 2 , the reads sent to the failures.seq file were de-novo assembled into contigs using MIRA4 sequence assembler 3 . As the current genome version lacks the Y chromosome, most of these contigs were similar to submissions of Y chromosome orthologs of other ruminants; yet, several contigs resembled the Onchocerca flexuosa genome, the largest of which was of 3372 bp and had 502 reads with 83% identity to this worm genome. This suggests that this individual was infected by a parasitic roundworm similar to the species that infect red deer, and that the authors present a valuable resource that is important for parasitology 4 . As I encountered no other DNA contaminants, it is likely that the data presented by the authors is solid and of the highest quality and that the worm DNA was extracted from this animal’s blood. As for identifying missense variants in 3 genes affecting fecundity, I conclude that the authors left no stone unturned to ensure the validity of their genotypes. E. g., Table S1 indicates that the unique homozygous genotype for BMPR1B (individual 200117552) had coverage of 41x fold, suggesting that sequence coverage was increased for this individual to ensure this result. Yet, the use of modern tools for predicting the functional effect of amino acid substitutions 5 should have warned them that this variation (T345N) is not likely to produce a phenotype (PROVEAN score = -2.191, Neutral). In this respect, the 4 novel variations described in the fecundity genes are of minor importance. Nevertheless, the observation that none of the U.S. popular breeds carries the Booroola mutation should have an impact, as introgression of this mutation revolutionized sheep production in Spain and Israel 6 . Despite the apparent weakness of the work in identifying important novel variants of fecundity genes, I approve this work as a valuable genomic resource. The authors are advised to control for DNA contaminants, to avoid the discrepancies described by extending the clear and accurate presentation of this work to the affiliated webpages and to discuss the issues raised by this review. 