The paper by Wild et al studies the question of how Herpes virus is assembled and transported. The paper is important but not conclusive. I agree with the authors that in the literature, there are no convincing images demonstrating the nucleocapsis being attached to the cytosolic part of the external membrane of the nuclear envelope. Such image would suggest that virion fused with the external membrane of the nuclear envelope and then would be released to the cytosol. If such mechanism exists, there should be many such situations and many nucleocapsids in the cytosol. Moreover, there should be a mechanism involved into the direct delivery of nucleocapsid towards the Golgi. However, there is only one image (Fig. 9A) demonstrating (although not convincingly) budding BoHV-1 capsid into the lumen of the Golgi cisterna. Appearance of the capsid in the cytosol could be a result of enlargement of nuclear pores. It is not clear whether virions are transported through the Golgi. If such, there should be indications that proteins of virions undergo glycosylation with Golgi enzymes. If these proteins have specific type of glycosylation similar to that in CFTR there could be transport of virion through the Golgi without integration of virion containing vacuoles into Golgi cisternae. In general, there could be the following possibilities for the acquisition of the limiting membranes by virions. 1. Negative budding into the lumen of the nuclear envelope through the inner membrane, then fission and formation of almost-ready virion inside the lumen of the nuclear envelope, subsequent ER-Golgi transport, glycosylation within the Golgi complex, transport from the Golgi complex towards the PM in Golgi-to-PM carriers, fusion of the most external membrane of carrier and release of the virion into the extracellular space. If virions already surrounded by limiting membranes were transported from the nuclear envelope towards the Golgi complex, there should be mechanisms for such transfer. For instance, within the cytosol there are microtubules and MT-based motors, or actin-dependent comets and so on. 2. Negative budding into the lumen of the nuclear envelope through the inner membrane, then fission and formation of almost-ready virion inside the lumen of the nuclear envelope; fusion of the limiting membrane of virion with the external membrane of the nuclear envelope and release of the capsid without virion matrix into the cytosol and then budding into the Golgi cisterna distension and the subsequent intra-Golgi transport, Golgi glycosylation and post-Golgi transport as in the first pathway. In this case there should be a mechanism for the fusion of virion with the external membrane of the nuclear envelope. Also one should present several images showing the situations when the external membrane of the nuclear envelope contain invaginations (buds) inside the lumen of the nuclear envelope and the capsid is open towards the cytosol and also images where a capsid forms an intraluminal bud inside the distension of the Golgi cisternae. 3. Negative budding into the lumen of the nuclear envelope through the inner membrane, then fission and formation of almost-ready virion inside the lumen of the nuclear envelope; fusion of the limiting membrane of virion with the external membrane of the nuclear envelope and release of the capsid without virion matrix into the cytosol and then transport from the nucleus toward the PM and formation of bud on the PM with subsequent blebbing (external budding). One should present several images showing the situations when the external membrane of the nuclear envelope contain an invagination (bud) into the lumen of the nuclear envelope and the capsid is open towards the cytosol and images with the capsid inside the blebs of the PM. 4. Movement of capsids through widened nuclear pores into the cytosol, transport from the nucleus toward the PM and formation of bud on the PM with subsequent blebbing (external budding). One should present images with the capsid inside the blebs of the PM and a capsid within enlarged nuclear pore or extremely close to the widened pore. 5. Movement of capsids through widened nuclear pores into the cytosol, transport from the nucleus toward the Golgi complex and then budding into the Golgi cisterna distension and subsequent intra-Golgi and post-Golgi transport as in the first pathway. One should present images with a capsid within enlarged nuclear pore or extremely close to the widened pore and images with a capsid, which forms an intraluminal bud inside the distension of the Golgi cisternae. Thus, it is necessary to study the type of glycosylation of virion trans membrane proteins, which are inserted into the external virion membrane. It is necessary and it could be nice to perform 3DEM in order to solve all these unclear questions. Also in order to solve questions mentioned in this paper, it is necessary to test the role of membrane fusion (microinjection of aSNAPmutant or treatment of cells with BAPTA-AM) for the intracellular transport of virions. ER-Golgi and intra-Golgi transport of such large virions should be dependent on membrane fusion because there are no convincing data showing that connections between Golgi cisternae are stable (Mironov et al., 2016; 10.1016/j.tice.2016.12.002). The most probable mechanism is the kiss-and-run. Minor points 1. Images in Fig. 2, 5, 8, 9 are too small for analysis by eyes. Only at 5-fold enlargement of the figure on computer some details become visible. It is not clear why the journal does not use its server for the images with normal size. It is almost impossible to see detail in Fig. 12. 2. It is not completely clear the role of experiments with brefeldin A and with Us3 deletion mutant. 3. I agree with Dr. Griffiths that the Golgi complex is well preserved with chemical fixation high pressure freezing without three-dimensional may be not so important. 4. In page 5, the authors write: "A series of images show that ER membranes continue into Golgi membrane". It is necessary to make 3D EM (Mironov et al., 2016 Tissue and Cell. 10.1016/j.tice.2016.12.002) to prove this. In fact, the authors demonstrated continuation only between the ER and trans-ER cisternae. 5. In Fig. 11/2 the most trans cisterna (TMC) is drawn incorrectly (see Ladinsky et al., 1994 J Cell Biol. 127(1):29-38). There are no protrusions from the plane part of TMC. These protrusions exist but only from the rims. 6. After careful examination of images of the paper at 4-fold magnification I found that in Fig. 4A, instead of the Golgi complex the early autophagosome is shown. 7. In Fig. 4B, there are only two GCs but not four. The Golgi complexes are visible in the in the central upper zone centre upper and the in the left lower zone. In the upper left and upper right zones, MVBs are shown. 8. Figure 8D in Wild et al. (2018) is the exact copy of Figure 2F from Wild et al. (2002). 