Gammelstrup Andersen and collegues describe experiments in a murine stroke model to investigate whether post-stroke depression (PSD), a frequent complicaton of human stroke, can be modeled experimentally. In sample sizes of 5 per group, using young male C57/Bl6/J mice, a left sided permanent occlusion of the distal middle cerebral artery (which produces neocortical infarcts) they conducted behavioural tests focusing ond exploration, motivation, as well as hedonia and despair (which are considered as proxies for depression by some). Despite all animals demonstrating reproducible infarcts, no ‘depression like’ phenotype was observed in this model. Although the methodology is sound in principle, and the research question relevant, there are a number of issues which negatively affect the impact of this work in its present form. Group sizes of 5 are exceedingly low, but the sentence ‘Whilst this study may have been slightly underpowered in terms of animal numbers, actively pursuing significance with higher numbers would be ethically questionable, and against the principles of reduction and refinement.’ is absurd and unscientific. In fact, underpowered studies are unethical, as pointed out by Cressey D 1 . An informal, post hoc power calculation on their data set reveals that they may have achieved only 10-20 % power (instead of 80 or 95%). This is particularly worrisome, as they report a NULL result, so false negatives are a major concern. The study is lacking a justification of the sample sizes, and Type II error considerations. What are the effect sizes the study could have possibly detected? In general, the test statistics of this study don’t make a lot of sense. Although they are formally correct, in the absence of the definition of one primary outcome, and the fact that they performed at least 12 ANOVAs (for which they did not correct), as well as given the exploratory character of the study, test statistics should be avoided, and the focus should be on effect sizes and variance. This brings me to another problem: The authors use SEMs (a measure of precision, not of the spread of the data) and they use bar graphs, instead of dot plots (individual data points) and true measures of variance to illustrate their data. The authors do not mention how many animals went into the study (ARRIVE guidelines), they only mention group sizes (in the figures). Only downloading the full data set reveals that there obviously was no attrition, although there are unexplained missing data points. The authors are strongly advised to consult a statistician. External validity I: Left sided occlusion only! Kronenberg et al 2 , in a mouse model of transient proximal occlusion demonstrated that left, but not right, middle cerebral artery occlusion leads to chronic ‘Depression-Like’ behavior, which was reversed by serotonin reuptake inhibition . This article, as well as a number of other relevant publications pertinent to the subject of modeling of PSD in rodents, is not cited. Although Gammelstrup Andersen used left sided occlusion, it at least demonstrates the potential of lateralization of behavioural symptoms in rodents. External validity II: Only male mice are studied, and of an age range and without comorbidities. This does not reflect the cohort of patients which are at risk for stroke and PSD. The title of the study ‘Distal middle cerebral artery occlusion does not result in depression-like behaviors’ is imprecise and should contain at least the species, but ideally more information on the model. I suggest: An exploratory investigation of ‘depression-like’ behaviours in a model of left-sided distal middle cerebral artery occlusion in young, male C57B6 mice. In summary, I strongly recommend to change the graphical presentation of the data, redo the statistics (descriptive instead of test), discuss the limitations (in particular the exceedingly low power, and issues of external validity), and include some of the missing literature. 