This contribution emphasizes how the concept of invariance connects patterns to processes leading to an original synthesis of previous approaches. In particular, this piece of work illustrates the application of the concept of invariance to deduce the most commonly observed species abundance distributions (SAD) in nature. The authors succeed in giving a general overview of the relation between invariance, process, and pattern. As an illustration, they present two key theoretical results. First, they derive the log series SAD from a simple maximum entropy argument. When species abundances fluctuate randomly on a log scale, this is, process values 'r' are random (where r is defined as log n), and these fluctuations are only subject to an ecological constraint limiting total abundance, then the log series distribution, initially introduced by R. A. Fisher, naturally arises. Second, they show that Hubbell's neutral model is the simple expression of three basic invariances, which correspond to a maximum entropy model constraining average species abundances, and the average and variance of the demographic processes influencing abundance. The first theoretical result is far from original as the same argument is clearly presented by Pueyo et al. (2007) 1 in "The maximum entropy formalism and the idiosyncratic theory of biodiversity" where clearly, after a scale invariance argument is done, the log series again naturally arises from a maximum entropy derivation by only constraining on total abundance. However, the second result and the whole emphasis on the generality and the power of the invariance approach in ecology is a true novel contribution to the field. The authors state, in their conclusions, that "the invariance approach is the only way to relate process to pattern". The authors emphasize that, in order to uncover the plausible underlying mechanisms underlying an observed pattern, one needs first to pay special attention to the general invariant form of probability patterns. In the future, I would like to see the authors' invariance approach to apply, more generally to other patterns in ecology. 