The paper by Hesketh et al. , addresses the very important issue of facilitating productive communication among highly interdisciplinary teams. This impacts not only verbal communication among interdisciplinary members but also written communications in the form of simple messages and publications. It is also well noted that during peer review of publications, there is often lacking a single person with the necessary vocabulary and domain knowledge to fully understand, evaluate and communicate a review of the work. The method of Hesketh et al . will clearly aid in this important process. Importantly, they have developed a smart approach to the problem that can be applied more broadly to other interdisciplinary teams that require the integration of disparate fields of science and technology such as life sciences and engineering. For example, the synthetic biology community has experienced this issue as it has developed and evolved over the past 15 or so years. More specifically, Hesketh et al . not only set a good structure and context that the interdisciplinary team developing the DNA as a digital information storage media face, but also provides some solutions to critical problems. The first is creating a glossary of terms so that all disciplines involved can communicate with a common and known set of terms. Second, they have put forward the use of a “controlled vocabulary” where terms that are particular to the emerging interdisciplinary field are defined so as to enable all members to communicate precisely and thus reduce confusion that often occurs when terms have multiple meanings and/or field dependent meanings. Perhaps most importantly, Hesketh et al. , have built their approach as a “living document” where the vocabulary and common vocabulary can be continuously updated by the interdisciplinary community as the community grows and evolves. With respect to any additional comments or edits, I offer that the authors consider adding “Chemistry Terminology” to their glossary with specific attention to the chemical synthesis of DNA since this is the current method for DNA synthesis. Such terms could include; phosphoramidite, cycle yield, coupling efficiency, de-block step, oxidation step. Given the importance, clarity and potential for broad applicability, I strongly recommend the paper for indexing. 