With reference genome assemblies already available for the goat species Capra hircus , this manuscript announces a set of whole-genome shotgun reads from one individual of a breed that had yet to be sequenced. The data size is small, constituting less than one single run of an Illumina HiSeq X. The data were enhanced by mapping and SNP calling and those data are also made available. The manuscript is presented as a Data Note for which the content and format seem appropriate. The abstract and introduction provide possibly excessive background on the goat breed. The text includes “dwarf sized”, “small-sized”, “high fertility”, “excellent meat and skin quality”, “high quality meat”, “contributes substantially to the economy”, and “Despite its economic importance.” Even with citations, these descriptions are imprecise for a scientific journal. The introduction could reference one respectable study of this goat’s importance. It should address the need for a genomic explanation for certain traits, with references if possible. Two genomic references were used for SNP discovery and at least one mitochondrial genome sequence was used for filtering reads. The manuscript provides accessions for both genomic sequences but none for the mitochondria. The manuscript should provide literature citations for all of these reference sequences. The introduction should briefly review previous goat sequencing projects, e.g. the Yunnan goat (Dong et al. , 2013 1 ), the domestic goat (Bickhart et al. , 2017 2 ), and some appropriate goat mitochondria study (e.g. Colli et al. , 2015 3 ). The text should explain that one library was prepared from one tissue sample and then multiplexed for sequencing with several (unrelated?) libraries. The text only hints at this by using the words “mixture” and “demultiplexing”. It is critical to understand that the reads were multiplexed since otherwise the reported number of reads seems low for a HiSeq run. The English grammar could be polished in a few places: “transition and transversion ratio” should say “transition to transversion”; “were as follow:” should say “as follows”; “sequencer built-in software” should say “sequencer’s built-in software”. The Illumina instrument name seems to be spelled HiSeq X, not HiseqX. 