This manuscript addresses an interesting topic: how orientation and seating arrangements may influence the doctor patient’s relationship. The manuscript is interesting but a bit poor in terms of references. The topic has a lot to do with personal communication and I strongly advice to introduce the concepts and the references illustrated below. Orientation refers to body angles adopted when people talk, such as directly facing or shoulder to shoulder. It concerns the position of the trunk, rather the head, and it marks the degree of intimacy in the conversation and the levels of friendship. 1 It is useful to look at proximity and orientation together since it has been found that there can be an inverse relationship between them that is, direct face to face alignment is linked to greater interpersonal distance and sideways angling to closer distance. 1 This would be expected in situations where orientation was being used to compensate for excessive closeness. 2 Orientation can also be used to include or exclude others from the group during discussion. 1 Early studies of seating behaviour by Sommer 3 in North America, replicated by Cook 4 in the UK, point to some interesting differences in seating arrangements if individuals are given a choice of where to sit when involved in different sorts of activities. Environmental factors are also important. The physical setting can influence our mood and how we perceive the social situation. It can also determine our likelihood of interacting with others, and also influences the form that interaction will take and how long it is likely to last. 1 Hall distinguished between fixed-feature and semi-fixed feature elements of the environment. 5 The former includes everything that is relatively permanent or not easily modifiable, such as the architectural layout of a house, size and shape of rooms, and the material used in their construction while semifixed features are much easier to move around or modify, and include furniture, lighting, temperature. According to Knapp and Hall based on such characteristics, we form impressions of our surroundings organized around 6 dimensions. 6 These are : Formality: concerns cues leading to decisions about how casual in what is said and done or if a more ritualized or stylized performance is demanded. Warmth: here one feels comfortable, secure, and at ease in what are regarded as convivial surroundings. Privacy: has to do with the extent to which interactors feel that they have the space to themselves or whether others may intrude or eavesdrop. Familiarity: involving impressions of having encountered this type of setting before and knowing how to deal with it (or not as the case maybe). Constraint: concerns perceptions of how easy it is to enter and leave the situation. Distance: address how close, either physically or psychologically, we feel to those with whom we share the space. These perceptions shape the types of interactions we engage in and how we experience them. 1 The way in which work space is arranged and utilised sends strong signals about the status and authority of occupants, the kinds of tasks and activities being implicitly proposed, and last but not least the desirability and appropriateness of focused communication in that situation. 1 