Thank you for allowing me to have the opportunity to review the manuscript entitled “Can work-related stress and job satisfaction affect job commitment among nurses? A cross-sectional study”. In a cross sectional study, the authors evaluate the association between work-related stress, and job satisfaction and commitment among nurses who worked in a teaching hospital affiliated to Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, northern Iran. The results indicated that job satisfaction and work-related stress explained 54% of variance in job commitment. The overall job and overall work stress influenced job commitment. I congratulate the authors for their interesting study in the field of health services management. I believe that this paper would have a moderate to high level of interest for the health care managers and administrators, as well as readers of this journal. Overall the manuscript has been well written. However, I’d like the authors to address few issues in order to improve their manuscript. Abstract: For a study to receive the respect it deserves, the abstract should be as well written as possible. In the background section of the abstract, It's better to state a bit about the importance of job stress for nurses, as a sentence. The questionnaires that have been used in the study should be stated in the method section of the abstract. Only stating that the standard questionnaires have been used is not enough. Reporting the mean job satisfaction and work-related stress scores alone is not informative. What do these scores mean? Please clarify. All keywords should be MeSH headings and should be checked against this list http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/ Introduction: One of the limitations of the introduction of this manuscript is the lack of attention and the reporting the prevalence of job stress and job commitment among nurses in general and Iranian nurses in particular. Please refer to the related published studies in this regard and address the issue in the introduction. Please clarify. I believed that the below mentioned studies are appropriate and can be used: Gheshlagh RG, Parizad N, Dalvand S, Zarei M, Farajzadeh M, Karami M, Sayehmiri K. The prevalence of job stress among nurses in Iran: A meta-analysis study. Nurs Midwifery Stud 2017;6:143-8 1 . Dagget T, Molla A, Belachew T. Job related stress among nurses working in Jimma Zone public hospitals, South West Ethiopia: a cross sectional study. BMC Nurs. 2016 Jun 16;15:39[re-2]. Najimi A, Goudarzi AM, Sharifirad G. Causes of job stress in nurses: A cross-sectional study. Iran J Nurs Midwifery Res. 2012 May;17(4):301-5 3 Veličković VM, Višnjić A, Jović S, Radulović O, Šargić Č, Mihajlović J, Mladenović J. Organizational commitment and job satisfaction among nurses in Serbia: a factor analysis. Nurs Outlook. 2014 Nov-Dec;62(6):415-27 4 . Khosravani M, Khosravani M, Rafiei F, Mohsenpour M. Organizational commitment and its dimensions in nurses working in Arak’s hospitals. Med Ethics J 2017; 11(39): 37-44 5 . Methods: What were the exclusion criteria? Please clarify. How was the sample size calculated? Please clarify. Please explain how to interpret the results of the Organizational commitment and also Job satisfaction questionnaires, in the study methodology. You should explain each of your abbreviations the first time it appears in the text. You should write the full name first, followed by the abbreviation in parentheses. Please revise it for ANOVA (in the data analysis section)! Discussion: Ideally, the discussion section should have the following broad heading; a brief summary of the study and results, comparison of results with the existing literature, clinical evaluation of the work, importance of the findings, strengths and weaknesses of the study. At the end of the discussion readers must know whether the research hypothesis has been proved or not. Please revise the discussion section according the abovementioned style, as much as possible. What is the limitation of the study? Please clarify The below mentioned studies can be used in the discussion section for enriching this section: Naghneh MHK, Tafreshi MZ, Naderi M, Shakeri N, Bolourchifard F, Goyaghaj NS. The relationship between organizational commitment and nursing care behavior. Electron Physician. 2017 Jul 25;9(7):4835-4840 6 . Ding X, Yang Y, Su D, Zhang T, Li L, Li H. Can Job Control Ameliorate Work-family Conflict and Enhance Job Satisfaction among Chinese Registered Nurses? A Mediation Model. Int J Occup Environ Med. 2018 Apr;9(2):97-105 7 . Sepahvand F, Atashzadeh-Shoorideh F, Parvizy S, Tafreshi MZ. The relationship between some demographic characteristics and organizational commitment of nurses working in the Social Security Hospital of Khorramabad. Electron Physician. 2017 Jun 25;9(6):4503-4509 8 . Al-Aameri AS. Job satisfaction and organizational commitment for nurses. Saudi Med J. 2000 Jun;21(6):531-5 9 . Ingersoll GL, Olsan T, Drew-Cates J, DeVinney BC, Davies J. Nurses' job satisfaction, organizational commitment, and career intent. J Nurs Adm. 2002 May;32(5):250-63 10 . Conclusion: Conclusions must be based on the results of this study. New idea or concepts should not be introduced in conclusion section. Please revise the conclusion section. 