We thank the authors for their revisions, and feel that the manuscript has been improved and clarified. The authors addressed most of my initial concerns, but some areas remain to be addressed: Reporting values of 24.3% (honest conversation with PI about IDP) and 22.4% (found IDP helpful) may be misleading to casual readers because these percentages include respondents who didn’t complete an IDP at all—and as reviewer 5 points out, they would have little basis for judgement. While the authors do report the value of 38.4% (% of those who completed an IDP and found it helpful), evidence that the aforementioned percentages can be misleading is found in the reviews of this manuscript, with the “22.4% value” cited as evidence that IDPs may not be effective strategies for improving postdoc outcomes. I recommend removing these two percentages from the graph and, within the text, reporting/highlighting the responses from only those who completed an IDP—which is in line with the rest of the analysis in the manuscript. The authors emphasize that the IDP’s value has decreased to less than 40%, specifically comparing their results to Hobin et al. 2014 1 . They addressed our concern somewhat and indicate later in the manuscript that care should be taken in comparing this current manuscript to other work. However, this point should be made (and further clarified) alongside their comparison because the study designs are quite different—both in the: a) number type of questions on IDP effectiveness b) the manner in which the questions are asked. The Hobin et al. paper asks a series of several questions specifically addressing the helpfulness of different aspects of IDPs (ex: in identifying careers, assessing skills, facilitating communication, etc.), and then asks “How helpful was the IDP process overall?” In this study, one question is asked about IDP effectiveness—individuals are asked about their level of agreement with the statement: “I find the IDP process helpful to my career development.” Since it is emphasized that IDP effectiveness has decreased (a key result in this manuscript), readers could better compare these outcomes if a description about the nature degree of difference between these study designs is included. In line with other reviewers’ concerns about Figure 2’s clarity, I feel that it is important to reword Figure 2’s title legend in order to clearly explain what this graph is showing, as it is not readily intuitive to readers. Likewise, some of the manuscript text should be clarified to remove ambiguity—RE: “For example, 62.2% of those respondents who indicated that they could have an honest conversation with their PI/advisor found that the IDP process was helpful to their career versus 26.3% of those who disagreed.” ...suggest to change to something like: “For example, 62.2% of those respondents who indicated that they could have an honest conversation with their PI/advisor found that the IDP process was helpful to their career versus 26.3% of those who still found the IDP process helpful but disagreed that they could have an honest conversation .” Regarding the issue of ‘additional context’ – as this current study specifically addresses effectiveness of ‘individual development plans’ among postdocs— it will be helpful to readers to elaborate a bit more on the related work mentioned previously (Davis 2006 2 ). The Davis study identifies many positive ‘correlates of success’ associated with postdocs who have a written training plan—although the plans referred to by Davis were not specifically termed ‘IDPs’—in principle, the idea of a written training plan (among postdocs) and associated outcomes is highly related/relevant to this current work. References 1. Hobin JA, Clifford PS, Dunn BM, Rich S, et al.: Putting PhDs to work: career planning for today's scientist. CBE Life Sci Educ . 2014; 13 (1): 49-53 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Geoff Davis: Improving the Postdoctoral Experience: An Empirical Approach. Science and Engineering Careers in the United States: An Analysis ofMarkets and Employment . 2009. 99-127 Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Collins T. Reviewer Report For: Use and effectiveness of the Individual Development Plan among postdoctoral researchers: findings from a cross-sectional study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2018, 7 :1132 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.18327.r39882 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1132/v2#referee-response-39882 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Walton KLW. Reviewer Report For: Use and effectiveness of the Individual Development Plan among postdoctoral researchers: findings from a cross-sectional study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2018, 7 :1132 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.18327.r39878 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1132/v2#referee-response-39878 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Nov 2018 Kristen L. W. Walton , Department of Biology , Missouri Western State University, St. Joseph, MO, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.18327.r39878 The authors have addressed my comments in the initial ... Continue reading READ ALL 