This is an interesting piece of work looking to evaluate influence of varying sequencing coverage (depth) on the ability to harness information about taxonomic composition and species diversity and possible use of shallow whole metagenome shotgun sequencing as a potential cost-effective alternative to targeted 16S rRNA gene sequencing in large scale studies. In general, the manuscript is very well written and make use of staggered mock community along with the actual samples sequenced from diverse environmental origin to optimize required metagenomic sequencing depth to address potential research question. The authors have used statistics such as alpha diversity, species abundance and completeness of reconstructed genomes to evaluate performance of reduce sequencing efforts. It would be interesting, although not required, to see how overall between sample beta diversity (bray-curtis) changes with varying sequencing depth and in full datasets (considering only actual samples). This could offer insights into whether samples coming from diverse environment clusters together even at varying sequencing depth (as low as 10K)? or does reduce sequencing depth influences overall metagenome composition. Particularly, it would be interesting to see Procrustes analysis between full datasets and reduced datasets (may be at 100K/ 500K reads because estimated alpha diversity reached plateau and most of the species gets covered). I am confused with statement on page 8. “Intermediate level of down sampling (here 100K reads) caused an increase in observed species, due to increased number of species exceeding the 0.1% abundance cut-off (selected based on mock community)”. Does this indicate that with increased sequencing effort (particularly in horse fecal samples) those species exceeding the cut-off at reduced sequencing depth did not detected? It would be good if authors can add important limitation of shallow shotgun metagenomic sequencing in discussion. Particularly note on “poorly characterized samples” for which no representative genomes are available in database or “samples coming from biopsy or blood” where host DNA accounts for most of the extracted DNA. Some General comments: All samples were trimmed to the read length of 125bp. Did authors build bracken database with default read length of 100 or 125? If so, please mention that in the manuscript. Please move formula of alpha diversity indexes in method’s section. In the abstract, ‘diversity’ should be prepended with ‘alpha’ as it might otherwise include beta-diversity which wasn’t analysed. The title is quite long (just a matter of taste) 5 th sentence in Intro: technically, fungi are also eukaryotic, so this needs to be reflected. The colour scheme in Figure 2 could be improved. Currently the phyla are ordered alphabetically which is a wasted opportunity for more information. At the least, they should be ordered by kingdom. Unknown could be black/grey/white Correlations for Fig 4 are Pearson, which only should be used if the data follows a normal distribution, otherwise Spearman. Insert “,” for each 1,000 in N. of reads to improve readability All fonts in Figure 5 are too small and unreadable 