This paper describes TicTrainer, a newly created software program designed to track tic occurrences and deliver reward for successful suppression during live observation. Tic suppression contingent reward has reliably been shown to acutely enhance tic suppression in laboratory settings, but little work has been done to date to translate this finding into the clinical context. TicTrainer is an important step in this direction, and appears to be a promising tool for both research and clinical applications. To note, I was unable to evaluate the website itself due to “time out” errors, so my review is based only on the manuscript. Suggestions for enhancing the manuscript are as follows: Introduction: In the sentence, “ERP also showed similar tic reduction..” clarify if the other treatment being referred to is Habit Reversal Therapy/Comprehensive Behavioral Intervention for Tics. It would be helpful to the reader to summarize the outcomes reported for ERP for tics in terms of response rate and degree of change in tic severity reported in prior research. A key feature of ERP is that it aims to train tic suppression in the presence of the premonitory urge so that one can habituate to those aversive sensations. This should be noted in the introduction, particularly since this program would train suppression in a manner that is de-linked from the urge. A brief summary of the literature demonstrating the robust, acute enhancement effect of contingent reward on tic suppression should be included in the introduction. This is a consistently replicated finding, which further supports the rationale for creating a more automated reward delivery program. The introduction suggests an intent to utilize data input into the software for research purposes; however, at present the tictimer.com site does not appear to inform users of this intent. It is unclear to me if this is meant as a research only tool at this time, or if anyone can access the site. Clarify whether other possibility identifying information can be collected (e.g., IP address). It seems that each “level” corresponds to a particular reinforcement schedule. Specific details about these schedules and how they change as one progresses through the program would be helpful. I assuming the program is intended to shape longer tic suppression durations but am not clear if the program aims to do this with an increasing or decreasing reward density. It also sounds like the reward schedule can be manipulated in a research context, so clarification of what the default settings vs. customizable settings would be useful. A section discussing limitations of the current iteration of the software would be useful, such as reliance on live observation by the trainer (as tic frequency can be impacted by observation, and real-time judgements about tic occurrences can be difficult). The program only codes tic occurrence dichotomously, which precludes analyses related to tic type (e.g., motor vs. vocal, simple vs. complex). It would be beneficial to clarify whether this software has been tested in those with tics yet. 