This paper aims to address the challenging task of trying to prioritize candidate genes and diseases based on their degree of relevance within a known heterogenous network of disease-gene and disease-disease associations. A previous iteration of this Cytoscape app called HGPEC employs a network learning-based method only for disease-gene associations however now it has been upgraded to autoHGPEC with added automation features, the flexibility to be integrated in more complex analysis pipelines and the ability to take input other data resources. Another addition is that autoHGPEC predicts not only disease-gene associations but disease-disease assocations as well. This paper details the application of autoHGPEC in predicting novel breast cancer-associated genes and diseases with increased automation and flexibility. I commend the authors in the presentation of their work. The paper was logical, concise and easy to read. Below are my comments. I hope it will benefit them well. Major comments: It is mentioned that the app is highly dependent on a used heterogenous network, gene/protein interaction networks and known disease-gene associations. Firstly, clarify how these networks are provided and what exactly they are. Secondly, perhaps using gene ontology-based gene similarity networks could be better. This is crucial, as there could be post translational modification effects to be explored. However, with this said, the paper claims HGPC can prioritize candidate genes without knowing its molecular basis. Reconsider the reasoning behind this claim. How is the input and output data reliable if we don’t know the molecular basis? Perhaps this is a dangerous statement, as there’s now lots of computational tools providing evidence to the pertinence of post translational modification effects such as methylation, acetylation, etc. Be careful how this is stated. It has current and will have future ramifications. At least provide an explanation as to why knowledge of this isn’t needed. If autoHGPEC performs better than GPEC and PRINCIPLE, present data on it. Where’s the comparison between the three and what is the criteria for ranking them? Has a comparison of results for when a set of candidate genes are selected from a gene network or chromosome been done? This is a flexibility-based component of the app however testing these cases could give evidence for which is more reliable and in what circumstances. Minor comments “Recently, we have developed a Cytoscape app, HGPEC, to predict both disease-gene and disease-disease associations based on a state-of-the-art method on a heterogeneous network of diseases and genes.” Be specific. I understand what the paper is trying to say here, with “state of the art” meaning either network or machine learning based approaches however it took a few times to get a clear understanding. Mention how pertinent these approaches are but afterwards, mention which state of the art approach is being used. It will get the point across quickly without introducing any confusion. Technical and grammatical writing errors: - “…we first refactor source code of HGPEC to implement Cytoscape Tunable annotations to replace control panels of HGPEC in the west” – - “Beside the fact is that almost commands of autoHGPEC return results in JSON format…” - “autoHGPEC is an upgradED version of HGPEC…” - “For gene/protein networkS, user can import the network from various molecular interaction” There are more throughout the paper and especially the supplementary document. Read through and correct carefully. Pay attention to your font formatting and spacing to keep things consistent. Change the node colors on page 8 of the supplementary document. It is a little confusing to see red as top ranked, green as bottom ranked and white and light-green as middle ranked. Maybe provide a legend. Bottom of page 10 – change column names for abbreviation for association. Pick something other than ass. Maybe assoc. Overall, good job. Two crucial benefits to the new app is that it can take data in from multiple sources as opposed to only one source – possibly lowering the chance of error and bias, and that it lets you integrate it with R and Python, allowing for integration as a component of more complex analysis pipelines. However, it seems this app can only be used if known disease-gene/protein associations and disease similarity networks are given. Why doesn’t the paper mention protein interactions any further? Specifically, what pertinent information is being taken away from these said protein interactions? 