The paper shows convincing (to the technical non-specialist) differences in resting state functional connectivity between PTSD patients with or without comorbid major depression MDD. There are clear effects on connectivity of the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex with the left ACC (increased with MDD) and with the thalamus (decreased with MDD). The interpretations are hampered by the design, which ideally would be a 2 X 2, i.e. +/- MDD and +/- PTSD. Therefore sentences like 'we found that connectivity ... is more reduced in PTSD +MDD than in PTSD-MDD' cannot be made. The authors determined that effects on connectivity of insula and hippocampus are related to PTSD symptom severity - this should probably be indicated in figure 3 somehow, as this may end up being used as a graphic summary of the data. I missed whether the authors looked at the use of medication as a factor that affected connectivity, as it may interact with the condition. Second the authors, at correlation between connectivity (thalamus - sgACC) and symptom severity in the PTSD-MDD, group in a post hoc correlation. A similar effect is reported specifically for the PTSD+MDD group. It is unclear why the authors did not look at the correlation in all patients? What is the reason to now limit to a single group? Interpretation: I do not see how on p.6 the authors suggest the cluster B symptoms would tilt the balance towards a PTSD only state, based on correlation, when table 1 clearly shows no differences between the groups for cluster B symptoms. In terms of interpretation, I agree with the first reviewer that the statement in the abstract that the findings have impact on treatment development need to be substantiated. As markers? As targets? It also seems important whether or not PTSD and MDD interact in terms of connectivity, or whether the association of MDD and PTSD 'just' add up. For this a 2x2 design seems necessary, but the paper may benefit from actual meaning that is given to the data. Obviously, at present describing correlates is what is done in research like this, but an explicit sense of direction would be helpful to the non-specialist reader who is nevertheless interested in the subject matter. Minor remarks: I am not certain that (as in: I do not think that) the second, long, sentence in the discussion accurately reflects the findings, please check. The term however in the third paragraph of the intro seems needlessly negative about previous research. 