 The authors undertake a redefinition of the term ‘percentage contribution’ in network meta-analysis. In ordinary meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials, pooled estimates of a treatment effect can be represented as a weighted mean of treatment effects from all contributing trials. Weights are positive and sum to one and naturally constitute the ‘percentage contribution’ of each study. In network meta-analysis treatment effect estimates are defined for all pairs of treatments. Each can be represented as a two-stage estimate, firstly pooling all trials comparing the same set of treatments, respectively, which gives direct effect estimates, and then pooling direct estimates into a network based mixed treatment comparison. The linear coefficients, used in the second stage constitute the ‘contribution of direct evidence to a network based comparison’. They can be read off, from the H matrix, as described by the authors. They share some but not all aspects with weights of a two-armed meta-analysis. Aspects shared in some sense are the flow properties described by the authors and in citation [4]. The aspect not shared, is that summation to one. Indeed, in a purely linear graph connecting two extreme treatments through a chain of, say 10, pairwise intermediary comparisons, the network estimate is the sum of all direct effects. Any bias present in one direct effect estimate translates 1:1 into the network based estimate. Accordingly, the entries of the H matrix are all equal to 1 in the relevant row. Both, Salanti [3] and the present paper aim to rescale or transform the rows of the H matrix in order to achieve a ‘sum to one’ condition. In the case of the linear graph, the percentage contribution is 10% for each direct comparison. I am not convinced, that this number adequately captures the role of each direct effect estimate in this example. Consider now, an example where two treatments are connected through three paths with one, two, and three edges, respectively, each with flow 1/3. Then each direct comparison has the same influence on the network based treatment effect estimate: A bias of 1 unit in one direct estimate translates into a bias of 1/3 unit in the network based estimate. These proportions are conserved in Salanti’s notion of percentage contribution, but not so in the newly introduced concept. Salanti [3] attaches a percentage contribution of 1/6 to each comparison just as if we had pooled six equally precise trials comparing the same pair of treatments. But the influence of direct comparisons is different in this network and should be characterized by the number 1/3. That is why I have objections against Salanti’s [3] concept of percentage contribution and even more so against the newly introduced concept, which attaches unequal contribution quantities of 1/9, 1/6 and 1/3, respectively. The new method should not be introduced into routine of network meta-analysis. If this paper is going to be indexed, its draw backs and caveats should be very clearly set out. The concept of streams is a nice one. It allows to represent a network based treatment effect as a weighted sum of a direct and indirect effect estimates each corresponding to one path from source to sink. Note however that these effects are stochastically interdependent and hence, the aggregation of streams is different from the usual process of pooling evidence. To be somewhat less destructive, I propose to arrange the network graph with the source to the left and the sink to the right and all other vertices placed, such that all directed edges point from left to right. Then, due to the flow properties, any vertical cross-section gives a set of flows that sum to one. In that sense, the untransformed rows of the H matrix already contain percentage contributions. Displays used to present voter hiking can be used to represent these flows (see e.g. www.zeit.de/politik/deutschland/2017-05/waehlerwanderung-nrw-landtagswahl-cdu-spd-fdp ). I propose to modify Table 3 and Figure 3 in a way that the direction of influence becomes clear. Does a positive bias in one contributing direct effect translate into a positive or negative bias of the network based effect estimate? The colored fields in Figure 3 could be labelled with meaningfully ordered pairs of treatment letters. Discussion “The calculation of the percentages uses the estimated variances of direct effects and thus incorporate associated uncertainty in their estimation.” Note however, that in a linear network each direct effect estimate contributes equally, irrespective of the size and precision of the study. Discussion “Applying the algorithm to networks of interventions can be used to quantify the contribution of potential study limitations to the NMA treatment effect estimates.” The two stage approach discussed in this paper is not essential. Both the flows and the percentage contribution defined in the paper can be distributed to single trials according to the weights used when pooling them into direct effect estimates. Then the risk of bias of single trials can be analyzed. A display similar to Figure 3 is possible that contains separately colored fields for individual studies. Discussion, 2 nd paragraph: Concerning multi-armed designs, Knig et al.[4] have defined the flow into and out of the vertices in a way that does not depend on the choice of reference treatment. Supplementary File 3: 1st paragraph: What is the vector space of G xy over R? 2nd paragraph: ‘The number of directed paths’ obviously refers to the number of directed paths „which suffice to ‘spend’ the flow from source to sink”. The authors state that, if no bridges exist, this number equals to df+1. However, it depends on the flows, too. Consider a network composed of two squares connected at one vertex. It has df=2 inconsistency degrees of freedom and generally 3 paths are needed to spend the flow between the two most distant vertices. However, if all edges have equal flows, only two paths are needed. Moreover, the connecting vertex has the same effect as the bridging edges. Hence the argument has to be extended to the case of graphs that can be split by cutting through a vertex. Note also, that a network estimate that compares treatments from different subgroups of treatments connected through a bridge or a ‘breaking’ vertex can be written as the sum of three respective two subnetwork effect estimates: one comparing the source treatment to the bridge post, one for the bridge, if present, and one comparing the second bridge post to the sink. Because it is an unweighted sum, the contribution of the three (or two) summands should be equal. 