The authors present a clever strategy for using a machine learning approach to predict associations between genes and human phenotype ontology (HPO) terms. The HPO, as many other ontologies like the Gene Ontology, has a hierarchical structure such that annotations to HPO terms are inherited up the structure of the ontology. For instance, if we say that a patient has "ventricular septal defect", we implicitly annotate the patient to all of the ancestor terms of "ventricular septal defect" such as "abnormality of the ventricular septum". This creates a problem for naive machine learning approaches that make HPO term/Gene association predictions one at a time. If a prediction is YES for "ventricular septal defect" but NO for "abnormality of the ventricular septum", then the result is mutually inconsistent. A number of machine learning algorithms have emerged to tackle this problem, including one that the authors previously learned for an analogous project with Gene Ontology predictions. In general, the paper is very well done and it is likely to be accessible to a wide audience because it is well written. The topic of HPO annotation prediction is very new, and there is no other published work on the topic that I am aware of at present, although a number of groups, including the authors, participated in a CAFA competition at the 2014 ISMB. Suggestions: The authors should cite GeneMania ( The GeneMANIA prediction server: biological network integration for gene prioritization and predicting gene function Warde-Farley et al, 2010, NAR ). The authors should state the version of the HPO and the HPO annotation data they used. In the meantime, the number of annotations has increased substantially, and a number of improvements to the HPO structure have been made (for instance, the Organ abnormality term has been renamed to Phenotypic abnormality). It would be nice to have a little more self-contained explanation about some of the methods employed, such as Clu-HMC-Ens. The authors observed an excellent AUROC score for mitochondrial inheritance, and speculate that the reason is that the mitochondrial genome is well studied. I suspect that the true reason might be that mitochondrial genes have a very specialized functional profile (energy etc) that is much more homogeneous than say "autosomal recessive". The Mammalian phenotype ontology is not only used to annotate the rat genome, but is the major tool used to annotate the mouse genome, and is an extremely useful resource used now by the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium the Mouse Genome Informatics group, and many others. This should be added to the text. 