The paper has communicated a short but interesting study on the beneficial effects of adding different types of charcoal as a dietary component of giant trevally. The addition of charcoal has significantly improved the gastro-intestinal microstructures including foveola gastrica villous intestine and thereby, has the potentiality to improve the fish nutrition and health. The rice husk was recorded as the best source of charcoal with respect to 3 other sources including coconut shell, mangrove wood, and kernel palm shell. However, some deficiencies have been noticed which needs rectification. In Abstract : This species was---: Better to use The species was--- Four activated charcoal sources were tested in this study -----but in Experimental Design mentioned ----A completely randomized experimental design with five different charcoal sources---- In Abstract : average total length, 10.26 0.64 cm, In Experimental fish : total length, 10.28 0.64 cm ponds size 2 x 1.8 m. No unit given after 2. It may be 2 m X 1.8 m (see Table 1) : see may be deleted Table 1 : CaCo3 : CaCO3 In Abstract : and 241.786 μm --- In Figure 1 241.768 Figure 2 and 4 : Histological sample ---- may be replaced by ---- Histology Sentence to be modified : Hence, a longer foveola gastrica and larger intestinal villi provide a larger surface area to absorb nutrients43. Sentence to be modified : A previous report indicated that rice husk charcoal contains 39% hemicellulose, 44% cellulose, and 30% lignin44 : Since the addition of 3 parameters are giving values 100%, you may mention "up to" otherwise people will not understand. Sentence to be modified/changed : The active charcoal likely acts as an adsorbent of metabolic pathogens in the intestine in the form of endotoxins and ammonia to improve intestinal function61. The sentence to be rewritten to increase clarity. It has been noticed that the SE values have gone out of the bar area. Please check about it and reason behind. For the paper, the fish growth parameters may be given as supplements for better clarity. 