This is a timely, well-written and important look at the under-researched area of evaluating peer review for multi-national consortia. The rise in spend on global development research has meant that complex consortia models are increasingly being used, and the findings will be useful for funders to think about how they could improve effectiveness and practice in this area. A synthesis on the key findings and lessons learned (what works well e.g. pooling scores/what does not work well) would be really useful. Setting up dual-purpose consortia to achieve scientific excellence and strengthen research capacity is a popular model, and I am not surprised to see tensions and conflicting views on which are more important. As the authors suggest, weighting would help assessment. I also think that research capacity experts could be on future peer review panels to address some of the gaps mentioned in levels of understanding on the topic. The article highlights that multi-national dual-purpose consortia is a complex model to assess – it was interesting to see the number of areas that peer reviewers take into consideration in table 1. I could see a useful resource emerging to help funders prioritise. I agree that assessment criteria should prioritise areas most closely linked with the goals of the programme – it is a challenge however when there are so many considerations of interest to funders e.g. interdisciplinarity, equitable partnerships, ethics, research uptake/impact, sustainability of networks, expertise within the consortia to deliver on the dual-purpose. The authors could suggest further research or work that is needed to improve peer review. It would be good to know how peer reviewers are sourced to help inform how to address gaps in the diversity of panels, and also look at the quality of assessment guidelines and how they could be improved, e.g. could they offer frameworks to assess quality that are evidence-based. Beyond peer review, a broader look at whether dual-purpose consortia are the right model for purpose or how they could be improved would be valuable. The methodology is sound, with and limitations explained and ethical considerations approved. Recent and relevant literature is referenced. Minor comments include: Intro para 4 - sustainable research networks mentioned as a goal but there is no reference later in terms of assessment. Table 1 could include overall total for scientific strengths, capacity and other areas. 1st para under Discussion – last sentence on Lamont Huutoniemi, 2012, I did not quite understand. Links to the Swedish Research Council publication and statistical model would be useful, and funder assessment guidelines if they can be made accessible. 