Currently, tests of prion infectivity require an in vivo model for their propagation. These expensive and time-consuming experiments are carried out in vertebrate hosts, typically in rodents. This article offers a sound methodological overview of an alternative Drosophila bioassay developed by the authors. The Drosophila bioassay demonstrates prion-induced toxicity in the level of performance (negative geotaxis) and lifespan when subjected to primary transmission with sheep scrapie material. Bona fide acumulation of infectious prions is demonstrated by secondary transmission to PrP-expressing flies and mice using fly head homogenates from primary infection. Importantly, the described bioassay is sufficiently sensitive to detect sheep with prion disease using plasma from pre-clinical (non-symptomatic) animals. In the future, this could lead to a fast and cost-efficient blood test to diagnose human prion diseases, as well as potentially zoonotic animal diseases. Furthermore, given the ease of transgenesis in Drosophila, the described methodology could possibly be used to provide insight for potential transmissibility of other protein misfolding disorders such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. As the aim is to reduce, replace and refine, the main target audience for this methodology would probably be laboratories working with more sentinent mammalian models of prion diseases. In order to facilitate the adoption the invertebrate model for those laboratories not used to work with flies it would be useful to provide an illustrative figure describing the principles of the described bioassay, including the Gal4-system used. It would also be good mention stock numbers of used fly strains (driver lines and those used for transgenesis) to indicate that they can be easily obtained from Drosophila stock centres such as BDSC. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Not applicable Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 