This manuscript by Krueger and collaborators describes SNPsplit, an alignment sorter for allele specific analysis. SNPsplit is designed to work on N-masked alignment and provides additional utilities to generate the appropriate reference. The main interest of SNPsplit is its ability to operate across different experiment types and alignment software. It therefore allows to analyse and to integrate in an allele specific and unbiased manner heterogeneous dataset. The manuscript is well written, and is divided in two main parts. The first part presents the software and its implementation and the second part, presents user cases. Other than my few comments below, I am happy with the manuscript and want to note that I have successfully downloaded and used SNPsplit in the context of several projects. The way the N-masked genome is generated based on SNPs information is not that easy to understand for non expert users. I would recommend a figure to help in understanding this point. In the context of Dual-Hybrid strain, the interest of first generating the strain 1 (S1) and the strain 2 (S2) genomes is not clear to me. If I'm correct, the final masked genome will be generated from the S1 fasta reference only (unmasked). If we use a simple example with a SNP which is Bl6=A, S1=T, S2=T, using this strategy will avoid a mismatch at this position, compared to the strategy of masking only heterozygous SNPs between S1/S2 on the reference (Bl6) genome. But what is the interest of generating the S2 reference genome (step 4) ? Using S1 or S2 should be enough? How paired-end sequencing is managed in practice ? The authors present an application with Hi-C data but is it the same for any NGS application? The authors present SNPsplit in the context of the Mouse Genome Project. I'm wondering how difficult it would be to transpose it to any genome and organism as long as the genotype is known. A few words about that in the manuscript would be interesting. In the Introduction, the authors mentioned the WASP software[7]. To avoid any misunderstanding with the parental genome strategy, I would suggest something like; “A more recent improvement aims to reduce mapping biases by first aligning reads on the reference genome , then realigning reads that overlap SNP positions in all possible allele combinations and keeping only reads that align to the same position regardless their genotypes - this reduces bias, but is computationally complex” At the end of the introduction, the authors mentioned that “SNPsplit is not tied to any particular aligner” which is not exactly true as the authors explain later that “SNPsplit can be used as long as the CIGAR operation requirements are met” Typo: “The determination of overlaps is geared” in Stage I: Tagging Reference 26 and 27 doesn't seem to be used in the text 