There are two arms to this manuscript. The authors aimed to determine the reliability of introducing a transgene containing a calcium indicator (R-GECO1.0) or a fluorescent reporter (HOXA9-T2A-mScarlet) into the AAVS1 locus using CRISPR-Cas9 and then subsequently investigate the effect of mutations in MYH7 or ACTC1 on calcium handling. Initial experiments showed that although the AAVS1 could be targeted successfully in 20/24 clones, the expression of the transgene was highly variable. Furthermore, on differentiation of the more successfully transfected clones to cardiomyocytes, the transgene was silenced with almost complete removal of expression of the fluorescent reporter. A similar degree of silencing was observed during haematopoetic differentiation. Using the mScarlet reporter the authors investigated the timecourse of downregulation and found that with both cardiomyocyte and haematopoetic differentiation, increased transgene expression was observed at day 2 but then decreased substantially over time, at both the mRNA and protein level. Nevertheless, using puromycin selection, it was possible to isolate single cardiomyocytes expressing the R-GECO reporter and these were used to show that mutations in both MYH7 and ACTC1 resulted in abnormal calcium transient events which could be corrected in part using ranolazine and dantrolene. This is a valuable piece of work which demonstrates shortfalls in what was expected to be a fairly reliable transfection protocol and that the AAVS1 locus is not as foolproof a site for transfection as may have been thought. The addition of the calcium transient measurements is interesting in that it shows that something can be rescued from such a large body of work, but it does come as rather an afterthought in the manuscript. I have a few minor comments to aid clarity: The introduction needs to be expanded somewhat. The paragraph on modulating HOXA9 is very brief and the rationale needs to be explained. In the results section this appears to be merely a way of monitoring transgene expression, but the short paragraph in the introduction implies some sort of mechanistic approach. It is not entirely clear to me what the difference is between the data shown in Fig 2D and 3B apart from different clones. In the section on HOXA9-T2A targeting it says in results that doxycycline was administered every 48 hours. This is not mentioned in the methods or the extended information. The authors state that transgene induction decreased after day 2. Was this reduction despite further addition of doxycycline? In figure 5, the timing on the x axis is given in parts H and I but not in other plots. In some others there is a bar but this is not explained. Is the scale the same throughout? If so, some comment should be made as to why the wild type MYH7 cells have a slower beat rate than the ACTC1 wild type cells. The same formatting should be used on all the graphs. 