Thank you very much for your detailed response. I think there is at least one more thing that needs to be changed. However, since this is open peer-review, I chose a status of “ Approved ” this time, meeting the criteria of requiring "minor changes". More specifically, I think some more information about the critical assessment of the assemblies is needed. If some additional smaller number of changes are made, then I would be OK with the paper if everybody else is OK with the paper (such as the 2 nd reviewer or other readers that can comment at any point). More specifically, these are the points where I think more information is needed: 1) In general, for most bioinformatics applications, I would say some trial and error is required for each project. While I am most familiar with this in the RNA-Seq context, I have done some work with de novo assemblies (for DNA-Seq and RNA-Seq). For the de novo assemblies that I have worked with, I would say that it is not uncommon to find something missing in an assembly that was truly present in the genome for a sample. However, if I could assemble a sequence in at least 1 sample in a set of related samples, then I could use a direct alignment to quantify/test the presence of that sequence in samples that might miss the sequence from the de novo assembly. So, I can think of a couple of ways in which this might be relevant (the first of which I think is important for a revision): i) What is the short read alignment rate for the assembled genome for its representative assembly? I don’t know what the exact thresholds for quality flags should be, and maybe it is OK to just provide the continuous alignment rate for a given aligner. However, my understanding is that we agree that having some coverage metrics can be useful. I am not sure if we are already on the same page, but I am talking about the sequence that you believe is the true genome sequence and that you deposited separately (probably the largest contig?) and not the full set of assembled contigs (where you could theoretically assemble contamination and/or contigs may not be robust). ii) If there are any functionally important sequences, perhaps a direct alignment of short reads to the gene sequence could be tested? This may be less important and/or harder to implement than i) , but it is something that I could think of. 2) I think the following sentence was interesting: “ That being said[,] the NTM samples exhibited a higher than normal rate of mixed samples[,] possibly due to slow growth rate and the isolation of the DNA at the collaborating laboratories. ”. Can you please either point out where this is mentioned in the paper or add a paragraph in the next revision? It might be OK to simply provide a slightly differently formatted version of the response paragraph. Without listing them all here, thank you for your detailed response to the assembly assessments. These are excellent, and I think they will help the readers if they check the open peer-review. Otherwise, there are the current minor points: Maybe you already have an answer to one of the above questions, but you mention alignment coverage as a QC metric. I think statistics like the mean coverage, standard deviation or quartiles of coverage, and/or percent of bases with X coverage are useful, but I am having a hard time finding them in the supplemental materials. For example, in Supplemental Table 1, I see “ Contig N50 (bp) ”, “ Number of Contigs ”, and “ Total Length (bp) ”, but I don’t see the coverage values. Can you please indicate where I can find those values, or add them to Supplemental Table 1? It was a good response that you can flag assemblies when the size of the SPAdes and Velvet assemblies considerably varies. I understand that the Velvet assembly may simply sometimes not be very good. However, perhaps it could help to add that to Supplemental Table 1? Part response to the review says “ Supplemental Table X and Y for more detailed descriptions of the subspecies ANI ranges for the different sub-species ”. I think you meant to fill these in with numbers? Supplemental Tables 2 and 3 have 95% and 98% MASH ANI clusters. Supplemental Table 11 has all of the MASH ANI distances. I see the top 2 matches for ANI and ST distances in Supplemental Table 5. So, I would guess you meant to refer to 2 of those tables? In terms of Figure 2, I think this means the ANI and ST measures are usually (but not perfectly) consistent, and perhaps this is more of what you wanted to emphasize. This would be a little different than plotting the ranges for pairwise distances within Mycobacteroides , Mycobacterium , Mycolicibacterium , Mycolicibacter , and Mycolicibacillus (showing the variation within each of the current 3 distance categories). I still think the later might be interesting, but this can be optional (since pointing out the outliers was probably more important). I am personally trying to think of what to recommend for reproducible and sustainable research in the future. I usually have to go back and revise code throughout a project, so I understand that this can make re-running the code more complicated than a simple wrapper. This also affects the total number of projects that can be worked on, if it is possible to accurately estimate time for post-publication support and review (probably with some over-estimation, since under-estimation of time/effort requirements can compromise quality/safety). I think this is important to consider for the future, but you have provided a lot of details and I think that is OK with current expectations. I almost felt bad when I thought you were moving revision #1 authors to the acknowledgments. While authorship needs to be viewed as a responsibility that can be either good or bad in the long-run, I see that you mean everybody currently in the Acknowledgements is OK with being in that section (in the original submission). While the type of contribution was noticeable, I would say this was a minor point, and I won’t worry about this (if I need to provide any additional responses). Finally, you don’t have to call me “Dr. Warden” (in part, because I don’t have a PhD or MD). For example, I am just as happy if you call me “Charles.” Thank you very much for your hard work.