Tennant et al offer a timely and insightful review of the various effects of open access publishing on science and society. The paper is well structured and enjoyable to read. Although I am not an expert on open access publishing, I also found the discussion of the literature quite balanced and evidence-based. I have just three recommendations for revisions: In the discussion of the OA citation advantage (which is excellent), the authors are very careful to avoid asserting a causal link between the OA status of a paper and the number of citations it generates. However, in my view, the conclusion of the Gargouri (2010) paper should be caveated. While the results of Gargouri are consistent with the absence of a self-selection bias in producing the OA advantage, they cannot rule it out. It might be the case that funders or institutions that mandate OA are also those that are more likely to support/host higher impact research. Furthermore, given that OA mandates are never 100% effective, perhaps authors are more likely to comply with a mandate for work they perceive to be of high impact. A useful addition to this section would be specify the conditions under which we could determine whether or not OA causally influences citations. This would require a randomised controlled trial in which articles are randomly are assigned to OA and non-OA routes. To my knowledge, no such a trial has yet been undertaken, although the authors will be in a more informed position to know whether this is the case. There is not much discussion in the paper of the distinction between full OA and hybrid OA. Given that the APCs for hybrid OA articles tend to be substantially higher than those for full OA articles, this may warrant more prominent coverage in the economic case for OA. It is also relevant to the brief mention of the Finch Report, which (controversially) favours gold OA (including the hybrid route) over green OA. I was glad to see the link formed between OA and open science more generally, as many researchers and advocates draw a distinct (and somewhat arbitrary) line between these initiatives. In this context, it would perhaps be relevant to mention the TOP guidelines ( https://cos.io/top/ ). TOP is very much an evolving entity so it would be interesting to consider the inclusion of an OA standard in future revisons of TOP. Minor p13 This sentence is difficult to parse: "Whereas this is hyper-variable, and strongly dependent on a range of factors, it is the fact that any public interest in science that is of importance."