Reading the title of this paper, I have at least two questions to pose to the author: first, what are ‘age-related diseases’ and how does cancer qualify as such; second, what is the puzzle here. As for the second question, I don’t find in the paper any puzzle. Instead, what I find is a pretty clear exposition of two different approaches to finding and evaluating causal factors. Four arguments and a final suggestion follow. Although philosophers would be more demanding in using terms such as “function” and “kinds of causality”, I think Frank’s distinction between rate and function can be useful and bring clarity in the following domains: setting up experiments, interpreting results, and making mathematical models. In the paper, the section entitled “Identifying causal factors” is the most illustrative under this respect, the rest of the paper lacking a bit of context for the reader to understand the importance of what is being argued. About age-related diseases, I would not think of cancer primarily as an age-related disease, and for good reasons I think, although I agree that there are important theoretical links. Cancer is one of those diseases that include alterations of the dynamic stability of the organism. Age is not enough, not essential, although, of course, it increases the risk. Therefore, the role that the emphasis on cancer as an age-related disease plays in this paper should be clarified. Rather, cancer may be more properly defined as a life history related disease (indeed, it might help us in reconceptualising aging itself). I think this is a key feature that Frank captures in his distinction between “the physiological function itself” and “the processes that change physiological function”. These latter processes have to do with the dynamic stability of the organism. If the author wants to stress this point, in my view, it would be more useful to talk about “the modified processes that don’t stabilize function anymore”, therefore letting new functions emerge. This way of expressing would be no slight difference, since it would adopt an organism centered perspective as opposed to a cancer centered one (centered on genetic mutations in individual cells and cell populations). The author’s own distinction, reformulated as a distinction between ‘function change’ and ‘process change’, would then be more sounding and would express all its usefulness to understand scientific practice. The author seems to be adopting a strict selectionist perspective (cancer is an evolutionary process of discovery). It is in this perspective that “rate” makes sense: it is the rate of an ongoing process of discovery of particular biological functions that are necessary for cancer. The cancer centered selectionist perspective imbues the language of prevention, leading to paradoxical statements such as saying that wound healing, cell division, epigenetic instability, or increased mutagenesis are “physiologically unimportant”. Yet, several available interpretations and models of cancer, both in the lab and in the clinic, seem to suggest a different preventive and therapeutic approach, one that empowers the organism and helps it to find new stable states. In a recent book (Bertolaso 2016) I have reviewed some of this territory and argued for a more articulated perspective that recomposes some paradoxes. Frank’s reductionist approach seems useful for the methodological purposes mentioned above, but it might be misleading if adopted as a general approach to carcinogenesis and cancer onset. “Basic understanding of onset”, as it is expressed here, seems to be a rather impossible goal: we should find all the factors that influence rate (also by using factors functions as a clue) and then study their influence “within a particular background of other rate processes” and “within the complex interacting ensemble of processes that determine the overall rate of onset”. This seems to be the kind of approach of ‘getting complexity by aggregation’ that has been declared as desperate by Weinberg (2014). I would make clearer that the selectionist perspective (with the associated ‘rate’ talk) is one possible useful reduction of a disease that is probably best seen as affecting a tissue, an organ or an organism and their dynamic stability and stabilizing functionalities. In summary, I would suggest the author to reframe and clarify the structure of the paper so as to make clear its scope: i.e., proposing a clear distinction (not a puzzle) that must be taken into account in modeling and experiment. I would add a little bit of background to emphasize this importance. Comments in n.2 can be of help although the wider perspective I am suggesting is not strictly needed if the methodological approach and the explanatory import of the experimental context of this paper is adequately narrowed down. References 1. Weinberg RA: Coming full circle-from endless complexity to simplicity and back again. Cell . 2014; 157 (1): 267-71 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Bertolaso M: Philosophy of Cancer. 2016; 18 . Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Bertolaso M. Reviewer Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. III.Two kinds of causality in age-related disease [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2533 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10554.r18447 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2533/v1#referee-response-18447 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 10 Jan 2017 Steven Frank , University of California, Irvine, USA 10 Jan 2017 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I thank Marta Bertolaso for her many thoughtful comments that extend the scope of the discussion. This exchange is included as part of the final publication of my article, so ... Continue reading I thank Marta Bertolaso for her many thoughtful comments that extend the scope of the discussion. This exchange is included as part of the final publication of my article, so I confine most of my response to these comments. In a few cases, I note revisions in Version 2 that address some issues. Italics quote from Bertolaso’s review. Reading the title of this paper, I have at least two questions to pose to the author: first, what are ‘age-related diseases’ and how does cancer qualify as such; second, what is the puzzle here. “Age-related diseases” are diseases that change with age, implicitly, diseases that change with age in some regular manner. Colorectal cancer incidence increases with age. Retinoblastoma incidence increases very early in life, then the incidence declines to nearly zero after age five or so. Both diseases are related to age. With regard to the puzzle here, the abstract states: “The rate-function duality provides the basis for solving puzzles of age-related disease.” Thus, I agree that this article does not pose a puzzle, but rather provides some tools that can help in solving puzzles. The article contains a section with the title “Solving different puzzles” that emphasizes this goal. In my revision, I have also added a final section “Prospect” to further emphasize that point. In the paper, the section entitled “Identifying causal factors” is the most illustrative under this respect, the rest of the paper lacking a bit of context for the reader to understand the importance of what is being argued. F1000Research has alternative word limits that set the kind of article and the associated open access fees. I wrote this article to fit within the limit of 1000 words, leading to brevity. To provide examples, I coupled this article with a following article in this series, which includes discussion of neurodegeneration, cancer and heart disease (http://dx.doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.9790.1). In my revision, I have added a final section “Prospect” with a pointer to the following article. My article also cited my extensive summary of cancer in my 2007 book (ref. 5). About age-related diseases, I would not think of cancer primarily as an age-related disease, and for good reasons I think, although I agree that there are important theoretical links. Cancer is one of those diseases that include alterations of the dynamic stability of the organism. Age is not enough, not essential, although, of course, it increases the risk. … This comment and the following one raise a stimulating and nuanced view of dynamic stability and disease (see the full text of comments 2 and 3 in Bertolaso’s original review). I am not going to change course and take up that view, because it is not the way in which I was thinking about the problem. I do see the value and appreciate being introduced to this alternative. I think there is an opportunity, in the future, to consider the relative merits of Bertolaso’s framework in relation to my views. Perhaps, over time, there will be a merging of the best aspects of the alternative perspectives into something that will help us to understand these problems more clearly. Frank’s reductionist approach seems useful for the methodological purposes mentioned above, but it might be misleading if adopted as a general approach to carcinogenesis and cancer onset. “Basic understanding of onset”, as it is expressed here, seems to be a rather impossible goal: we should find all the factors that influence rate (also by using factors functions as a clue) and then study their influence “within a particular background of other rate processes” and “within the complex interacting ensemble of processes that determine the overall rate of onset”. This seems to be the kind of approach of ‘getting complexity by aggregation’ that has been declared as desperate by Weinberg (2014). I never suggested that one could find “all the factors that influence rate” or that one should try to do so. My book Dynamics of Cancer (ref 5) discusses at length how to go about studying individual processes that influence rate within the background of many other often unidentified processes that must also be acting. The essential approach combines two aspects. First, one must have a hypothesis about how a particular rate process alters progression, within a conceptual or theoretical framework for disease progression. Second, one must test that hypothesis by perturbing the particular process and observing the change in the age-incidence curve. If one can consistently predict the pattern of change in age-incidence curves with respect to perturbation of hypothesized rate processes, then one is moving in the right direction. This approach is the opposite of “getting complexity by aggregation.” It is instead a method to isolate putative causes in a testable manner. In this way, one can parse apparent complexity by a practical method of simplification, without oversimplifying. In summary, I would suggest the author to reframe and clarify the structure of the paper so as to make clear its scope… My revised Version 2 adds a brief section “Prospect” to clarify the intended scope of the article, a small step in the suggested direction but not a complete reframe of the structure. I thank Marta Bertolaso for her many thoughtful comments that extend the scope of the discussion. This exchange is included as part of the final publication of my article, so I confine most of my response to these comments. In a few cases, I note revisions in Version 2 that address some issues. Italics quote from Bertolaso’s review. Reading the title of this paper, I have at least two questions to pose to the author: first, what are ‘age-related diseases’ and how does cancer qualify as such; second, what is the puzzle here. “Age-related diseases” are diseases that change with age, implicitly, diseases that change with age in some regular manner. Colorectal cancer incidence increases with age. Retinoblastoma incidence increases very early in life, then the incidence declines to nearly zero after age five or so. Both diseases are related to age. With regard to the puzzle here, the abstract states: “The rate-function duality provides the basis for solving puzzles of age-related disease.” Thus, I agree that this article does not pose a puzzle, but rather provides some tools that can help in solving puzzles. The article contains a section with the title “Solving different puzzles” that emphasizes this goal. In my revision, I have also added a final section “Prospect” to further emphasize that point. In the paper, the section entitled “Identifying causal factors” is the most illustrative under this respect, the rest of the paper lacking a bit of context for the reader to understand the importance of what is being argued. F1000Research has alternative word limits that set the kind of article and the associated open access fees. I wrote this article to fit within the limit of 1000 words, leading to brevity. To provide examples, I coupled this article with a following article in this series, which includes discussion of neurodegeneration, cancer and heart disease (http://dx.doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.9790.1). In my revision, I have added a final section “Prospect” with a pointer to the following article. My article also cited my extensive summary of cancer in my 2007 book (ref. 5). About age-related diseases, I would not think of cancer primarily as an age-related disease, and for good reasons I think, although I agree that there are important theoretical links. Cancer is one of those diseases that include alterations of the dynamic stability of the organism. Age is not enough, not essential, although, of course, it increases the risk. … This comment and the following one raise a stimulating and nuanced view of dynamic stability and disease (see the full text of comments 2 and 3 in Bertolaso’s original review). I am not going to change course and take up that view, because it is not the way in which I was thinking about the problem. I do see the value and appreciate being introduced to this alternative. I think there is an opportunity, in the future, to consider the relative merits of Bertolaso’s framework in relation to my views. Perhaps, over time, there will be a merging of the best aspects of the alternative perspectives into something that will help us to understand these problems more clearly. Frank’s reductionist approach seems useful for the methodological purposes mentioned above, but it might be misleading if adopted as a general approach to carcinogenesis and cancer onset. “Basic understanding of onset”, as it is expressed here, seems to be a rather impossible goal: we should find all the factors that influence rate (also by using factors functions as a clue) and then study their influence “within a particular background of other rate processes” and “within the complex interacting ensemble of processes that determine the overall rate of onset”. This seems to be the kind of approach of ‘getting complexity by aggregation’ that has been declared as desperate by Weinberg (2014). I never suggested that one could find “all the factors that influence rate” or that one should try to do so. My book Dynamics of Cancer (ref 5) discusses at length how to go about studying individual processes that influence rate within the background of many other often unidentified processes that must also be acting. The essential approach combines two aspects. First, one must have a hypothesis about how a particular rate process alters progression, within a conceptual or theoretical framework for disease progression. Second, one must test that hypothesis by perturbing the particular process and observing the change in the age-incidence curve. If one can consistently predict the pattern of change in age-incidence curves with respect to perturbation of hypothesized rate processes, then one is moving in the right direction. This approach is the opposite of “getting complexity by aggregation.” It is instead a method to isolate putative causes in a testable manner. In this way, one can parse apparent complexity by a practical method of simplification, without oversimplifying. In summary, I would suggest the author to reframe and clarify the structure of the paper so as to make clear its scope… My revised Version 2 adds a brief section “Prospect” to clarify the intended scope of the article, a small step in the suggested direction but not a complete reframe of the structure. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 10 Jan 2017 Steven Frank , University of California, Irvine, USA 10 Jan 2017 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I thank Marta Bertolaso for her many thoughtful comments that extend the scope of the discussion. This exchange is included as part of the final publication of my article, so ... Continue reading I thank Marta Bertolaso for her many thoughtful comments that extend the scope of the discussion. This exchange is included as part of the final publication of my article, so I confine most of my response to these comments. In a few cases, I note revisions in Version 2 that address some issues. Italics quote from Bertolaso’s review. Reading the title of this paper, I have at least two questions to pose to the author: first, what are ‘age-related diseases’ and how does cancer qualify as such; second, what is the puzzle here. “Age-related diseases” are diseases that change with age, implicitly, diseases that change with age in some regular manner. Colorectal cancer incidence increases with age. Retinoblastoma incidence increases very early in life, then the incidence declines to nearly zero after age five or so. Both diseases are related to age. With regard to the puzzle here, the abstract states: “The rate-function duality provides the basis for solving puzzles of age-related disease.” Thus, I agree that this article does not pose a puzzle, but rather provides some tools that can help in solving puzzles. The article contains a section with the title “Solving different puzzles” that emphasizes this goal. In my revision, I have also added a final section “Prospect” to further emphasize that point. In the paper, the section entitled “Identifying causal factors” is the most illustrative under this respect, the rest of the paper lacking a bit of context for the reader to understand the importance of what is being argued. F1000Research has alternative word limits that set the kind of article and the associated open access fees. I wrote this article to fit within the limit of 1000 words, leading to brevity. To provide examples, I coupled this article with a following article in this series, which includes discussion of neurodegeneration, cancer and heart disease (http://dx.doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.9790.1). In my revision, I have added a final section “Prospect” with a pointer to the following article. My article also cited my extensive summary of cancer in my 2007 book (ref. 5). About age-related diseases, I would not think of cancer primarily as an age-related disease, and for good reasons I think, although I agree that there are important theoretical links. Cancer is one of those diseases that include alterations of the dynamic stability of the organism. Age is not enough, not essential, although, of course, it increases the risk. … This comment and the following one raise a stimulating and nuanced view of dynamic stability and disease (see the full text of comments 2 and 3 in Bertolaso’s original review). I am not going to change course and take up that view, because it is not the way in which I was thinking about the problem. I do see the value and appreciate being introduced to this alternative. I think there is an opportunity, in the future, to consider the relative merits of Bertolaso’s framework in relation to my views. Perhaps, over time, there will be a merging of the best aspects of the alternative perspectives into something that will help us to understand these problems more clearly. Frank’s reductionist approach seems useful for the methodological purposes mentioned above, but it might be misleading if adopted as a general approach to carcinogenesis and cancer onset. “Basic understanding of onset”, as it is expressed here, seems to be a rather impossible goal: we should find all the factors that influence rate (also by using factors functions as a clue) and then study their influence “within a particular background of other rate processes” and “within the complex interacting ensemble of processes that determine the overall rate of onset”. This seems to be the kind of approach of ‘getting complexity by aggregation’ that has been declared as desperate by Weinberg (2014). I never suggested that one could find “all the factors that influence rate” or that one should try to do so. My book Dynamics of Cancer (ref 5) discusses at length how to go about studying individual processes that influence rate within the background of many other often unidentified processes that must also be acting. The essential approach combines two aspects. First, one must have a hypothesis about how a particular rate process alters progression, within a conceptual or theoretical framework for disease progression. Second, one must test that hypothesis by perturbing the particular process and observing the change in the age-incidence curve. If one can consistently predict the pattern of change in age-incidence curves with respect to perturbation of hypothesized rate processes, then one is moving in the right direction. This approach is the opposite of “getting complexity by aggregation.” It is instead a method to isolate putative causes in a testable manner. In this way, one can parse apparent complexity by a practical method of simplification, without oversimplifying. In summary, I would suggest the author to reframe and clarify the structure of the paper so as to make clear its scope… My revised Version 2 adds a brief section “Prospect” to clarify the intended scope of the article, a small step in the suggested direction but not a complete reframe of the structure. I thank Marta Bertolaso for her many thoughtful comments that extend the scope of the discussion. This exchange is included as part of the final publication of my article, so I confine most of my response to these comments. In a few cases, I note revisions in Version 2 that address some issues. Italics quote from Bertolaso’s review. Reading the title of this paper, I have at least two questions to pose to the author: first, what are ‘age-related diseases’ and how does cancer qualify as such; second, what is the puzzle here. “Age-related diseases” are diseases that change with age, implicitly, diseases that change with age in some regular manner. Colorectal cancer incidence increases with age. Retinoblastoma incidence increases very early in life, then the incidence declines to nearly zero after age five or so. Both diseases are related to age. With regard to the puzzle here, the abstract states: “The rate-function duality provides the basis for solving puzzles of age-related disease.” Thus, I agree that this article does not pose a puzzle, but rather provides some tools that can help in solving puzzles. The article contains a section with the title “Solving different puzzles” that emphasizes this goal. In my revision, I have also added a final section “Prospect” to further emphasize that point. In the paper, the section entitled “Identifying causal factors” is the most illustrative under this respect, the rest of the paper lacking a bit of context for the reader to understand the importance of what is being argued. F1000Research has alternative word limits that set the kind of article and the associated open access fees. I wrote this article to fit within the limit of 1000 words, leading to brevity. To provide examples, I coupled this article with a following article in this series, which includes discussion of neurodegeneration, cancer and heart disease (http://dx.doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.9790.1). In my revision, I have added a final section “Prospect” with a pointer to the following article. My article also cited my extensive summary of cancer in my 2007 book (ref. 5). About age-related diseases, I would not think of cancer primarily as an age-related disease, and for good reasons I think, although I agree that there are important theoretical links. Cancer is one of those diseases that include alterations of the dynamic stability of the organism. Age is not enough, not essential, although, of course, it increases the risk. … This comment and the following one raise a stimulating and nuanced view of dynamic stability and disease (see the full text of comments 2 and 3 in Bertolaso’s original review). I am not going to change course and take up that view, because it is not the way in which I was thinking about the problem. I do see the value and appreciate being introduced to this alternative. I think there is an opportunity, in the future, to consider the relative merits of Bertolaso’s framework in relation to my views. Perhaps, over time, there will be a merging of the best aspects of the alternative perspectives into something that will help us to understand these problems more clearly. Frank’s reductionist approach seems useful for the methodological purposes mentioned above, but it might be misleading if adopted as a general approach to carcinogenesis and cancer onset. “Basic understanding of onset”, as it is expressed here, seems to be a rather impossible goal: we should find all the factors that influence rate (also by using factors functions as a clue) and then study their influence “within a particular background of other rate processes” and “within the complex interacting ensemble of processes that determine the overall rate of onset”. This seems to be the kind of approach of ‘getting complexity by aggregation’ that has been declared as desperate by Weinberg (2014). I never suggested that one could find “all the factors that influence rate” or that one should try to do so. My book Dynamics of Cancer (ref 5) discusses at length how to go about studying individual processes that influence rate within the background of many other often unidentified processes that must also be acting. The essential approach combines two aspects. First, one must have a hypothesis about how a particular rate process alters progression, within a conceptual or theoretical framework for disease progression. Second, one must test that hypothesis by perturbing the particular process and observing the change in the age-incidence curve. If one can consistently predict the pattern of change in age-incidence curves with respect to perturbation of hypothesized rate processes, then one is moving in the right direction. This approach is the opposite of “getting complexity by aggregation.” It is instead a method to isolate putative causes in a testable manner. In this way, one can parse apparent complexity by a practical method of simplification, without oversimplifying. In summary, I would suggest the author to reframe and clarify the structure of the paper so as to make clear its scope… My revised Version 2 adds a brief section “Prospect” to clarify the intended scope of the article, a small step in the suggested direction but not a complete reframe of the structure. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Plutynski A. Reviewer Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. III.Two kinds of causality in age-related disease [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2533 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10554.r17104 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2533/v1#referee-response-17104 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 21 Nov 2016 Anya Plutynski , Department of Philosophy, Washington University St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10554.r17104 The title is somewhat misleading. Are rate and functional changes genuinely two different "kinds" of causality? How exactly are kinds of causality distinguished? As a general rule, I'm not a fan of multiplying kinds (whether of causation, or other entities, ... Continue reading READ ALL 