This article presents a highly promising idea of using a multimodal control unit for FES to treat tremor during movement. I think this is a valuable contribution to the literature since the possible application (closed-loop FES) is an auspicious field of treatment research. The manuscript is well-written and technically sound. However, due to lack of clarity I have several questions regarding the methods and the results. Moreover, given the exhaustive analysis of EEG frequency ratios and EEG-MEG coherence, I would suggest applying some feature selection methods in order to overcome the problem of multidimensional data, which is hard to present and to interpret. Abstract The sentence " A BCI-driven detection of voluntary movement is used to trigger FES in a closed-loop approach. " sounds to me like you have used FES in this study. Perhaps it would be less misleading if you wrote this in the subjunctive. Introduction In the introduction you emphasize the limitations of BCIs, which are based on conventional EEG analysis. Although I fully agree with you, this is a rather unspecific statement. Does this mean that "conventional" EEG analysis is less reliable for BCI-performance than "high-tech" EEG-analysis? Although we both know that this is not the case (BCIs are fed with highly sophisticated markers of the EEG and still do not perform at 100%), the sentence could be understood in this way. Therefore, I would suggest that you specify that you mean BCIs which ware based on EEG analysis only. I would like to make a further point on this: BCI users differ between each other in the way they can voluntarily modify their brain activity, and there is even an interindividual difference in the detectability of movement-related EEG-activity. Moreover, the fact that movement disorders often show up with brain atrophy or neuroplastic changes makes it difficult to generalize BCI markers that have been tested in a healthy population to patients with varying pathologies. I think this variance is a major reason why your multimodal processing could do so much better than a BCI-system that is solely based on EEG analysis. Methods (A) I don't think that the sentence " Patients and the experimental procedure were as detailed in the next sections. " in the first paragraph of the Methods section is necessary (the reader sees that there is a section for patients etc.) (A) Maybe in this first paragraph it would be nice to read that the different modules act during different time-windows. (B) Why did you prefer acoustically triggered movement over self-paced movement? How did you ensure that the acoustic signal did not influence the EEG signal which was used for detection of movement planning? (B) Why did you restrict your EEG-setup to centrally positioned electrodes? Movement planning involves frontal regions (e.g. electrodes F3, F4, F7, F8) and it is highly likely that you get a better prediction of movement if you include signals from these positions. (B) How did you avoid blinking during the recordings? If you tell the participants that they should not blink, they might concentrate on this instruction instead on the task, making EEG-data less valid. In addition, participants who are told not to blink usually blink more frequently than if you would not mention blinks. (Fig. 2) I did not understand the reason why you only used three colors for the lines in figure 2. The reader can distinguish the three cases but not which sensor is represented by what line. Moreover, the first blue line, entitled "Mouvement..." should be entitled Movement... and should be a dashed line as indicated below the figure. Are the three cases three different sensors, three patients or three movements? (D) You write " upsampled EEG data.. ." and indicate that there were 256 samples - is this one second? Does an overlap of 250 in the time domain refer to the original sampling rate or to the upsampled data, resulting in 250ms? Did I get this right; the Hamming window was 1 sec but overlapped with 250ms? (D) I do not exactly understand how you realized that the pre-movement period lasted for 2 sec, but participants performed the task following the acoustic signal. Were participants instructed to wait 2 sec? Or is this the average time the participants took until they performed the task? (D) I did not understand what you intended by the (8 Hz, 9 Hz, ... 12 Hz) after the first interval. (E) Possibly because this is the first time I have read about this very interesting method of correlating brain and muscle signals - I did not fully understand the segmentation/processing of the data. You segmented data into epochs of 200ms and calculated the FFT on this window - what then does the " window of 8 samples " mean? Moreover, how did you determine the optimal window length? I see that the epochs vary between the modules. Results (A) Why do you refer to reference no. 8 when you report your results? Aren't these your present results? (A) The central areas showed the highest values of QPs - indeed, you used only a central montage? (A) You talk about means - obviously, you may indicate averages over patients, but did you also average over electrodes? (Fig. 3) What electrode positions are used to build this figure? (Fig. 4) The vertical dashed lines seem to occur periodically (each 20ms) with a certain time-distance but not necessarily on the highest peaks - do you have an interpretation/explanation for this phenomenon? (Fig. 5) With what rationale were the 2 patients and 3 trials chosen? (Fig. 6) It would be helpful to rescale the x-axis, so that the beginning of movement is time 0 and then indicate steps of +-250ms. (Fig. 9) What is the EEG/CorticoMuscular probability based on - averages across channels/channel combinations or one single channel/combination (the best one?)? (Fig 14) There are not only continuous and dotted lines but also external lines with "big dots" - is this the range (min-max)? Supplementary data What do the rows in e.g. 001FN03.mat_EE...csv mean? Are these samples? Discussion You state that QP values greater than 90% were observed in some of the runs...That is, QP was calculated for each run? This is not clear from the methods section. Why are EEG recordings more complex when tremor is generated in nuclei deep in the brain? In the discussion of kinematic data it seems to me that you discuss the background generally without referring to your own results. You should rather discuss why the y axis alone is superior to x axis or a combination of the two. Do probability trees really show the best association of parameters? In a subsequent sentence you write that all possible combinations need to be tested. To me probability trees as used in this paper seem to give the impression of how complex the problem is, but they do not answer the question: Which feature/combination of features leads to highest detection rates? This problem is solved by feature selection algorithms (see general remark 2). I am not an FES-expert, but wonder if there is any literature about the instance of time when FES has to be applied in order to make a movement free of tremor. Should it be applied at movement onset, or before the movement is carried out, i.e., in the planning phase? It probably depends on each individual patient, since tremor can occur pre- movement or during movement. Thus, the kind of FES should be different for each patient and similarly, depending on the type of application, the EEG-part may or may not be useful. Also if planning the action induced the tremor, detection of movement intention based on EEG could be too late? There is no discussion about the simulation results. Conclusion In the conclusion it seems that the QP is an EEG-specific value which can be complemented by values from other modules (kinematic...) - instead, the QP is a value for estimating the performance in detecting movement and can be applied to each modality. But is this really a main conclusion? I think the conclusion should be that the EEG can be supplemented by other modalities. However, the extent to which the detection rate of the EEG can be supplemented, i.e., how much the QP can be increased by combining several modalities, has not been evaluated. The last minus one sentence: The term classifiers comes out of the blue. This technique deserves some place in the discussion (as suggested in general remark 2). Last sentence: The approach has firstly to be implemented - the present manuscript is a pre-study. The next step is to integrate all of the modalities. Then you could evaluate the approach on a large sample. General remarks You use BCI in terms of a control unit. BCI is an interface between brain and computer. As such, your system would be a multimodal control unit, including also an EEG-module like often used for BCIs, but also body modules to control a stimulation unit. I think the term BCI is not the best choice here, since it does not take into consideration the EMG module etc. The way such a problem would be solved by the current BCI-community is a classification by use of machine learning techniques i.e., you apply some feature selection algorithm and train your machine in discriminating movements based on the multimodal input. These two steps could further be included in one step e.g. by use of random forests. By doing so you evaluate the performance of your modules and find out which ones contribute most to a high detection rate - separately for each patient (thus, you take into account interindividual variability). I would at least include this option in the discussion. I think the data presented here could help to determine what detection rate is possible by combining several modalities. This is what the reader could expect when they read the abstract and the introduction. Then, the conclusion could be that combining several modalities increases the detection rate or it does not change it or it decreases the detection rate (I expect that it increases it). Instead, the authors presented the detection rate by calculating a detection-rate affine measure (QP) separately for each module, and in the conclusion the authors just suggest to fusion the parameters. I think a deeper analysis (e.g. by using random forests...) could answer the very important question of how to increase EEG-based detection of movement intention by including information from other modules. I see that the authors want to leave this important question for future publications, but the abstract and the introduction should be clear in determining the aim of this study. The authors separately evaluated the value of multimodal parameters, in order to determine if it could be interesting to integrate them in one system. The presentation of the results is rather descriptive, the authors report QP, SDs etc. but no statistical test is applied. It would have been interesting if the QPs differ between modalities, within modalities with respect to electrode locations etc. I think some statistical evaluation could allow more concrete conclusions to be drawn. Furthermore, a feature-selection algorithm can be based on some statistics. I would suggest having a look at the recent BCI-research which provides many ideas on how to reduce multidimensional data. The cited references in the introduction and discussion are reduced to a minimum. I would suggest doing some extensive research on movement-related EEG studies etc. 