The authors present a pair of tools called StateHub and StatePaintR to annotate genomic states based on chromatin data (ChIP-seq, ATAC-seq etc.). This work has a very pragmatic take on the problem: the software is fast, based on universal rules, linked to a wealth of data etc. For this, the authors have decided to use a rule-based method instead of the traditional machine-learning approach, which in my opinion is completely justified. The early to discover and annotate chromatin states were based on different methods, all “optimal” in their own way. However, none of these methods has proved to have a decisive advantage over the others for the following two reasons: First, chromatin states do not “exist”, they are useful representations associated with a particular state of our knowledge and a particular problem at hand. Second, the choice of the input data and the number of states (i.e. the granularity of the segmentation) seems to be the most influential factor on the end result. With these elements in mind, it makes perfect sense to develop a tool aiming to satisfy the needs of the user and the demand for reproducibility and traceability, rather than some mathematical constraint. Overall, the manuscript is well constructed – and as mentioned above it describes a relevant advance – but it could be streamlined for clarity. Many terms are ambiguous (like “active states”) or are jargon for chromatin specialist (like “PolycombNarrow”). The figure legends are barely enough to understand what is plotted and the axes are not all properly labelled. It is a good thing that the authors give some examples to explain the entries of the design matrix. For didactic purposes, they could give more of those, or make the examples more concrete throughout the manuscript to help the reader understand the logic of their tool. The manuscript does otherwise a great job at making the work reproducible, explaining the limitations and the scope of their software, and also at giving a high level description of the implementation. To help the authors sharpen the manuscript for more readability, below is a list of typos and minor issues. Page 3, paragraph starting with “All these data...”: Perhaps a word is missing in the sentence “The input and output (final) data are both [?] as browser extensible data…”. Page 3, last sentence of the main text: it should read “... PolycombNarrow data is required [to] be present”. Page 4, second paragraph, fourth sentence from the end: a space seems to be missing in “StatePaintR[space]selects”. Page 4, third paragraph, fourth sentence: “an unique” should be “a unique”. Page 4, paragraph “Enrichment calculations”, first sentence. A word seems to be missing in “... an earlier study of Parkinson’s disease in which [?] tested for…”. Page 6, paragraph “A framework for rules-based annotation”: “rules-based” should be “rule-based”. See https://english.stackexchange.com/q/1366/44109 Page 6, paragraph “Segmentation of public datasets”, second sentence from the end, a space is missing before the parentheses in “...high-quality[space](at least 15m reads”. Also, the “m” probably stands for “million” but in scientific texts it must stand for “metres”. If the authors mean “million”, the best option is to write “million”. Figure 3, legend: what are “active states”? The authors could give the complete list. Figure 4, legend: the authors should indicate on the graph what is plotted on the Y axis (and give the unit). Are the data also plotted in “active” states? Whatever the answer, this should be stated clearly. Page 8, first paragraph of the main text, last sentence: there is one “been” too much in “... with these properties have been also been called…”. Page 9, first paragraph, last sentence: “roadmap” should be written with a capital R. Page 11, second paragraph, second sentence: “rules-based” should be “rule-based” (and again in the last sentence of the paragraph). 