This Commentary addresses an important problem for the scientific development of Chile: the training of highly specialized professionals in foreign countries and their reintegration to the Chilean academic and industrial world. The authors describe the Chilean efforts to promote the advancement of science, the weaknesses of the scholarship system, the lack of governance and support, and how scientists in Chile and abroad are getting organized in order to develop scientific policies to solve these problems. There are a few minor revisions that should be made: Number of fellowships. It should include separately masters, PhDs and postdoctoral fellowships (only the total number, 6,042, is given). "[...] partnership with the World Bank in 20101." Correct year 2010? "The weaknesses of the scientific system in Chile that are leading to sparse permanent job openings have been discussed by several institutions and organizations." Mention should be given to the main ones. "[...] development of science and technology2." Delete 2. "[...] at around 0.4% GDP for the last five years." The number of years should be revised (I would say for the last 15 years). Before Chile joined the OECD, the budget was 0.7% GDP; afterwards it had to be recalculated according to OECD rules, giving 0.4%. "Chile does not have a system that provides incentives to private fundraising foundations, nor companies to generate technology and innovation in situ." It has an incentive system for cooperation between industries and research institutions, the so called I+D Law. "[...] positioning Chilean science as one of the top in the world." This is overstated. "[...] for the reinsertion of the thousands of professionals that will go back to Chile." Although this commentary is about reinsertion of professionals that were trained abroad, the number of PhD students that are trained through the national program of scholarships should also be considered; they are part of the problem. Compare the number of PhD scholarships/students with national and international scholarships, for example. "[...] this years meeting at in October." Delete at. "[...] will help the advance of science in Chile." advancement ? 