This article describes a proof of concept system which leverages the Bitcoin blockchain and Chainscript proof of process in order to enforce patients' informed consent during clinical trials. The method relies on the timestamping characteristic of blockchain transactions to ensure that consent was given by the patient in light of modifications to the trial protocol. While it is possible to follow the description of the method, there are many typographic and grammatical errors. The manuscript needs to be improved and these numerous errors corrected. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed. Bitcoin here seems inappropriate for the task at hand. The authors discuss Ethereum but choose Bitcoin as it is perceived to be more stable and immutable. Both chains have experienced hard forks, and both are susceptible to 51% attacks. Ethereum's flexible smart contracts would seem entirely appropriate to use for data storage here, given that any tampering of the chain would be much more likely to seek economic gain than attempt to modify the trial record. In any case, even on Ethereum the cost of such an attack is essentially prohibitive. If using a public chain of any sort, the cost in terms of transactions fees and confirmation times should be discussed. For large scale trials, these costs are likely to be substantial. Authors state that subjects are assigned a key - assigned by who? Surely this introduces a security risk as there exists no mechanism to ensure that these keys are deleted by whoever creates and assigns them. There are various mechanism that allow key pairs to be created by end users (e.g. in a web browser using client-side Javascript) How are public keys associated with subject identities (or their email addresses)? Linking these is non-trivial (assuming the keys are not generated by a central entity). Services exists to link e.g. OAuth 2 tokens with blockchain addresses - the manuscript should at the very least cover some of the identity solutions that may be appropriate here. 