The 2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI Focused Update on Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention for Patients With ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction 1 changed the recommendation concerning PCI of a non-culprit artery at the time of primary PCI, removing the Class III: Harm designation and replacing it with a Class IIb recommendation (may be considered). Uncertainty remains regarding timing, since, as noted in the article, in some trials multivessel PCI was performed at the time of the initial procedure, and in other trials it was done in a staged fashion prior to hospital discharge. It should be stressed that this recommendation applies to patients selected by trial entry criteria and was not intended to advocate routine multivessel PCI in all cases. As such, selection of patients at high risk for recurrent MI, as outlined in the article, remains important. As a minor point, the CVLPRIT trial cited as a presentation in the article has been published. 2 The article at points seems to imply that studies that report major adverse cardiac events commonly do not include CHF as an outcome; this is not strictly correct in most cases. While the primary endpoint may include only death, myocardial infarction, and stroke in some trials, hospitalization for CHF is almost always recorded as a secondary endpoint. One challenge is that this latter endpoint is somewhat softer than others since it relies on the decision to admit. With respect to the proposed studies of complete revascularization after MI, the contention that studies “likely do not have an adequate follow-up period to determine if complete revascularization has any impact on heart failure” is not quite correct. The ongoing COMPLETE trial of 3900 patients cited in the paper has a composite of CV death and new MI as a primary endpoint and a composite of CV death, MI and CHF hospitalization over a 4-year follow-up period as the secondary endpoint. See clinicaltrials.gov for study design. As noted in the article, identification of patients with residual inflammation after MI may well be important. It may be worth mentioning two ongoing trials of anti-inflammatory therapy in patients with CAD. The Canakinumab Anti-inflammatory Thrombosis Outcomes Study (CANTOS) is testing a monoclonal antibody the blocks the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 in patients with acute MI and elevated CRP. The Cardiovascular Inflammation Reduction Trial (CIRT) is testing low-dose methotrexate in patients with stable CAD and either diabetes or metabolic syndrome. See clinicaltrials.gov for details. Identification of HSC and HSPC mobilization after myocardial infarction could identify a high-risk subgroup, but it is less clear that these cells are the primary actors in acceleration of atherosclerosis. Perhaps they are simply markers of larger infarctions or more severe underlying atherosclerosis. As the article mentions, they may be involved in the healing process, and one would want to be cautious before embarking on an intervention that might potentially interfere with cardiac repair. References 1. Levine GN, O'Gara PT, Bates ER, Blankenship JC, et al.: 2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI Focused Update on Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention for Patients With ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction: An Update of the 2011 ACCF/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Percutaneous Coronary Intervention and the 2013 ACCF/AHA Guideline for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction: A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions. J Am Coll Cardiol . 2015. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Gershlick AH, Khan JN, Kelly DJ, Greenwood JP, et al.: Randomized trial of complete versus lesion-only revascularization in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for STEMI and multivessel disease: the CvLPRIT trial. J Am Coll Cardiol . 2015; 65 (10): 963-72 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Hollenberg S. Reviewer Report For: Emerging strategies to prevent heart failure after myocardial infarction [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :37 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6530.r12447 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-37/v1#referee-response-12447 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bhimaraj A. Reviewer Report For: Emerging strategies to prevent heart failure after myocardial infarction [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :37 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6530.r12448 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-37/v1#referee-response-12448 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 01 Mar 2016 Arvind Bhimaraj , Methodist Debakey Heart and Vascular Institute, Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA; Joan and Sanford I. Weill Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, NY, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6530.r12448 Thomas Cimato addresses a key article in identifying the continuum of myocardial infarction leading to heart failure. The odds of a risk factor leading to heart failure is still the highest for myocardial infarction and this is hence a very ... Continue reading READ ALL 