The authors report on a sighting of purple dogwhelks in Nova Scotia. During a sampling of over 1000 dogwhelks, they observed two purple-shelled individuals. Ehlers and Ellrich indicate that there may be a link between intertidal (air/water?) temperatures and the observation of the purple dogwhelks. A purple colouring is less thermally stressful in colder settings and due to the lower temperatures, the whelks may venture out from crevices and macroalgal cover. I work in the St. Lawrence Estuary where we have found dogwhelks in the intertidal zone although at lower quantities than those reported for Nova Scotia. Water and air temperatures are commonly under 12C in this portion of the estuary, yet my team and I have never observed purple individuals - the typical colours for dogwhelks in this sector being white–beige to dark grey. The findings of Ehlers and Ellrich are of interest and it is worthwhile to pursue the subject with additional observations or experimental manipulations to understand the factors that affect shell colour variability. However, their linking of the purple colour to a single, cold day (lower water temperatures in the intertidal zone) as reported in this manuscript is rather anecdotic. Rather, the authors should list potential factors (both physiological and environmental) that could potentially affect shell coloration instead of linking this observation to a single day and the possible behaviour of two rare individuals. The potential link to behaviour - lower temperatures favouring an active movement of purple-shelled individuals out from shelter - is not convincing. Mauve coloration has been seen along European coasts. As this colour is very similar to purple, in which environmental conditions were these latter observations made? Similarly, if purple has also been reported from Maine, how would these observations from Maine confirm a link to colder temperatures? I suspect that the purple colour may simply be a rare phenotypic trait that may not be at all related to environmental factors (purple shells may be the albino individuals in dogwhelk populations?). Nevertheless, I do salute the authors for this valuable natural history observation that must be recorded. Thank you as well to F1000 for allowing the publication of such observations. Other comments: Datasets: I do not understand why the data were separated into four distinct data sets, one for each date. I suggest a graph presenting all average temperatures coupled with the occurrence of white/brown and purple coloration. In the references, the authors list separate temperature data sets (one for each day). These data sources should be combined (not be separate) so as to avoid artificially increasing the number of publications. The observation date of June 16, the day on which the cool temperatures (12.3C, n = 96) were recorded, is not presented in the companion data sets. Rather, I would prefer including a graph showing the recorded temperature for each relevant date.