This paper presents a brief overview on phylogenetic visualization and introduces a novel approach for visualizing phylogenies (timetrees) using fibre plots. Given the rapid accumulation of phylogenetic information over the last years that has enabled the construction of massive trees (mega-phylogenies) containing millions of branches and leaves (taxa), the new visualization method appears to be interesting and with some potential. However, it is outlined only succinctly in the paper, and we feel that there are a few issues that require further attention. More discussion is needed on the specific applications and/on implementations of phylogenetic fibre plots compared to the other visualization approaches already available. For instance, what are the advantages of fiber plots over conventional phylogenetic plots in terms of comparing e.g. different topology sets? (as used for example in hypothesis testing). Also, what is the applicability (if any) of fiber plots for visualizing phylogenetic trees whose branches represent rate of evolution (e.g., substitutions/site) instead of time? (as in phylograms). Or, how do fibre plots deal with extinct branches? (as those displayed by extinct fossil lineages). Discussing these issues (among others) more in detail would make it easier for the reader to assess the breadth of novelty and usefulness of the new method for the general field of phylogenetics, and its applicability beyond the reconstruction of the timetree of life. As described in the current paper, it seems that fibre plots could be a complement, but not substitute of the other (more conventional) phylogenetic visualization approaches. The output of the fibre plot is colorful, but in general very difficult to interpret. In fact, interpreting the fibre plot output of very large phylogenies or even the tree of all life would be more difficult than interpreting more conventional approaches (those zooming in and out the phylogeny). Implementing some sort of labeling/cross-referencing with lists of taxa or even conventional phylogenetic trees live on the side could help in the precise interpretation of what is being displayed at each timeframe. There are also some additional issues that we want to mention: First paragraph: The sentence beginning "Many have..." needs some rewording... It is true that many have produced tree-like depictions of the relationships among species, but certainly not many before Darwin. So, please reword. Second paragraph: Please provide a reference for the sentence beginning "Haeckel grasped that humans...". Third paragraph: Besides Dendroscope, it would be fair to cite FigTree (http://tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/figtree/) as well in the last sentence. Fourth paragraph: It would be good to cite and discuss Walrus (http://www.caida.org/tools/visualization/walrus/) here as well. It appeared in 2001 (earlier than Paloverde) and allowed interactive 3D visualization of hierarchical graphs. Fifth paragraph: Please add references and expand the last statement about using Hilbert curves. Last paragraph: The last paragraph of the paper appears unnecessary and probably should be removed. Only the first sentence could be kept as part of the previous paragraph (as closing statement). If this sentence is retained, please keep in mind that phylogenies (e.g., the tree of life) are hypotheses. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to say "...being closer than ever to a reliable tree of all life", rather than "...being closer than ever to a true tree of all life". 