Positives: Using a basic farming system characterization schema developed some 15 years prior, this paper selects 18 of these where key dryland cereals and legume crops (DCL crops) are important, and refines their boundaries using new data and GIS resources. This work then provides a needed update to the earlier 2001 work. Each of these cropping system units is then characterized with DCL crop information (area grown, productivity, proportion of area, present and future drought severity, as well as socio-economic data such as population and poverty, as well as with cattle population data, to create an information rich view of these systems. This work therefore helps in discovering appropriate and high leverage investment opportunities that support economic development. Another value of the article is that it serves to publicize an open access dataset and information resources that can be used in future analysis of DCL systems. A valuable contribution of this work is the integration of datasets/information across the DCL crop, agro-ecological and socio-economic dimensions, especially at sub-national level. At the same time there is little doubt the data sets used in the analysis were of highly variable quality. It seems like it would be good to face this head-on and include more discussion around data quality issues and how much confidence the reader should put in the analysis given that some of the data likely to be of low to moderate quality. How are conclusions affected when integrating datasets on one topic that are of high quality with another for another parameter that are of poor quality? The authors usefully point out some important research areas that need attention in the DCL crops to make the current maps more actionable. These include things like relative response to higher temperature, genotype by environment interactions but also that ‘one of the most important shortcomings in this type of analysis has been the lack of data with which to produce a biotic constraints map layer as these types of constraints can be key drivers of crop distribution. 