Dr. Yuan Liu and colleagues had developed a series of generic SAS macros aiming to carry out streamlined routine data analyses and produce journal-quality summary tables. Although this work is fundamental, it’ll benefit statisticians a lot by avoiding time-consuming and tedious copy-and-paste processes. The idea of “streamlined routine data analyses” has been in my mind for years, and I do deem that all the available SAS macros in the SAS community are segmented for the whole data analyses process, thus, what we need is not more segmented SAS macros, but a set of SAS macros that can work seamlessly as an entire system. That’s why I developed the ‘%ggTable’ series of SAS macros and published ‘%ggBaseline’, the first macro of the ggTable series (Gu et al. , 2018 1 ). Although other SAS macros of this series are still under preparation for a peer-reviewed publication, I’m glad to be a reviewer of this work and share some of my considerations that might help move this publication forward. Major considerations: The title of this paper might be a little broad or exaggerated. Besides binary and time to event outcomes discussed in this article, multinomial and continuous variables can also be outcomes in observational studies. In addition, many statistical methods, such as propensity score-based methods, say stratifying, matching, and inverse probability weighting, are more and more popular nowadays in observational studies. Last, it’s common to use generalized estimating equation (GEE) models or mixed models to account for clustered data, since many centers are enrolled in observational studies. Minor considerations: For %DESCRIPTIVE, %UNI_CAT and % UNI_NUM, the variables list is specified by CLIST and NLIST separately; this way has some drawbacks, such as 1) The order in the table will be grouped by variable type and always be categorical variables first; 2) Statistical tests and variable labels cannot be specified when calling the macros. However, this would not be a problem in %ggBaseline. It would be better to report the mean with standard deviation (SD) in the same line as mean SD, the median with interquartile range (IQR) as median (IQR). K-M plot with No. at risk is highly recommended, and the border of the legend should be removed as well. It would be great if the authors can improve these SAS macros with the consideration of the above concerns. If there is no improvement, more discussions on these limitations and comparison to other available macros are needed in the discussion section. 