The study by Gudbrandsson et al. reports a thorough analysis of differences in the transcriptome between different ‘morphs’ or ‘populations’ of artic charr. More specifically they have studied the transcriptome of eggs and larvae from a natural population of small benthic charr (SB) and Icelandic aquaculture charr (AC), which is fast growing and have a ‘limnic-like’ morphology. They find a list of potential candidate genes involved in the ecological differentiation of artic charr (and during the embryonic development). In addition they studied the transcriptome from different tissues of adult AC-charr. From the transcriptome of these populations two populations they developed 12 SNP-markers applied to other sympathric (Lake Thingvallavatn) wild morphs to study if these genes differed between other morphs. Finally they also study mtDNA expression between morphs to find they mainly differ between the benthic morphs and a limnic. The search for genes involved in the ecological divergence of species is an important topic that has exploded the last decade with the new generation of sequencing. I find this study to be an important contribution because of the study system with artic charr is an example of relative recent and rapid divergence into many different morphs/ecological, and the extensive and thorough investigation of the differences in the transcriptome between morphs. However, I think the authors try to stretch their conclusions a bit too far. The study is great as a base for further research in the topic, which I guess is in the pipeline. The use of cultivated charr make sense for comparing the most extreme morphs. But to me it does not make sense for making conclusions about genes involved in the ecological niche differentiation in natural populations, which is the motivation of the study in the introduction and brought up in the discussion). The cultivated population has been selected for fast body growth and they are not from Lake Thingvallavatn and little can therefore be said about the genetics of the ecological differentiation of sympatric species. Not very surprising genes related to metabolism seemed upregulated in AC and immunogens upregulated in SB. What does that actually tells us about the genetics of ecological differentiation of natural populations?? Although the aims on p. 4 feels valid, they are not contingent with the previous text in the introduction. Thus, I suggest that the much of the earlier part of the introduction is rewritten to actually address the differences in gene expression between a cultivated morph and its extreme opposite small benthic artic charr. As far as I understand it is only egg that are kept in the same environment, but the parents have been raised in different environments and transgenerational plasticity cannot be ruled out. This is not a major criticism (the ideal case would be to have had them in lines in a common environment of course) but needs to be addressed in the text. The ‘Nattl’ paralogs provide an interesting case where the expression of different paralogs has been studied. But again, are the result difficult to interpret from an ecological niche differentiation perspective. Often is the natural small limnic morph (PL) in between SB and AC (Fig. 5A), but for Nattl1 and Nattl2 AC and SB seem most similar? The connection to the original question is weak and the authors do not conclude more than “…it is not divergence in the expression of one paralog that explains the general nattl expression disparity in the transcriptome.” Fair enough, but that is more about the genetic architecture than the genetics of ecological divergence. In the validation of the transcriptome differences with qPCR of 9 genes/paralogs only 5 was still significant. What conclusions should one make out of that, that around half of the 296 paralogs differing between SB and AC are false detection (despite FDR 5%). I support the use of qPCR but please comment on the implication of this. I think Fig. 6 should be converted into a bar-graph plot instead (this feels more like a table). To conclude, I think this study is a great contribution for suggesting putative differences in the transcriptome of a fish species. However, the importance for understanding ecological differentiation of sympatric species it is, however, so far limited as it that would require more using natural morphs, replicated populations, back-crosses, investigation of plasticity and how reproductive isolation is maintained etc., which is likely to come. But until that, I suggest the this text should mainly focus on the differences between SB and AC arctic charr, and not try to squeeze in everything in one paper. Minor comments: In the equation on p. 6 I guess M T is ‘Morph’ and ‘Time’? If so spell out or use M T consistently. Note that on p. 8 the qPCR of 8 paralogs in embryonic heads is metioned but the results do not come until “Expression differences in the developing heads of benthic and limnetic charr morphs”. Use “.” instead of “,” as decimal sign in Fig. 4. 