Chen et al present an interesting re-application of the EdgeR analysis package to the analysis of bisulphite sequencing data. The method they propose would utilise the existing negative biomial models within EdgeR and would potentially provide the power which comes with the linear model framework to bisulphite data. The method described requires no changes to EdgeR itself, and merely describes a suitable formulation of design matrix to allow this to be applied to bisulphite data. The article is generally well written and the authors go to great lengths to break down and describe the method. They also provide a page from which all of the underlying data and code can be obtained and I was able to reproduce the results, and independently verify them in a parallel analysis. The main thing which I struggled with was some of the detail in the description of the method itself. There were some parts which I wasn't clear on, and some nomenclature which didn't help in understanding the explanation. I'll try to lay out my concerns below: 1) In the small example I completely understand that the authors wanted to keep this as simple as possible, but it might have helped to have had 2 samples per condition so that the full complexity of the method is visible. 2) There is a typo in the code for the small example so it doesn't run as is. The list function on line 2 has an extra bracket at the end. 3) The nomenclature in the small example is inconsistent. You have samples 1 and 2, but (in the table) also conditions 1 and 2, but in the code the conditions are A and B. If you had Samples 1,2,3,4 in conditions A and B this might help to alleviate some of the confusion. 4) In the small example description you say that A_MvsU estimates the log ratio for Sample1, but it wasn't clear to me why this would apply to only Sample 1 since the factor has a 1 against the meth count for both samples 1 and 2 In the expanded examples there were also some points on which I wasn't clear. 5) You calculate a single dispersion parameter for all data points and say that in contrast to RNA-Seq there is no global trend to follow. It wasn't clear to be exactly why this is since read count and methlyation level would all affect the dispersion - is it simply because these factors are explicitly accounted for in the linear model? 6) In the design matrix for the RRBS it wasn't clear why the first column was all 1s, whereas the rest obviously matched the condition from which they came. This also contrasted with the simple example where the structure wasn't like this. Is this because you were comparing both P7 and P8 to P6? 7) I think this is possibly the same thing as point 4, but you say that the Me column represents the methylation level in P6, but again this highlights the methylated values in all samples, so why only P6? For the final results obtained it would have been nice to show the general level of concordance with running the same analysis through one of the beta-distribution models to either show general agreement, or to generally explain any major differences. Minor points: In the introduction you say that "40% of mammalian genes and 70% of human genes have CpG islands enriched in their promoter regions". Enriched probably isn't the right word to use (or you need to say that CpGs are enriched rather than islands). The difference between 'humans' and 'mammals' is also somewhat contentious - non-human mammals certainly have weaker CpG islands which get missed by CpG island prediction tools, but for example in mouse Illingworth et al showed that if you use CpG binding protein ChIP that you can see about the same number of islands in both species. It's also not really fair to say that CpG methylation in promoters is "generally" associated with repression of transcription. There is a categorical expression level shift associated with the presence/absense of CpG islands, but you can make a Dnmt1 knockout which removes pretty much all methlyation from the genome and for the vast majority of genes their transcription is completely unaffected. P3 "with large genome" should be "with large genomes" P5 "mythylated" should be "methylated" 