This study expands on long-standing observations that tumor xenografts behave differently in different anatomical locations. The hypothesis is that there are some paracrine interactions that favour tumorigenecity that can only occur with cells or matrix from the appropriate tissue location. Many studies have suggested this over the past twenty five years, for example Nakamura et al. (2007) , Killion et al. (1999 ), Fidler et al. (1990) . This study revisits the theory in a methodical manner. Tumor cell lines from different anatomical locations are grafted with or without normal tissue from the same organ. Lung, ovarian and breast cancer cells are found to grow quicker when co-implanted with normal tissue from the lung and breast, respectively. In general, the work is thorough and convincing, although there is some scope for improvement and clarification. Technical comments 1. Borgstrom et al. , use area of fluorescence signal and/or cumulative fluorescence signal as a measure of tumour size and growth (Figures 1a-d, 4a-d, and 6 a-b and Supplementary 1 a-b and 2a-d). Fluorescent signal will be attenuated at increasing depths, particularly when using low wavelength/low penetrance fluorophores such as GFP. This method is then inappropriate for irregularly shaped tumours that grow into the body of the mouse rather than just expanding along the plane of the window. In such instances tumour size will be underestimated. Ex-vivo analysis of tumour size/weight may have been more accurate. 2. Borgstrom et al. , define apoptotic cells by the size of the nucleus (upper cut off of m 2 ). Is the same threshold used for all cells lines? If so, is this appropriate? When measuring karyorrhexis is each nuclear fragment counted as one apoptotic cell? As tumour cells lack a cell membrane marker, it is impossible to know whether several nuclear fragments arose from a single apoptotic cell, or several. This would have been better supported using a fluorescent probe for phosphatidyl serine, activated caspase or loss of plasma membrane integrity. 3. Borgstrom et al. , indicate that ‘green vessels (from donor orthotopic tissue) attached to host vessels lacking GFP and blood cells circulated seamless between the contiguous vessels’- 2i: this claim is not well supported by figure. The use of shadows as a measure of vascular density is also not ideal, it would have been better demonstrated by the injection of fluorescent vascular tracers in addition also ex vivo staining of thick sections with endothelial cell markers. For comparison, another study has recently reported imaging of endothelial cells in syngeneic tumor grafts: http://www.landesbioscience.com/journals/intravital/article/24790/?show_full_text=true .