I should firstly point out that I was co-author on the 2011 editorial published in Bioinformatics titled, “The rise and fall of supervised machine learning techniques” 1 . Therefore I was momentarily surprised to be invited to review a paper with such a similar title. That editorial was only a page and a half long and only really scratched the surface of the interesting topic of the prevalence of use of machine learning in the biosciences. The author cites our 2011 paper and mentions that the current article can be considered an update of it. However, that is only mentioned in the very final paragraph of the paper. It would seem reasonable to me to make that one of the first things mentioned in the paper. Of course I am far from a neutral observer on this point. Overall I think that the article presents sound and interesting science and should be published within F1000Research. I think it provides a timely update to the 2011 editorial and expands it with some nice extra details. The article increases the number of ML methods investigated from 5 to 10. Most notably linear regression models are included which top the league table. I noticed an inconsistency in the data presented for ANNs in this new paper compared to the 2011 paper. Why is that? The numbers for ANN are considerably lower in this article. Is that because DNNs are split out from ANNs? Throughout the paper it says that ANNs have become known as DNNs. That is not correct. DNNs are a subtype of ANNs. So all DNNs are ANNs, but not all ANNs are DNNs. That needs correction throughout. The following statement does not read well: "The sharp increase usage in popularity rate of DNNs over the past few years (Figure 1C) suggests that DNNs will take the PR lead again in the coming years." After multiple readings I would presume that PR lead means it has the highest popularity rate. DNNs would have more than 300 more mentions per million papers per year. Firstly that sentence is very confusing to understand for a reader. For the first two readings I thought you were saying that DNNs would take the lead from LRMs, which would seem unlikely. On third reading I thought you meant that the slope of DNNs would overtake LRMs, but clearly it has already done that. I think you should rethink that sentence or take it out. Minor points: Page 2. At he intersection - At the intersection Page 2. You mention that a surprising maximum of 1.2% of all paper mention one of the 10 ML techniques. Why is that surprising? Is it too low, too high? Please explain. Page 2. NCBI database is mentioned. NCBI has a lot of databases, please specify which one. Page 3. less used less - used less 