The authors describe a new tool that is able to detect antimicrobial resistance (AMR) genes and identify bacterial species composition directly from metagenomic datasets. This pipeline removes the need to culture bacterial specimens and perform PCR for AMR gene detection and could potentially guide patient antimicrobial therapy. Introduction comments: Extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) is associated with what bacteria? (e.g., Enterobacteriaceae?) Please define the acronym ‘SNP’ (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism) the first time it is used within the manuscript. PointFinder is not the successor of ResFinder, they serve different purposes. Methods comments: It is not immediately clear when STAR or Magic-Blast will be selected for read mapping. Or is STAR not used in the current pipeline? There seems to be conflicting comments about the use of STAR in the manuscript (“Methods” versus “Use Case”). The pipeline screens out human reads prior to further analysis; however, the authors might also consider removing PhiX reads in order to get cleaner output in your Krona plots. Bacterial species composition is determined using Bacterial RefSeq and Magic-Blast. How does this compare to tools like Kraken? Did the authors consider using a different tool than Magic-Blast for determining bacterial species composition? Is there a way to link bacterial species to identified AMR genes? The paper does not mention what cut-offs are being used for reporting AMR genes in terms of coverage and percentage sequence similarity. Is this something that can be adjusted by the user? Output format comments: It would be useful for the reader to have a figure that illustrates and explains the output generated by this pipeline. GitHub repository comments: KRONA is missing from the dependency list on the authors GitHub repo The “workflow method” section on the GitHub page does not contain any STAR aligner commands, only Magic-Blast. Users will be interested in the STAR parameters as well. Or is STAR not part of the pipeline anymore? Overall comments: Tried to run the pipeline but it does not work. The pipeline, by default, is not able to find RefSeq database files. It would be a good solution to let the user choose the location of databases using a parameter option. Pipeline has no help function or usage string when executed without any input parameters. Disclaimer: The findings and conclusions in this review are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 