Firstly, I give you a big praise for all the efforts you made in the paper. This is a well-designed study with appropriate methods and explicit results so this paper should be accepted. However, there are minor points that should be clarify to improve your paper. The following are my comments on your manuscript: The manuscript needs the use of a language editing service. Mistakes in grammar were made, in some cases, even the meaning got lost. The Introduction should be strengthened. I did not see the importance of getting vaccine against Ebola in this part. Although the aim of the study was to “investigate community WTP of Ebola”, only patients’ family members were recruited. I think the study subjects did not consistent with its objective. Perhaps, you should consider to change the term “community WTP” into more suitable one. I know you used contingent valuation method to investigate the WTP even though no information provided. I think you should name the method and the technique used for a better understanding. Please give more explanation: how did you set the range of vaccine price? Please give more explanation: why did you collapse participant into three groups of age? Did they have any significance? I do not think you should define all the variables in the section “Explanatory variables”. Readers can find the groups of each variable in the Table. Please be shortened. Please give more explanation: why did you set the cut-off point of 75% to divide attitude and knowledge into “good” and “poor”? Please cite the reference for this information: “all explanatory variables that had P 0.25 in this model were excluded from final linear regression model. You said that you had provided information to the Ebola disease prior to assess WTP. I wonder if this step would affect questions regarding the knowledge about Ebola, therefore affect the WTP. Please consider carefully if you still want to state this step on the paper. One of your finding is that higher education associated with higher WTP but the knowledge did not. I think you should give more discussion on this interesting finding. In discussion section, you should state more about benefits of WTP assessment on the economic evaluation. Please add this statement on your discussion: “…WTP is a commonly used method in economic evaluation pf healthcare interventions. In cost-benefit analysis, the WTP method can value both the indirect and intangible aspects of a disease or condition. In cost-effectiveness or cost-utility analysis, WTP is consider to be a reference value to assess if an intervention is cost-effective or not 1 . It is important to be aware of methodology and interpretation of results because of affecting to decision of policy maker and also affecting in national expanded program in immunization on adding new good vaccines 2 .” In limitation, you should state that this study did not explore the effects of vaccine efficacy on WTP values. Please add this statement under limitation: “This study did not explore the WTP difference between two or more scenarios of vaccine with different efficacy. As could be seen in previous study, higher efficacy of vaccines resulted in higher value of WTP 3,4,5 ” 