This paper presents findings of a desk review or secondary analysis of data routinely collected at two health care institutions in Sri Lanka from those who seek services for GBV (intimate partner violence predominantly) during a specified time period. While this type of study can provide a descriptive summary of the characteristics of those who seek care and the nature of services that could be provided to them, it will not achieve all of the objectives nor support all of the conclusions stated in the paper. For example, the mentioned objective(s) of "obtain(ing) an overview of [...] factors associated with GBV" would not be possible without an analytical component/comparison group who did not experience GBV as opposed to those who did not report specific types of GBV (as in table 7). The following aspects of this paper could be improved to increase the relevance and useful of this publication. The results section of this paper will benefit from a revision (see details below). Introduction : The focus of the study is not clear whether it is Gender Based Violence (GBV), GBV against women: most GBV in Sri Lanka is male violence against women in the context of marital or intimate relationships. Justify the choice of study settings: These two hospitals represent diverse health care institutions, one being a maternity hospital and a referral center for the rest of the country requires a justification as to why these two hospitals were chosen; it is relevant for the interpretation of results. Methods: Ethics approval: Desk reviews would not require a statement about individual consent. Whether protocols/pre-approvals are in place to use routinely collected data for research purposes could be mentioned. How was anonymity of data assured? Were there any issues of data inconsistency in the two settings? Some of the questions used to assess safety were different from the WHO questions: Has the physical violence happened more often or gotten worse over the past 6 months? Has he ever used a weapon or threatened you with a weapon? Has he ever tried to strangle you? Do you believe he could kill you? Has he ever beaten you when you were pregnant? Is he violently and constantly jealous of you? What is the rationale for the use of different questions? The questions used by the authors could be more appropriate to the study setting; this could be justified using literature and other evidence. Results : The statement 'there were 395 (80.9%) from CSHW and 93 (19%) from KGH ( p0.001) ' is not meaningful without a baseline for comparison. Are you saying that there is a higher proportion of women who reported IPV among all the women/patients who were admitted to the hospital in CSHW compared to the KGH? If so, could this be because CSHW is a women's hospital and only admits women compared to KGH which admits both men and women? A proportion of 395/total cases collected would not be a meaningful comparison. Interpretation of the results should be reviewed throughout . Rather than "there were more teenagers presenting for care at CSHW compared to KGH (68/395 vs 4/93, p0.001)' it is better stated as 'a higher proportion of those who presented to CSHW were aged 19 years compared to the proportion of women who were of that age group presenting to KGH. Table 7. Characteristics of the women associated with the types of gender-based violence is hard to interpret without proportions. Interpretation is not clear 'of the 317 women who had suffered physical violence 83% had been married (OR=4.3, 95% CI 2.8-6.6, p0.001)' as opposed to what? (those who did not suffer physical violence - but could they have suffered other types of violence? Which types?) Tables 8 and 9, the calculation/interpretation of the confidence intervals are not clear. Discussion: The authors have addressed some of the biases and discussed salient points of this study. The results of a care center could not be compared to community based samples and prevalence. This could be an error - "a large community based study involving 786,464 women," - the sample size of this study was much smaller. The authors must also pay attention to making conclusions about multiple variables without doing multivariate analysis - for example, it cannot be concluded that - "a high risk of GBV was associated with women who were married, those who did not have stable relationships, those who were pregnant and in those who were employed, and the husband, lover or living in partner was the commonest perpetrator in both present and past episodes [...] because these variables were not compared with each other. Findings about help seeking, it must be noted, is based on the experiences of a sample that presented to hospital, and as such, cannot be generalized to those who have not done so. Hence it cannot give insights in to the "problem of GBV in two urban areas of Sri Lanka". Conclusions : The findings point to the nature of services needed and gaps in those provided to women who present to two large hospitals in Sri Lanka. For example, the findings can support the need for psycho-social services for survivors and the requirements for safety planning and interventions. Any other extrapolation to the community level would not be supported by the data collected and presented here. 