General remarks: In the Abstract the authors claim: ”However, polyp bailout has not previously been described in association with thermal stress and the coral bleaching response…” a. This is completely inaccurate-polyp bailout or expulsion in response to thermal stress has been reported in 2007 by Kruzic P. b. Moreover, the claim that bleaching is also involved: “in association with thermal stress and the coral bleaching response ” is misleading - there is not a single experimental proof or measurement of bleaching in the current report, merely some remarks on “Paling observed in coral tissue” and “All corals fully bleached" (Dataset 1.). Moreover, the polyps are clearly detaching with the zooxanthellae, (Figure 2: “Small brown dots in the polyp tissue are endosymbiotic zooxanthellae”). So where is the bleaching? In the coenosarc? If so - experimental evidence should be provided. Or the sentence: “..the coral bleaching response ” should have been omitted. In the Results, the use of the term “heating days” is unclear, and should have been explained (“At this time, peak daytime temperature was 33C, which is the equivalent of 13 degree heating days, a measure of accumulated heat stress used in the prediction of mass bleaching events “). Figure 2 is unclear, especially the presumed “coiled filaments are adhesive mesenterial filaments, presumed to aid in rapid settlement”. I would expect, under current technologies available, for a better image to convince that indeed these are “adhesive mesenterial filaments”. The literature is not correctly cited. In the Abstract, the paper by Goreau Goreau (1959) does not clearly describe polyp bailout or expulsion. It deals with calcification all over, and it mentions merely in the Discussion, as unpublished results, that polyps can detach. This citation should have been be omitted from the Abstract and put elsewhere. The paper of Kramarsky-Winter et al. 1997 on polyp expulsion is not cited. The paper of Kruzic P. 2007 on polyp expulsion under thermal stress, which is the most relevant paper to this report, is not cited. 