This study aimed to evaluate the effect of cinnamon extract (C. E) on cholesterol levels in mice with hypercholesterolemia. Authors demonstrated that C. E is useful to decrease cholesterol level, so its a promising plant to explore in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and the related illness (hyperlipidemia, diabetes, atherosclerosis…). Cinnamon has been shown to reduce total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein and triglyceride levels, as well as increasing high-density lipoprotein levels. precise the model of the study. In introduction section, you must conclude by the aim of your research, this phrase “Mice were used in this study because of they have a similar biology to humans, and can therefore be a model for human hyperlipidemia8–10. must be include in discussion. Avoid repetition such as: “This study was conducted at the Pharmacology Laboratory of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Indonesia. The experiments took place at the Laboratory of Pharmacology Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). What is the type of extract (aqueuous, ethanolic…..), and the part of plant by which industry do extraction. Try to explain why you don’t have a dose-dependent effect in your experiment. Figure 1 shows that groups K0 (negative controls), K1 (positive controls), K2 (CE 2 mg/20gBW), K3 (CE 4 mg/20gBW), and K4 (CE 8 mg/20gBW), had a decrease in total cholesterol levels. why all groups have a decrease of Total Cholesterol, you don’t precise the days of this results you must clarify the idea. In the section results, days of measurement must be righted in the description to clarify the idea. The smallest increase in BW was found in group K5 , K5 ??, you would like to say K4? In the present study we believe that the increase of cholesterol levels due to quail egg yolk could be decreased with cinnamon by its ability to block HMG-CoA reductase enzyme and suppress lipid peroxidation through increased antioxidant enzyme activity18. the mechanism involved in the antihypercholesterolemic effect must be declared with precaution, ‘may be’. Our study showed that there was no difference in BW of the mice between groups (p = 0.419). This is not consistent with Vafa et al. (2012) 1 who stated that consuming 3 grams of cinnamon for 8 weeks could decrease some biochemical and anthropometric variables compared to previous states significantly, i.e. a decrease of 1.19% body weight, 1.54% body mass index and 1.36% body fat. In addition to lowering BW variables, it could also decrease fasting blood glucose level by about 9.2%, and 6.12% of HbA1c and 15.38% of triglyceride levels20. model used by the study cited must be declared. In the present study, a high-fat containing food used in combination with cinnamon extract ( Cinnamomum burmannii ) for 28 days could decrease total cholesterol levels in mice. this conclusion must be reformulated, high-fat containing food was used only to have the model for studying the effect of CE on cholesterol level, so the conclusion must be related only to CE. 