 The Manuscript: The Article is very clearly written and formatted. It strongly focuses on the end-users that want to use the published library and describes how to include it and what possibilities it offers. The examples shown in the manuscript are nice and well-picked. The manuscript is interesting and easy-to-read. I did not found it useful to include the formula for the hypergeometric test in the manuscript. Nearly every manuscript that even mentions enrichments of lists of genes depicts this formula. It is already known very well by researchers in this area and for beginners, the information provided is rarely sufficient. Personally, I would remove it. I would recommend the authors to rethink the title. Maybe something shorter like "BioJS InterMine List Analysis: A BioJS component for displaying InterMine analysis results" might be less-confusing (even though it misses the information about the various possible endpoints). What-is-published-here: However, what is published here is only the approximate 400 lines-of-code long BioJS-wrapper for Intermine (available as a single JS file on GitHub). Its not the implementation of the described analysis methods, nor is it the Intermine library itself. Its just the plain BioJS wrapper for the analysis methods offered by the Intermine endpoints. Actual source code: I tested the provided Demo on GitHub: Works very well in Chrome 37. It does not work in IE10 ("Unable to construct query: 8070000c"). Works in Firefox (although the grid on-mouse over-popup behaves different than in Chrome). It may be nice to mention some information about Browser compatibility in the manuscript and on GitHub. I further tested the automated code generation, available from a button in the upper-right corner (specifically, the Java-Code). That worked well. I extended the Demo JavaScript file and played a bit with the information, provided in the manuscript. Everything seemed to work well. Generally, the code listings in the manuscript are very helpful when working with the library. Also, the Demo file on Github helps getting started. The JavaScript code itself is well documented with comments.