I’m sorry that I haven’t been slow with reviewing this study, but the increasing length of studies, which generally I think necessary, makes peer review even more onerous. Importance: The study asks two important questions - what is the variation in use of open access by discipline, and what might be the reasons for the differences? And it provides answers that are generally convincing, although hard to digest. Originality: Individual studies provide some answers to these questions, but this review brings them together. That is useful. Methods and presentation: Although the study is described as a meta-synthesis, it seems to me that it’s essentially a descriptive study. The authors find the studies and then largely describe what they report. There isn’t much synthesis, and I, as a reader, would appreciate more. There is huge heterogeneity in the studies of proportions of articles that are open access, but readers are left to look through a table that is four pages long - and largely to wonder for themselves about the reasons for the big variations. I know that all the data are there, but how is it that a study of 12m article from 2018 finds that 66% of articles are open access, whereas another equally large study from the same year finds that 29% are open access? Clearly they must be using different definitions of open access, and the authors don’t themselves define open access or its subsets (gold, green, hybrid, and bronze). They should. I’d like to see a summary table that has the following columns: Year of study, number of articles in the study, definition of open access, proportion of articles that were open access. There should be another summary table that shows the variation by discipline in overall open access rates and in the subsets of open access. Another useful addition would be a figure that showed how proportions of articles that are open access by discipline have varied over time. The authors might also give a table that shows the association between their “analytical dimension” and the different disciplines. At the moment readers can get this information only by ploughing through pages of text that describe the variations by discipline. As this is essentially a descriptive study I don’t have great criticisms of the methods and conclusions, although I recognise the weakness of surveys, which give us data on what people say about their behaviour than what really drives their behaviour. My biggest criticisms are about presentation. I’d like to see not only more tables and a figure but also a much shorter paper backed up by supplementary material if necessary. That would, I judge, make for a much more readable and useful paper and dramatically increase the number of readers. Minor points: There is at the moment a great deal of repetition. The discussion is mostly a repetition of the results. I’d like to see some data in the abstract. I believe that abbreviations are a plague in medical writing, and I’d avoid them, including OA for open access. I’d drop “evidence-based” in the title. It would be good to have the search strategy as a table. Much of what’s in the results should ideally be in the discussion. There are a fair few typos. 