The authors characterize the thermal nociception in Drosophila larvae that have been cultured on a range of paclitaxel concentrations. Using a heat probe to elicit the rolling defense behavior, they find that while paclitaxel has no effect on response times with a 46C probe, it shortens probe response times when the larvae have been grown on 2.5 m paclitaxel or above. The authors and readers might like to consider the following comments on and questions about the 23 Jan 2018 version. The Title describes a model for studying paclitaxel-induced pain, however the assay uses a heat probe to induce pain, and paclitaxel lowers the sensitivity to the probe, thus modeling the hyperalgesia component of paclitaxel CIPN. Would the Title better serve the reader if edited to focus on this side-effect specifically? In Abstract–Results , the authors write: "We found that paclitaxel increases pain perception in a dose-dependent manner, without overt morphological changes." Changing "perception" to "sensitivity" would eliminate the baggage of the former word. In Abstract – Conclusions : "Our simple, high throughput model can be combined with genomics approaches to identify regulators of chemotherapy-induced pain to eliminate its adverse side effects." However, they have not established that this is high-throughput by most common definitions of the term, nor do they show anywhere in the paper that it can be combined with genomics. The Conclusions would be improved if rephrased to better reflect what the data show. "High-throughput" is a phrasal adjective that requires a hyphen. In Introduction it says "This system is amenable to high throughput screening" however, this is not shown in the present manuscript nor is a reference cited in support of the statement. "Krustal-Wallis ANOVA." Correct to "Kruskal–Wallis." I encourage the authors to use estimation statistics instead of significance testing. This would involve presenting and discussing the effect sizes. For example, in Figure 1c, it looks like 2.5 m paclitaxel has the effect of reducing response time by ~1.5 s. It would be nice to calculate standardized effect sizes (e.g. Cohen's d) of the paclitaxel effects; this would allow the authors and readers to estimate sample sizes needed for a screen (and thus possible throughput rates). In Results, the authors write "Thus we establish that paclitaxel sensitizes larvae to heat pain via enhancing sensory neuron or higher order nociception, and not via inducing overt morphological changes." Is it true that enhancing sensory neuron or higher-order nociception are the only two alternatives? If not, this sentence should be rephrased. The Conclusions section reads more like an overview of future plans for the assay. Could it be rewritten to more closely address the paper's findings? 