This paper describes a computational study of the effect of mutations on GLUT transporter dynamics. The work consists of atomistic and coarse grained simulations, including some using a protocol called ConsDYN which imposes constraints on distances conserved across conformational transitions. The study identifies that several pathogenic and other mutations modify the structural ensemble visited by the protein. While the topic is important and computational methods are well-suited to answer the question, I have reservations about the study design and the conclusions reached: A pathogenic mutation modifies the function of the protein such that cellular and organism function are altered. Glucose transporters carry out their function, i.e. importing sugars, via an alternating access cycle in which the transporter transits between outward-open and inward-open states via occluded states; whereas sugar binding from the extracellular medium promotes a transition to the inward facing state, sugar release to the inside intracellular medium promotes a return to the outward facing state. Other than the intrinsic dynamics of interconversion between states, the fact that the sugar modifies the stability of states and the kinetics of interconversion is key for function. Thus pathogenicity of a mutation could be due to many factors: among others, sugar binding, unbinding, (de)stabilization of one or more states on the functional cycle, modification of the rate of conversion between states, in the presence and/or absence of sugar. In this paper, the authors investigate the effect of mutations on the dynamics of interconversion between states. I believe the assumption should be spelled out more clearly, and the omission of all other possible effects on the sugar transport cycle should be explained. Relatedly, were the simulations performed in the presence or absence of sugar? Comparing both cases could lead to increased insights. Why was the analysis limited to outward occluded and inward open states, when high-resolution structures of other states are available? If only two states should be considered, why not consider the inward open and outward open since they are the two end-points of the transport cycle? The ConsDYN method can be an interesting way to promote conversion between states using coarse grained simulations. However, whereas the stated aim on p5 is “to check that ConsDYN is able to sample both I o and O o states”, Figure 2 reveals that ConsDYN simulations only sample intermediate states, instead of bridging between states. I would thus disagree with the conclusion according to which the method allows to capture the “conserved dynamics” and to “sample between the conformational states”. Would lowering the force constant of the constraints imposed lead to further exploration of the landscape? The method also seems to have a serious conceptual drawback, in that it assumes that when switching from a state to another, common contacts are conserved, and additional ones are formed in either states. This does not seem to be a general feature of conformational changes in biological molecules and should be discussed. Table 2 reports changes in distance between helices in the presence and absence of mutations, including pathogenic ones. Whereas the pathogenic G91D seems to cause major changes to the dynamics of the transporter, the other pathogenic mutations only alter some of the distance distributions. It does not appear that applying this methodology and measuring the difference in distance distributions as is done in Table 2 allows to predict pathogenicity. I thus disagree with the conclusions: “the distances between TM5 and TM11 can be used as order parameters to elucidate abnormal behavior in the dynamics of the transporter” and “ConsDYN simulations capture the effect of the mutations on the dynamic and function of the transporter proteins”. Minor comments: The authors refer to a “channel” in the title and later in the manuscript. Do they mean the transporter lumen? In an alternating access mechanism, a channel is never observed. p5: The difference between Nagarathinam et al. (2018) and this work is ascribed to differences in the transporter protein studied (bacterial vs human) but the authors cannot rule out that the differences can come from differences in the sampling protocol. Were the CG or AA simulations of I o and O o analyzed in Figure 3, Table 2 and SI figures? p6: “outer distances between TM5 and TM7 are given in Figure 3” should be replaced by “outer distances between TM5 and TM11 are given in Figure 3”. 