The present study, conducted from September 2017 to July 2018, considers prevalence of illicit drug use among agriculture-related workers in Thailand. The study moves past its introduction without defining the term ‘agriculture-related worker’ – how is this defined? Are these individuals working on family parcels? Do they work year-round or seasonally? Do they accept work for any crop(s) (suggesting irregular employment in fields/orchards/vineyard/etc.) or specialize in one or more crops? Do these individuals hire-out as day-labor workers? Do they work in packing and/or distribution? Are they paid by hour/by week, or do they receive wages based on piece rate (quantity they harvest)? Do they return home at the end of each day or return home at the end of short-term on-the-season employment? Do these workers live with family, do they live in dormitory barracks, do they rent living space in nearby communities, or do they live on farm premises? Defining these workers and living arrangements is important, owing to diverse types of work/employment in agriculture throughout the world. Readers outside Thailand, and agricultural labor researchers, will find valuable information in this study. In particular, how wages are determined may be related to expendable cash, utilized for drug purchase(s). Data from the home survey was collected by private face-to-face interviews from September to November 2017. Each interview lasted approximately one to 1.5 hours. Were all interviewees interviewed in the same language (for the reader, name the language)? The remaining months from November 2017 to July 2018 were spent in “structured observations.” What was the purpose of these observations? Research design was “stratified multi-stage cluster sampling” on governmental narcotic operation zones. These appear to be the provinces of Thailand. How many provinces are there in Thailand? Total sample for the survey was 2,936 persons, among whom 124 methamphetamine users participated in a structured observation (purpose?). Meth users were common among those who accessed drug treatment systems, where 80% of those treated were methamphetamine users. Also, annual prevalence was 58.73%. What types of illicit drugs are included in percentage? Page 3, first column, first paragraph: The acronym “ID use” is defined as illicit drug use, yet some readers may recognize or confuse this with ‘intravenous drug’ use. In some countries, IDU is ‘intravenous drug use.’ Usually an intravenous drug, heroin is included among identified drugs (page 3, second column, sixth paragraph) – although alternative modes of administration exist for heroin and the other drugs that are identified. Page 3, first column, second paragraph: What is meaning of “Since 1360…”? Page 3, first column, fourth paragraph: What is meaning of acronym “GDP” which refers to Thailand’s agricultural products? Page 3, second column, fourth paragraph: The total number of 5,911,567 individuals registered as agriculture-related workers – what proportion is this of the national population? Page 4, first column, third paragraph: The concept or method of “structured observation” needs description, including where this took place, what is meant by “3-5 times for each sample, 1-2 days for each observation.” Were these observations over this time, continuous? How many persons in total were observed? Importantly, what was the purpose of these observations? Page 4, second column, fifth paragraph: Drugs identified for current users differ slightly from those earlier named – including the absence of heroin (page 3, second column, sixth paragraph). “Cannabis” is the only drug named in both places – this drug also has more than one mode of administration. Page 4, Table 1: Sample size earlier identified N=2936 becomes something different, when the second column identifies n=1207 persons (807 men, 400 women), who were “not drug user.” How is this explained? Also, why is there an age threshold (roughly 24/25 years)? This is particularly interesting, considering that “older respondents were more likely to use methamphetamines than were younger respondents” (page 6, first column, first paragraph). Were men or women more often in one or the other category of “older” and “younger,” and/or among those who use methamphetamines? Is the threshold age distinction correlated to discontinuation of drugs used earlier, which were replaced by others? For how many respondents was methamphetamine the first drug ever used? Discontinued drug(s) identified in the research, did any users return to these? Page 5, first column, first paragraph: The concept of “booster” needs to be defined, and “applied straw to take it,” needs to be described. Is this referring to oral intake, literally, OR inhalation into nostrils (nose) by means of the straw? Does the “lighter to burn” refer to melting or generating a vapor for inhalation? “Drinking water” – how much: half a glass, or a full glass, or some irregular amount, based on the individual users? This information would be available from observations. Term “energetic” refers to what? Term “painless” refers to what? Is this removal and/or generating an analgesic effect that eliminates pain or a numbing predisposition for pain? Does this refer to any place within the body, or specific body sites? Most importantly, do agriculture-related workers use drugs at their work-site: field, orchard, packing plant, loading platforms, and so on? Final sentence is unclear. Does this mean agriculture-related workers rarely seek drug treatment? Information in the final sentence does not close-out this paragraph that describes methods of use. Page 5, second column, third paragraph: A hypothesis is given, which should have been introduced earlier. Later in the manuscript, findings can be elaborated to describe whether the hypothesis was demonstrated. 