This paper has a number of serious flaws. a) The literature is quoted selectively and issues are oversimplified. The paper states that blood exposure is important but does not state that the preponderance of studies show that sexual exposure is by far the most common mode of HIV transmission. For example it doesn’t reference articles such as: Unsafe injections and transmission of HIV-1 in sub-Saharan Africa. The global burden of disease attributable to contaminated injections given in health care settings. Quantifying HIV-1 transmission due to contaminated injections. The paper seems to claim that knowledge about blood borne infections account for the regional differences in HIV prevalence. A single citation (a paper by the same author) for this claim is provided. Other possibilities are not discussed such as: Understanding the differences between contrasting HIV epidemics in east and west Africa: results from a simulation model of the Four Cities Study Ecological and individual level analysis of risk factors for HIV infection in four urban populations in sub-Saharan Africa with different levels of HIV infection. The paper also implies that condoms are not protective against HIV. Again this is not what the preponderance of studies shows: Condom effectiveness in reducing heterosexual HIV transmission. The author also notes the reference Allen S et al. (2003) as evidence for the lack of an association between condoms and HIV incidence but the study found that incident HIV infection was found in 5.4% of testing intervals when discordant couples had unprotected sex and in 2.6% of testing intervals when the discordant couples did not have unprotected sex. b) The interpretation of the results are not always supported by the data in the paper: The Author states: “ After adjustments for demographic factors and sexual behavior variables, the measures of knowledge of blood-borne risks become inversely related to HIV infection. That is, respondents who reported that HIV can spread through shared needles/razors and blood contact were less likely to be infected than those who reported that HIV does not spread through such means, once demographics and sexual behaviors were held constant ”. However, it is unclear how the author reaches this conclusion. The OR for the above relationships are about 0.9 and the confidence intervals are wide. This is not evidence of a relationship. The author also states: “The adjustments for potential confounders also caused the positive associations for knowledge of vaginal sex risk in women and knowledge of anal sex risk in men to disappear. However, the adjusted associations for knowledge of anal sex risk in women and knowledge of vaginal sex risk in men remained meaningfully positive.” It is again unclear what “meaningfully positive” means. The OR for women and anal sex has wide CI and doesn’t meet statistical significance. A definition of what the criteria for meaningfully positive are would be useful. And finally; The OR for men’s understanding of vaginal sex is close to being statistically significant. c) The paper’s conclusion is not supported: The author claims that: “HIV education campaigns in Mozambique and elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa should include a focus on risks from blood exposures and anal sex.” However, the data in the paper doesn’t suggest that this is called for, and even if the data were supportive of the need to do this, there are opportunity costs associated with doing so. What should health workers or health educators not do to create time and money for this change in message? Is the title appropriate for the content of the article? Yes Is the abstract a suitable summary of the article? No (see above) Is the article well constructed and clear? No (see above) Is there adequate analysis, including information on how the data were analyzed (e.g. programs, code, stats etc.)? There is no information on how the author decided that some results were important Are the conclusions sensible and balanced? No (see above). Have any potential biases or competing interests been disclosed? Yes 