This paper deals with an understanding of the use of Bacteriophages as a model for carbon regulation in aquatic systems The results show the increase in inorganic carbon content by 15-25 percent in samples with bacteria and phage compared to samples with bacteria alone with comparing to control samples, the increase in inorganic carbon content was 60-70-fold in samples with bacteria and phage, and 50-55-fold for samples with bacteria alone being reported by the authors. The biogeochemical process of carbon in aquatic environment is well discussed in the manuscript. The manuscript has been written in good English and journal guidelines have been followed strictly. The paper should be indexed only after revision by the authors. Abstract: This section is written very well with all the results and basic concepts. This section is also explaining the present work done by the authors. Introduction, Page 2, Line 3: "The oceans surface takes up about 2% more CO 2 gas than they release, a proportion of which dissolves into the water, forming carbonic acid requires a reference. Introduction, Page 2, Line 6: Carbon also enters the through the food web via photosynthesis, but does not last for long periods and is either released into the atmosphere as CO 2 or sinks to the ocean depths as dead organic matter. The should be and a reference is required. Introduction, Page 2, Line 23: Reference Hiroshi Ogawa et al ., should come with the year of publication. Material and methods, this section is written very well and you can understand the experiments conducted by the authors. I have only some queries and suggestions for this section: Page 2, Line 8: Kindly provide the manufacturer information for the TOC analyzer in the first usage. Result section is very short (even shorter than abstract) but its very informative and well written. Discussion section is also very well written with comparative study of this present work. But I think if you provide 2 or 3 more references then it will be better for this publication. Conclusion; I think authors have been forgotten to provide the conclusion part of this work and it is very important. Authors should be adding this section. Table 1 and 2 are presented very well and its looking like whole results are explained by them. Figure 3 and 4 are not cited in the text and it should be cited. These figures are the main results and could be explained in the results and discussion section. Figure 1 and 2 are presented very well and for figure 3 and 4 authors may modify with removing in hours by and in ppm by . Figure 3 and 4: I am unable to understand what differences between both figures are because all the things are same. Should be for table 1 and 2 (ppm 1 and ppm 2 should be come in the figure titles)? 