This study addresses one of the most challenging dimensions of the implementation of the peace agreement in Colombia: access to health care services of former combatants. Using a human rights framework, the article aimed to describe how ex-combatants of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia-People’s Army (FARC-EP), now a political party, perceive access to emergency services, and health promotion and illness prevention programs during their reincorporation process to civil society. All participants inhabited one of the Territorial Spaces for Training and Reintegration (ETCR) which are places established to relocate former fighters. Developing instruments to monitor the socioeconomic dimensions of Disarmament, Demobilization, and Reintegration (DDR) operations, in particular, access to health care services, is not only an important contribution for Colombia, but for all countries that are transitioning from war and conflict to peace. This study also suggests an important contrast between access to healthcare in ETCRs and historical challenges for health provisions in rural areas. While the study is clearly of utmost importance, we identified several areas that warrant significant revisions. Introduction: The introduction provides limited context about the reincorporation program, ETCRs, and Health for Peace project. Although Colombia has had multiple experiences of reintegration programs with different armed groups, including the FARC, the process that followed the signing of the 2016 peace agreement is a unique experience that represented a national and international precedent for peace negotiations. The article should mention the main characteristics of the reincorporation program, including the different challenges and developments in the establishment, transformation, and infrastructural conditions of ETCRs in order to understand the living conditions of the participants. There is an important history here that should be mentioned, even in abbreviated form. Regional differences and successful and less successful ETCRs should be briefly mentioned as a way to convey the potential heterogeneity of experiences of ex-combatants. The authors refer to this program as reintegration; however, the distinction between reintegration and collective reincorporation is necessary in the Colombian context since it refers to different programs that determine ex-combatant lives in different ways. Also, the authors do not provide a description of the Health for Peace project. Therefore, it is difficult to know how the intervention of United Nation agencies, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and other medical humanitarian agencies created special conditions in ETCRs. For the context of the present study, it would be important to clarify what were the actions implemented by this project? Did they offer healthcare services or programs? Did they help ex-combatants with the administrative processes of the Colombian healthcare system? Was there a transition or potential overlap between international agencies and the Colombian health care system? Were there services from the Health for Peace project, including ambulances, physicians and nurses, still present at the time of the study? If there was overlap and the agencies were still present in the ETCRs, is the study instrument able to differentiate between the actions implemented by these agencies and the professionals and networks of the Colombian healthcare system? A more extensive description of this historical context of the relationship between the ETCRs, the international humanitarianism that supported the reincorporation process, and the health care networks is very relevant for the comparison with other rural communities and other peace processes. For an international audience, the concepts of “prevention and promotion” and “extramural activities” should be briefly explained. Methods: The methods are appropriate to answer the question of the study. The high coverage of the sample and the number of ETCRs included are remarkable given the characteristics of these population. The study unit seems to be the household not the family. It seems that the authors overlooked the name of the survey developed by Arrivillaga, Aristizabal, and Estrada and wrote instead East Asian Social Survey. The instrument has an important merit for this kind of study; however, one of its limitations is that it does not include questions about conflict-related health issues, focuses primarily on emergency services and only assesses the four weeks prior to the survey. This should be taken into account in the analysis and discussion. Results: The core of the results of the study is presented in tables and figures. There are problems in the way the data are reported and we question whether the authors need to present all these data and whether some data deserve further analysis. For both tables: It is customary to present results as n (%). Since totals are numbers, it would be preferable to have the tables presented as n (%). Table 1: State that CV is coefficient of variation. Place of Residence. It seems that this category was transferred from other studies. However, it is not clear how the category ‘urban’ applies to the context of ETCRs. Furthermore, the differences between rural settlements and dispersed rural areas are not intuitive and deserve an explanation. Number of people in household. There seems to be a problem in the reporting of the total column. The total for mean and median doesn’t match the addition of men and women. Cultural identity or physical trait. Please change heading to Cultural identity and/or race/ethnicity. We recommend a table that shows the distribution of identity/race/ethnicity among the regions so we can have a better sense of the relationship between these two variables (Region and cultural identity/race/ethnicity). Group. The definition of the categories should be explained. For instance, what is the difference between victims and displaced? The authors should also mention that respondents could mark several responses. Housing. ETCRs, as part of the settlement project of the peace accord, have very similar characteristics. These categories, however, do not seem to reflect the housing conditions of ex-combatants in the collective reincorporation program. We suggest explaining the general characteristics of these types of housing. It seems that some questions were also adapted from other survey studies and it is unclear how they were transferred to the context of the ETCRs. For example, it is hard to think how “rented room” (inquilinato in the original instrument) is even a possibility within the context of ETCR. Equally, it is unclear what “room in another type of structure” refers to. Role in the family. In this question, if all the interviewees were the heads of the household as it is reported on page 3, it is unclear what relationship categories represent. Table 2: This table presents the most interesting results of the study. Nonetheless, the variations between regions deserve further analysis and discussion. Importantly, the Pacific and the Amazonian region show important differences from other regions. Depending on the final results and final presentation of the table, relevant discussions about regional variability could take place. In particular, the reader wonders why these two regions rank poorer in people’s perception of effective access. There can be interesting discussions with other Colombian studies around health inequalities and regional variation and this study opens up the possibility to discuss what is specific of the peace accord and what resembles larger problems of the population of these areas. Given the time the data were collected (September and October 2018), we know that some ambulances and health care personnel were still present in some of the ETCRs. Then, it is not entirely clear if the services people received were part of the Health for Peace project that had significant funds from international cooperation or if people were, in fact, using the services of the healthcare system. If ambulances were available, did that facilitate access to services and in a way skewed the data? Further information of the historical moment and specific conditions of the ETCRs at the time of the interview, as mentioned for the introduction, could help with the analysis of these results. Figure 1, 2, and 3 offer interesting information but it is very hard to assess the responses. Are there national and international guidelines that allow us to assess whether those percentages are adequate? Furthermore, Figures 2 and 3 require information about the clinical specificities of the children under 1 or pregnant women to assess whether the services offered were adequate or not, perhaps according to whether their regular or schedule check-ups are in agreement with known guidelines. We are left wondering how important this information is. The fact that the questions ask for the last four weeks further complicates the analysis given that the person could be in a moment in which there is no need to use these services and appointments might have already happened before the four weeks period or are scheduled for after the interview. Figures 4 and 5 would benefit from an explanation of these programs and the guidelines or parameters established in the country regarding their offering. Are health promotion and illness prevention services replacing regular care? Why would someone have to schedule such an appointment rather than already having an appointment or being contacted to schedule the appointment? How do referrals and enrollments in these programs work? Also, questions arise about the coordination between programs and whether the presented data is adequate or follows any established guidelines. All in all, an explanation of the ways in which prevention and promotion, extramural services, surveillance and monitoring systems, and regular health care work in coordination is needed to make sense of figures 1 through 8. Then, the authors should conduct the analyses of these data based on that description of the multiple pieces of the health care system and the parameters used to assess how adequate or inadequate are. Just to mention one example, what does it mean that 17,3% of the sample said that they had contact with an extramural team over the past 4 weeks? Is this adequate, inadequate, desirable, worrisome? We encourage the authors to rethink the presentation of the results. Discussion: The discussion requires major changes. The authors discuss some of the results in relation to existing literature but it is unclear what are the central ideas of the discussion and what results the authors found particularly interesting and relevant. Page 13. 2nd paragraph. “While prioritizing the right to health for ex-combatants represents important progress in public policy, Colombia’s health system faces numerous challenges that need to be studied”. What challenges is this sentence referring to? Page 13. 3rd paragraph. The ARN survey of 2014 describes a different reintegration program. This program includes ex-combatants who demobilized before the peace agreement and the majority of them moved to urban areas. As mentioned, the article should specify from the beginning that the population assessed in the study are part of the collective reincorporation program and describe their main characteristics. Is it possible to discuss some differences between access to health care depending on whether the ex-combatants participated in the reintegration or the reincorporation programs? Page 13. 1st paragraph. “ (...) the results from the present work provide a new methodology and information that can be used to identify the health status of populations that became invisible because of their situation as active actors in armed conflict.” This phrase is unclear. The present study centers on ex-combatants once they became “visible” and legally recognized after the peace accord. It also has the limitations of asking about the four weeks prior to the interview. The contrast with healthcare provision in other rural areas is an interesting and important discussion. However, the main points of this contrast are not clear. Page 14 3rd paragraph. We suggest avoiding adjectives such as “high”, “low” and “small” without providing specific data. The discussion of the results about health promotion and illness prevention services in relation to studies conducted in Manizales and Medellin does not seem appropriate, unless the difference between these services in rural and urban areas is stated. What do the authors mean by good treatment in accordance with their culture and beliefs? Are the notions of culture and beliefs related to their identity as ex-combatant, a regional identity, a rural identity, or an ethnic/racial identity? The results do not indicate that people’s behavior to seek health care services can be explained through the health belief model. We suggest that the center of the discussion should be around how the current data compare to the challenges described for other rural populations. The authors hint in this direction but could make significant contributions by signaling how ex-combatants’ perception of their access to health care compares to other studies in rural areas. Are they getting better or worse access to health care than other rural communities? What does this say about the reincorporation process and about the health care system? If the analysis is broken down by region, what does it tell us about different regions in Colombia and, perhaps, different “reincorporation processes”? 