This study assesses the effect of oxygen level and temperature on developmental timing in Drosophila embryos. The methods are adequately described to interpret the experiments. Oxygen and temperature are controlled externally in a custom built apparatus. Developmental timing is assessed by time lapse imaging under bright field; developmental milestones were manually annotated from this data. The statistical analysis used to compare across conditions is adequately described. This experimental set up does not make any internal measurements of oxygen level or temperature, which may be of interest for future studies, but this is a substantial technical undertaking. The conclusions are primarily descriptive—the relative duration and timing of developmental stages varies in a non-uniform way with oxygen level and the effect depends on temperature. This result contrasts with the effect of varying temperature alone, where developmental stages maintain precise relative timing despite variation of the overall time of development, as described in a previous study by the same authors. The authors also pinpoint which stages and tissues are most sensitive to changes in oxygen level. These phenomenological conclusions will be useful for future studies. There are also some secondary interpretations based on their phenomenological observations. First, because the blastoderm stage is more responsive to changes in temperature than other stages, but less responsive to changes in oxygen, the authors speculate that this is because blastoderm embryos have a limited ability to mitigate heat stress via transcription of new genes or translation of existing mRNA. Reciprocally, they state that “transcriptionally active embryos” (I read this to mean non-blastoderm embryos) “deliberately slow development either under high heat when kinetics are accelerating or under hypoxia to conserve energy.” In my opinion, this interpretation doesn’t immediately follow from the previous observation about the heat and oxygen sensitivity of blastoderm embryos. It is also not clear what the authors mean by “deliberately”; perhaps they mean that the embryos have pathways dedicated to a regulated response to these conditions, rather than the effect arising passively from global biochemical parameters. Second, the authors state that the thermal response is not due to changes in oxygen delivery as the two responses have distinct dynamics and phenotypic outcomes. This generalizes previous results about oxygen availability under extreme temperatures, as pointed out by the authors. In my view, this interpretation is sound. In my opinion, one of the most interesting directions for this line of research is how variation in temperature and oxygen level are sensed and how responses are executed. In the previous paper, the authors stated that they expected non-uniform scaling in response to temperature, because chemical reactions are known to exhibit different temperature sensitivity. Under this line of thinking, pathways specific to distinct developmental stages would respond differently to temperature, resulting in heterochrony. Instead, they do find uniform scaling of developmental timing in response to temperature. In this work, specific pathways are known to have differential sensitivity to oxygen (as described in the introduction), and indeed they observe heterochrony. What underlies this difference? Are developmental pathways not differentially sensitive to temperature (or stated reciprocally, do they all respond to temperature the same way)? Or are different molecular or pathway level effects of temperature buffered by other systems? Both of these are interesting possibilities. Deciphering whether uniform temperature sensitivity and/or buffering are under selection will also be exciting.