Summary Drs Kuint, Berkman, and Nusair retrospectively analyzed 20 COPD patients (GOLD 1: #7, II: #8, III: #4, IV: #1) who had full PFTs with lung volumes and a CPET test over a 7 year period (2010 to 2016). They were interested in air trapping and the effect on exercise performance, specifically trying to better understand the changes in Ventilatory Equivalents for Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide during incremental exercise tests on a cycle ergometer (nadir value to peak value). Further, they relate these changes to resting pulmonary function testing. The study was retrospective. They conclude that “ventilatory equivalents increment to compensate for acidosis during incremental exercise testing was inversely correlated with air trapping (RV/TLC) and may be a candidate prognostic biomarker.” The study is well written. Major Issues The study would have been greatly assisted by obtaining inspiratory capacity (IC maneuvers) during exercise to document dynamic hyperinflation. The study is retrospective, is a very small group, and was collected across 7 years (2010-2016, about 2-3 subjects per year), meaning that there is great potential for changes in devices, calibration, technician training, etc. that may have affected the PFT and CPET measurements. The GOLD III and IV subjects are very poorly represented (Gold III (20%) and Gold IV (5%)), i.e. most subjects (75% were Gold I or II). Per the Neder and Thirapatarapong references in your paper, Gold I-II have lower ETCO2 and higher VE/VCO2 reflecting less efficient ventilation , and GOLD III-IV have higher ETCO2 and lower VE/VCO2 reflecting mechanical limitation . This paper is also hampered by so many of the changes in VE/VCO2 (10) and VE/VO2 (7) from peak-nadir were nil, i.e. = "0" There is no analysis of VE/VCO2 slope or intercept reported in the paper or data spreadsheet. No blood gases (to document acidosis or lactate levels) or end tidal CO2 values to document changes in ventilatory efficiency. Importantly, there is no discussion of the determinants of VE/VCO2, i.e. VE/VCO2 i.e., = k /( PaCO2 ) * ( 1- VD/VT ) and how these two variables interact in the current study. COPD patients are less likely to protect their arterial pH and arterial CO2 during exercise (Casaburi, et al, Am Rev Respir Disease, 143: 9-18, 1991 1 ) See figure # 8. There is no discussion of this important feature of COPD patients in the manuscript. Minor Issues Introduction, page 3, First Paragraph, line 2. “Effort” should likely be exercise or activity. Introduction, page 3, First Paragraph, line 3+4. Here you mention gas exchange abnormalities and ventilation perfusion mismatching, but in paragraph 4, lines 3 you also discuss deconditioning. All three mechanisms appear to be important and should be mentioned in both places. Introduction, page 3, Second Paragraph, line 14. “exhausted” should be “decreasing”. Introduction, page 3, Third Paragraph, line 6 and 14. Reference 5 and 6 would both seem to contribute to the concepts here, and should both be quoted. Methods, Paragraph 1, Study Design and Subjects, lines 1-5. How are the authors confident that all subjects with COPD and full PFTs studied in the laboratory were identified for the current manuscript? Methods, Paragraph 1+2, Procedures. Were there any changes in PFT or CPET equipment, calibration, or technician protocols during the 7 years of data collection that might affect spirometry, lung volumes, gas transfer or CPET variables? Methods, Paragraph 2, Procedures. 15-25 watts appears to be a very large ramp increment in patients with moderate to severe COPD. Please explain why these very large numbers were chosen, and how that may have affected the findings in the study (i.e. short ramp times may decrease time for ventilatory compensation of metabolic acidosis). Table 1 – Consider including peak VO2/kg/kg/min, peak WR, peak RER, MMVV-VE (L/min), and end tidal CO2 values for the various subjects (and in the accompanying spreadsheet). The spreadsheet accompanying the article is very helpful and the authors should be commended for making the data available. A large number of subjects (~ 70%) had a VE/MVV below 85% or 15 liters/minute (MVV-VE) at end exercise, indicating a lack of ventilatory limitation in most of these subjects. Figure 1 – As mentioned above, a large number of the subjects had no change in DVE/VCO2 or DVE/VO2. Although Table 3 addresses it, it would appear that the authors have neglected to mention this as a limitation of the entire study in the discussion. 