This paper by Van Raemdonck describes the use of mass spectroscopy to identify T. pallidum proteins from plasma and urine from infected patients. If successful, such a method would be very useful in syphilis diagnostics, particularly with regard to reinfection. Thus, the work addresses a significant problem. However, although they could detect isotopically labeled peptides spiked into the samples, they could not detect T. pallidum proteins from the infecting organisms. Limit of detection experiments suggest this is due to the very low concentrations of T. pallidum proteins in plasma and serum samples. Thus, the main goal produced a negative result. However, there is considerable useful information in this study. The limit of detection experiments with T. pallidum bacteria that have been diluted and were unenriched or enriched with antibody beads provided interesting results on which proteins could be detected and how many bacteria per ml were needed for detection. In addition, the MRM experiments appear to be carefully designed and provide important limit of detection information for future studies. The discussion provides a useful assessment of limiting factors in the direct detection of T. pallidum antigen proteins. Comments: 1. Some of the description of LOD experiments with dilutions of T. pallidum on page 7, right column, paragraph 2, is difficult to follow. The authors state “In total, eight unique T. pallidum proteins were found in the unenriched and enriched retentate…” but they do not state a dilution. Later in the paragraph, it states “Ten unique T. pallidum proteins were found in the highest concentration….” . This is confusing. What condition does the eight unique proteins refer to? 2. Page 7, right column, paragraph 2. Tp47 is discussed twice in the paragraph with different gene names each time, ie, Tp47 (TP_0547) and Tp47 (TP_0574). 3. Page 3, Introduction, paragraph 1, line 1. “T. pallidum, a non-culturable…” Suggest updating based on recent publication in mBio on culturing T. pallidum. 4. Figure 3. Please indicate the meaning of the asterisks on TP_0249, etc. 