In this manuscript, the authors first performed computational docking studies to suggest that a hexapeptide of PKA has a high-affinity binding to the N-terminal domain of RyR2. Then, based on the elastic network model calculations, the authors argued that the putative PKA binding site on the N-terminal domain of RyR2 lies at the end of an energy conduction pathway of conserved residues. While such insights would be very important for understanding the biology of RyR2, there are a few serious points needed to be addressed prior to indexing, mostly due to the lack of experimental data to sustain the authors claims. The author had made the assumption that the binding epitope of PKA would be a linear peptide. Why wouldnt it be a 3D structural binding epitope with contributions from residues close in space but not close in sequence? The author suggested that the hexapeptide would bind to the N-terminal domain of RyR2 with an affinity of 5.5nM, which is quite high given the relatively small and flat interface. Considering the interaction is more likely to be transient than permanent in vivo, the authors need to provide more evidences or references to either support the argument or soften the affinity claim as a theoretical prediction or hypothesis. If the hexapeptide, FKGPGD, is indeed showing such a high affinity to the N-terminal domain of RyR2 how unique is such a hexapeptide among all proteins? Would other RyR2 modular proteins share a similar sequence? Or would other proteins sharing such a hexapeptide modulate the function of RyR2? Regarding the phosphorylation sites by PKA, based on a number of references (For example, UniProt database http://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q92736 ), RyR2 is phosphorylated by PKA at two major sites, Ser2031 (Ser2030 in certain publications) and Ser2808 (Ser2809 in certain publications). On the other hand, Ser2814 (Ser2815 in certain publications) is mainly phosphorylated by CaMK2D. This would be consistent with the fact that PKA phosphorylates proteins that have the motif Arg-Arg-X-Ser exposed. In the manuscript, the authors suggested that PKA phosphorylates RyR2 at Ser2809 and Ser2815; however, Ser2815 does not seem to fit such a recognition pattern of PKA. Since experimentally PKA is known to phosphorylate RyR2 at two different sites, does such a high-affinity anchor model fit in the experimental observations? Based on this, we suggest the author re-visit the manuscript to either provide some kind of experimental evidence, or tone down some of the biological implications - focusing rather on the computation approaches and the intriguing results thereof that may or may not be true in the end. 