The manuscript by Akhshabi et al. proposes and describes in detail an evolutionary model that qualitatively reproduces the "Hourglass Effect"---a phenomenon (in the biological context) whereby there is increased morphological divergence at early and late stages of embryonic development separated by increased conservation in the phylotypic stage. The proposed model is based on a hierarchical network representation of the Gene Regulatory Network - the so-called Developmental Gene Execution Network (DGEN) - and evolution proceeds through a series of stochastic perturbations involving gene duplication, re-wiring and deletion. The manuscript suggests that the key factor that reproduces the hourglass effect is the monotonicity in "time" (increasing) of a function they call specificity s(i) (a measure of likelihood of a gene regulating descendant genes at later times) that competes against perturbative effects such that there is a "waist" of the number of transitions genes w(l) at intermediate times. They then test predictions of the model in two datasets of developmental data Drosophilia melanogaster and Arabidopsis Thaliana, finding good qualitative agreement. The manuscript is properly motivated and well written (with some caveats, see comments below). The model proposed is quite intuitive and compelling and represents an excellent first attempt in beginning to uncover the mechanism behind this intriguing phenomenon. I anticipate that this will have high impact (considering the hourglass effect transcends biological phenomena and is also found in "designed" systems such as the Internet protocol stack ) in multiple fields. Consequently I strongly endorse this manuscript. I do however have some concerns about some of the details about the model and therefore propose the following that may improve the readability of the manuscript and the plausibility and robustness of the model: The section describing the model is a bit dense, and can benefit from some rewriting. For example it is a bit hard to follow what the significance of a spatial domain is and its relevance to the model. In addition a bewildering plethora of parameters are introduced, that can be a bit overwhelming for the reader. Consequently I suggest putting all the important and relevant parameters in a table for easy access to the reader. The section on Rewiring (RW) is quite hard to read and will benefit from the introduction of explicit equations similar to that for P_{RF}. Which brings me to my second point about the assumptions of the model. It seems to me that two key factors lead to the hourglass effect: a) the montonocity of s(l) with stage l and likewise b) of P_{RF} with r. While the choice of this dependence for the specificity is a simple linear dependence (which makes sense as a first pass), the choice of function for P_{RF} is highly non-trivial. Why not for example choose a simple linear dependence such as P_{RF} ~ r? The reason why I say this is that the authors would like to propose the most general and minimal model to explain this phenomenon. And it is not clear to me whether the specific choice of the functional dependences matter. For example with a non-linear choice of P_{RF} we see that a non-linear s(l) has the effect of shifting the waist. But what about a linear choice of P_{RF} and s(l)? Does that still preserve the hourglass effect? In my opinion a truly robust model will state that the main things that determine the hourglass are the monotonic dependencies in combination with non-linear or linear choices of the functions independent of their specific forms. This will allow the model to be applied to multiple settings. At the moment Im a bit concerned that the non-trivial choice of P_{RF}, as it stands in the manuscript, might be key to the observed effect. If it is indeed so, then one must motivate why one must make this particular choice. Same goes for the slightly peculiar choice for the non-linearity of s(l) introduced later in the model. The authors will do well to explain in detail what motivated them to make such a choice. Additionally it would be helpful if the authors make it clearer (than they already have) that effects such as duplication and deletion are there only to make the model more realistic in terms of maintaining the number density of genes across different stages and play no part in the hourglass effect (or at least thats how I understand it). Some minor nitpicks: ​ In the section Model Description, the authors refer to the Wright-Fisher model. I was not aware of what this was and had to look it up, so a reference for the reader should be provided. The Hourglass score H is determined through Mann-Kendall statistics. A brief description of the method should be provided for the benefit of the reader (maybe in the supplementary material). Additionally, why this particular choice? Presumably any statistical test for monotonic trends should be robust to the parameters of the model. Would there be much of a difference is one used the Spearman rho for example? Finally I think the authors will do well to highlight the importance of Specificity right at the outset of the manuscript and move some simplified variant of the segment "What is the reason behind the hourglass shape of DGENS?" (page 7, line 11, second column) to somewhere in the introduction. 