This article is a case control study, aims to study the association between the complete antenatal care (ANC 4 times) and the low birth weight (LBW) in Lao PDR. It demonstrated the significance of ANC on the prevention of neonatal complication however there are a number of issues with the methods and analysis section that need to be clarified with some of the conclusion are not correspond with the results. The detail of comments by section is below: Abstract: The conclusion that complete ANC help mother and child in term of weight gain and full term delivery is not from the analysis of the results. The multiple logistic regression from this study only showed that antenatal care and maternal weight gain and GA at delivery had effect to the LBW. Introduction: Page 3, Paragragh 1– second sentence birthweight of le 2500 grams, the reference about LBW incidence in ASEAN was in 2004 that should be update. The last sentence about MDGs in 2015 is out of date and irrelevant which should be removed. Paragraph 2- some sentences are repeat of first paragraph Paragraph 3- four critical times of ANC was recommended from WHO in 2002, the update of recommendation from WHO is in 2016 which can be found in http://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/maternal_perinatal_health/anc-positive-pregnancy-experience/en/ ,the new guideline recommend minimal 8 times of antenatal care to reduce perinatal mortality (page xvi) Paragraph 4- the authors mentioned there are limited studies identifying the role of ANC in reducing LBW incidence in Lao PDR, please give the detail, reference and gap of knowledge. Methods: The method was well described, however some points should be clarify The study period was 6 months in four tertiary hospitals in capital city which mean a lot of patients, with the only 52 cases of LBW and 156 control cases, the authors should mentioned about the selection method especially the control cases to avoid the selection bias. Some pregnancy factors that affect the LBW such as associated maternal diseases, complication during pregnancy, gravida and preterm birth should be added. Results: The subjects were caesarean delivery in 90.38% of cases and 79.49% of control, 19.23% of cases and 13.46% of controls were government officer with only 1.92% of cases and 3.21% of controls were farmer. This might not be the good representative of Lao PDR pregnant women and the inferential of this study to general population might be limited. Paragraph 1-The control showed higher education, urban and higher income. This might cause from the convenience selection of control group and cause the better health status, more times ANC attend and higher birthweight of control group. Please clarify the method of control selection. Us dollar might be better than Kips for the understanding of the reader. Total birth, total LBW, total preterm birth and total cesarean deliveries in the study period should be added. Table 1- Maternal age should be 18-20 instead of 20 (18 was excluded from this study), Famer should be changed to farmer. Only mean or median should be selected depend on the distribution of data. If median was selected, the min-max should be changed to interquartile range. Maternal medical and obstetrics complications should be added because it was an important factor for LBW. Table 2-The gestational age normally divided to 37, 37-42, 42 instead of 40. The BMI should be used instead of maternal height and why 10 kg was used instead of the recommended weight gain during pregnancy which depends on maternal BMI. Very high cesarean section in both groups was shown, please add the reasons or indications. The continuous data such as age, income should be analyzed in continuous form, especially income which was statistical difference between two groups if analyzed in continuous form and should be analyzed in multiple logistic regression analysis. The downgrade of continuous data to ordinal data should be avoided. Normally, the premature birth is the birth before 37 weeks GA and is the most important cause of LBW. This should be used instead of 40 weeks. Conclusion: As mentioned above, the new WHO recommendation in 2016 recommend at least 8 times of antenatal care to reduce perinatal mortality. 