 The study aims to compare the effect of hUCB-MSC-derived secretome, atorvastatin, and the two combinations in modulating EPC proliferation and migration. The study addresses the novel issues in refractory angina, whether the atorvastatin and secretome derived mesenchymal stem cells improve EPC expression. There are similar studies available addressing these issues. Zhang X et al. demonstrated that intravenous transplantation of huC-MSCs at an early stage could improve hypoxic-ischemic rats' behavior and decreased gliosis, this study was measured in other target disorders 1 . The rationale and scientific background of this manuscript were justified, to disclose the role of secretomes and paracrine stimulation on EPC expression. In the #Method section, the authors mentioned the inclusion criteria: male, aged 40-59 years old, history of chronic ischemic heart disease as proven by CAG (coronary angiography). The authors should quote the diagnostic criterion . Additionally, the authors should clearly state this is an experimental study of atorvastatin and hUCB-MSC-derived secretome and their combinations on EPC proliferation and migration. Umbilical cord blood-derived EPC established in a previous study displayed cobblestone-like morphology ; this is a typical feature of the EPC. The authors did not state this in the manuscript, except they confirmed using FITC-labelled anti-human CD 34+ expression. The authors should clearly explain it[ref- 2]. There was another immunophenotype of EPC as determined by flow cytometry, VEGFR2-PE, vWF-FITC, and CD31-PE 2 . Is there any reason why the authors only demonstrated with CD34+ expression. The authors should provide their ideas on it . In the #EPCs proliferation assay, the authors explain EPCs proliferation measured using OD; there was no explanation of how OD transferred in a measurement scale in Figure 2 (Y-ordinate)? How did the authors determine the percentage of hUCB-MSC-derived secretome? Is there any control over the measurement? In the #Table 1 – Characteristics of the patient, the authors should explain "Left ventricle internal diameter" = 5.8 cm; I wonder whether that is either "end-systolic dimension or end-diastolic dimension"? In #summary, the authors should open the opportunity on the horizon, whether the cell-based therapy or cell-free measures that win the future game? 3 . Again, I would express my appreciation to all authors to address these evolving issues in regenerative medicine. 