"Using bio.tools to generate and annotate workbench tool descriptions" is an article that describes a tool descriptor program known as ToolDog. It was designed to generate Galaxy XML or CWL from particular bioinformatics tool source code as well as metadata annotations on bio.tools. The idea is great, since the issue is a real one in the community. Namely, there are a lot of tools out there but typically they lack descriptors in Galaxy of CWL format. And this makes it harder to use in "workbench" and workflow systems. Creating a tool that tool authors can use to help create descriptors is awesome. Source is available in GitHub and the tool can be installed via pip. Feedback/Questions Can the authors rename the article? I think it should include ToolDog in the article title. What are the plans for other languages (if any)? Do the authors see ToolDog as something that others will extend for, say, WDL generation? I think it would be interesting to hear more about future plans. Specifically, how will the authors expand this to a Workbench Integration Enabler? Do they see this as being an automated process? How will they leverage the work of bioconda and biocontainers (they did mention this briefly) and will the goal be to generate CWL/GalaxyXML for everything in bio.tools + bioconda/biocontainers? Alternatively, if the goal not to automatically export CWL/GalaxyXML for everything in bio.tools, is it, instead, to provide a tool for tool authors to use when building their tool to jumpstart their descriptor creation? Some clarification on the intended audience I think would be helpful. The authors described generating CWL/Galaxy XML for IntegronFinder. Did they try other tools and, if so, how successful was that? What about generation in bulk? Can they comment on what a tool author should do with the generated CWL or Galaxy XML? They mention in the results that some work is required to make the tool run correctly. Is the tool author then suggested to check in the CWL/Galaxy XML to their source repo and maintain it? What is the recommendation here? 