This was an interesting analysis of the use of Trabectome surgery in patients with more severe glaucomas. Comments and questions are as follows, most of which would clarify the methods and data analysis for the reader: The abstract and introduction could be clearer about the purpose of the study. You have to wait a long time to find out that this was a retrospective chart review of patients who had received Trabectome and phaco-Trabectome surgeries. Were the authors looking for statistically significant differences in IOP reduction between the glaucoma severity groups, or equivalent effect in mild vs. severe glaucoma? If so, was a power calculation done? The abstract makes it sound as though only phaco-Trabectome cases were included, but the introduction states that both Trabectome and combined surgeries were included. Please clarify the abstract? The methods section briefly introduces the glaucoma index system that was used, but especially for someone who has not read the previous article evaluating it, a bit more detail about the point system used would be helpful. One of the exclusion criteria was prior glaucoma surgery. Is data available about the number of patients who had previously had SLT/ALT? Table 1 shows the number of Trabectomes vs. phaco/Trabectomes. Did all phakic patients have cataract surgery, or did any receive Trabectome alone? Over what time period did the reviewed patients receive Trabectome? Relatively recently, or closer to the beginning of Trabectome use? How many different surgeons' patients were reviewed? (Is it possible that surgical techniques evolved over time, or that different surgeons' techniques varied significantly?) A sentence like "We reviewed the charts of XXX patients from XXX surgeons who underwent CE/Trabectome or Trabectome alone between 2012-2016" would be very helpful. The authors state that patients in the severe GI group and patients with more severe glaucomas like pseudoexfoliation and steroid-response had a greater IOP reduction than other groups. Since IOP is one component of the glaucoma index and Trabectome does lower IOP more significantly with higher pre-op IOP, is it possible to say that Trabectome had a greater effect in these groups independently of pre-op IOP? (To confirm, was this analysis done?) Can the authors include a short discussion of limitations of the current study and possibly a bit of speculation on the smaller IOP reduction with phaco/Trabectome than with Trabectome alone, as well as on why the more severe GI groups saw a shorter-lived IOP reduction? 