This is an interesting manuscript, which addresses the awareness of expectant fathers about health issues in expectant mothers. Clearly, health issues in pre-pregnant state and during pregnancy contribute towards compromised maternal and neonatal-infant health including mortality and such information is not commonly addressed in the literature. The authors have mentioned that this issue was addressed at an international conference, which was focused at reducing maternal and perinatal-infant morbidity and mortality. Suggested revisions: Although, the authors describe and analyze these data at great length, the manuscript is conspicuous by the absence of similar data about the expectant mothers from the same group. If they do not have such information or have not collected the same, it would be advisable to include historical data of this population or similar population, as collected by them or others in the literature. The authors have also reported that the neonatal and infant mortality was higher in the area, where the study was conducted, compared to the rest of Sri Lanka. Does this information address this disparity? It is not clear whether the fathers were aware of, or given information as to how this knowledge and these health issues would affect outcomes of these pregnancies, health of other members of their families and future health of their children - the authors should specify this. Do authors have any knowledge about the number or percentage of patients that attended these clinics in their pregnancies? In limitation of this study authors have addressed the issue of fathers who attend the clinic and those who do not. For those who do not, is it because they have limited resources and less knowledge? The authors have addressed three important issues: anemia, diabetes and eclampsia. How do they propose to use this information and implement changes if necessary, to educate the population by various measures including social awareness, impact on society, country and thus improve maternal and child health? They indeed mention that the Sri Lankan maternal health program study should change their strategy in order to improve knowledge about these conditions - this strategy should be a part of multi- prong approach. 