 Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature?Partly... The introduction fails to motivate the rationale for this study, specifically examining the level of burden, evidence of bias, and support for innovative and creative research in peer review for grant applications. This section was disappointing but some of this rationale is buried in the results section and should be re-organized. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? Partly... The processes for selecting for reviewing the quality of the articles is not specified and there are many standards available. Research in relationship to research funding may not presented in a standard research format but there are many quality metrics that can be used to evaluate the research and these need to be incorporated. Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? Yes… The interview form is provided as part of the manuscript. If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Partly.. In reviewing the results from other studies, the way in which the statistical analysis are represented was rather odd. For example, the author talked about correlation for binary variables. This is inappropriate. The author also talked about the correlation between a short anonymized form and long form which would be a difficult way of looking at agreement on success rates which is also a binary variable. In referring to the CIHR study the author talked about detailed F tests and X2 tests without referring to the nature of the underlying multivariate analysis which seems strange as these are only tests of statistical significance and not the actually underlying process used to estimate the association. It would helpful to have a statistical reviewer as part of the review team for these articles to assist in the interpretation of the study results and the respective statistics. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? Yes. Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? Partly… Just in terms of commentary. The Results section was very informative and the tables summarizing different approaches was also very useful. It was difficult to understand the choice of funders to review and it was very surprising to see the NIH excluded from the interviews, although the research that has been done on NIH peer review are included in the results section. It is also strange to make the comment that findings from one funder are not generalizable to another. The literature shows that there are trends that cut across funding agencies, countries and even between manuscript and grant review and I think that this statement is not at all supported by the results that are presented. Finally, the section on innovation was very important and will be an addition to the literature. Results that were presented do not support the statement that funding agencies are not really doing much work in this area although I think that is likely true. Basically, the author outlined what the finding agencies were doing and it was left to the reader to interpret that some of these are very generic approaches that really do not address the key issues such as burden or bias. 