 The aim of the study described in this manuscript was to evaluate a known genetic risk factor for BCHF in feedlot cattle raised at moderate altitudes by screening of EPAS1 haplotypes in paired cases and controls. BCHF is a costly health problem for cattle producers in the Western Plains with losses exceeding $250,000 annually and a 11 in 10,000 animal mortality rate. Consequently, reducing the impact of BCHF is a high priority. A potential genetic risk factor for BCHF was reported in 2015 for cattle with high-altitude pulmonary hypertension (1,478 to 2,618 m) but it was unclear at the outset of this study whether this genetic risk was also prevalent in feed-lot cattle at moderate altitudes. The authors indicate that "Affected cattle were typically bred and managed with the aim of achieving high carcass quality." Presumably this could indicate there is some pleiotrophic effect of a gene influencing both traits and/or other concomitant traits? Or at least breeding for high carcass quality or other traits might be antagonistic to BCHF prevalence? As such measuring gene expression in lung, liver and heart in affected and unaffected animals in future studies may yield additional information particularly in the pathways that are involved in the disease; I assume the authors might already be working on this. The experimental design is clear but defining “pen-matched” and “pen mate” unaffected controls at the first mention in the animal and study design would be helpful to the reader. When the authors indicate that when an animal died naturally this “provided a window of opportunity to collect fresh samples immediately after euthanasia.”, could they provide details of which tissues they collected? Were tissues collected for RNA as well as DNA for genotyping? Presumably samples were also collected for pathology but this isn’t mentioned here. Similarly for “Control tissue samples were collected from non-affected penmates”, was this just ear tissue as mentioned in the methodology or other tissues, which could be used for RNA-Seq and gross pathology/histology? “Hearts, livers, blood, and ear notches from unaffected cattle were collected during federally-inspected beef processing at the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center abattoir from six purebred Angus heifers raised and fattened at 578 m and 15 purebred Angus cows maintained for breeding at 578 m.” It needs to be clear from this sentence that these were for visual and gross morphological comparison with affected BCHF organs, as this only becomes obvious in Figure 1. Similarly in figure 2 it is clear that heart and liver were collected to assess gross morphological differences between affected and unaffected animals but this isn’t clear from the animal and study design section. As a general comment to summarise the above comments relating to the sample collection could the authors clarify in the animal and study design section which tissues were collected and from which groups of animals in the text, and provide additional details in the form of a table in "underlying data" if necessary? This is particularly important because as the authors suggest the samples and information from these cattle are themselves a very useful resource for studying the disease, and knowing exactly which samples have been collected might reduce the chance of duplicated effort in the future. Technically I believe the results section of this manuscript is sound. The methodology for genotyping using a custom iPLEX gold genotyping array for the six EPAS1 missense SNPs has been evaluated in previous studies by the authors and to the best of my knowledge the statistical tests used to analyse the results have been interpreted accurately. In the discussion the authors mention “In some pairs, ear tag information suggested that animals shared the same sire.” What was the proportion of the total number of animals that shared the same sire? Is it possible to determine how many different sires produced the 102 cases and matched pairs? Were any animals included in the study twins? I am not sure of the twinning rate in these cattle, I assume it might be quite low, but are there ever cases where one twin is affected by BCHF and the other unaffected? The lack of an association with the EPAS1 haplotype variants and BCHF, in the feed lot cattle raised at moderate altitude included in this study, is a negative but nevertheless important result, that will be informative to producers, given the importance of BCHF. This is a well-designed and executed study that has been presented clearly and informatively by the authors. 