In this manuscript, Jamie Willows and colleagues describe the genetic diagnosis of hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia (HSH) in a consanguineous family, with identification of a novel homozygous TRPM6 missense variant in the proband. The authors have done a good job of placing this rare condition in the context of wider genetic and acquired causes of hypomagnesemia. There is a fair degree of detail in terms of the clinical course and investigations - see comments below for suggested changes. The identification of a missense variant is noteworthy. The authors do not highlight the fact that the vast majority of previously reported TRPM6 mutations result in loss-of-function of the protein. Only a small number of missense mutations have been reported and still fewer have had functional assessment - still showing loss of TRPM6 channel function (Lainez et al. , 2014 1 ). Functional studies are, however, not easy to undertake and the authors have provided evidence supporting pathogenicity of the novel variant in their family using protein modelling. The most interesting and possibly contentious issue is the identification of neonatal hypomagnesemia in the siblings with heterozygous p.Lys1098Glu variant. My understanding from the literature is that even asymptomatic hypomagnesemia has not been documented in adult carriers of TRPM6 mutations, and therefore symptomatic presentation would be very unusual indeed. The authors attribute the hypomagnesemia in the heterozygous siblings to immaturity of the DCT. The following points, in my view, merit some extra thought: The only serum magnesium value provided for the sibling II:2 is 0.53mmol/L in the context of ‘abnormal eye movements.’ The complex partial seizure is not described and no further definite seizure episode is documented. Is it possible to be certain that this episode represented a symptomatic seizure and suggest a causal relationship with modest hypomagnesemia? Were other investigations (e.g. MRI brain, blood sugar etc.) performed to identify an alternative explanation for the child's paroxysmal episode? Information on magnesium levels in the parents would be very important and, if possible, maternal magnesium levels around the time of delivery. It is not specified for how long the magnesium supplementation was prescribed in the two children. It would be helpful to clarify the timeline of events further. Before exome sequencing revealed the diagnosis, what were the possible diagnostic considerations in the two older siblings? Lastly, some minor changes would further improve the manuscript: Three letter amino acid nomenclature is preferable to the single letter codes now, i.e. Lys1098Glu instead of K1098E. In Table 1, the current magnesium levels of patient II:1 has a decimal point missing. ‘0.4-0.6mmol/L’ is presumably what was intended. It is preferable to say ‘second cousins’ rather than ‘second-degree cousins’, as family relationships in degree terms implies parents/siblings and children as first degree relatives and uncles/grandparents as second degree relatives. First cousins would be third degree relatives. Ideally, a proper pedigree should be drawn so that the familial relationship is clear. 