 The entire article must be grammatically reviewed (however I can't propose corrections as I don't have the article lines numbered): A lot of pleonasm. A lot of misspelled words. Information that should be mentioned in the methods: Why did you only include patients with closed VSD? In other terms what were the exact indications of VSD closure in included patients? At what age VSD was closed? How was hemodynamically significant VSD confirmed? TTE, hemodynamic evaluation? More detail on the minimally invasive approach is needed. Did all patients with VSD and anaemia have anaemia diagnosis workup since authors said the 15 excluded patients had differential anaemia diagnosis? What was the sequence of actions? "Among the 75 files were 48 males (75.64%) and 27 females with a mean age and weight of 8.35.7 (3–24) months and 3.83.0 kilograms, respectively. Depending on the associated complication, the cohort was then divided into three groups: A, PNA (n=30); B, PH (n=25); and C, control (n=20). Based on age, the cohort was further split into two groups: I, young children (≥3–≤6); II, older children (6–≤24) months. The patient demographic and clinic characteristics ( Table 1 ) and hematologic profile ( Table 2 ) reflects a pre-procedure state." This paragraph should be in the results and not in the methods. The First-line in the results should be in the methods. Discussion paragraph 5: Why did TEE use for in VSD? What is the advantage of TEE over TEE? The statistical analysis section must be reorganized. Please find an example below: 'Statistical analysis. Statistical analyses were performed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences Statistics (SPSS), version 21 for Macintosh (IBM, Armonk, NY). Categorical variables were reported as frequency and percentage. Continuous variables are represented as mean with standard deviation or median with the range depending on normality of distribution. Intergroup haemoglobin level was compared using independent samples student’s t-test. Statistical comparison of proportions was analyzed using Tukey HSD test. A p-value 0.05 was considered statistically significant. All reported p values are two-sided.' I don't recommend indexing with this form before all comments are addressed appropriately. 