Authors Legeay et al. introduce a new Cytoscape app to enable easy import and visualization of multi data type -omics data onto to networks with added features to quickly import interaction data from String. A great new addition to the cytoscape app set. Detailed comments: In the method section - “the data can be viewed (but not edited) through the Omics Visualizer panel located next to the node, edge, and network table panels.” - not sure what you mean by this. Is it an additional tab in the table panel or is it its own panel next to the table pane? After running the app I see that it is an additional tab. it might sound better as “the data can viewed (but not edited) through the Omics Visualizer panel in the table panel.” (Just for aesthetics I really like it if the app icon can be included in the tab name as well. Makes it easier to spot and click on.) “but a network can only be connected to one Omics Visualizer table.” - Does this mean that you can’t annotate a network with isoform data and phosphorylations at the same time? You can use both pie and donut visualizations at the same time so as long as the different data types are represented in the same table you can use multiple types. Maybe specify that an network can only be associated with one omics set but if you integrate multiple omics data into one table prior to loading into cytoscape you can integrate different data types. The paragraph starting with “To visualize the data table onto a network,” that outlines how the different tables are connected and the relationships of those connections would be much clearer with a figure outlining all the different connections described. It would be helpful to have a description of the type of table the app is expecting and how the two different charts can be used. I.e. I loaded in a table with genes vs. Patients expecting to see all my patient data on the node but I think that it only maps one column for the pie chart and multiple columns for the donut so the expectation is that there will be duplicate genes in a given column for the pie. What is the maximum number of conditions/instances that can be mapped to an individual node and visualization type? “The enhancedGraphics continuous mapping always ranges from minimum to zero, and zero to maximum.” - are minimum values calculated based on the filtered set of -omics data or the entire dataset loaded? “Omics Visualizer can automatically generate legends from the visualizations in the form of Cytoscape annotations, which can be exported as part of the images if the user exports the network. “ - it was very difficult to find the legend. I had to come back to the text a few times to figure out that it was somewhere on the network canvas and compared to the network it was tiny so it was hard to find. Use cases: “To reduce the size of the network, we cluster it using the Markov clustering from the clusterMaker2 app” - in the clustermaker2 app Markov clustering is called MCL. Might be good to add MCL in brackets for users who don’t know they are equivalent. “For illustrations purposes, we here show only the second biggest cluster, which contains 40 nodes and 107 edges.” - it is not clear how you limit to just that cluster. Do you filter the network by __mclCluster or do you create a network of the clusters directly from the cluster maker2 app? “It is possible to flip the visualization, and have as many donuts as sites, with two slices for each comparison.” - how could this be done? Does it involve changing our choice of column to EOC and FTE and OSE separately? Inner and outer visualization can be confusing. At first I thought you were referring to the inner and outer rings of the donut. Maybe changing or adding Pie and Donut to Outer visualization and Inner visualization headers will be helpful. “The difference here is that the user can only select one column, because the different slices of the pie come from the different values associated with the same node. “ - This is an important distinction that needs to be specified earlier. Whether it is in the introduction or in the methods but I think that the different type of data Omics is expecting and the data types best used for each visualization types needs to be expanded on sooner in the paper. In the inner visualization section - “In our case, we want to visualize the "Cluster" column and apply a discrete mapping.” - it is unclear what the meaning for this “Cluster” column that was in the initial file loaded. In the legend section - “Because legends are annotations, they can be moved, edited, and exported with the network as an image.” - how can the legends be edited or moved? I tried right clicking on the legend and selected Edit - modify annotation but nothing happened. I figured out that you modify the annotation through the annotation panel but might be good to add how you do it here. (I couldn’t figure out how to move it though) Minor grammatical suggestions: “For illustrations purposes, we here show only the second biggest cluster, which contains 40 nodes and 107 edges.” - remove the “here” “For illustrations purposes, we show only the second biggest cluster, which contains 40 nodes and 107 edges.” “The visualization is configured thanks to a specific dialog” - not sure what this is saying. “The inner visualization can be configured thanks to the pie icon or the ’Apps → Omics Visualizer → Create pie visualization’ menu. “ - sounds better as “The inner visualization can be configured using the pie icon or the ’Apps → Omics Visualizer → Create pie visualization’ menu.” 