This manuscript presents an interesting and potentially powerful new tool for monitoring behavioral data on small animals, particularly arthropods in field experiments. This includes remote areas without internet or situations without GPS access. The basic idea and the present implementation appear useful indeed for field studies on animal navigation and related topics. It is a major advantage that the modular structure of the application should allow expansion towards related applications and the implementation of additional features, depending on the particular user requirements. There are, however, a few shortcoming, most of them minor, but also a couple of more serious ones. I shall list them below, roughly arranged in the sequence of their importance: Data input: While the text explains in some detail the modular structure of Ant-App-DB and the basic function of the different modules, it remains mostly unclear to me what kind of input data the application would accept. Perhaps the most important features when studying arthropod activity are track recordings, or the monitoring of locomotor paths. Can such data be recorded with Ant-App-DB? Or is it just single coordinates in space and time? Or is it simply numbers that represent something the researcher may be interested in, such as walking distance, walking times etc.? Considerable effort is spent to explain, for example, the solar estimations. This is good, particularly for the uninitiated reader and naturally for research topics where solar azimuth and similar data are important. It would be highly desirable to spend similar effort on the explanation of data recording itself and the different options that exist and possible simple expansions that may be possible. Parts of the text are written in good English, quite crisp and altogether clear. Other parts of the text, by contrast, suffer from a dense style with long-winding sentences and some unintelligible sentence structure. Together with the occasional lab jargon or computer speak, this makes parts of the text somewhat difficult to read and understand. The English language is not always correct, despite native English speaker correction at some point in manuscript evolution. Hyphenation is just one example here. Typographic errors may also fall into this category; e.g. figure numbers in legend of fig.4 are consistently wrong. 