The manuscript is overall of much higher quality than it was previously. However, not all of the comments were addressed fully. The most egregious of these oversights is that it still gives the impression that a “straw man” argument is being set up to easily fall when set up against the authors’ favored approach. Fortunately this is not quite the case, and therefore this is likely an entirely unintentional effect of not clearly explaining the method that is being used or its comparison to other methods, but even so this issue is quite important since it can easily mislead an unwary reader. e.g., statements about the time and memory requirements of the SB approach having to scale quadratically with the number of genomes to be compared are untrue. In fact, while SB methods to construct orthologous groups do often take advantage of a full all-against-all comparison (and therefore these methods require a quadratic scale), perhaps the more proper comparison of DAB is not to the set of SB methods that construct orthologous groups, but rather to those that extend existing groups into new genomes (much like DAB does not construct domain families, but merely extends these existing families into new genomes, taking into account their architectures while this is being done). This fact is now acknowledged in the manuscript, but is buried deeply in the middle of the Discussion section, and yet the confusing description of the comparison of the quadratic to linear scales also remains at several places in the manuscript (such as in the abstract and the second paragraph of the introduction). Perhaps this was merely an oversight, but in any case this issue should be made much more clear than it currently is. If I understand things correctly, the overall summary seems to be that: the DAB approach, much like several existing SB approaches, leverages the extensive amount of work (much of it done with manual curation) already put into defining domain families, and attempts to extend these families to identify new members of orthologous groups in newly discovered genomes - which it is able to do more accurately than similar SB methods due to taking into account domain architectures. Both of these approaches - DAB and SB - scale linearly with the number of new genomes to be compared. In contrast, there is also a different class of SB methods (such as OrthaGogue, and COGs) that create orthologous groups de novo - these methods require more memory and time since they scale quadratically with the number of new genomes, although this class of method provides the advantage of being able to work even in the absence of domain family information, which DAB is not able to do. Another oversight occurs in the sentence that “Our aim was to investigate whether using HMMs instead of sequence similarity would yield similar results”, where instead of HMM I think the authors meant domain architectures? (and since domain architecture comparisons also rely on sequence similarity, perhaps also add the word “alone” after “sequence similarity” to distinguish the use of the latter alone vs. in combination with domain architectures)