Review of Putra et al. : I am normally delighted to see research coming out of Indonesia, particularly coral research produced by Indonesian scientists. This present paper, however, falls short in a number of areas. First of all, the title is very misleading. Authors have not produced research on "human activities", they have reported the results of a limited field study. They mention a variety of probable local stresses, some of which have undoubtedly affected these reefs, but nowhere are they able to connect stress with impact. This is quite disappointing, because there is an enormous amount of work that could have led them in the right direction. They mention the possible impact of sediments, but do not attempt to link their data to this putative stress. There have been documented changes in the nature of coral communities in response to the sediments, such as the decrease in Acropora and increase in massives, but this is not investigated. The authors mention the impacts of tin mining, and this would have been interesting to investigate by, for example, trace element analysis of selected corals – but the authors do not even mention this possibility. I could go on, but I will stop with this observation: the authors can say nothing about possible human impacts. What is more, they seem unfamiliar with research that might have allowed them to tease out some of these stresses. I recognize that some techniques, such as isotopic analysis of the coral tissue, might have been beyond their budget limits (although I note that nitrogen ratios can now be had for 20 bucks a pop), but they should at least be aware of the availability of techniques. Secondly, I have never liked this arbitrary definition of coral reefs into the good, the bad, and the ugly depending on observed percentage of coral cover. This is a particularly bad way in which to track changes over time. I realize this approach was born out of necessity in the Philippines decades ago, but surely we can get past this. A reef that has recently declined from 75% coral to 50% coral is on the way to extinction, whereas one that has happily maintained 30% coral cover throughout the Holocene is quite healthy. The authors mention Acanthaster as a possible source of reef degradation, and I want to see this entire section removed. It is true that some years ago some Australian COTS experts visited Indonesia and produced a paper that said, lo and behold, COTS are a serious problem. I encourage the authors to read the magnificent Tomascik et al. (2000 1 ) book on the reefs of Indonesia, both volumes, cover to cover. Then read all of the papers produced by the McMaster coral reef efforts, by the likes of Jompa, Limmon, Edinger and Risk. Search through this voluminous literature, almost none of which is cited in the present manuscript, which represents several person-years' coral reef surveys underwater. Tabulate the number of times Acanthaster is mentioned. I can inform the authors that the answer is zero. It is quite clear that COTS represents no danger to the reefs of Indonesia, especially as compared with the myriad other stresses. The fieldwork and the reporting thereof seems to have problems. If I am reading the paper correctly, there is only 30m of transact at each location. This is insufficient for an undergraduate student report, let alone a paper in the primary literature. The authors state that measurements were to the nearest centimeter, and all of us who have done underwater surveys recognize that this is an optimistic overestimate of precision. To then report percent cover to two decimal places betrays a fundamental lack of understanding of number theory. The authors are only legitimately allowed to report to the nearest percent. The literature coverage seems very scattershot. There is copious citation of British research of little relevance, and some glaring holes. The omission of any citation of Tomascik’s work is hard to forgive. 