I had only few minor comments and a suggested reference: First, there was some redundancy in the paper: local v. spatially distributed origins as possibilities was mentioned at least twice. Second, I really liked the following point, and wondered if this might be developed further, “mechanistic studies often do not explicitly frame analysis of cause in terms of the variety of potential mechanisms for local triggers and spread versus the variety of potential mechanisms for dispersed origin. My only purpose here is to clarify the relation between different mechanisms and the broader framework in which we must understand the puzzles of disease onset and progression.” The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? To explain, perhaps in some cases a local lesion may advance so quickly that it clearly is a single origin story. In other cases (perhaps for other cancer types or subtypes), typically, many independent populations of porto-cancer cells may be arising simultaneously. For cancers of epithelial origin, the latter seems likely; Martincorena et al., (2015) provide independent evidence in favor of the notion that mutations are always accumulating in healthy tissue, most epithelial cells slough off and do not become cancers, but some acquire sufficient mutations to advance to disease. References 1. Martincorena I, Roshan A, Gerstung M, Ellis P, et al.: Tumor evolution. High burden and pervasive positive selection of somatic mutations in normal human skin. Science . 2015; 348 (6237): 880-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Plutynski A. Reviewer Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2537 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10555.r17108 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1#referee-response-17108 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 06 Dec 2016 Steven Frank , University of California, Irvine, USA 06 Dec 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second ... Continue reading I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second point mentions: The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! I think this is likely to be true. However, to address the "always" or even to say "usually," I would first have to give a lot of thought to other diseases and, for each, the variety of potential mechanisms. Perhaps this would be a good long-term project to develop, leading to a variety of insights about how to study the possible alternative causes of disease. For now, I will only say "thank you." Plutynski's third point mentions: Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? I agree. Once one is thinking along these lines, my main point has been made successfully. As emphasized by the referee, what appears to the "same" disease endpoint can arise from a variety of mechanistic pathways. Although the pathways may vary, it seems likely that distinguishing local and spatial aspects along particular trajectories will help to parse how the variety of causes interact, and the ways in which distinct pathways differ. I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second point mentions: The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! I think this is likely to be true. However, to address the "always" or even to say "usually," I would first have to give a lot of thought to other diseases and, for each, the variety of potential mechanisms. Perhaps this would be a good long-term project to develop, leading to a variety of insights about how to study the possible alternative causes of disease. For now, I will only say "thank you." Plutynski's third point mentions: Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? I agree. Once one is thinking along these lines, my main point has been made successfully. As emphasized by the referee, what appears to the "same" disease endpoint can arise from a variety of mechanistic pathways. Although the pathways may vary, it seems likely that distinguishing local and spatial aspects along particular trajectories will help to parse how the variety of causes interact, and the ways in which distinct pathways differ. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 06 Dec 2016 Steven Frank , University of California, Irvine, USA 06 Dec 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second ... Continue reading I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second point mentions: The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! I think this is likely to be true. However, to address the "always" or even to say "usually," I would first have to give a lot of thought to other diseases and, for each, the variety of potential mechanisms. Perhaps this would be a good long-term project to develop, leading to a variety of insights about how to study the possible alternative causes of disease. For now, I will only say "thank you." Plutynski's third point mentions: Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? I agree. Once one is thinking along these lines, my main point has been made successfully. As emphasized by the referee, what appears to the "same" disease endpoint can arise from a variety of mechanistic pathways. Although the pathways may vary, it seems likely that distinguishing local and spatial aspects along particular trajectories will help to parse how the variety of causes interact, and the ways in which distinct pathways differ. I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second point mentions: The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! I think this is likely to be true. However, to address the "always" or even to say "usually," I would first have to give a lot of thought to other diseases and, for each, the variety of potential mechanisms. Perhaps this would be a good long-term project to develop, leading to a variety of insights about how to study the possible alternative causes of disease. For now, I will only say "thank you." Plutynski's third point mentions: Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? I agree. Once one is thinking along these lines, my main point has been made successfully. As emphasized by the referee, what appears to the "same" disease endpoint can arise from a variety of mechanistic pathways. Although the pathways may vary, it seems likely that distinguishing local and spatial aspects along particular trajectories will help to parse how the variety of causes interact, and the ways in which distinct pathways differ. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Proukakis C. Reviewer Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2537 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10555.r17107 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1#referee-response-17107 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 08 Nov 2016 Christos Proukakis , Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10555.r17107 In this topical and well argued paper, Steve Frank proposes the framework within which one should consider causes of disparate disease processes as either primarily local, or primarily generalized. The focus is mainly on neurodegeneration, and specifically ALS. This condition ... Continue reading READ ALL 