The manuscript is clear, however in the manuscript is cited Fernndez et al. (2016), and it is not found in the bibliography. I recommend placing more citations of other investigations where Bayes Theorem is used, for this type of investigation. The statistical analysis if applicable, however I recommend placing the calculations to obtain the values ​​that were obtained and discussed, such as: Probability of contracting an E. coli infection: 38.08% (people living in urban areas), 61.92% (people living in rural areas) Probability of contracting an infection with a resistant strain: 32.97% (people living in urban areas), 67.03% (people living in rural areas) Probability of contracting an infection resistant to ampicillin due to the consumption of contaminated water: 3.57% (people living in urban areas), 8.41% (people living in rural areas) I suggest that it is necessary to show the data for water pollution in rural and urban areas of Ecuador, as well as the parameters for water quality according to the area of ​​residence, such as water contamination with ampicillin-resistant E. coli, for estimate the probability of a person in Ecuador contracting an ampicillin-resistant Escherichia coli infection through the consumption of contaminated water, as the manuscript suggests. The data of Vila, J. et al. (2016) can be used statistically, is a small study of 33 people living in South America in urban and rural areas, compared to the urban and rural population in Ecuador, 2010, which is 14,483,499 people, for the determination of the probability that it is Ecuadorian to consume contaminated water. an infection by Escherichia coli. There are data on E. coli i nfections in contaminated water in Ecuador, to strengthen the results obtained. To determine the probability that an Ecuadorian will consume contaminated water to contract an infection caused by antibiotic-resistant Escherichia coli, used data from Bianchi et al. (2014) of the San Juan River in Argentina, showing that the average percentage of CFU resistant to ampicillin in urban areas was 73.39% and for rural areas 92.85%. These data are comparable with water sources in Ecuador, such as rivers, environmental conditions, etc., to be able to use them. Similarly, it is suggested to know if there are data of E. coli infections resistant to antibiotics in contaminated water in Ecuador. In conclusion, the objective of the work is interesting, however, he suggested that to investigate more real data of Ecuador, to strengthen the obtained results. 