Tony provides an overview of different definitions of Open Peer Review, acknowledging the ambiguity of the term “open peer review” and the probable impact of such ambiguity on evaluation of the efficiency of open peer review. The author has created then seven OPR traits based on WoS data driven taxonomy. In conclusion though he suggests accepting the existing ambiguity is the only way: “given this is such a contested concept, in my view the only sensible way forward is to acknowledge the ambiguity of this term, accepting that it is used as an umbrella concept for a diverse array of peer review innovations”. This doesn’t seem to be solving the issue he raises at in beginning. On the contrary considering all peer review innovations as forms of OPR might worsen the current situation. Initiatives like “registered reports”, “shortening review deadlines” or “reviewer recognition”, which are meant to address result-biased peer review, incentivizing reviewers, and boosting review speed, respectively, are certainly peer review innovations but cannot be directly considered as part of the umbrella term of open peer review. Hence the article deserves a stronger conclusion, including perhaps a suggested guideline of clarifying what type of “open peer review” beforehand of any evaluation/discussion using authors seven classifications. Author can surely strengthen the conclusion by highlighting the lack of evidence in efficiency claims about some of the 7 traits mentioned in the article. I suggest a double checking the term “Post-publication peer review” in WoS search results. Author reports he has used “Open Final version commenting” for this process in making taxonomy reporting only 6 results. However, Post-publication peer review seem to produce a higher number of documents when I searched the term in Scopus results in 55 documents (11 for 2015 and 19 for 2016). This might impact the result reported in Fig. 6 reporting unique configurations of OPR. Although the author reports 22 different definitions there, the figures shows 23 of them. It is also worth mentioning most of OPR initiatives mentioned in the article are not directly addressing all of shortcomings of the current peer review process. Mainly because one should distinguish between editorial process and peer review process. Issues such as delay and expense are universal to single/double/open peer review as they are part of the editorial process. 