The authors have tried to present a case of generalized morphea in a postmenopausal woman in which they showed how a treating physician can face therapeutic challenge while treating a case of generalized morphea. However, there are major issues with this manuscript. Authors have labelled it as isomorphic morphea which is not correct. Isomorphic morphea (after the isomorphic phenomenon of Koebener) occurs at the sites of repetitive trauma like bra line, waistband, inguinal creases, etc. As per authors patient had lesions on arm, and lower extremities which can’t explain the isomorphic phenomenon. The examination part is very deficient. “Painless skin lesions without erythema “Authors should mention the type of lesion like macule, papule or plaque rather than using word skin lesion. Authors have not given detailed examination about the plaques present on lower extremities and what was the size of plaques. The broad term like lower extremities should be avoided. Authors have to actually describe the location of plaques, feet, leg or thighs. The language used to describe the examination is not precise. Instead using words like “presenting plaques with indurated hiccups and hyperpigmentation” authors can simply say “hyperpigmented indurated plaques”. Authors need to mention what was in the report of biopsy rather than simply mentioning that reported morphea. As there are depigmented areas in the plaques, Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus provides a good differential for such lesions. Images are of poor quality especially Fig 3. Authors have used “Inactive lesion in left forearm, Inactive lesion at the level of the right iliac crest, etc for illustrating figures which is not correct. Just visualizing a plaque you can’t state that it is inactive. There can be subclinical activity going on inside the plaque. It must be corrected. How was phototherapy given? Authors have not mentioned which protocol was used, based on skin phototype or what. The dose of UVA 3.10–3.94 eV looks strange as the usual doses of UV light are in mj or joules. The dose needs to be standard one. Sun protection and sun blocks have not been recommended after phototherapy for the patient. Since patient had disseminated plaques, was any special advice given to protect the face of patient during phototherapy. When patient received phototherapy 5 times a week she didn’t get the benefit but once it was used twice a week patient got benefit. Can authors throw light on this phenomenon? How was the improvement of lesions assessed? Authors have not used any objective tool (like durometer, cutometer, USG, The Localized Scleroderma Cutaneous Assessment Tool) to assess the change in the lesions. Even the authors have not commented on the induration or pigmentation or size reduction of lesions. Then how was the improvement measured? Methotrexate was administrated orally (7.5 mg twice a week). Was folate given along with it? Which regimen was followed by authors in giving methotrexate twice a week? Was once weekly safer option and might not have impaired patients liver profile. I feel authors have been very superficial in most of the clinical part of the case. For diagnosing generalized morphea authors must have stated the actual number of lesions and their size as per the classification system which they have mentioned (Laxer and Zulian). The manuscript has several language and grammatical errors and needs to be written by an expert medical writer. There are incomplete sentences with many having punctuation mark mistakes. 