This study assessed the binding capacity of IgE antibodies to egg white protein (EWP)-green tea polyphenol complex by enhanced chemiluminescence-based Western blotting method. The authors of this study found polyphenols that remained bound to egg white proteins following electrophoretic transfer to a PVDF membrane hyperactivated HRP, leading to the formation of “ghost” bands. Based on the results of this study the authors suggest caution when evaluating polyphenol-bound proteins by enhanced chemiluminescence Western blotting. While the article is of interest, this reviewer notes several concerns. The authors should take into consideration the possibility that polyphenols bound to the protein prevents binding of primary antibody and thus could produce these artifacts. Will the effect go away if using lower amounts of protein in each well (e.g. 1, 2 or 5 the study currently uses 10 g/well)? The authors have studied various combinations of immunoblotting reagents, including exclusion of primary antibody or use of only HRP-avidin (using EWP with 15% polyphenol) to study the reason for the formation of these “ghost” bands. However, since there is the possibility of HRP-avidin interacting non-specifically with the antigen on the blot (in the absence of primary and secondary), the authors should try a system that does not involve the biotin-avidin system for increasing sensitivity of detection (just regular primary antibody, HRP secondary antibody and enhanced ECL detection). The authors should also try a non-chemiluminescence system to see if this problem could be reproduced (e.g. HRP with DAB detection). There are few other issues- Why is there a noticeable shift in lysozyme migration shown in Figure 1C if it does not bind polyphenols? Also, there is decreased detection of lysozyme in lanes with 30 and 40% polyphenols with the NBT system. Were the gels of different composition? The protein migration pattern appears different in Figures 1A, 1B and 1C. The use of a different molecular weight marker in Figure 1C probably accentuates this observed effect. Actually 5 different molecular weight markers have been used in this work (10 to 250 kD; 6 to 98 kD; 20-220 kD; 20 to 100 kD and 20 to 50 kD)! Figure S1A (and S1D), it is not clear how the proteins were stained? Were the proteins stained with Coomassie? In experiments shown in Figure 1C, the authors show that the “ghost” band increases with increasing amounts of polyphenol bound to the proteins. However, Figure S1C shows that there is no “ghost” band in the lane with β-lactoglobulin bound to 40% polyphenol, which is contrary to the hypothesis put forward by the authors. Do the authors have a reference to cite in support of the statement “Generally, “ghost” bands occur when the substrate is depleted quickly by the enzyme at that location and ceases to produce light”? The authors should consider re-writing the following sentences- “Following transfer of proteins by electroblotting from unmodified EWP and aggregate particles to a polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membrane, the membrane was briefly hydrated in 100% methanol and polyphenol-modified proteins were detected with NBT and glycinate as described by Hagerman” “Transferred proteins from unmodified EWP served as a control and underwent full immunoblotting procedure” 