The article is very well-done, unusually thorough and detailed. Here are a few ways to improve it. When I refer to page numbers, I mean the page numbers in the PDF of v1, April 11, 2016. http://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1 "You" refers to the authors. Apologies in advance if I sometimes cite my own work in these comments. p. 1. In the abstract you say, "The economic case for Open Access is less well-understood, although it is clear that access to the research literature is key for innovative enterprises, and a range of governmental and non-governmental services." This understates the economic case. For example, some subscription journals convert to OA precisely for economic benefits. See the preliminary version of David Solomon, Bo-Christer Bjrk, and Mikael Laakso, "Converting Scholarly Journals to Open Access: A Review of Approaches and Experiences" now open for public comment. (The final version will be published this summer.) https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/programs/journal-flipping/public-consultation/ See especially section 4.6, "Increased revenue and financial viability." https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/programs/journal-flipping/public-consultation/4/6/ p. 3. You say, "The Green route refers to author self-archiving, in which a version of the peer-reviewed article is posted online to a repository or website." Green OA also applies to preprints, which are not peer-reviewed. p. 3. You say, "This [green] route is dependent on journal or publisher policies on self-archiving ( sherpa.ac.uk/romeo) ." This is importantly incomplete. It overlooks rights retention. Some individual authors retain enough rights to authorize green OA on their own. While this may be fairly rare, rights-retention OA policies at universities are increasingly common. More than 80 institutions in North America, Europe, Africa, and Asia have now adopted rights-retention OA policies. Under these policies, the faculty grant non-exclusive rights to their institution before they sign future publishing contracts. The institution then has permission to make those future articles OA without having to seek permission from publishers. (The institutions also grant the same non-exclusive rights back to authors.) For more detail on rights-retention OA policies, see Stuart Shieber and Peter Suber, "Good Practices for University OA Policies." http://bit.ly/goodoa p. 3. You say, "A subscription to all peer-reviewed journals is not affordable for any single individual, research institute or university (Odlyzko, 2006)." This is true and important, but it's a pity you don't cite more recent evidence than 2006. An important kind of evidence for this proposition is that not even Harvard University can afford all the journals needed by its faculty and students, and must cancel journals every year for budgetary reasons alone. I've collected seven public statements from Harvard to this effect (2008-2012) in the supplements to p. 30 of my 2012 book (Open Access, MIT Press, 2012). http://bit.ly/oa-book#p30.2 p. 3. You say, "Much of the driving force behind this global change has been through a combination of direct, grassroots advocacy initiatives in conjunction with policy changes from funders and governments." Please add *university policies* to this list. They're on a par with funder policies in importance, and they're far more numerous. ROARMAP shows that 7+ times more universities have OA policies than funders. p. 3. You say, "The Open Access movement is intrinsically tied to the development of the Internet and how it redefined communication and publishing (Laakso et al., 2011)." For more documentation on how the OA movement arose as soon as the internet arose, see my Timeline of the Open Access Movement. http://legacy.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/timeline.htm In 2009, I moved the timeline to the Open Access Directory wiki, and you should probably cite that version: Timeline of the open access movement... http://oad.simmons.edu/oadwiki/Timeline ...especially subsection on developments before 2000. http://oad.simmons.edu/oadwiki/Timeline_before_2000 (You might cite this timeline again on p. 5, when you introduce your own timeline.) p. 3. You say, "One result of the growing OA movement is the rise of OA-only publishers...." Somewhere in this paragraph, I'd mention that some OA publishers are for-profit (e.g. BMC) and some are non-profit (e.g. PLoS). p. 4. Your section on the impact advantage is very well-done. Most treatments are much briefer, less careful, and less detailed than yours. I have just these suggestions. You cite authors of individual studies, and Alma Swan's 2010 literature review. But you don't cite the mother lode of literature on this topic: Steve Hitchcock's annotated bibliography, "The effect of open access and downloads ('hits') on citation impact: a bibliography of studies." http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/354006/1/oacitation-biblio-snapshot0613.html Or more precisely, you cite it once, 10 paragraphs before the section on the impact advantage begins. You should cite it again within the section on the impact advantage. You should mention that it's comprehensive and annotated. Hitchcock stopped updating it in 2013. But you should mention that SPARC Europe has committed to update it through its Open Access Citation Advantage Service. http://sparceurope.org/oaca/ Finally, in the same place where you cite Swan's literature review, you should cite Ben Wagner's literature review, "Open Access Citation Advantage: An Annotated Bibliography," Issues in Science and Technology Librarianship, Winter 2010. http://www.istl.org/10-winter/article2.html p. 5. In the timeline entry for 2002, the BOAI was released on February 14, not January 14. p. 6. In the timeline entry for 2013, I'd say that the suicide of Aaron Swartz "increases" (not "gains") international attention for the OA movement, or "draws new attention" to the OA movement. The current language suggests that the OA movement didn't have international attention before that, which is very far from the truth. p. 9. You say, "Shifting copyright to stay with the author allows for wider re-use, including TDM, and forms the basis for a robust and developing public domain." You shouldn't use "public domain" here. In copyright law, the term has a specific meaning which you don't mean here. p. 10. You say, "Only recently has any transparency into the detailed costs of subscriptions been gained by using Freedom of Information Requests to bypass non-disclosure agreements between libraries and publishers (Lawson Meghreblian, 2015)." Here you overlook the earlier Big Deal Contract Project in the US, from Ted Bergstrom, Paul Courant, and Preston McAfee. It too used public records laws and Freedom of Information requests. I'm not sure when it launched, but it was before 2009. http://www.econ.ucsb.edu/~tedb/Journals/BundleContracts.html p. 10. You say, "The average production cost for one paper is estimated to be around $3500–$4000 (Van Noorden, 2013)." I've seen dozens of widely varying estimates of this cost, most of them much lower than Van Noorden's. Unfortunately I don't have time to hunt them down. I hope you can introduce at least a few more, if only to show that estimates differ widely here. p. 10. You say, "Philip Campbell (Editor-in-Chief of Nature) stated that his journal’s internal costs were at $20,000–$30,000 per paper...." To clarify, I think he meant that this was the cost per published paper. If Nature rejects x articles for every one it publishes, then this includes the cost of peer reviewing x rejected articles. Since Nature is very selective, x is high. But this "cost per published paper" should not be compared to costs for peer-reviewing a single paper or the production costs of publishing an accepted paper. p. 10. You say, "OA publishing is most prevalent in the form of ‘pay-to-publish’...." This is either false or misleading. About 70% of peer-reviewed OA journals charge no APCs at all. In that sense, the fee-based model is not the most prevalent. It's a minority model. On the other hand, about 50% of the articles published in peer-reviewed OA journals are published in the fee-based variety. On my claim that most OA journals charge no APCs: See my article, "Good facts, bad predictions," SPARC Open Access Newsletter, June 2006. https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4391309 And my article, "No-fee open-access journals," SPARC Open Access Newsletter, November 2, 2006. https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4552050 The DOAJ used to make it easy to see what percentage of listed journals were fee-based and what percentage were no-fee. But it has temporarily made that difficult by combining the categories of "no-fee journals" and "journals for which we don't have enough information to say." On my claim that about half the articles published in peer-reviewed OA journals are published in the fee-based variety, see the updates to p. 170 of my 2012 book. There I cite three studies and quote the relevant excerpts. http://bit.ly/oa-book#p170 p. 10. When you describe ways in which fee-based OA journals mitigate some problems arising from the model, you mention the firewall between the editorial and business side of the journal (good), and you mention fee waivers (good). You should also mention fee discounts, which many journals give in lieu of fee waivers. You should also mention that most fees charged by fee-based journals are paid by funders (59%), or the author's employer (24%), and only 12% are paid by authors themselves. These numbers are from Suenje Dallmeier-Tiessen et al., "Highlights from the SOAP project survey. What Scientists Think about Open Access Publishing," arXiv, January 29, 2011, Table 4. http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5260 p. 12. You say, "In his article Sutton (2011)..." please change "his" to "her". The article is by Caroline Sutton. p. 12. You say, "While OA is not a solution to all aspects of research accessibility (e.g., language barriers and disability access remain continuing issues to be addressed)...." See my 2012 book (Open Access, MIT Press, 2012, http://bit.ly/oa-book ), at pp. 26-27, where I make much the same point. "OA isn't universal access" and by itself doesn't overcome "filtering and censorship barriers", "language barriers", "handicap access barriers", or "connectivity barriers". p. 13. You refer to "the fact that access to knowledge is actively prohibited in fields like public health...." I don't know what you mean here by "actively prohibited". p. 13. You say, "Some traditional publishers, and some academics, have argued that public access to research is not required because research papers cannot be understood by non-specialists...." Here you might want to cite Section 5.5.1 ("OA for Lay Readers," pp. 115-119) of my 2012 book. p. 13. You say, "The shift from a ‘reader pays’ to an ‘author pays’ mode...." I recommend avoiding the term "author pays" for the reasons I gave in my fourth comment to p. 10 above. Most OA journals don't charge author-side fees, and among those who do, most fees are not paid by authors. p. 13. You say, "This has been at least partially mitigated with waiver fees for authors from developing countries and additional provisions in research grants...." Yes. But again, don't forget that the majority of peer-reviewed journals are no-fee journals. See my fourth comment to p. 10 above. pp. 15-15. You say, "Fortunately, it seems that funders and research organisations are moving in that direction. Since 2005, the number policies supporting OA publishing increased steadily. Consequently, it is now the responsibility of researchers to ensure OA to their publications either by choosing the green or the gold road." Since you're recapitulating some grounds for optimism here, I'd also reiterate the growth of rights-retention OA policies. See my second comment on p. 3 above. p. 16. You say, "As Peter Suber, a leading voice in the OA movement, stated: 'As long as they do not have the power to stop Open Access, the toll-access publishers are not the enemy'." Thanks for quoting me. I wanted to give you the source to cite. Unfortunately, I don't think you're using an exact quote. Here's the closest one I can find: "TA [toll-access] publishers are not the enemy. They are only unpersuaded. Even when they are opposed, and not merely unpersuaded, they are only enemies if they have the power to stop OA. No publisher has this power, or at least not by virtue of publishing under a TA business model. If we have enemies, they are those who can obstruct progress to OA. The only people who fit this description are friends of OA who are distracted from providing OA by other work or other priorities." It's from "Two distractions," SPARC Open Access Newsletter, May 3, 2004. https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4391169 