This is an interesting and well written manuscript describing a study evaluating the incidence of non-AIDS cancers as well as association of longitudinal measures of immunologic and infectious exposures in the Swiss HIV Cohort. The study identifies immunologic risk factors for several NADCs, some of which differ from previous studies. The authors found higher risks of several NADCs in HIV+ persons but not prostate cancer, generally similar findings to other large population-based studies. Specific immunologic disturbances were different for the more prevalent cancers (i.e., low CD4/high CD8 for anus). This analysis utilizes rigorous and well-described methods and is a useful comparison for other similar studies from other cohorts. Introduction: "This type of cancer is now the most .. " -- this should probably be plural (these types of cancer) You might want to define "cantonal" - it is not a well-known word Discussion: You say that " immune senescence rather than immunodeficiency increases the risk of lung cancer." This needs additional justification and/or support (and likely is too strong of a statement) as you would need additional phenotyping of these CD8s (i.e., additional flow markers) to definitively say that there is a increase in senescence. This also may need to be tempered in the conclusion. If you can provide good evidence that excess CD8s indicates senescence (as opposed to activation or other phenotypic states) then that would also likely suffice. This study had far fewer lung cancers than the VACS study - that should be mentioned; for the lung finding at the very least and potentially for any other findings that contract other large studies a power calculation should be performed to determine the minimum effect that could be detected for CD4, CD4/CD8 and/or pneumonia based on the numbers of cancer cases. Also for the lung findings, it would be useful to compare to the French studies that have evaluated similar immunologic exposures and found associations with CD4/CD8 and longitudinal CD4 level. Lack of pack-year smoking exposure information should be included as a limitation. A minor criticism is that the data is not available for confirmation due to its sensitive nature. This is understandable and does not need to be addressed. 