The manuscript 'Nephron filtration rate and proximal tubular fluid reabsorption in Akita mouse model of type I diabetes mellitus' is a follow up to the same groups previous publication on hyperfiltration in diabetic mice model. The manuscript is very clear and easy to read despite the relatively complicated content. It addresses essential points for the nature of DM- induced hyperfiltration and the conclusion of TGF as a relative protector against DM-induced hyperfiltation is well founded. In this paper the authors look at younger mice, which is commendable as the hyperfiltration is seen as an early event in diabetes that precedes significant DM-induced renal failure. The experiments are of a high quality and the figures are generally well prepared. Minor concerns: The current manuscript builds on previous results that firmly substantiate the used diabetic models. In this study the age of the mice are not completely comparable to the previous study. It would, however, be helpful if it was clear from the text that the relevant data is already available - that the animals in fact have high blood glucose and are seemingly slightly dehydrated. It is unclear where the data comes from in Figure 3 (30 nl/min). The legend states that the values come from reference 9 - but the mean values for EPFR given in that publication is: (5.0 nl/min - WT; 6.9 nl/min - Ins +/- ; 11.5 nl/min Ins +/- A1AR -/- ) – so this must apparently be new data for the 30 nl/min? – or is there some conversion of the numbers that is not perfectly clear. This point is relatively important as a fall from 15.2 nl/min (current value, 0 nl/min) to 11.5 nl/min (value from old paper, 30 nl/min) in the Ak/A1AR -/- is quite substantial and does witness about some TGF in this mouse. Moreover, what is the age of the animals (30 nl/min) that are compared here? Is it reasonable to make a line between the two points if they are indeed measured in separate experiments. It is not explicit that the n in the measurements of SNGFR is number of experiments and not animals. The test used to test for normal distribution of the data, which is a prerequisite for using the ANOVA test, is not stated under statistics. The values in the text are not given with the same number of decimals. The method for measuring GFR in general is not included in the method section. 