This is an interesting report with some interesting results. Upon reading the report it did lead to the thinking of possible confounding factors which could explain some of the differences if not all. Some of the confounding factors could not be easily investigated in the current data set and I will consider these first. The first is whether the treatment being investigated in the trial is a licensed or unlicensed therapy. Though in theory "do-able" the authors can be forgiven for not investigating this. However, could it be proposed that a trial of a new unlicensed treatment where knowledge is emerging - and being published as the trial is ongoing - is more likely to have an endpoint changed than a licensed treatment with known properties? The other consideration is therapeutic area. The authors to a degree looked into this by investigating two sub populations of MS and diabetes trials but it could be that certain therapeutic areas predominate in certain sectors? One final consideration is if the endpoint change was pre-planned in some way in some form of adaptive design. With respect to confounders which could be investigated the main consideration is study duration. Might a study that has gone on longer be more likely to have an endpoint change? This could be legitimate if, as mentioned previously this change is due to published work becoming available. It could also be (maybe) legitimate if, for completed studies, it has dragged on for an age with no chance to reach the target sample size. So to a degree there is a case of fitting tailoring the study to what can be answered with the sample size. The interaction between study duration and funder would also be interesting (as well as just allowing in the model) There are two markers in the analysis which do suggest study duration may impact on endpoint change. The first is study registration year and the other is phase of development. In the case of phase of development the effect seems to be the reverse, it could be argued, to what one would expect. Early phase trials are learning trials not confirming trials. A consequence is the endpoints may change to reflect the properties of a treatment an investigator is learning about in an ongoing manner. It would be interesting with study duration in the model how it would effect the comparison of phase of development Following on from the point in the previous paragraph therefore an analysis of just trials which are Phase III would be of interest. These trials should have everything set and pre-specified in terms of analysis One final point about the work is that I could not see mention of a protocol for the audit itself undertaken for the paper. In particular what the pre-specified primary endpoint and analysis population was. It is not the convention for audits to do this but it would have been optimal given the subject matter. In summary therefore it would be optimal to comment on the potential limitations of the work and to undertake the suggested analyses. However, the work itself is of interest and will almost certainly feed debate.