The article introduces a user-friendly and inter-operable R package for cell-type assignment of single-cell RNA-sequencing data. As clearly stated by the authors, the method heavily relies on the (1) results of and (2) any assumptions made by the clustering algorithm applied to the query dataset. The method has potential to be widely useful given its flexibility to take input and give output from many different existing (and future) algorithms. Although the methods proposed are not novel (simple correlation metrics), the software serves to streamline one of the most common procedures in single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis. As detailed below I have some questions regarding the evaluation of the method compared to existing approaches, and a suggestion to more widely distribute the prebuilt references curated as part of the study. Major comments: The 'unseen population rejection test' is an informative measure. However, it is not clear without going back to the scRNAseq_Benchmark (Abdelaal et al. , 2019 1 ) how clustifyr's performance compares to other tools. It would be useful to give some quantitative or visualization that conveys this comparison. The approach is aimed at being "normalization-agnostic" as stated in 'Benchmarking' section. However, it's not clear whether this refers to clustifyr in general, or just using the rank correlation setting. If in general, this property should be demonstrated. The benchmarking results provided are very helpful, but it's not clear why only a (differing) subset of the methods was applied to each evaluation (i.e. panels of Figure 4 in particular). Minor comments: From the description of the method, it seems that if the query dataset is 'over-clustered', meaning a cell-type is incorrectly split into two clusters, clustifyr can return the same cell type assignment for both clusters (provided the correct reference had the highest correlation, and that correlation was above the threshold). Is this correct? If not, please clarify. The prebuilt references in the clustifyrdata github repository has potential utility to researchers who don't already have a reference dataset. It might be a good fit to build these reference datasets as a Bioconductor ExperimentHub package. 