This manuscript presents a study based on 10 variables influencing the tracking of clinical studies and timely dissemination of their published results. The selection of these tracking variables is driven by expert knowledge and discussion among authors. To validate the completeness of these tracking variables, the authors used a sample of 34 studies that followed up on the publication of registered clinical trials of three leading German university medical centres (UMC). Based on a review of these studies, the authors make several recommendations. These include strengthening links between registry entry and publications and coordination among academic institutions and private companies to ensure the registration of clinical studies. The study addresses an interesting topic by listing a range of factors that influence the tracking and dissemination of clinical evidence. The paper is generally well written and structured. It would be interesting to see the detailed results; which the authors are aiming to publish elsewhere. I liked the study idea and agree with most of the conclusions that the authors have drawn and the recommendations that the authors have made. I agree that observational studies need to be registered because they can be used to influence policy and provide basis for clinical decision making. Also, the finding that up to 75% of published results can be linked to registry entries by adding manual searches support the conclusions made in another systematic review (Bashir et al. , 2017 1 ). However, I have a few minor suggestions for strengthening the research: Studies are likely to be a biased representation because they were selected from leading German university medical centres for selecting the studies. They find that 35% are published at 24 months after completion date. It is not clear how these results might generalise so it is important that the conclusions do not over-generalise. The standard for “timely publication” was defined to be 24 months after the completion date. Using this as a standard for what counts as publication is arbitrary and while there are some details on mandates and policies the standard could have been better justified by the authors. A possible alternative might be to consider a model that estimates the median time to publication using a range of characteristics as factors, and avoid needing to choose a specific amount of time to judge what is timely and what is not. I agree with the authors’ recommendation that academic institutions and private companies need to play a role to improve the registration of clinical trials and their links with published results. However, journals are also often responsible for ensuring that trial registration information is provided. First, by following ICMJE guidelines on prospective registration. Second, they can ensure the identifier is included in the abstract and metadata they send to bibliographic databases. This will help to ensure that journals do not publish any clinical trials where trial identifier is not included in paper by authors or trial investigators. The manuscript can get benefit from these references: Trinquart et al. (2018 2 ) and Bashir et al. (2017 1 ). 