 General Comments This study provides an excellent contribution to our knowledge of baseline species diversity and abundance for the waterfowl community in Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island. The authors analyze longitudinal survey data from the Narragansett Bay Winter Waterfowl Survey (NBWWS) in order to detect shifts in the species composition of the water waterfowl community and to explore if environmental drivers might be driving any change. On a regional scale the study covers almost the entire bay, and considering the general paucity of such monitoring programs, this study is important in that it documents baseline knowledge of the species diversity and abundance of the areas waterfowl and seabird species. Specific Comments Introduction: The main purpose of the introduction was to argue the need for baseline monitoring data for waterfowl communities. The authors do achieve this objective in first and fourth paragraphs, leading to the purpose of study in the last sentence of the fifth paragraph of the introduction. However, I did not find all the information in the introduction leading directly to the statement of purpose of the study, with this statement no matching what was stated in the abstract. The second and third paragraphs for example, include information that would be better suited for the methods. Also, while the authors do a great job in explaining why waterfowl are logical candidates for monitoring environmental health, I found the excessive references of the citations in the fourth paragraph a bit distracting. I am not certain of the editorial guidelines of F1000Research (I looked these up but failed to find the citation/reference guidelines), but I think a generally accepted rule of thumb is to not list more than three references per citation (although I could very well be wrong here). Nevertheless, when excessive references and citations are used it distracts the reader from the written message and disrupts the flow of the paragraph. I understand that you have to cite certain statements, but I would advice the authors to go through their citations and only cite essential sources. Doing so along with moving the information from the second and third paragraphs to the methods would help streamline the introduction. Methods: A general comment on the survey technique: As written, the survey methodology explains that complete counts are made in each of the areas corresponding to the site locations. It is not clear however, how observers would delineate the off shore boundaries of the survey areas, particularly those facing each other or off shore boundaries in general. How were these distances discerned? I am curious to how the observers gauged the distance from shore so that birds in the survey area from the opposite shoreline were not recounted. Did they use range finders? Adding some text explaining this would benefit the methods. I downloaded the data that is made available with this study via the F1000Research website and found that in the data set describing the winter waterfowl survey ( 10.5256/f1000research.6080.d42954 ) the column corresponding to buffleheads is missing. Was a different dataset used for this study? If not, why are buffleheads not included in the dataset but in the result of the study? First paragraph: In the fourth sentence the authors refer to This area. I would suggest clearing up what is being referred to. Also, in the fifth sentence the authors state that the southern portion of the bay is deeper. However, they did not mention deeper than what. Typically the reader expects to see the full comparison. I know these are nit picky grammar and style comments, but clearing these two minor points would make the paragraph read much better. Fourth paragraph: In the first sentence the authors start by saying Counting is completed when the rest of the verbs in the paper are in the past tense. I think changing this to counting was completed would be better. In the second sentence, the authors explain: Every bird seen on the water surface or on the adjoining shoreline up to 50 m from the water is counted; when possible sex and age were also noted. Is this vertically or horizontally from the water? I am assuming that they mean 50 meters from the waters edge or shoreline or along the coast. Please state this more clearly. Seventh paragraph: Please explain why the data was transformed and why the Wisconsin double transformation was chosen. Because non-metric multidimensional scaling uses rank orders, it is not clear why the transformation was used. Stating this more clearly in the text would benefit the paper. Eighth paragraph. In the last sentence, I would suggest using instead of greater than. Results: It is not obvious to the reader why the data presented in figures 1 2 show survey data up to 2012, while the ordination only used data up to 2011. Stating this reason more clearly in the methods would benefit the paper. The legend of Table 2 is not clear. Changing the wording could help clear up the message of the legend. For example, the last two sentences state: *Species making up less than 1% of the community, and considered rare. Trend analysis (Figure 3) were not be conducted on these rare species. The tense is wrong here, please change analysis to analyses. Also I would suggest saying this a bit clearer using fewer words, with perhaps something like this? Species with overall species compositions 1% were considered rare and excluded from trend analysis. On this note, if I understand correctly, the legend states that trend analyses were not conducted on rare species and then refers to Figure 3. Figure 3 however shows trends in rank abundance of all 23 species listed in Table 2. This is confusing. Clearing this up in the legend or text would benefit the paper. Regarding the non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), why were four dimensions chosen over two or three? Did solutions with fewer dimensions have too large stress value? Was this assessed with a scree plot? Stating these details would benefit the paper and help the reader understand why four dimensions were the best choice for the NMDS analysis. Furthermore, in Figure 4, where the results of the NMDS are first shown, it is not clear why are king eiders and long-tailed ducks not shown in the plot. I am assuming from table two that this is because these two species have proportions of the total waterfowl community abundance that are close to zero. Using this logic however, barrows goldeneyes should also be excluded from the plotbut they are not. As the NMDS analysis is the central component of the study, the authors should either include all 23 species or clearly state why only 20 were used. As is, the results are somewhat confusing and distract the reader from the overall message of the study. The authors use Figure 5 to detect shifts in the waterfowl community structure of Narragansett Bay during the 8-yr period of the study (2004 and 2011). It is confusing why the NMDS plots in Figure 5 are different to those in Figure 4. I might be missing something, but should not the ordination plots in Figure 5 have the same points and axes as in Figure 4? Are these plots showing the other two dimensions of the ordination? The details of Figure 5 should be made more elaborate explanation in the text. I am assuming the plots in Figure 5 show the average ordination positions for each section-year combination, with these being color coded for each year. Instead of this exercise, I would suggest authors use analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) to tests hypotheses of community change in each of the sections or the entire bay throughout the 8-yr study period. In this way the authors could obtain an objective measure indicating if there has been community change (or no change) in the waterfowl of Narragansett Bay during the 8-yr study period. Using ANOSIM here would be analogous to using ANOVAs to assess before and after changes at certain breaks in the 8-yr study period. ANOSIM however, uses the same similarity matrices imputed into NMDS and is philosophically allied with NMDS ordination. The functions need to perform this analysis are included in the R vegan package, which the authors have shown to have an excellent handle on using. Including ANOSIM in the study to objectively assess temporal changes in the beta diversity of the Narragansett Bay waterfowl community would therefore fit in nicely in the study as as it complements NMDS. In the last paragraph of the results the authors state: it is thought that waterfowl communities in this part of the Bay vary greatly according to the intensity of winter and amount of ice. This statement should have a citation referring to the reference thinking or hypothesizing this mechanism. Discussion: First paragraph. In the first sentence, I would suggest replacing for . In the third sentence the authors refer to NMDS as a monitoring tool. NMDS is an ordination analysis used to interpret ecological data, and not a monitoring tool. I think this statement could be reworded better saying for example: Using NMDS to analyzing monitoring data is a valuable approach to assess Sixth paragraph: Again, NMDS is not an approachit is an analytical tool. Using this ordination technique is the approach the authors took to assess the community structure of the Narragansett Bay waterfowl community. Addressing and fixing this accordingly, will benefit the flow of the text. The second objective of the of the study was to explore if environmental drivers that might be driving changes in the species composition of the waterfowl species composition. I think this objective needs to be addressed a bit more in the discussion. It is only touched upon lightly. Furthermore, what do the authors think is the reason why they found strong correlations of the average wind speed for the three days prior to survey, area, mean bathymetry of site and latitude with the ordination, and yet the wintering waterfowl species composition of the bay seemed to remain stable through time.