Perona-Moratalla et al. describe an interesting case of a von Hippel-Lindau (vHL) patient treated with the beta-blocker Propanolol for migraines, where they have documented the progression of the patient’s CNS tumors, hemangioblastomas (HBs). The concurrent lack of tumor growth in a 15-month period of Propanolol treatment is described to indicate a possible effect of the drug on delaying vHL hemangioblastoma development. The case report is well-written and deals with the important subject of identifying factors that potentially modify vHL tumor growth. The authors take a cautious approach in suggesting that Propanolol possibly reduces CNS hemangioblastoma growth. However, we feel that the paper could benefit from a broader discussion of other factors that are known to or suggested to modulate vHL tumor development. The authors describe that no changes in HB progression were seen during the first year (from October 2013-October 2014) when the patient had been given Propanolol for 9 months. During the next year (from October 2014- October 2015) a clear growth in the hemangioblastoma was seen, even though the patient had been treated with Propanolol during most of the period (until July 2015, although in reduced dosages from March 2015). It is unknown when exactly in this period that the described growth spurt had taken place. In the discussion it is described that the patient’s HBs had shown a steady progression on MRI in the years prior to the Propanolol treatment. It would be helpful for the reader to get an idea of the extent of this growth during the many years that the patient was observed. This could for example be done with use of a figure showing a timeline on which the tumors sizes at selected time points are indicated or with use of a table showing the MRI-evaluated sizes at the annual MRI scans throughout the observation period. Further, we feel that the article would benefit from mentioning that there have been several reports of the natural fluctuations in growth patterns of CNS HBs in vHL patients that show a clear tendency for periods of stagnation and periods of growth spurts 1 - 3 . The exact triggers of tumor growth have not been fully described, and it is both novel and interesting to explore the possible effects of drugs like Propanolol. Other factors that have been suggested to affect the natural pattern of tumor progression in vHL could also be discussed: genotype, anatomical tumor location, certain age intervals, and possible hormonal factors (such as gender and pregnancy). Case description: It would be useful to the reader to learn details on the phenotype and the genotype of the patient, and the family history: Which vHL-affections have been diagnosed in the patient, and at which age? Has the VHL gene been analysed and what has been found? (If the gene has not been analysed yet, we highly recommend that this is done, see below). What was observed at the autopsy of the mother? Are other relatives affected and/or carrying the VHL variant?. Genotype: Several genotype-phenotype correlations have been described in relation to vHL. Most importantly, it has been shown that carriers of VHL variants that do not result in a functional protein product (i.e. deletions, nonsense variants, frame-shift variants etc.) have more severe phenotypes than patients with VHL missense variants that produce an altered, but functional protein product 1 , 4 , 5 . The case would benefit from mention of the patient’s genotype as well as a brief discussion of the possible effect of the genotype on her disease progression. Anatomical location of the CNS HBs: It would be of interest to the readers to know the exact anatomical locations of the medullary hemangioblastomas (HBs) as well as the radiologically estimated sizes/volumes of the tumors and whether there was associated cyst development. This has previously been done in several other publications reporting on the progression of CNS HBs in vHL patients over time 2 , 3 . Also, a HB’s anatomical location in CNS has been shown to be correlated with the pattern of progression and cyst development 1 , 4 , ​​​​​​​ 6 . Age periods: More specific details of the age of the patient at the mentioned time points in the case: was the patient 33 years old when she was first diagnosed with vHL in 2002 and in 45 years old in 2014 when the propranolol treatment started? This is important, as it is also known that a patient’s age influences tumor growth and cyst development 1 , 4 , ​​​​​​​ 6 . Hormonal factors: A patient’s sex has been shown to be correlated to tumor progression; men have a tendency to have develop more CNS HBs and have a more aggressive CNS HB growth compared to women 1 , 7 . Also, pregnancy has been suggested to influence tumor progression 7 - ​​​​​​​ 9 . Has the patient been pregnant in the observation period? In addition, a more detailed description of the molecular background of the disease; i.e. the main cellular functions of the VHL protein in relation to tumorigenesis would also be of interest to the reader, especially if followed by theories of how and why Propanolol might affect tumor growth on a cellular level. The authors have previously published important observations in their already cited study regarding the effect of Propanolol and its in vitro effect on HB cells. A more detailed description of these findings would be interesting to include in the case. 