 Through binding to eIF4E, the 4EBP proteins (4EBP1, 2, 3) interfere with formation of the eIF4F cap-binding complex. A key function of the mTOR serine-threonine kinase is to phosphorylate 4EBPs on multiple sites, which blocks their ability to bind to eIF4E thus potentiating cap-dependent translation. Recently it has become clear that ATP-competitive mTOR kinase inhibitors are more effective than the allosteric compound rapamycin at blocking mTOR-dependent 4EBP phosphorylation, particularly on sites T37 and T46. This greater effect of mTOR kinase inhibitors on 4EBP phosphorylation correlates with increased anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects. The purpose of the current study is to determine the order of phosphorylation of sites T37 and T46, and which site is most important for regulating binding of 4EBP1 to eIF4E. This is a fairly narrow question to address but the authors argue that it is important for understanding drug mechanism and that previous approaches have not addressed this question adequately. Overall the data support the conclusion that T46 phosphorylation is the initial, rapamycin-insensitive event that blocks 4EBP1-eIF4E binding. The main approach used is two-dimensional electrophoresis (IEF followed by SDS-PAGE), then far-western blotting with labeled eIF4E to determine which spots are capable of eIF4E binding. Figure 1A provides a 1-D blot that shows convincingly that the far-western technique can reveal increased binding of eIF4E to 4EBP1 in cells treated with the mTOR kinase inhibitor PP242. Figure 1B shows that 4EBP1 phosphorylation and release from eIF4E are induced by serum in a mTOR-dependent manner. Figure 1C presents the 2D data illustrating hierarchical phosphorylation and distinct effects of rapamycin and PP242. The data support the conclusion that only a small subset of 4EBP forms are capable of binding eIF4E, that these forms lack T37/46 phosphorylation, and that PP242 increases this pool to a greater extent than rapamycin. To distinguish the roles of T37 and T46 they express HA-tagged 4EBP1 and alanine substitution mutants in HeLa cells. The data in Figure 2A show that T46A mutation, but not T37A mutation, blocks detection by the phospho-T37/46 antibody. This suggests that T46 phosphorylation precedes and is required for T37 phosphorylation. A cap binding assay in Figure 2B supports the conclusion that T37/46-phosphorylated 4EBP1 cannot bind eIF4E in the cap-binding complex, but this is not novel and the technique does not add further evidence for initial T46 phosphorylation. The rest of the data seem added on and superfluous to the main message of the paper. The experiment in Figure 3 shows 2D far western blotting data on lysates of nocodazole-treated cells, which artificially increases the diversity of 4EBP1 spots. As the authors point out, these might not exist under physiological conditions so the relevance is unclear. Figure 4 addresses an entirely different problem, namely the lack of selectivity of the PP242 compound. While it is of some interest that PP242 differs from other compounds of this class in its apparent inhibition of DNA-PK and related kinases, this observation is too peripheral to the main study and should be developed further before publication. 