This interesting paper argues the case for an agency potentially named the National Institute for Development Effectiveness (NIDE) - like a NICE for global health spending by bilateral and multilateral aid agencies. The authors are well placed to propose this agency given their wealth of experience in this area. The paper outlines the need, the proposed mechanism, aspects of establishment, and requirements (e.g. methods and data). The authors pre-emptively outline some potential arguments opposing NIDE and posit the alternative – what would happen if there was no NIDE? They also outline the anticipated costs. The authors note that this is not a new idea for the UK (p4) and mention the UK Government’s What Works initiative (some aspects of social policy) and NICE (health technology assessment). It might be useful to hear more about what other countries or multilateral agencies may have done in this area especially with regard to establishment, methods, and data sources It appears that health technology assessment would be a major role for NIDE but it may be worth also considering the costs of scale up and implementing interventions (and not only budget impact analysis). The authors anticipate some hostility. They mention several aspects but this is based on selected challenges once NIDE would be established. The authors may want to comment on one or two reasons that some may oppose even the establishment of NIDE. There may be several (and possibly competing) imperatives for some particular ‘aid’ projects funded by government(s). Concerning the negative arguments about ‘economics’, one can point to NICE itself for the benefits of ‘economics’! The authors helpfully outline what NIDE might cost but it would be instructive to know the amount of money spent on aid – at least by the UK. Indeed, the authors hint at the excellent anticipated return on investment for NIDE - allocation efficiency for aid! Some particular comments: P3, col 2 - The authors pose some good information requirements. [“What are missing, and what a NICE-for-aid could provide, are value-for-money indicators and valid, reliable processes for measuring and reporting against them.”] but it would be helpful to have some more detail on these vital components. P4 col 1 - Could mention that the UK government funds the ‘What works’ initiative (for non-UK audiences). P4 col 2 - Please define the three Es from the 3E framework. P5 col 1 - It is unclear about the use of the term ‘incidence’ (presumably of disease or condition) with its example of (how much of the full cost falls on private individuals)’ which seems related to funding sources. 