In the present opinion article 1 , the authors firstly present support for the claim that some first-person accounts (1PAs) cannot be reduced to third-person neural- and psychophysiological correlates accounts (3PAs). Secondly, they state that the 1PAs contents are the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyze qualia contents (e.g., emotions, beliefs, reality interpretations, quality of life and health) and their effects on behavior and the brain activity. Thirdly, according to the authors, even a complete description of the brain and psychophysiological correlates of these 1PAs does not add any further information about their contents and characteristics. Tressoldi et al. (2017) makes several challenging and highly interesting claims; moreover, they give a state of the art overview of the 1PAs and 3PAs results and research limitations so far. Last but not least, their article stimulates further discussion on how to best invest research money in order to make progress in this research field, all in all, we recommend publication, but we have several major and minor points that the authors should further address. Firstly, the authors are right (see page 2) that 1PAs are useful in clinical research and diagnostics of psychiatric disorders because they provide subjective and qualitative information; however, on the other hand, we would like to stress that self-rating instruments, such as the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) 2 , have their own limitations 3 . For instance, the interpretation of results from self-report instruments in general but also for specific questionnaires, can contain flaws (e.g., Subjective Well-being under Neuroleptics scale – Short form, etc.) 4 . For instance, it was shown that patients might show a certain response pattern, like a tendency to exaggerate their symptoms or on the contrary, to willingly under-report the severity of their symptoms or the frequency in order to present their situation more positively 3 . In addition, test-taking attitude (e.g., social desirability) was found to play a critical role in the responses to clinical self-report instrument 5 . In other words, how should psychologists/psychiatrists deal with those methodological limitations in daily clinical practice according to the authors? In our opinion, relying on those (structured) questionnaire outcomes only, does not seem the way to go. The authors are right when they write on page 3 about 3PAs: “It seems clear that this type of information cannot convey any useful information about the subjective quality of pain of the persons experiencing it”. However, the authors somehow do not mention that in the years after the Pariente et al . (2005) 6 publication, the measurement of deqi scores of the participants in acupuncture studies were introduced and are now being collected alongside the 3PAs 7 - 8 , consisting of the following 12 Deqi sensations: aching, soreness, numbness, fullness, sharp or dull pain, pressure, heaviness, warmth, coolness, tingling, itching, and any others 7 - 8 . This methodology is also used in recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies on acupuncture 9 ; moreover, the MR signals of the brain areas that had been activated by acupuncture stimulation at a specific acupuncture point (for instance GB34) are then correlated 9 . The authors should add this to their manuscript because this would give a more complete picture of the current state of the art in this specific research field, especially since they attack this field for using 3PAs only, which is not correct. Thirdly, one of their most provocative statements is the one on page 5 where the authors state: “However it is important to realize, on the part of both researchers and the funders of their investigations, that the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to the knowledge of these phenomena”. We find this a challenging statement and we fully agree with the authors that both funding agencies and researchers are often not critical enough in their assessments of those studies and large grant applications. To date, the studies on neural and psychophysiological correlates not at all contribute significantly, taking into account the large amounts of research funding/resources that have been invested so far. However, why do the authors think that it would be technically, hypothetically, impossible to combine 1PAs with 3 PAs? Perhaps neural and psychophysiological measurements while the person is aware of and can communicate the mental contents to others (if requested or desired) could still add important clinical information (e.g., neural and psychophysiological measurements while patients with depression fill in the BDI-II)? In line with this, the authors write on page 5 in response to the Urry et al . (2004) 10 study “May we use this information to gather more details about what already participants reported in their 1PAs?”, but despite mentioning this question, they further ignore this. In our opinion, they too easily dismiss this option. Therefore, in our opinion, their statement that the neural and psychophysiological correlates “have nothing to add” to the knowledge of these phenomena is too strict and too premature, it might be right, but it could also be totally wrong. The fourth major point that we would like to tap (see page 6) is the fact that in their discussion the authors focus on the usefulness of biological correlates of 1PAs only. It is true that the biological perspective (significantly marked by the advances in neuroimaging techniques 11 ) is very popular in psychology at the moment; however, we are wondering what the opinion of the authors is with respect to their claims, in terms of the fundamental laws of physics 12 ? Note that to date, a unified brain processing theory (unifying physics and neuroscience) does not exist[ref-13)? How do the authors think that a better theory of its underlying fundamental laws of physics could describe and explain 1PAs and 3PAs? This area might build a bridge in the understanding of 1PAs and the underlying mechanisms that are partly measured by 3PAs. Finally, there are several minor issues that we would like for the authors to address in their final version of the paper. For instance, the authors should add suitable references behind “Beck Depression Inventory” and “The Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5)” (see page 2); moreover, the authors should include higher resolution images of Figure 1 and Figure 2 (see page 3). The authors should write out “NDEs” the first time that they use this abbreviation (see page 4). The easiest way seems to include “NDE” immediately after “Near-Death-Experiences” on page 4. In addition, the authors should take a closer look at “Klein (2015) 14 ” on page 4 because there are 3 “Klein (2015)” references (Klein, 2015a 14 ; Klein, 2015b 15 ; Klein, 2015c[ref16]) but the authors only use “2015a” and “2015b” (see also the reference list on page 8). Furthermore, the authors should include suitable references behind “space-time and matter-energy”, “Heisenberg’s principle of indetermination” (note it should be “Heisenberg’s” instead of “Heisnberg’s”), and “the concept of entanglement” in order to support their statements (see page 4). The authors should correct the following misspellings/errors on page 2: “be” should be added to the sentence “We will not enter here in the debate about how 1 PAs can also be considered 3PAs”, on page 4: “acording” should be replaced by “according” (see the Reasoning subsection), and on page 5: “helped” should be replaced by “help” and “knew” should be replaced by “know” (see the Hallucinations subsection), “be” should be added to the sentence “that can only be measured” (see the Risk perception subsection), and it should be “which” instead of “witch” (see the Discussion section). Also we would suggest adding a “Conclusion section” to the paper at the end of their paper (on page 6) and or alternatively at the end of the Introduction section of their paper. The last minor revision is that the authors should add a “s” behind the word “author” in the Author contributions section of their paper. To conclude, the present opinion article 1 is definitely worth publishing and will stimulate further discussion on how to best investigate and use research money and resources in the study of 1PAs and 3PAs. Moreover, the future will show whether the authors are correct in their claim that even a complete description of the brain and psychophysiological correlates of these 1PAs does not add any further information about their contents and characteristics. References 1. Tressoldi P, Facco E, Lucangeli D: On the primacy and irreducible nature of first-person versus third-person information. F1000Research . 2017; 6 . Publisher Full Text 2. Beck AT, Steer RA, Brown GK: Manual for the Beck Depression Inventory-II. Psychological Corporation . 1996. 3. van den Noort M, Perriard B, Lim S, Bosch P: Why are self-rating results in patients with schizophrenia often unreliable?. Psychiatry Res . 2017; 251 : 76-77 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Naber D, Moritz S, Lambert M, Rajonk F, et al.: Improvement of schizophrenic patients’ subjective well-being under atypical antipsychotic drugs. Schizophrenia Research . 2001; 50 (1-2): 79-88 Publisher Full Text 5. Huang CY, Liao HY, Chang SH: Social desirability and the clinical self-report inventory: methodological reconsideration. J Clin Psychol . 1998; 54 (4): 517-28 PubMed Abstract 6. Pariente J, White P, Frackowiak RS, Lewith G: Expectancy and belief modulate the neuronal substrates of pain treated by acupuncture. Neuroimage . 2005; 25 (4): 1161-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Dhond RP, Yeh C, Park K, Kettner N, et al.: Acupuncture modulates resting state connectivity in default and sensorimotor brain networks. Pain . 2008; 136 (3): 407-18 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Hui KK, Nixon EE, Vangel MG, Liu J, et al.: Characterization of the. BMC Complement Altern Med . 2007; 7 : 33 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Yeo S, van den Noort M, Bosch P, Lim S: Ipsilateral Putamen and Insula Activation by Both Left and Right GB34 Acupuncture Stimulation: An fMRI Study on Healthy Participants. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med . 2016; 2016 : 4173185 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Urry HL, Nitschke JB, Dolski I, Jackson DC, et al.: Making a life worth living: neural correlates of well-being. Psychol Sci . 2004; 15 (6): 367-72 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Shimamura AP: Bridging Psychological and Biological Science: The Good, Bad, and Ugly. Perspect Psychol Sci . 2010; 5 (6): 772-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. Penrose R: Fashion, faith, and fantasy in the new physics of the universe. Princeton: Princeton University Press . 2016. 13. Van den Noort M, Lim S, Bosch P: On the need to unify neuroscience and physics. Neuroimmunology and Neuroinflammation . 2016; 3 (12). Publisher Full Text 14. Klein SB: What memory is. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci . 6 (1): 1-38 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 15. Klein S: Lost feeling of ownership of one’s mental states: the importance of situating patient R.B.’s pathology in the context of contemporary theory and empiricism. Philosophical Psychology . 2016; 29 (4): 490-493 Publisher Full Text 16. Klein S: A defense of experiential realism: The need to take phenomenological reality on its own terms in the study of the mind. Psychology of Consciousness: Theory, Research, and Practice . 2015; 2 (1): 41-56 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT van den Noort M and Bosch P. Reviewer Report For: On the primacy and irreducible nature of first-person versus third-person information [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :99 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11593.r21807 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-99/v1#referee-response-21807 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 04 May 2017 Patrizio Tressoldi , Università di Padova, Padova, Italy 04 May 2017 Author Response Thank you for your accurate and constructive review and sorry for the multiple typos. In the following we try to answer to all your main comments. …self-rating instruments, such ... Continue reading Thank you for your accurate and constructive review and sorry for the multiple typos. In the following we try to answer to all your main comments. …self-rating instruments, such as the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)2, have their own limitations… how should psychologists/psychiatrists deal with those methodological limitations in daily clinical practice according to the authors? In our opinion, relying on those (structured) questionnaire outcomes only, does not seem the way to go. Reply: we acknowledged the limitations of all instruments and procedures for a complete assessment of 1PAs expanding the paragraph “First-person accounts are not always reliable” now moved before the Discussion. However, these limitations cannot be offset by 3PAs, but only improving the instruments and procedures for the knowledge of 1PAs, see for example Pastore M, Nucci M, Bobbio A and Lombardi L (2017). Empirical scenarios of fake data analysis: The Sample Generation by Replacement (SGR) approach. Front. Psychol. 8:482. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00482; Lange R. Rasch scaling and cumulative theory-building in consciousness research. Psychology of Consciousness: Theory, Research, and Practice. 2017 Mar;4(1):135. .. in the years after the Pariente et al. (2005) publication, the measurement of deqi scores of the participants in acupuncture studies were introduced and are now being collected alongside the 3PAs, consisting of the following Deqi sensations: aching, soreness, numbness, fullness, sharp or dull pain, pressure, heaviness, warmth, coolness, tingling, itching, and any others. Reply: in the “Pain” paragraph we added the procedure used by Hui et al. (2007) for the assessment of Deqi sensations. Their procedure confirms that these sensations can only be investigated by referring to only 1PAs and not 3PAs To date, the studies on neural and psychophysiological correlates not at all contribute significantly, taking into account the large amounts of research funding/resources that have been invested so far. However, why do the authors think that it would be technically, hypothetically, impossible to combine 1PAs with 3PAs?. Reply: throughout our paper we presented examples where 1PAs and 3PAs are investigated together. However, our main thesis is that they offer very different information and that 1PAs cannot be obtained from 3PAs and hence are primary and irreducible. ... we are wondering what the opinion of the authors is with respect to their claims, in terms of the fundamental laws of physics? Note that to date, a unified brain processing theory (unifying physics and neuroscience) does not exist. How do the authors think that a better theory of its underlying fundamental laws of physics could describe and explain 1PAs and 3PAs? Reply: We agree completely with the necessity to consider valid alternatives to the mainstream physicalism metaphysics as we pointed out in the Discussion. Such new alternatives must not only unify the fundamental laws of physics, that are not those of classic physics, with neuroscience but also with subjective qualia. Finally, there are several minor issues that we would like for the authors to address in their final version of the paper. Reply: thank you very much for all these issues we fixed in the version 2 of the paper. Thank you for your accurate and constructive review and sorry for the multiple typos. In the following we try to answer to all your main comments. …self-rating instruments, such as the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)2, have their own limitations… how should psychologists/psychiatrists deal with those methodological limitations in daily clinical practice according to the authors? In our opinion, relying on those (structured) questionnaire outcomes only, does not seem the way to go. Reply: we acknowledged the limitations of all instruments and procedures for a complete assessment of 1PAs expanding the paragraph “First-person accounts are not always reliable” now moved before the Discussion. However, these limitations cannot be offset by 3PAs, but only improving the instruments and procedures for the knowledge of 1PAs, see for example Pastore M, Nucci M, Bobbio A and Lombardi L (2017). Empirical scenarios of fake data analysis: The Sample Generation by Replacement (SGR) approach. Front. Psychol. 8:482. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00482; Lange R. Rasch scaling and cumulative theory-building in consciousness research. Psychology of Consciousness: Theory, Research, and Practice. 2017 Mar;4(1):135. .. in the years after the Pariente et al. (2005) publication, the measurement of deqi scores of the participants in acupuncture studies were introduced and are now being collected alongside the 3PAs, consisting of the following Deqi sensations: aching, soreness, numbness, fullness, sharp or dull pain, pressure, heaviness, warmth, coolness, tingling, itching, and any others. Reply: in the “Pain” paragraph we added the procedure used by Hui et al. (2007) for the assessment of Deqi sensations. Their procedure confirms that these sensations can only be investigated by referring to only 1PAs and not 3PAs To date, the studies on neural and psychophysiological correlates not at all contribute significantly, taking into account the large amounts of research funding/resources that have been invested so far. However, why do the authors think that it would be technically, hypothetically, impossible to combine 1PAs with 3PAs?. Reply: throughout our paper we presented examples where 1PAs and 3PAs are investigated together. However, our main thesis is that they offer very different information and that 1PAs cannot be obtained from 3PAs and hence are primary and irreducible. ... we are wondering what the opinion of the authors is with respect to their claims, in terms of the fundamental laws of physics? Note that to date, a unified brain processing theory (unifying physics and neuroscience) does not exist. How do the authors think that a better theory of its underlying fundamental laws of physics could describe and explain 1PAs and 3PAs? Reply: We agree completely with the necessity to consider valid alternatives to the mainstream physicalism metaphysics as we pointed out in the Discussion. Such new alternatives must not only unify the fundamental laws of physics, that are not those of classic physics, with neuroscience but also with subjective qualia. Finally, there are several minor issues that we would like for the authors to address in their final version of the paper. Reply: thank you very much for all these issues we fixed in the version 2 of the paper. Competing Interests: I'm the corresponding author Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 04 May 2017 Patrizio Tressoldi , Università di Padova, Padova, Italy 04 May 2017 Author Response Thank you for your accurate and constructive review and sorry for the multiple typos. In the following we try to answer to all your main comments. …self-rating instruments, such ... Continue reading Thank you for your accurate and constructive review and sorry for the multiple typos. In the following we try to answer to all your main comments. …self-rating instruments, such as the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)2, have their own limitations… how should psychologists/psychiatrists deal with those methodological limitations in daily clinical practice according to the authors? In our opinion, relying on those (structured) questionnaire outcomes only, does not seem the way to go. Reply: we acknowledged the limitations of all instruments and procedures for a complete assessment of 1PAs expanding the paragraph “First-person accounts are not always reliable” now moved before the Discussion. However, these limitations cannot be offset by 3PAs, but only improving the instruments and procedures for the knowledge of 1PAs, see for example Pastore M, Nucci M, Bobbio A and Lombardi L (2017). Empirical scenarios of fake data analysis: The Sample Generation by Replacement (SGR) approach. Front. Psychol. 8:482. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00482; Lange R. Rasch scaling and cumulative theory-building in consciousness research. Psychology of Consciousness: Theory, Research, and Practice. 2017 Mar;4(1):135. .. in the years after the Pariente et al. (2005) publication, the measurement of deqi scores of the participants in acupuncture studies were introduced and are now being collected alongside the 3PAs, consisting of the following Deqi sensations: aching, soreness, numbness, fullness, sharp or dull pain, pressure, heaviness, warmth, coolness, tingling, itching, and any others. Reply: in the “Pain” paragraph we added the procedure used by Hui et al. (2007) for the assessment of Deqi sensations. Their procedure confirms that these sensations can only be investigated by referring to only 1PAs and not 3PAs To date, the studies on neural and psychophysiological correlates not at all contribute significantly, taking into account the large amounts of research funding/resources that have been invested so far. However, why do the authors think that it would be technically, hypothetically, impossible to combine 1PAs with 3PAs?. Reply: throughout our paper we presented examples where 1PAs and 3PAs are investigated together. However, our main thesis is that they offer very different information and that 1PAs cannot be obtained from 3PAs and hence are primary and irreducible. ... we are wondering what the opinion of the authors is with respect to their claims, in terms of the fundamental laws of physics? Note that to date, a unified brain processing theory (unifying physics and neuroscience) does not exist. How do the authors think that a better theory of its underlying fundamental laws of physics could describe and explain 1PAs and 3PAs? Reply: We agree completely with the necessity to consider valid alternatives to the mainstream physicalism metaphysics as we pointed out in the Discussion. Such new alternatives must not only unify the fundamental laws of physics, that are not those of classic physics, with neuroscience but also with subjective qualia. Finally, there are several minor issues that we would like for the authors to address in their final version of the paper. Reply: thank you very much for all these issues we fixed in the version 2 of the paper. Thank you for your accurate and constructive review and sorry for the multiple typos. In the following we try to answer to all your main comments. …self-rating instruments, such as the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)2, have their own limitations… how should psychologists/psychiatrists deal with those methodological limitations in daily clinical practice according to the authors? In our opinion, relying on those (structured) questionnaire outcomes only, does not seem the way to go. Reply: we acknowledged the limitations of all instruments and procedures for a complete assessment of 1PAs expanding the paragraph “First-person accounts are not always reliable” now moved before the Discussion. However, these limitations cannot be offset by 3PAs, but only improving the instruments and procedures for the knowledge of 1PAs, see for example Pastore M, Nucci M, Bobbio A and Lombardi L (2017). Empirical scenarios of fake data analysis: The Sample Generation by Replacement (SGR) approach. Front. Psychol. 8:482. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00482; Lange R. Rasch scaling and cumulative theory-building in consciousness research. Psychology of Consciousness: Theory, Research, and Practice. 2017 Mar;4(1):135. .. in the years after the Pariente et al. (2005) publication, the measurement of deqi scores of the participants in acupuncture studies were introduced and are now being collected alongside the 3PAs, consisting of the following Deqi sensations: aching, soreness, numbness, fullness, sharp or dull pain, pressure, heaviness, warmth, coolness, tingling, itching, and any others. Reply: in the “Pain” paragraph we added the procedure used by Hui et al. (2007) for the assessment of Deqi sensations. Their procedure confirms that these sensations can only be investigated by referring to only 1PAs and not 3PAs To date, the studies on neural and psychophysiological correlates not at all contribute significantly, taking into account the large amounts of research funding/resources that have been invested so far. However, why do the authors think that it would be technically, hypothetically, impossible to combine 1PAs with 3PAs?. Reply: throughout our paper we presented examples where 1PAs and 3PAs are investigated together. However, our main thesis is that they offer very different information and that 1PAs cannot be obtained from 3PAs and hence are primary and irreducible. ... we are wondering what the opinion of the authors is with respect to their claims, in terms of the fundamental laws of physics? Note that to date, a unified brain processing theory (unifying physics and neuroscience) does not exist. How do the authors think that a better theory of its underlying fundamental laws of physics could describe and explain 1PAs and 3PAs? Reply: We agree completely with the necessity to consider valid alternatives to the mainstream physicalism metaphysics as we pointed out in the Discussion. Such new alternatives must not only unify the fundamental laws of physics, that are not those of classic physics, with neuroscience but also with subjective qualia. Finally, there are several minor issues that we would like for the authors to address in their final version of the paper. Reply: thank you very much for all these issues we fixed in the version 2 of the paper. Competing Interests: I'm the corresponding author Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 3 VERSION 3 PUBLISHED 01 Feb 2017 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 Version 3 (revision) 31 May 17 read read read Version 2 (revision) 04 May 17 read read Version 1 01 Feb 17 read read Maurits van den Noort , Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea; Free University of Brussels, Brussels, Belgium Peggy Bosch , Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Zoltan Kekecs , Lund University, Lund, Sweden Samah Khaled Zahran , Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2018 Zahran S. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 02 Jan 2018 | for Version 3 Samah Khaled Zahran , Personality and Social Psychologist, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt 0 Views copyright © 2018 Zahran S. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions If this article is just a speculative one, it doesn't matter. But, if it is a scientific article, I think the paper needs modifications, in light of the suggested items below: What is the importance of this paper? Aim is clear, but any scientific work must add to science; to develop science. So that, I suggest if the researchers specify well the role of first and third person in perception's fields, topics. Give examples in specific research fields, and the effect of their perception types in developing science, and then relate this with previous studies and theories, in the light of definite methodology. In the advancement of science, all roles are important; the demand is to specify each one role, (1 st third person perceptions), in the light of related scientific works. Finally, scientific article depends on: Introduction, methodology, results, and conclusion after analysis. - We suggest, reviewing this site: humancond.org/_media/papers/johannson05_third_person_effect.pdf , it's a pdf file about Neuwirth and Fredrick work in. (2002) who found both first- and third-person effects when studying the perceived influence of news (example field here is in Political Science). - Another one: in Wikipedia, discussing the scientific topic and its history, with many references. - Finally, another example in the media field, at: http://www.rcommunicationr.org/index.php/vol-5-2017/155-mcleod-et-al-2017-thinking-about-the-media , discussing: Third-person Perceptions when individuals see others as being more affected by harmful media content than they are themselves, in the light of psychology, sociology and political science. I hope you find these helpful, with all my appreciation. 