This manuscript describes the effects of three commonly used agrochemicals (copper ammonium acetate, pyrethrins and atrazine) on bacterial resistance to antibiotics when they are present at sub-lethal concentrations. The data revealed significant antagonistic interactions between copper and the tetracycline antibiotic. It is particularly interesting that copper is capable of restoring the growth of E. coli cells when tetracycline was added at high concentrations that would normally cause full growth inhibition. Furthermore, the authors performed a series of hypothesis-driven experiments, and the results propose two underlying mechanisms: copper-induced expression of the AcrAB-TolC multidrug efflux system, and the chelation of tetracycline by copper. These results are highly significant, and I have no major reservations towards the experimental design and data interpretation. The few minor comments listed below are mostly on writings. Figure 1: I am wondering if bacteria were inoculated immediately after the addition of copper (and antibiotics), and whether there was a specific order for the addition of copper and antibiotics. I think this information is important and it should be provided in the Methods. This is because the toxic effects of copper are exerted by free Cu ions, not directly by copper ammonium acetate. There will be a process of copper ion releasing, and subsequent binding with other organic compounds present in the LB medium. We would thus expect different results when bacteria were inoculated immediately or left for some time after copper addition. Figure 2: ppm is used here, but the results are discussed in the main text using ug/ml. It would be helpful to use the same concentration unit. Also, it is difficult to distinguish the two types of grey bars, so the authors should consider changing one of them into an empty bar. Table 2: There was a two-fold difference of copper MICs between the acrA/acrB and tolC mutants, which has been overlooked in both the Results and Discussion. The AcrAB-TolC system is supposed to be induced by copper, and confers resistance to tetracycline (but not copper). Thus, it needs an explanation why inactivation of acrAB-tolC caused a reduction of MIC to copper, and furthermore, why there was a difference among the three mutants. For data presented in Figure 3 on copper plus tetracycline, the difference among three mutants has been noted but not discussed. A triple mutant of acrA, acrB and tolC may help further understand the mechanisms. Figure 5: I like this experiment and would be interested in what the results will be if the authors have set up an additional control with the addition of copper only (tetracycline added at the time of inoculation). As mentioned above, copper ions released from copper ammonium acetate can potentially react with organic compounds in the medium. Thus, copper-tetracycline chelation is just one of the plausible explanations for the obtained data. It will certainly help improve our understanding if the authors had determined the dynamic change of copper ion concentrations in this experiment. The current “discussion” is a little bit weak, given that many interesting points need to be specifically addressed in this work, e.g., the roles of the AcrAB-TolC system and the genotypic versus phenotypic adaptation. 