In addition to being notable for describing a unique approach for sampling ticks in Neotropical forests, this article presents the first reported instance of the Amblyomma tapirellum tick found in the forest canopy. The authors suggest that this may indicate host transportation of these normally ground-dwelling ticks vertically through the canopy by an unreported host. Though the authors mention that the vertical movement of sloths may lead to ticks being acquired while on the ground, they primarily focus on two candidate host species for the vertical transport of ticks: the Mantled Howler Monkey and the Black Spider Monkey. They hypothesize that the monkeys acquire the ticks on the ground during the peak of fruiting season, and then transport the ticks vertically as they return to the canopy. This is a thoughtful insight that prompts additional questions regarding the natural history of this tick and differences in host acquisition between ground-dwelling and canopy-dwelling populations. One suggestion is to highlight the interesting contradiction that arose from finding no ticks in the ground CDC light traps (CDC-LTs) despite the statement that “ground populations of A. tapirellum are quite abundant” during the sampling period. The lack of ticks in ground traps compared to canopy traps could suggest differences in host acquisition strategies between the two environments. In addition, the capture of these ticks in the canopy may indicate that an arboreal life strategy in ticks is a more common phenomenon than previously thought. However, the authors take a different approach regarding stating the article’s significance. Instead of highlighting potentially interesting differences in host acquisition in ticks, the authors focus on implications for disease ecology. Though in this paper these ticks are suggested to be vectors for zoonotic disease, no mention is made of pathogens known to be associated with A. tapirellum , which leaves the implications for disease ecology or public health vague and ill-defined. Despite this, the findings in this paper are ecologically interesting and could be framed in a behavioral ecology context to emphasize the importance of finding ground-dwelling ticks actively seeking for hosts in the canopy. Additional, minor revisions could be incorporated to improve the clarity of the paper’s findings. In several instances, A. tapirellum is referred to as a vector yet the authors offer no evidence that these ticks transmit a known illness. By definition, a vector is an agent that transmits disease. Additionally, ticks captured by the CDC-LTs are described here as “questing”, but the correct term to describe this behavior is “hunting” or “host seeking”, since “questing” refers to a specific, relatively passive, host acquisition strategy. The authors state that the presence of ticks in the canopy traps “reinforce[s] the notion that ticks use CO 2 to locate their hosts”, a characteristic which is true of many species of ticks. However, this raises the question of why ground traps did not capture ticks, a finding for which no explanations were proposed.