The authors have participated to the Prostate Cancer DREAM challenge. They report in this paper the methodology developed to predict the survival of patients with prostate cancer. They detail different methods, combining imputation techniques to replace missing values in the dataset with selection and model fitting procedures to predict the survival. They compare these methods to each other using the integrated AUC and give their conclusion about the best method in terms of prediction. My opinion on the paper is the following. First of all, the paper is very well written and pleasant to read. It is clear and understandable. The procedures and methodologies followed by the authors are well explained in a concise way. In addition, the different methods considered in the paper to deal with the Prostate Cancer data are interesting not only for the dataset of the challenge, but also for other types of data. The paper gives some methodology that can be applied to any other dataset to study the survival. Lastly, the comparison of those methods shows that the best procedure is not always the one that we thought, but depends on the objective. This paper shows for example that the random survival forest is better in prediction than the Lasso, which is good in selection. As a conclusion, I strongly approve the publication of this paper. Some questions and little comments to improve the form: Page 3, line 3: the verb "found" has to be removed. Does the choice of the training, test and validation data influence the results? Would it be interesting to compare the results by changing these different samples? Table 2: maybe, it would be easier for the reader to detect the differences of the age distribution in the four trials with the proportion by age class instead of the number of patients. Figure 3 and paragraph 2: should we not remove the variables with lots of missing values when we do stability selection? How could you explain that the variable ALB with many missing values has been selected for example and does one really need to select this variable? 