The alcohol aversion and metal-chelating drug disulfiram (DSF) exhibits strong affinity for cysteines present in various regulatory proteins. The irreversible mixed disulfides thus formed inactivate the biological activities of several signaling, DNA repair, and anticancer targets, through the same mechanism by which the drug inhibits ALDH and prevents binge drinking. The strong anticancer effects of DSF particularly in combination with copper against gliomas, its long-term use, safety and tolerability, penetration through the blood brain barrier have made it attractive to repurpose the drug for brain cancers. DSF’s ability to Inhibit MGMT, the single most important determinant of glioma resistance to alkylating agents is an additional feature that can increase the efficacy of temozolomide in the trial. The current protocol to evaluate the use Cu-DSF in a non-alcoholic setting for recurrent glioblastoma is well designed and well justified. First, there is no consensus on treatment for GBM recurrence and the high-risk patient selection is appropriate. The therapeutic outcome between the two arms (Cu-DSF with or without alkylators) should be well-comparable. Whether the Cu-DSF by itself will have anti-glioma effects in a clinical setting is not known and difficult to predict. This is because, the copper chelated with DSF [BisN, N-diethyldithiocarmato) copper II], essentially appears to be an inactivated molecule and lacks the ability to form S-conjugates and fails to inhibit proteasome and other targets. The fate of DDC-Cu and its cytotoxic mechanisms in vivo are still unclear. Other comments and suggestions are listed below. Whether the protocol uses copper gluconate or another chelated form is not mentioned. There is one study (Proc Amer Assoc Cancer Res. 58, Abstract 4053, 2017) which describes that the efficacy of DSF-Cu is highly dependent on the time (at least 6 h) and schedule (DSF prior to copper) in brain tumor cell cultures. There is a good chance of myelosuppression, particularly, in patients taking DSF-Cu and temozolomide or other alkylating agents. Therefore, blood cell counts more frequently than 4-6 weeks is suggested. Cu-DSF is likely to sensitize GBMs to radiation as well. If there are a subset of patients getting radiation alone or in combination with DSF-Cu, it is recommended that the outcomes be assessed as well. 