I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s blog. The author’s argument is that it is possible to transform a scientific abstract into accessible and compelling poetry and that the poetic version can be effective, accessible, and compelling. I think he offers a demonstration that suggests this may be possible. However, this argument is somewhat like saying you can transform a tractor into a bicycle and still retain many of the tractor’s key features. You can, but the process of re-engineering the tractor as a bicycle changes not only its form but also its function. Similarly, re-writing an abstract as poetry is not a translation. It’s a transformation. The author transformed the goal of the abstract when he rendered it as poetry. I think this paper should pass peer review, if it discusses the goals that animate science versus the goals that animate popularization. Here are some resources that may be useful for this discussion. Jane Martin (1970) distinguishes explanation to prove (science, scholarship) from explanation to teach (popular science, textbooks). James Kinneavy (1971) makes a similar argument, saying scholarship and journalism are both forms of reference discourse, text designed to represent reality. Scholarship is primarily designed to present proof or evidence for its claims; journalism and popularizations aim to make research accessible and compelling. In Kinneavy’s theory, poetry is viewed as literary discourse, text designed to edify and entertain. I extend Kinneavy. In a series of papers, I (Rowan, 1988, 1989, 1990, 2003) distinguish texts designed to create awareness (headlines, weather reports, sport scores) from texts that deepen understanding (explanatory science features, textbooks). When Illingsworth casts a scientific abstract as poetry, he changes the text’s primary goal. It no longer is focused on offering careful evidence for a claim, but on making the text’s claim accessible and compelling. There should be a section in this paper noting this shift. One other limitation to the study is its design. Currently, the design involves a sample of one: one study. Ideally, there should be 75 or so studies and poetic presentations of their abstracts. This ideal design would avoid confounding the effects of this one study with the effects of interest (does a poetic account make a scientific abstract more accessible and compelling). Realistically, Illingsworth has already done substantial work in presenting the evidence he did concerning one abstract and its poetic version’s effects. Perhaps three to five abstract-poetry pairs would be a more realistic request for the study’s design. Then, there would be a chance to observe whether the topic of a study has an impact on the chances of rendering its abstract in poetry. Regardless, I think this paper is so well written and its topic so important that I hope a revised version, with the limitations or concerns noted here, is published. I enjoyed learning about Illingsworth’s work and will share his paper with my students in science journalism. References 1. Martin J: Explaining, understanding, and teaching. 1970; New York: McGraw-Hill . 2. Kinneavy J: A theory of discourse. 1971; New York: W. W. Norton . 3. ROWAN K: A Contemporary Theory of Explanatory Writing. Written Communication . 1988; 5 (1): 23-56 Publisher Full Text 4. ROWAN K: Cognitive Correlates of Explanatory Writing Skill: An Analysis of Individual Differences. Written Communication . 1990; 7 (3): 316-341 Publisher Full Text 5. Rowan K: Moving Beyond the What to the Why : Differences in Professional and Popular Science Writing. Journal of Technical Writing and Communication . 1989; 19 (2). Publisher Full Text 6. Rowan K.E: Informing and explaining skills: Theory and research on informative communication. 2003; Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum : 403-438 Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Rowan K. Reviewer Report For: Are scientific abstracts written in poetic verse an effective representation of the underlying research? [version 3; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :91 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8377.r12267 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-91/v1#referee-response-12267 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 26 Apr 2016 Samuel Illingworth , Manchester Metropolitan University, Manchester, UK 26 Apr 2016 Author Response I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s ... Continue reading I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s blog. Thank you very much for these kind comments. I am very glad that you enjoyed reading the paper, and that you found the subject matter to be important. The author’s argument is that it is possible to transform a scientific abstract into accessible and compelling poetry and that the poetic version can be effective, accessible, and compelling. I think he offers a demonstration that suggests this may be possible. However, this argument is somewhat like saying you can transform a tractor into a bicycle and still retain many of the tractor’s key features. You can, but the process of re-engineering the tractor as a bicycle changes not only its form but also its function. Similarly, re-writing an abstract as poetry is not a translation. It’s a transformation. The author transformed the goal of the abstract when he rendered it as poetry. This is an excellent point, and the issue of transformation is discussed in more detail in the response to the following paragraph. I think this paper should pass peer review, if it discusses the goals that animate science versus the goals that animate popularization. Here are some resources that may be useful for this discussion. Jane Martin (1970) distinguishes explanation to prove (science, scholarship) from explanation to teach (popular science, textbooks). James Kinneavy (1971) makes a similar argument, saying scholarship and journalism are both forms of reference discourse, text designed to represent reality. Scholarship is primarily designed to present proof or evidence for its claims; journalism and popularizations aim to make research accessible and compelling. In Kinneavy’s theory, poetry is viewed as literary discourse, text designed to edify and entertain. I extend Kinneavy. In a series of papers, I (Rowan, 1988, 1989, 1990, 2003) distinguish texts designed to create awareness (headlines, weather reports, sport scores) from texts that deepen understanding (explanatory science features, textbooks). When Illingworth casts a scientific abstract as poetry, he changes the text’s primary goal. It no longer is focused on offering careful evidence for a claim, but on making the text’s claim accessible and compelling. There should be a section in this paper noting this shift. I think that this is an excellent point, thank you so much for bringing this to my attention, and also for providing some very useful and extremely interesting references. The issue of the goals which animate science vs. those which animate popularization need to be discussed, and are presented in the introduction as such: “It is also important to consider the issue of transformation, and how this potentially affects the goal of the abstract. As discussed above, the primary objective of the abstract is to both provide information and also to convince the reader to finish the remainder of the paper. The nature of the poem means that it is more likely to be thought of as a popular piece of science writing rather than a professional piece of science writing, as is the case for the original abstract. As such, care must be taken to ensure that in the transformation from prose into poetry, the primary objective does not also fully transform into that of purely establishing the novelty of the topic (Rowan, 1989). In order for the poem to still be useful to scientists it must still provide a useful summary of the research. However, could the poem do so in a more accessible manner than that of the more traditional scientific abstract?” However, it is also worth noting that the primary goal of the scientific abstract is also to some extent to entice the reader, and to encourage them to read the rest of the article. Therefore, whilst the primary objective of the scientific article might be offering careful evidence for the claim, the primary objective of the scientific abstract is to offer an accurate summary which also compels the reader to continue to the rest of the article. The primary objectives of the abstract are discussed in more detail in the revised Introduction to the manuscript, as discussed in the response to Referee 2. Whilst I agree that I have transformed the abstract by presenting it as a poem, I did so in such a way that I tried to still preserve the scientific sense of the article in question. This study was also focused on whether or not researchers would still find the poem to be accessible in terms of how useful it was in conveying scientific information to them, and as I outlined in the Introduction, the purpose of this study was to see if a poem was still “accessible and informative to other scientists.” As such I believe that there was a shift, but maybe not to the extent that you have outlined above. However, the fact that there is a shift at all is a very important point, and as such has now been addressed in the discussion, with the addition of the following text: “As discussed in the Introduction, the very nature of this study involves transforming the abstract in some way, and whilst every effort has been made in this transformation to retain the information of the original abstract, it is clear from an analysis of the surveyed responses that this has not been entirely successful. This is most clearly evidenced with the omission of the word ‘model’ from the poem. Whilst it is likely that the results would have been different had the first line of the poem been replaced with “In Canada a model found,” this is not the transformation that the author decided upon. Has the text’s primary goal therefore also changed? As discussed in the Introduction, the primary goal of the scientific abstract is to offer an effective summary of the study, but also to compel the reader, in this instance to read the rest of the article. The results of the survey would suggest that rather than a transformation of primary goal, there has instead been a transformation of focus. As with the original abstract, the purpose of the poem was still to inform and entice scientists, by presenting an indicative summary of the underlying research, and also serving as a compelling case that the remainder of the article was worthy of the reader’s attention. The analysis of the qualitative data would seem to suggest that the poem has still served that purpose (seemingly neither improving nor diminishing the desire to find out more about the study), however the focus of the summary has undoubtedly shifted.” The issue of transformation was also further addressed in the conclusions, with the following text: “The issue of transformation that was raised in the discussions is notable, and is certainly worthy of further investigation in future studies. However, such studies would need to be designed so as to specifically address this issue. For example, participants could be asked for their interpretations of the primary objective of each version of the abstract (poetry or prose). Alternatively, participants could be shown both versions of the abstract and could be asked to comment on similarities and differences between the two, both literally and in terms of what they convey.” One other limitation to the study is its design. Currently, the design involves a sample of one: one study. Ideally, there should be 75 or so studies and poetic presentations of their abstracts. This ideal design would avoid confounding the effects of this one study with the effects of interest (does a poetic account make a scientific abstract more accessible and compelling). Realistically, Illingworth has already done substantial work in presenting the evidence he did concerning one abstract and its poetic version’s effects. Perhaps three to five abstract-poetry pairs would be a more realistic request for the study’s design. Then, there would be a chance to observe whether the topic of a study has an impact on the chances of rendering its abstract in poetry. I agree that the sample size is small. However, throughout the paper I have ensured that I have not made any generalizations, and I have acknowledged that there are clearly limitations in what can be derived from the study. Whilst conducting 75 studies would certainly yield more conclusive results, it is beyond the scope and indeed the resources of this study, which was carried out without any funding. Part of the purpose of this study was to demonstrate that there is an interest and a capacity for such investigations, which can hopefully be used as leverage for further research, in which for example the issue of transformation can be more specifically addressed. Regarding the use of three to five different poems and abstract comparisons, again I think that this would make for an interesting study, but that it would be beyond the scope and resources of this investigation. Furthermore, and pending future funding, I think it would potentially be more useful to repeat the study with three to five different groups of scientists using the same poem, as otherwise it may be difficult to analyse the data across the different poems. For example, all poems would probably have to be written in a fairly similar style and using a similar metric and structure, as otherwise there may be different reasons for the way in which the poem was ‘received’ by the participants. However, this is something that could also potentially be investigated in future studies, as could a comparison of different poems written by different authors, all of whom might have been given a different remit to perform their transformation under. There is a genuine wealth of possibilities that are available here for investigation, and I hope that this paper acts as a starting point for such studies, both by myself and ideally from other interested colleagues as well. Regarding the limitations of the study I have made further explicit reference to them with the following passage in the conclusions: “It is acknowledged that the results and subsequent analysis that are presented here represent the responses from only one study that was carried out on a small subset of participants. As such, it is important to recognise the limitations of the findings, and to allow that a different set of results may be evident if a different group of participants were surveyed. Likewise, the responses of the participants would probably be different if they were shown different poetical interpretations (from the same or different authors) of the same abstract. Given these limitations, I hope that this study has demonstrated that there is a capacity and a merit in such investigations, and also that it has served as inspiration for future work. ” Regardless, I think this paper is so well written and its topic so important that I hope a revised version, with the limitations or concerns noted here, is published. Thank you. I hope that I have now addressed these issues in an acceptable manner. I enjoyed learning about Illingworth’s work and will share his paper with my students in science journalism. Thank you, that is greatly appreciated. I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s blog. Thank you very much for these kind comments. I am very glad that you enjoyed reading the paper, and that you found the subject matter to be important. The author’s argument is that it is possible to transform a scientific abstract into accessible and compelling poetry and that the poetic version can be effective, accessible, and compelling. I think he offers a demonstration that suggests this may be possible. However, this argument is somewhat like saying you can transform a tractor into a bicycle and still retain many of the tractor’s key features. You can, but the process of re-engineering the tractor as a bicycle changes not only its form but also its function. Similarly, re-writing an abstract as poetry is not a translation. It’s a transformation. The author transformed the goal of the abstract when he rendered it as poetry. This is an excellent point, and the issue of transformation is discussed in more detail in the response to the following paragraph. I think this paper should pass peer review, if it discusses the goals that animate science versus the goals that animate popularization. Here are some resources that may be useful for this discussion. Jane Martin (1970) distinguishes explanation to prove (science, scholarship) from explanation to teach (popular science, textbooks). James Kinneavy (1971) makes a similar argument, saying scholarship and journalism are both forms of reference discourse, text designed to represent reality. Scholarship is primarily designed to present proof or evidence for its claims; journalism and popularizations aim to make research accessible and compelling. In Kinneavy’s theory, poetry is viewed as literary discourse, text designed to edify and entertain. I extend Kinneavy. In a series of papers, I (Rowan, 1988, 1989, 1990, 2003) distinguish texts designed to create awareness (headlines, weather reports, sport scores) from texts that deepen understanding (explanatory science features, textbooks). When Illingworth casts a scientific abstract as poetry, he changes the text’s primary goal. It no longer is focused on offering careful evidence for a claim, but on making the text’s claim accessible and compelling. There should be a section in this paper noting this shift. I think that this is an excellent point, thank you so much for bringing this to my attention, and also for providing some very useful and extremely interesting references. The issue of the goals which animate science vs. those which animate popularization need to be discussed, and are presented in the introduction as such: “It is also important to consider the issue of transformation, and how this potentially affects the goal of the abstract. As discussed above, the primary objective of the abstract is to both provide information and also to convince the reader to finish the remainder of the paper. The nature of the poem means that it is more likely to be thought of as a popular piece of science writing rather than a professional piece of science writing, as is the case for the original abstract. As such, care must be taken to ensure that in the transformation from prose into poetry, the primary objective does not also fully transform into that of purely establishing the novelty of the topic (Rowan, 1989). In order for the poem to still be useful to scientists it must still provide a useful summary of the research. However, could the poem do so in a more accessible manner than that of the more traditional scientific abstract?” However, it is also worth noting that the primary goal of the scientific abstract is also to some extent to entice the reader, and to encourage them to read the rest of the article. Therefore, whilst the primary objective of the scientific article might be offering careful evidence for the claim, the primary objective of the scientific abstract is to offer an accurate summary which also compels the reader to continue to the rest of the article. The primary objectives of the abstract are discussed in more detail in the revised Introduction to the manuscript, as discussed in the response to Referee 2. Whilst I agree that I have transformed the abstract by presenting it as a poem, I did so in such a way that I tried to still preserve the scientific sense of the article in question. This study was also focused on whether or not researchers would still find the poem to be accessible in terms of how useful it was in conveying scientific information to them, and as I outlined in the Introduction, the purpose of this study was to see if a poem was still “accessible and informative to other scientists.” As such I believe that there was a shift, but maybe not to the extent that you have outlined above. However, the fact that there is a shift at all is a very important point, and as such has now been addressed in the discussion, with the addition of the following text: “As discussed in the Introduction, the very nature of this study involves transforming the abstract in some way, and whilst every effort has been made in this transformation to retain the information of the original abstract, it is clear from an analysis of the surveyed responses that this has not been entirely successful. This is most clearly evidenced with the omission of the word ‘model’ from the poem. Whilst it is likely that the results would have been different had the first line of the poem been replaced with “In Canada a model found,” this is not the transformation that the author decided upon. Has the text’s primary goal therefore also changed? As discussed in the Introduction, the primary goal of the scientific abstract is to offer an effective summary of the study, but also to compel the reader, in this instance to read the rest of the article. The results of the survey would suggest that rather than a transformation of primary goal, there has instead been a transformation of focus. As with the original abstract, the purpose of the poem was still to inform and entice scientists, by presenting an indicative summary of the underlying research, and also serving as a compelling case that the remainder of the article was worthy of the reader’s attention. The analysis of the qualitative data would seem to suggest that the poem has still served that purpose (seemingly neither improving nor diminishing the desire to find out more about the study), however the focus of the summary has undoubtedly shifted.” The issue of transformation was also further addressed in the conclusions, with the following text: “The issue of transformation that was raised in the discussions is notable, and is certainly worthy of further investigation in future studies. However, such studies would need to be designed so as to specifically address this issue. For example, participants could be asked for their interpretations of the primary objective of each version of the abstract (poetry or prose). Alternatively, participants could be shown both versions of the abstract and could be asked to comment on similarities and differences between the two, both literally and in terms of what they convey.” One other limitation to the study is its design. Currently, the design involves a sample of one: one study. Ideally, there should be 75 or so studies and poetic presentations of their abstracts. This ideal design would avoid confounding the effects of this one study with the effects of interest (does a poetic account make a scientific abstract more accessible and compelling). Realistically, Illingworth has already done substantial work in presenting the evidence he did concerning one abstract and its poetic version’s effects. Perhaps three to five abstract-poetry pairs would be a more realistic request for the study’s design. Then, there would be a chance to observe whether the topic of a study has an impact on the chances of rendering its abstract in poetry. I agree that the sample size is small. However, throughout the paper I have ensured that I have not made any generalizations, and I have acknowledged that there are clearly limitations in what can be derived from the study. Whilst conducting 75 studies would certainly yield more conclusive results, it is beyond the scope and indeed the resources of this study, which was carried out without any funding. Part of the purpose of this study was to demonstrate that there is an interest and a capacity for such investigations, which can hopefully be used as leverage for further research, in which for example the issue of transformation can be more specifically addressed. Regarding the use of three to five different poems and abstract comparisons, again I think that this would make for an interesting study, but that it would be beyond the scope and resources of this investigation. Furthermore, and pending future funding, I think it would potentially be more useful to repeat the study with three to five different groups of scientists using the same poem, as otherwise it may be difficult to analyse the data across the different poems. For example, all poems would probably have to be written in a fairly similar style and using a similar metric and structure, as otherwise there may be different reasons for the way in which the poem was ‘received’ by the participants. However, this is something that could also potentially be investigated in future studies, as could a comparison of different poems written by different authors, all of whom might have been given a different remit to perform their transformation under. There is a genuine wealth of possibilities that are available here for investigation, and I hope that this paper acts as a starting point for such studies, both by myself and ideally from other interested colleagues as well. Regarding the limitations of the study I have made further explicit reference to them with the following passage in the conclusions: “It is acknowledged that the results and subsequent analysis that are presented here represent the responses from only one study that was carried out on a small subset of participants. As such, it is important to recognise the limitations of the findings, and to allow that a different set of results may be evident if a different group of participants were surveyed. Likewise, the responses of the participants would probably be different if they were shown different poetical interpretations (from the same or different authors) of the same abstract. Given these limitations, I hope that this study has demonstrated that there is a capacity and a merit in such investigations, and also that it has served as inspiration for future work. ” Regardless, I think this paper is so well written and its topic so important that I hope a revised version, with the limitations or concerns noted here, is published. Thank you. I hope that I have now addressed these issues in an acceptable manner. I enjoyed learning about Illingworth’s work and will share his paper with my students in science journalism. Thank you, that is greatly appreciated. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 26 Apr 2016 Samuel Illingworth , Manchester Metropolitan University, Manchester, UK 26 Apr 2016 Author Response I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s ... Continue reading I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s blog. Thank you very much for these kind comments. I am very glad that you enjoyed reading the paper, and that you found the subject matter to be important. The author’s argument is that it is possible to transform a scientific abstract into accessible and compelling poetry and that the poetic version can be effective, accessible, and compelling. I think he offers a demonstration that suggests this may be possible. However, this argument is somewhat like saying you can transform a tractor into a bicycle and still retain many of the tractor’s key features. You can, but the process of re-engineering the tractor as a bicycle changes not only its form but also its function. Similarly, re-writing an abstract as poetry is not a translation. It’s a transformation. The author transformed the goal of the abstract when he rendered it as poetry. This is an excellent point, and the issue of transformation is discussed in more detail in the response to the following paragraph. I think this paper should pass peer review, if it discusses the goals that animate science versus the goals that animate popularization. Here are some resources that may be useful for this discussion. Jane Martin (1970) distinguishes explanation to prove (science, scholarship) from explanation to teach (popular science, textbooks). James Kinneavy (1971) makes a similar argument, saying scholarship and journalism are both forms of reference discourse, text designed to represent reality. Scholarship is primarily designed to present proof or evidence for its claims; journalism and popularizations aim to make research accessible and compelling. In Kinneavy’s theory, poetry is viewed as literary discourse, text designed to edify and entertain. I extend Kinneavy. In a series of papers, I (Rowan, 1988, 1989, 1990, 2003) distinguish texts designed to create awareness (headlines, weather reports, sport scores) from texts that deepen understanding (explanatory science features, textbooks). When Illingworth casts a scientific abstract as poetry, he changes the text’s primary goal. It no longer is focused on offering careful evidence for a claim, but on making the text’s claim accessible and compelling. There should be a section in this paper noting this shift. I think that this is an excellent point, thank you so much for bringing this to my attention, and also for providing some very useful and extremely interesting references. The issue of the goals which animate science vs. those which animate popularization need to be discussed, and are presented in the introduction as such: “It is also important to consider the issue of transformation, and how this potentially affects the goal of the abstract. As discussed above, the primary objective of the abstract is to both provide information and also to convince the reader to finish the remainder of the paper. The nature of the poem means that it is more likely to be thought of as a popular piece of science writing rather than a professional piece of science writing, as is the case for the original abstract. As such, care must be taken to ensure that in the transformation from prose into poetry, the primary objective does not also fully transform into that of purely establishing the novelty of the topic (Rowan, 1989). In order for the poem to still be useful to scientists it must still provide a useful summary of the research. However, could the poem do so in a more accessible manner than that of the more traditional scientific abstract?” However, it is also worth noting that the primary goal of the scientific abstract is also to some extent to entice the reader, and to encourage them to read the rest of the article. Therefore, whilst the primary objective of the scientific article might be offering careful evidence for the claim, the primary objective of the scientific abstract is to offer an accurate summary which also compels the reader to continue to the rest of the article. The primary objectives of the abstract are discussed in more detail in the revised Introduction to the manuscript, as discussed in the response to Referee 2. Whilst I agree that I have transformed the abstract by presenting it as a poem, I did so in such a way that I tried to still preserve the scientific sense of the article in question. This study was also focused on whether or not researchers would still find the poem to be accessible in terms of how useful it was in conveying scientific information to them, and as I outlined in the Introduction, the purpose of this study was to see if a poem was still “accessible and informative to other scientists.” As such I believe that there was a shift, but maybe not to the extent that you have outlined above. However, the fact that there is a shift at all is a very important point, and as such has now been addressed in the discussion, with the addition of the following text: “As discussed in the Introduction, the very nature of this study involves transforming the abstract in some way, and whilst every effort has been made in this transformation to retain the information of the original abstract, it is clear from an analysis of the surveyed responses that this has not been entirely successful. This is most clearly evidenced with the omission of the word ‘model’ from the poem. Whilst it is likely that the results would have been different had the first line of the poem been replaced with “In Canada a model found,” this is not the transformation that the author decided upon. Has the text’s primary goal therefore also changed? As discussed in the Introduction, the primary goal of the scientific abstract is to offer an effective summary of the study, but also to compel the reader, in this instance to read the rest of the article. The results of the survey would suggest that rather than a transformation of primary goal, there has instead been a transformation of focus. As with the original abstract, the purpose of the poem was still to inform and entice scientists, by presenting an indicative summary of the underlying research, and also serving as a compelling case that the remainder of the article was worthy of the reader’s attention. The analysis of the qualitative data would seem to suggest that the poem has still served that purpose (seemingly neither improving nor diminishing the desire to find out more about the study), however the focus of the summary has undoubtedly shifted.” The issue of transformation was also further addressed in the conclusions, with the following text: “The issue of transformation that was raised in the discussions is notable, and is certainly worthy of further investigation in future studies. However, such studies would need to be designed so as to specifically address this issue. For example, participants could be asked for their interpretations of the primary objective of each version of the abstract (poetry or prose). Alternatively, participants could be shown both versions of the abstract and could be asked to comment on similarities and differences between the two, both literally and in terms of what they convey.” One other limitation to the study is its design. Currently, the design involves a sample of one: one study. Ideally, there should be 75 or so studies and poetic presentations of their abstracts. This ideal design would avoid confounding the effects of this one study with the effects of interest (does a poetic account make a scientific abstract more accessible and compelling). Realistically, Illingworth has already done substantial work in presenting the evidence he did concerning one abstract and its poetic version’s effects. Perhaps three to five abstract-poetry pairs would be a more realistic request for the study’s design. Then, there would be a chance to observe whether the topic of a study has an impact on the chances of rendering its abstract in poetry. I agree that the sample size is small. However, throughout the paper I have ensured that I have not made any generalizations, and I have acknowledged that there are clearly limitations in what can be derived from the study. Whilst conducting 75 studies would certainly yield more conclusive results, it is beyond the scope and indeed the resources of this study, which was carried out without any funding. Part of the purpose of this study was to demonstrate that there is an interest and a capacity for such investigations, which can hopefully be used as leverage for further research, in which for example the issue of transformation can be more specifically addressed. Regarding the use of three to five different poems and abstract comparisons, again I think that this would make for an interesting study, but that it would be beyond the scope and resources of this investigation. Furthermore, and pending future funding, I think it would potentially be more useful to repeat the study with three to five different groups of scientists using the same poem, as otherwise it may be difficult to analyse the data across the different poems. For example, all poems would probably have to be written in a fairly similar style and using a similar metric and structure, as otherwise there may be different reasons for the way in which the poem was ‘received’ by the participants. However, this is something that could also potentially be investigated in future studies, as could a comparison of different poems written by different authors, all of whom might have been given a different remit to perform their transformation under. There is a genuine wealth of possibilities that are available here for investigation, and I hope that this paper acts as a starting point for such studies, both by myself and ideally from other interested colleagues as well. Regarding the limitations of the study I have made further explicit reference to them with the following passage in the conclusions: “It is acknowledged that the results and subsequent analysis that are presented here represent the responses from only one study that was carried out on a small subset of participants. As such, it is important to recognise the limitations of the findings, and to allow that a different set of results may be evident if a different group of participants were surveyed. Likewise, the responses of the participants would probably be different if they were shown different poetical interpretations (from the same or different authors) of the same abstract. Given these limitations, I hope that this study has demonstrated that there is a capacity and a merit in such investigations, and also that it has served as inspiration for future work. ” Regardless, I think this paper is so well written and its topic so important that I hope a revised version, with the limitations or concerns noted here, is published. Thank you. I hope that I have now addressed these issues in an acceptable manner. I enjoyed learning about Illingworth’s work and will share his paper with my students in science journalism. Thank you, that is greatly appreciated. I enjoyed reading this paper because it is clearly written and its core question, how should we make science accessible and compelling, matters. I also appreciate knowing about the author’s blog. Thank you very much for these kind comments. I am very glad that you enjoyed reading the paper, and that you found the subject matter to be important. The author’s argument is that it is possible to transform a scientific abstract into accessible and compelling poetry and that the poetic version can be effective, accessible, and compelling. I think he offers a demonstration that suggests this may be possible. However, this argument is somewhat like saying you can transform a tractor into a bicycle and still retain many of the tractor’s key features. You can, but the process of re-engineering the tractor as a bicycle changes not only its form but also its function. Similarly, re-writing an abstract as poetry is not a translation. It’s a transformation. The author transformed the goal of the abstract when he rendered it as poetry. This is an excellent point, and the issue of transformation is discussed in more detail in the response to the following paragraph. I think this paper should pass peer review, if it discusses the goals that animate science versus the goals that animate popularization. Here are some resources that may be useful for this discussion. Jane Martin (1970) distinguishes explanation to prove (science, scholarship) from explanation to teach (popular science, textbooks). James Kinneavy (1971) makes a similar argument, saying scholarship and journalism are both forms of reference discourse, text designed to represent reality. Scholarship is primarily designed to present proof or evidence for its claims; journalism and popularizations aim to make research accessible and compelling. In Kinneavy’s theory, poetry is viewed as literary discourse, text designed to edify and entertain. I extend Kinneavy. In a series of papers, I (Rowan, 1988, 1989, 1990, 2003) distinguish texts designed to create awareness (headlines, weather reports, sport scores) from texts that deepen understanding (explanatory science features, textbooks). When Illingworth casts a scientific abstract as poetry, he changes the text’s primary goal. It no longer is focused on offering careful evidence for a claim, but on making the text’s claim accessible and compelling. There should be a section in this paper noting this shift. I think that this is an excellent point, thank you so much for bringing this to my attention, and also for providing some very useful and extremely interesting references. The issue of the goals which animate science vs. those which animate popularization need to be discussed, and are presented in the introduction as such: “It is also important to consider the issue of transformation, and how this potentially affects the goal of the abstract. As discussed above, the primary objective of the abstract is to both provide information and also to convince the reader to finish the remainder of the paper. The nature of the poem means that it is more likely to be thought of as a popular piece of science writing rather than a professional piece of science writing, as is the case for the original abstract. As such, care must be taken to ensure that in the transformation from prose into poetry, the primary objective does not also fully transform into that of purely establishing the novelty of the topic (Rowan, 1989). In order for the poem to still be useful to scientists it must still provide a useful summary of the research. However, could the poem do so in a more accessible manner than that of the more traditional scientific abstract?” However, it is also worth noting that the primary goal of the scientific abstract is also to some extent to entice the reader, and to encourage them to read the rest of the article. Therefore, whilst the primary objective of the scientific article might be offering careful evidence for the claim, the primary objective of the scientific abstract is to offer an accurate summary which also compels the reader to continue to the rest of the article. The primary objectives of the abstract are discussed in more detail in the revised Introduction to the manuscript, as discussed in the response to Referee 2. Whilst I agree that I have transformed the abstract by presenting it as a poem, I did so in such a way that I tried to still preserve the scientific sense of the article in question. This study was also focused on whether or not researchers would still find the poem to be accessible in terms of how useful it was in conveying scientific information to them, and as I outlined in the Introduction, the purpose of this study was to see if a poem was still “accessible and informative to other scientists.” As such I believe that there was a shift, but maybe not to the extent that you have outlined above. However, the fact that there is a shift at all is a very important point, and as such has now been addressed in the discussion, with the addition of the following text: “As discussed in the Introduction, the very nature of this study involves transforming the abstract in some way, and whilst every effort has been made in this transformation to retain the information of the original abstract, it is clear from an analysis of the surveyed responses that this has not been entirely successful. This is most clearly evidenced with the omission of the word ‘model’ from the poem. Whilst it is likely that the results would have been different had the first line of the poem been replaced with “In Canada a model found,” this is not the transformation that the author decided upon. Has the text’s primary goal therefore also changed? As discussed in the Introduction, the primary goal of the scientific abstract is to offer an effective summary of the study, but also to compel the reader, in this instance to read the rest of the article. The results of the survey would suggest that rather than a transformation of primary goal, there has instead been a transformation of focus. As with the original abstract, the purpose of the poem was still to inform and entice scientists, by presenting an indicative summary of the underlying research, and also serving as a compelling case that the remainder of the article was worthy of the reader’s attention. The analysis of the qualitative data would seem to suggest that the poem has still served that purpose (seemingly neither improving nor diminishing the desire to find out more about the study), however the focus of the summary has undoubtedly shifted.” The issue of transformation was also further addressed in the conclusions, with the following text: “The issue of transformation that was raised in the discussions is notable, and is certainly worthy of further investigation in future studies. However, such studies would need to be designed so as to specifically address this issue. For example, participants could be asked for their interpretations of the primary objective of each version of the abstract (poetry or prose). Alternatively, participants could be shown both versions of the abstract and could be asked to comment on similarities and differences between the two, both literally and in terms of what they convey.” One other limitation to the study is its design. Currently, the design involves a sample of one: one study. Ideally, there should be 75 or so studies and poetic presentations of their abstracts. This ideal design would avoid confounding the effects of this one study with the effects of interest (does a poetic account make a scientific abstract more accessible and compelling). Realistically, Illingworth has already done substantial work in presenting the evidence he did concerning one abstract and its poetic version’s effects. Perhaps three to five abstract-poetry pairs would be a more realistic request for the study’s design. Then, there would be a chance to observe whether the topic of a study has an impact on the chances of rendering its abstract in poetry. I agree that the sample size is small. However, throughout the paper I have ensured that I have not made any generalizations, and I have acknowledged that there are clearly limitations in what can be derived from the study. Whilst conducting 75 studies would certainly yield more conclusive results, it is beyond the scope and indeed the resources of this study, which was carried out without any funding. Part of the purpose of this study was to demonstrate that there is an interest and a capacity for such investigations, which can hopefully be used as leverage for further research, in which for example the issue of transformation can be more specifically addressed. Regarding the use of three to five different poems and abstract comparisons, again I think that this would make for an interesting study, but that it would be beyond the scope and resources of this investigation. Furthermore, and pending future funding, I think it would potentially be more useful to repeat the study with three to five different groups of scientists using the same poem, as otherwise it may be difficult to analyse the data across the different poems. For example, all poems would probably have to be written in a fairly similar style and using a similar metric and structure, as otherwise there may be different reasons for the way in which the poem was ‘received’ by the participants. However, this is something that could also potentially be investigated in future studies, as could a comparison of different poems written by different authors, all of whom might have been given a different remit to perform their transformation under. There is a genuine wealth of possibilities that are available here for investigation, and I hope that this paper acts as a starting point for such studies, both by myself and ideally from other interested colleagues as well. Regarding the limitations of the study I have made further explicit reference to them with the following passage in the conclusions: “It is acknowledged that the results and subsequent analysis that are presented here represent the responses from only one study that was carried out on a small subset of participants. As such, it is important to recognise the limitations of the findings, and to allow that a different set of results may be evident if a different group of participants were surveyed. Likewise, the responses of the participants would probably be different if they were shown different poetical interpretations (from the same or different authors) of the same abstract. Given these limitations, I hope that this study has demonstrated that there is a capacity and a merit in such investigations, and also that it has served as inspiration for future work. ” Regardless, I think this paper is so well written and its topic so important that I hope a revised version, with the limitations or concerns noted here, is published. Thank you. I hope that I have now addressed these issues in an acceptable manner. I enjoyed learning about Illingworth’s work and will share his paper with my students in science journalism. Thank you, that is greatly appreciated. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Johnson M. Reviewer Report For: Are scientific abstracts written in poetic verse an effective representation of the underlying research? [version 3; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :91 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8377.r12381 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-91/v1#referee-response-12381 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 26 Feb 2016 Magnus Johnson , Centre for Environmental and Marine Sciences (CEMS), University of Hull, Scarborough Campus, Scarborough, UK Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8377.r12381 I would really like to see this paper pass peer review eventually as it is undoubtedly an interesting topic. However, in my opinion, it needs a lot of work to knock it into shape and they may even change the conclusions. I ... Continue reading READ ALL 