I carry out this review following the guidelines set in "An Open Science Peer Review Oath" . There have been increasing scrutiny of the many fields of research, with reproducible research being used as one of the key drivers for many different concerns: trust, economic efficiency, reliability, transferability of research research. This opinion article by Jaafar and Maweni presents an overview of previous research, current status of and potential solutions for irreproducibility in the biomedical sciences. Overall, I thought the structure and style of the paper was suited to an opinion article, but felt that in its current version it lacked the "authors’ perspective on a topical issue that has not yet been covered in the same way in the existing literature" . Basically, it does not cover more ground or add the unique perspective of the authors to make it stand out from existing articles in this area. Whilst the authors have done a good job of collecting together an up-to-date reference list of studies in the area, it's not clear to me that the opinions they express in the article move the discussion on further from comment pieces such as Begley or work by journals . Many of their arguments are at a high level e.g. advocating for adopting of standards is not backed up with an opinion on which types of standards will lead to improvements in which particular types of reproducibility. I think that the area where the authors could most readily formulate, justify and argue an opinion would be in the area of investigators and institutions - what are their roles, and how do they interact. Do the authors perceive the drivers of each to be complementary or divisive? What will this mean for the future of biomedical research? To do this, I think they need to extend their literature search to cover more on the related work to do with trends in the way research is being carried out in the biomedical sciences, and related work on the influences and incentives for principal investigators, researchers and heads of research of at institutions carrying out the research, and then provide an opinion on whether these can be used to address the issues of irreproducibility in the biomedical sciences that they summarise. In addition, I think it would be useful in an opinion piece to give some element of personal perspective - as researchers working in the field of biomedical sciences themselves, the authors could give an opinion on how it affects them in their day to day work, and what solutions they feel would work if applied in their own institutions. I am categorising this as "Not approved" as even though my criticisms of the piece could be addressed with specific, major revisions, I believe that this opinion article needs substantial new material to be added for it to be a useful addition to the literature in this area and therefore does not meet the criteria for an F1000 opinion article. A revision of the paper, concentrating on extending the second half would be the most obvious suggestion to address this. As an alternative suggestion to the authors, it may be that this article would be better presented as a review article if taken forward in its current form. References 1. Begley CG, Ellis LM: Drug development: Raise standards for preclinical cancer research. Nature . 2012; 483 (7391): 531-3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. McNutt M: Journals unite for reproducibility. Science . 2014; 346 (6210). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Chue Hong N. Reviewer Report For: A failure to reproduce: How bad biomedical science is holding us back [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :415 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9003.r13423 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-415/v1#referee-response-13423 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Gorgolewski K. Reviewer Report For: A failure to reproduce: How bad biomedical science is holding us back [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :415 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9003.r13428 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-415/v1#referee-response-13428 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 09 May 2016 Krzysztof Gorgolewski , Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9003.r13428 This is a very well written paper discussing the important and timely topic of reproducibility. As an opinion piece it is factually accurate, but despite promising introduction to the topic, it provides very little in terms of practical solutions. Listed ... Continue reading READ ALL 