Peterson and coworkers investigate phenotypic correlates of genetic variation in two species of the bird genus Junco at the level of individuals, populations and species across taxa, which is a valuable contribution to our understanding of the genetic basis of the complex behavioural phenotype of migration. The methodological approach the authors have chosen is a candidate gene approach at two loci ( Clock and ADCYAP1 ), which have previously been analysed in the context of their putative involvement in shaping migratory phenotypes in different taxa. The study is a direct follow up from the study by Mller et al . 2010, and a very welcomed attempt to repeat previous findings in another system to obtain a better understanding of associations between genetic variation and behaviour, as well as to assess their generality. This is much needed since associations between polymorphisms in candidate genes and behavioural traits have often proven to be difficult to repeat across populations or species, and replication is indeed a valuable tool to infer the generality of association patterns. The difficulty and my primary concern with the study as well as the precursor study is that candidate genes (defined as genes that have been studied in one (model) organisms and there have been found to influence the expression of one focal phenotype) for migratory traits are probably not know to date, as none of the model organisms show a migratory phenotype. The genes in focus here are candidate genes for candidate traits, probably involved in shaping the migratory phenotype (i.e. the circadian phenotype involved in timing of migration). Thus, conclusions drawn upon these data based on correlative evidence should be evaluated with great caution. This study is useful in the way that it adds data to the pool of studies that have explored candidate genes of candidate traits for the migratory phenotype, which are difficult to interpret and don’t allow drawing any clear conclusions upon. The study is well presented and the additional data confirm the apparent inconsistency and the difficulty to interpret these data, probably highlighting the weakness of the candidate gene approach in this field of migratory research, and I support their publication. With candidate gene studies per se we do not expect to get huge effects, and in the area of migration genetics, I suggest that future research should avoid using a candidate gene approach, as this is unlikely to yield clear results - at least unless clear candidate genes for the migratory phenotype have been identified de novo .