This study attempted to identify potential impediments to commercialization of research at the University of Kentucky. The authors point out that, according to data from AUTM, the University of Kentucky ranks near the bottom in a number of key metrics of commercialization when compared to its benchmark institutions. The goal of the study was to identify barriers to commercialization. These findings will then be brought to administration in hopes of rectifying the problem. I think there are several issues with this work that, if addressed properly, will greatly strengthen its impact and utility not only at UK but also at other university technology transfer organizations. The first issue I have with the work is the inclusion of only a single faculty member with entrepreneurial experience. The rationale given was that that person could provide more insight into the process as a whole. Looking at the data referenced in Table 1, the most striking discrepancy between UK and benchmark institutions is the number of invention disclosures. When the data are normalized to the number of invention disclosures per institution, UK appears to be making good use of the inventions that are disclosed to them. It seems to me that one of the major issues at UK is simply getting inventors. While I agree that the entrepreneurial faculty member could have a lot of insight into issues after the first step, I wonder how much insight this person provided with regards to why people are not disclosing inventions. I am certain it would be possible to identify faculty that publicly disclosed potentially valuable assets without ever filing an invention disclosure, and I would suggest understanding those issues are 1) extremely important for improving commercialization at UK, and 2) more easily addressable at an institutional level than some other potential barriers. The second issue with relying on input from a single faculty member is that barriers are variable (as even mentioned in the article) not only between individuals, but between disciplines and sub-disciplines as well. Although the individual faculty member can identify barriers he/she has experienced, it would be disingenuous to suggest these barriers and the relative weight given to each of them is an accurate reflection of the system as a whole. A minor point....It would also be very helpful to know general field of research of the faculty member interviewed. "Translational" is very broad. Is he/she in pharma, biotech, medical devices, engineering...? I have two recommendations to strengthen this article. My first recommendation is that the authors include in the case study at least two other faculty members with technology commercialization experience (not necessarily on par with the initial interviewee). I would also suggest that these faculty be from distinct research areas and departments. Although still qualitative, it would be insightful to see if these people with different types of technology, different department makeup, and very likely different experiences and backgrounds still identify the same barriers. My second recommendation is to limit the scope to barriers that are perceived after invention disclosure. It appears as though there is an issue at UK (which I should say is certainly not unique) that I suspect has to do with education of potential inventors such that a number of these people are not even considering that their technology might have commercialization potential. A follow-up study trying to tease apart this issue would be interesting and may have broader appeal. 