In this manuscript the authors present a case report of social oocyte vitrification in a woman at age 41 that resulted in a live birth when the oocytes were warmed and fertilized 3 years later. This may be the first reported case of successful pregnancy from vitrified oocytes over age 40. In my opinion, this case adds nothing new to the literature. There is no new technology nor surprising new findings since standard vitrification techniques and routine in vitro fertilization were used in this patient. The unusual finding is that she achieved a successful pregnancy. In contrast, this case report may raise false hope for other women over age 40 who have delayed pregnancy and think that social egg freezing may be an option to preserve their fertility. As the authors themselves point out, the clinic that perfected vitrification of oocytes and that has the most experience with the technique, estimated that 55 oocytes would have to be vitrified in a women over age 40 to achieve a pregnancy and live birth (Cobo et al, 2015). I believe that this number should be enough to discourage any woman from considering social or other oocyte freezing over age 40, or any clinic from offering this procedure to women over 40. In our clinic, we have an upper age limit for social age freezing of 39 years, although I am aware of other clinics in which this is not the case. The patient in the present case report was lucky to have a euploid oocyte that survived, was fertilized and implanted allowing her to conceive. In the course of a year, from April 2012 to June 2013 she had 8 oocytes vitrified. Presumably it required several cycles to obtain the 8 oocytes and the authors should provide this information. The first embryo transfer in which the patient did not conceive included an embryo derived from one of the vitrified oocytes and one from a fresh IVF cycle, suggesting that the woman was still ovulating. The authors need to describe the endometrial preparation technique used for the successful embryo transfer. Was it an exogenous estrogen and progesterone hormonal preparation of the endometrium or a natural cycle? If the latter, how did the authors ensure that the pregnancy was not achieved as a result of natural conception of an ovulated oocyte? 