In this study, Auslander and colleagues compare nucleotide and amino acid sequences for a subset of genus alpha HPV genotypes. They observe that high-risk HPV genomes share a short sequence insert at the 3’ end of the E6 ORF. The insertion adds a PDZ binding motif to the C-terminus of high-risk HPV E6 proteins and alters the location of the E6 termination codon relative to the E7 initiation codon. This observation is consistent with previous findings. It has been appreciated for some time that high-risk HPV E6 and E7 are transcribed from a polycistronic mRNA whereas low-risk E6 and E7 are transcribed from separate promoters. In addition, a frequent splicing event occurs within the E6 gene in the bicistronic high-risk HPV early mRNA. This report adds to those observations. It proposes that the 3’ high-risk specific insert is another feature that differs between high- and low-risk HPV and that it might drive differences in expression of high-risk versus low-risk HPV oncoproteins. Understanding the differences between oncogenic and non-oncogenic HPV is an area of intensive research and new contributions in this area are potentially significant. This report makes a useful contribution to the literature. Weaknesses of the manuscript are that the current literature is not cited and that other features of high-risk HPV E6 that might also account for their oncogenic activities are not discussed. Although comparing nucleotide sequence differences is informative, for HPV E6 this comparison does not completely reflect the biology of the proteins. There are high-risk HPV E6-specific protein binding partners other than PDZ domain proteins. Several of these are listed in a useful 2012 review 1 ; others were identified by proteomic analyses from several groups 2 3 . For example, the authors do not mention that TP53 binding and degradation is a feature of high-risk HPV E6 not shared by low-risk HPV E6. It also appears that not all of the high-risk HPV E6 interact with the same subset of cellular PDZ proteins. It is unclear how these diverse HPV E6-PDZ protein interactions might account for the shared oncogenic features of high-risk HPV E6, and this point is not discussed in the manuscript. It is established in the HPV literature that small differences in HPV oncoprotein amino acid sequence result in significant differences in interactions with host cellular proteins. This is beautifully illustrated by the structural studies of Gilles Trave and colleagues, who have determined that subtle differences in E6 enable a range of specific interactions with cellular LxxLL-containing proteins. Other recent studies highlight high-risk HPV-specific activities of the E7 oncoprotein. In light of findings like these, this manuscript seems to overstate the claim that the PDZ binding motif is the ‘most notable molecular feature’ distinguishing high- from low-risk HPV. The potential importance of the insert sequence to E6/E7 translation regulation is high and should be tested; the discussion of the importance of the PDZ binding motif should be tempered and put in context with other recent findings. Additional points: Mirabello and colleagues recently reported an analysis of sequence variants from 5000 HPV16-positive cervical samples 4 . HPV16 E6 sequences exhibited variation across the length of the ORF that was similar in high-grade versus control lesions. A possible interpretation of this finding is that the protein sequence in the C-terminus of E6 is not important for oncogenic transformation. How does this fit into the authors’ model? It would be useful to include a discussion of these data. The phylogenetic trees in Figure 1B might be easier to interpret if they were presented in a linear format. It is difficult to determine where the boundaries between the high-risk/low-risk groupings overlap with the major branch points of the tree. HPV diversity is much greater that that reflected solely in genus alpha. It would be interesting to know whether HPV from other genera have also acquired sequences in this region that might provide some or all of the activities suggested by the authors. 