This manuscript contributes data to the biological control of Bacterial wilt of tomato using microbial consortium which can be turned into commercial product in Nepal. The work is well planned, the methods seem adequate, the results are in a non-negligible amount and discussed on the basis of a convenient literature set. But, the English used in the paper needs to be corrected. If author/s are not expert, they can take help from English expert to rewrite the Sentences . I believe that the manuscript is worthy of being indexed and that it could be accepted after a minor revision, for which I give now some comments, with the aim of helping the authors in obtaining a definitely acceptable version. Title: Change the title Evaluation of Trichoderma spp . and Pseudomonas fluorescence for biological control of Bacterial wilt of tomato. As Bacillus results are not satisfactory the author supposed to concentrate on only one bacterial and fungal species. Abstract: Background: Ralstonia solanacearum is the major bacterial disease in tomato, which invades the roots of diverse plant hosts and colonizes xylem vessels causing wilt, especially in tropical, subtropical and warm-temperate regions. Rewrite the sentence: Ralstonia solanacearum is the major bacterial disease ( Ralstonia solanacearum is the not the disease, it is causal organism) Results: Incorporate the findings of Bacillus subtilis (Remove if findings are not up to the mark) Conclusion: Rewrite the conclusion as it gives confusing information. Introduction: This study focuses on evaluating the efficacy of different native isolates of Trichoderma species, B. subtilis and P. fluorescence against bacterial wilt disease caused by the pathogen R. solanacearum in the tomato plant. The study hypothesizes that the native isolates of Trichoderma spp., B. subtilis and P. fluorescence can be used as bioantagonistic agents to control bacterial wilt ( R. solanacearum ) of tomato. This study tries to reflect the bioantagonistic effects by the microscopic examinations, agar well diffusion technique and by applying the concentrate of biocontrol agents in tomato plots, to calculate their efficiency by comparing them with chemical methods of treatment. Rewrite and give stress to firm objectives, sentences are poorly written need more accurate writing. Methods: Write the Latitude: 27.582016 and Longitude: 84.272259 in scientific manner. Trial design is not described (Field Experimentation: Experimental Design). Weather data is not needed. Table: 1 Write full scientific name of plants with authority. Follow strictly ICBN system wherever plant name is used. Briefly, the stems of the infected plant were washed three times with autoclaved distilled water and then blot dried. Omit Briefly Table: 1 Scientific names of source are not uniform. Write complete scientific name of plants with authority. What is the scientific reason to collect samples all from tropical region except Bacillus which is collected from mid hill regions of Nepal. Justify. In this section: Effect of sucrose on the population of biocontrol agents: quote supportive references for this methods. Choose appropriate statistical tools to evaluate your generated data. Used statistical tools are insufficient. Results: Only 4 months weather data is not justifiable until it is compared for two consecutive years. Better skip this data which does not show relevance with your work. Bacillus subtilis BS isolated from Bhaktapur top soil did not show satisfactory inhibition activity. When does Bacillus give not satisfactory results then better omit Bacillus content from the paper. Table 4. Inhibition zone made by the isolates used as biocontrol agents against Ralstonia solana cearum using agar well diffusion technique. It is very nice if some supportive pictures are added in this section. Discussion: The present results, using microscopy, showed that different species of Trichoderma , Pseudomonas fluorescence and Bacillus su btilis clearly hinders the growth of Ralstonia solanacearum , which causes bacterial wilt in tomato plants. AND Results: Bacillus subtilis BS isolated from Bhaktapur top soil did not show satisfactory inhibition activity. Both statements are contradictory. Justify Make a common consensus and write obtained results clearly. 