I enjoyed reading this paper and think that it will make an important contribution to the literature. This is one of those instances in which a null finding can potentially be very informative in terms of theory development. Although there are many different possibilities of why Gaffey Wirth did not find effects of rejection on cortisol, the theory that they put forththat rejection does not necessitate high energy mobilization needs compared to the acute stress of giving a speechis an interesting and compelling one. Those of us who study cortisol often mention the energy mobilization aspects of cortisol as almost an afterthought. This paper puts the idea of energy mobilization front and center. Self-evaluative threat is clearly a key part of why the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) typically to raise cortisol levels. This paper suggests that social evaluative threat itself may be not sufficient for triggering a cortisol response, but rather that high energy mobilization may be necessary as well. Although I generally really liked this paper and thought that it was well written, I do have some concerns and suggestions, which I hope that the authors will find useful in revising this paper. In the , it is said that high levels of glucocorticoids have been proposed as one mechanism mediating the links between isolation and poor health. I think that perhaps the term cortisol dysregulation or HPA axis dysregulation might be better than high levels. The evidence that cortisol responses during the TSST are associated with poorer health is very slim, as are the data linking total cortisol output over the day (both AUCg and AUCi) to physical health. There is some evidence that flatter diurnal cortisol slopes (a less steep decline in cortisol across the day) are associated with poorer physical health/mortality, but the picture is clearly incredibly complex, potentially involving glucocorticoid resistance and many other intervening factors. The idea that higher cortisol is bad is, I think, overly simplistic; would more accurate. Is loneliness the same as rejection? These two terms are used almost interchangeably in the Introduction, but are quite different. One can feel lonely without being rejected. Being rejected can lead to feelings of loneliness, but so can many other social conditions (not living near people, not going out much, being shy, etc.). I think it is important to make distinctions between loneliness and rejection/ostracism in the paper. Also, to what extent might chronic loneliness drive HPA activity compared to fleeting loneliness? Is it perhaps only chronic loneliness that really matters? Adam et al. s 2006 PNAS paper looking at day-to-day loneliness and cortisol might be informative here. My guess is that most readers will be less familiar with the progesterone literature than the cortisol literature, so I think a little bit more thorough description of progesterone and its health and psychological correlates would be helpful. It is said in the that there are important implications of progesterone for understanding psychological disorders. A couple of specific implications would be helpful there. In the paragraph following that one, it was quite unclear to me whether elevated progesterone is good or bad for ones health (or neither, or unknown). For example, the statement links progesterone to the beneficial effects of helping behavior on cardiovascular recovery from stress makes it sounds like higher levels of progesterone are good. However, here and elsewhere in the paper, the direction of association (positive or negative) is omitted. Please go through and add in the direction of association throughout the paper, just so the reader is clear about which way the direction of effects are going. Another example progesterone and not cortisol showed (positive?) associations with affiliation. Were a priori power analyses conducted? If so, please report. If not, please report achieved power. Was self-reported loneliness and the subjective feeling of being rejected assessed after Cyberball? I felt non-existent during the game seems related to feeling rejected, but it is not the same thing. A concern that I had was whether or not Cyberball is a powerful enough rejection manipulation to elicit a cortisol response in the lab. To confidently refute the hypothesis that rejection leads to cortisol increases, I think we need to first know that the participants felt strongly rejected and/or lonely afterwards. I realize that Cyberball is a widely used paradigm, but it still may not be powerful enough to effectively test the rejection-cortisol association if people are not feeling powerfully rejected. Related to this, it is said in Cyberball manipulation check that participants were clearly aware of the exclusion and had negative feelings about it. Clearly they were aware of the exclusion, but the results presented do not indicate that participants felt bad about it. Please rephrase/clarify. I think a great point of discussion could center around the idea of energy mobilization. If energy mobilization is key to why the TSST raises cortisol and why Cyberball doesnt, then how might energy mobilization be directly tested? As I said at the beginning of my review, this is an exciting and provocative idea that could potentially be directly tested. How might one go about doing that? Looking at pre- and post-task depletion and/or fatigue? Changes in blood glucose? Some more discussion of this idea and steps forward would be a nice addition to the paper. 