 Overview and General Recommendations: Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript which highlights the need for CVD risk assessment among postmenopausal women. Fat mass accumulation is one of the significant changes that occur with advancing age and its peaks around the menopausal, and it is associated with metabolic and haemodynamic derangement. The research interests of the paper is that it adds to already existing knowledge on menopause and CVD risk. Despite the fact that menopausal transition is associated with physiological changes which affects the health status of women, little data exist in Ghana. Thus highlighting the relevance of the paper in context. I found the paper to be overall well written and much of it to be well described. I felt confident that the authors executed careful and thorough processing of methods to generate the data. The design of the study combined with data processing strategy makes the data set seem quite useful for the purpose. However, there are few concerns which a minor revision is warranted. First, the authors placed too much emphasis on lipids and anthropometry given little attention to the constellation of metabolic abnormalities (also called metabolic syndrome) and hypertension which are potent indicators of CVD. Lipids abnormalities or atherogenic indices alone does not explain 100% of CVD risk prevalence among postmenopausal women. Dyslipidaemia increases the risk of coronary artery disease among and lipid peroxidation promote atherosclerosis. Thus making the single emphasis on dyslipidemia relevant. However, for general CDD risk, I strongly recommend that the authors should include MetS and hypertension, which will give the relevance of the study in context. Minor Revisions: At the abstract section, the authors should correct “comparative cross-section” and change it to “comparative cross-sectional study”. At the results section, the mean blood pressure were within the recommended range for both groups. Thus, the first sentence should be revise: Also postmenopausal group had elevated BP should be change to “a higher BP levels were observed among postmenopausal women…… or something similar. 