 Title The PVL production did not appear to correlate with the presence of the gene. Therefore, the title should be modified to reflect the variability concerning the production of pvl, its detectable level, presence of the pvl genes and resistance rates. Abstract The authors investigated 96 S. aureus isolates were obtained from patients presenting with wounds and soft tissue infections in four health facilities in two States in Nigeria. Resistance to penicillin, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole was more than 80% and all isolates were susceptible to methicillin. The PVL gene was found in 83.3% and 79.2% of isolates from SSTIs and wound respectively. 53 (68%) produced PVL by western blotting. The most prevalent spa type was the t084 (78.1%, n=75) and, majority of the isolates carried agr 2 (82.3%, n=79). The objective (s) of the study was not stated. Introduction Change “cel” to “cell” Methods There should be comma after the statement “In this study” Since the isolates have been described as part of a larger study, in my opinion, extensive presentation of the previous methods used for characterising the isolates is not required. The current emphasis should be on the core findings which have not been presented in the existing or published database (ref. 6 ). I suggest, you present a table summarizing the characteristics of the 96 isolates as obtained in the database. Results and discussion Information on pvl production and the presence of the genes is limited for the region under surveillance. In my opinion, this aspect of the work is relatively novel. Therefore, kindly, reconcile your findings on level of pvl production and the presence of the genes. You may also correlate these with the antibiotic resistance and perhaps the other results in the database. However, there is a lot more reports on S. aureus from skin and soft skin infection (wounds) with reference to pvl genes/production than you have cited. Please, see Sharma-Kuinkel et al 1 , Zhang et al, 2018, www.nature.com/scientific reports, Hamilton et al. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 2007, 45 (2007). Other studies in Nigeria should also be considered to enrich the discussion. Overall, the discussion should be revised appropriately. However, I approve subject to the corrections suggested. 