 Overall: This manuscript must be indexed subject to revisions/clarifications that are highlighted in specific sections mentioned below. Strengths: The strengths of the study lay in its design, recruitment of displaced, vulnerable populations, and evaluation of rapid testing interventions (antenatal screening for HIV and Syphilis) with downstream implications for mother-to-infant transmission. Data on this population are sparse. Little is known about effectiveness of screening in migrant populations and actions taken to link them to care and prevention. Limitations: A convenience sample is enrolled - leading to a biased sample of a migrant population whose primary study base is ill-defined. This limits generalizability of their findings. Confounding: a discussion is needed - especially because a multivariate analyses was not attempted. A small sample, and fewer infections detected in the small sample, limits a multivariate analysis. Two groups are compared with a null finding. A clear hypotheses, a clear primary objective and a clean sample size calculation based on that is needed. Implication section for policy and practice is missing. Detailed suggestions are provided below: Title: The title specifies the studied population, the location and the correct study design. A suggested alternative title could be: Audit of the antenatal screening for syphilis and HIV in migrant and refugee women on the Thai-Myanmar border: a descriptive study for the following reasons: ​ The HIV and syphilis prevalence estimates obtained when screening the sampled population may not be a true reflection of the prevalence among the underlying source population (refer to the limitation in the discussion section below). The rates of infections are not the only focus of the study. The study also explores counselling challenges following screening and some consequential considerations for future testing strategies; however these are not covered in the title. Abstract: The abstract provides informative and balanced summary of the study. There is a discrepancy between the aim presented in the abstract and the one presented in the introduction. The aim of auditing the first year of the syphilis routine screening is mentioned in the abstract but not the one of reassessing the trends in HIV rates. Introduction: The scientific background is provided and the rationale for the investigation was well explained: the 2 studied STIs present major health risks on maternal and child health (it would be useful to add the health risk on the woman and not only on the pregnancy outcomes). The pregnant woman is especially vulnerable to infection when displaced (low income was mentioned as a risk factor along with low education and lack of access to health services and it would be useful to explain the correlation). There is a large displaced population between Thailand and Myanmar and data on prevalence of infections among this population is scarce. The objective of the study is stated. The aim of auditing a screening program is quite ambitious (many of its facets are discussed which may be overwhelming to the reader). Methods: The study design is overall well presented (including study site, data collection and laboratory testing, treatment plan and adequate statistical analysis plan). Regarding the study population, the eligibility criteria and the sample size considerations (sample should be large enough to reflect important variations) are not discussed. Training and expertise of the people executing the screening tests is not mentioned. Authors should discuss the comparability of the testing methods in the three SMRU clinics included in the study and the quality assurance and control measures applied. Results: The results section presents and adequately summarizes all relevant characteristics of the study participants (Table 1). However, it would be helpful to define the number of marriages that a woman has as the number of remarriages (which is explained in the discussion). Literacy should also be defined. Additionally, 2 MLA and 14 WPA patients are not segregated into the different ethnic groups and are therefore missing from this part of the table; this mismatch can be detected when computing the total number of participants from each of these two sites. Finally, it is advised to keep one of the two significance levels presented below the table (P005 or P0.001). The results on prevalence rates of syphilis and HIV are properly presented in Table 2. However, the data from other studies on prevalence rates in Myanmar and Thailand are not very informative given the fact that confidence intervals are not provided. The reasons for non-participation and missing data are provided for each of those who did not complete the screening. However, the authors should consider providing an explanation for the one instance where a partner was treated for syphilis without being tested first. A multivariate analysis would have been more informative than a univariate analysis in order to get a clearer understanding of the risk factors associated with contracting syphilis and HIV. But, as the authors mention, this type of analysis is not possible when having a small number of cases. The authors should consider adding the type of analysis in the title of Table 3. Also, the confidence interval of the odds ratio for syphilis in the migrant group (1.182 6.921 instead of 1.182- 69.214) A wide confidence interval could be due to small number of cases, and sampling variability issues - these could be acknowledged. Discussion: The discussion summarises the key results. But the conclusion on the HIV rates does not accurately encapsulate what is presented in the results section. It is advised to state that no statistically significant difference in HIV rates is observed between the refugees and the combined migrant population attending both MKT and WPA sites (since it is mentioned in the results section that there is a statistically significant difference in HIV rates between MLA and WPA). The discussion is contextualized in relation to the studied population. The authors present sound explanations and interpretations of the results based on a good understanding of the cultural traits and traditions of the studied population. The authors discuss the clinical applicability of the study findings. It would be useful to further clarify the ethical difficulties faced and the challenges created during post-test counselling when a false positive syphilis result is undetected. For example, the authors can explain that a positive syphilis screening test does not necessarily confirm syphilis when titres are low and that yaws which is not sexually transmitted may instead be suspected. This inability to determine the true cause of the positive result can lead to serious consequences when counselling a patient with low titres levels as it may increase her risk of abuse and abandonment. It can also be specified that that yaws are transmitted through skin-to-skin contact and promoted by overcrowding and poor hygiene (which is very likely the case in the study population). The authors discuss limitations of the study. However, the convenience sampling of the study population is a limitation that is not mentioned in the discussion. There is a risk of selection bias since the study population consists of regular attendees of the SMRU antenatal clinics who may be very different from those who are not. For example, regular attendees of the clinic may be more health conscious engage in less risky behaviors and may have been more exposed to health recommendations and counselling than those who miss antenatal care visits. The generalizability of results (external validity) to the whole population of migrants and refugees in the studied location is difficult to establish given the risk of selection bias. In conclusion, the study is scientifically sound however some editing is advised. It presents interesting data on HIV and syphilis prevalence for regular antenatal clinic attendees coming from a disadvantaged and understudied population of migrant and refugee at the Thai- Myanmar border. It provides valuable ethical considerations and highlights a caveat pertaining to the current syphilis testing strategy and post-test counselling. This review could help public health officials better understand the situation in regard to HIV and syphilis among the studied population in order to revise the routine screening program.