The prediction of function is a major challenge from the output of structural genomics programs, and the ability to do this via binding site similarities is an obvious and potentially powerful way to assign function. A further application of protein site similarity approaches is in the area of polypharmacology - the binding of drugs to multiple targets, especially those involving anticipation of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) - a nice example of this sort of similarity is in the recent reporting of the molecular target for the side effects of many sulfa drugs reported by Haruki et al. (2013) . As such, IsoCleft Finder is a potentially useful tool for a range of different researchers. The method focusses on the analysis and prediction of small molecule binding, and as such would miss prediction of protein-protein interactions, and we know that much of biology and disease is composed of protein-peptide and protein-protein interactions. The method in the article is clearly explained, in almost enough detail to allow reimplementation, and there are improvements into the computational efficiency of IsoCleft Finder - the two stage filtering, and the approximate Bron and Kerbosch heuristics. I have a few comments that to me were not clear, or are worthy of clarification: How were protonation states and tautomers treated in the analysis? These will have key roles in defining the similarity of the site features. How does the method deal with the possibility of chiraly related sites? The distances between features will be the same, but in real space they will be different. In practice, the real space fit of Ca positions will screen these out, but there could be a set of interesting similarities that are overlooked? Can atoms belong to multiple types - hydrophilic, hydrogen bond acceptor, etc? To me it sounds like they could, and if so, what are the equivalence sets, or the priority rules to assign the most important features? How does the method score similar sites - same ligand, different asymmetric unit, same ligand orthologous protein, same ligand, different crystal form etc? Is the method stable enough, or are the differences seen enough to calibrate the likelihood of more distant relationships being identified being real? Can the method deal with cases where the 'target' is actually composed of a protein and group like a haem? Many enzymes have cofactors, and are obligated to correct site formation. Many methods struggle to handle this simply, so if IsoCleft Finder could handle these it would be a significant improvement over other methods. MES doesn't have an aromatic ring, whereas the purine rings do - in the cgd2_2020 case. Fixing the typo here to just reflect ring overlap would fix this. 