This is a modeling effort trying to predict how electric field distributes under trascranial electric stimulation for up to 19 normal and 19 pathological subjects. It is well written and a good contribution to the literature. The authors are advised to address the following issues before indexing: 1) Only transcranial electric stimulation (TES) is done in this work. There is no simulation on magnetic stimulation (TMS). So the title of this manuscript should be “non-invasive electric brain stimulation” 2) The authors only discussed there are inter-individual variabilities in E-field distributions, but did not say anything about how the E-field differs (or is similar) between the healthy subjects and depression subjects, and why. 3) As shown in Figure 1, the head models are all cut off without the lower part of the head. This will give significant difference in the E-field distributions compared to a head model that covers the entire head (Huang and Liu, et al, 2017 1 ). Please discuss this as one limitation of this work. 4) There are results in the Section Methods. So the section name should be “Methods and Results”. 5) It is unclear that how the lDLPFC region was separated. You only mentioned “...applying automated atlas-based parcellation of the frontal lobe to delineate the lDLPFC region in each brain”. Please briefly describe how this was done. Was some atlas registered to each individual brain to extract the region? 6) You said SimNIBS 2.1 was used, but did not mention which function was used for the segmentation. In SimNIBS 2.1, “headreco” calls SPM12 to segment all the head tissues, and “mri2mesh” uses FreeSurfer to segment gray and white matter, and FSL to segment non-brain tissues. You said “...SimNIBS 2.1 that employed FreeSurfer 5.3.0 for brain segmentation (as described in 29) and SPM12 for segmentation of the remaining tissues (similarly to 30).” This is not clear to me. Did you combine “headreco” and “mri2mesh”? Also if you used SPM12, there should be a tissue type “air cavities”, but from Figure 1, this “air cavities” is not there. 7) The thickness of electrodes in your models “1 mm for all electrodes + 2.5 mm sponge pocket/gel layer for the bipolar and 41 montages, respectively” is not clear. Please clarify this sentence. 8) Minor: In “Introduction” section, the first 3 sentences in the first paragraph are general statements but lack references. Please add. In “Introduction” section, 2 nd paragraph, what do you mean by “rotation or type”? 