The article focuses on a topic that receives a lot of interest these days. Therefore it is very timely. The article provides a useful and valuable overview of the current state of affairs and the ongoing debate. The title does justice to the content of the article. So does the abstract. This is the second version of the article. I do not see many changes in the text based on the earlier critical comments made by Mark Parsons and Peter Fox. The overview is very informative for everyone who needs a quick introduction into the subject. I do miss the opinion of the authors themselves on the issues at hand and on the quoted suggestions by others. This would have been appropriate in a concluding paragraph. Detailed comments: In the Introduction I miss a clear link between data publishing and data citation and creating the possibility for researchers to receive academic credits for their work on data. This academic credit is crucial as an incentive for researchers to put valuable time and effort in sharing their data. In the paragraph Why publish data? a reference to the Dutch fraud cases might be useful, as these cases got a lot of international attention and more or less triggered the discussion in the Netherlands with respect to research data management, long term preservation of data and data publishing and citation. A reference could be: Doorn P, Dillo I, van Horik R: Lies, Damned Lies and Research Data: Can Data Sharing Prevent Data Fraud? International Journal of Digital Curation. 2013; 8 (1): 229-243 http://dx.doi.org/10.2218/ijdc.v8i1.256 In the paragraph Types of data publication a threefold model is introduced to categorize data publications. It is not clear how this model relates to the terminology and categorisation presented in the introduction. This could be somewhat confusing for the reader. Furthermore, there are of course many other models available, e.g. that of the The Data Publication Pyramid, developed on the basis of the Jim Gray pyramid, to express the different manifestation forms that research data can have in the publication process: Reilly S, Schallier W, Schrimpf S, et al. : Report on integration of data and publications. October 2011. Located at: http://www.stm-assoc.org/2011_12_5_ODE_Report_On_Integration_of_Data_and_Publications.pdf Or the model presented in the report: Costas, R., Meijer, I., Zahedi, Z. and Wouters, P. (2013). The Value of Research Data - Metrics for datasets from a cultural and technical point of view. A Knowledge Exchange Report, available from www.knowledge-exchange.info/datametrics With respect to trustworthy digital repositories, I would like to add a few comments. First of all, in Europe a European Framework for Audit and Certification of Digital Repositories is emerging. It contains three certification standards (DSA, DIN31644/NESTOR seal and ISO13636) and three levels of certification (basic, extended and formal) see: http://www.trusteddigitalrepository.eu/Site/Trusted%20Digital%20Repository.html Of these three standards, only DSA has been up and running for some time now ,with 31 seals awarded and 30 ongoing self-assessments at this moment. The NESTOR seal has become available only very recently and the ISO standard is not yet officially available. The accompanying ISO 16919 standard: Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of candidate trustworthy digital repositories, has been published very recently and now the ISO organization needs to be set up in the different countries, including the training of national auditors. The audits done by CRL are not fully official, since CRL is no formal ISO accreditation body. In Europe we see a growing interest in TDRs, coming from funders who want to push open data and data sharing and demand the deposit of publicly funded data in long term TDRs. Furthermore European research infrastructures and projects are also looking more and more into the issue of trust hen it comes to data sharing and a groeing number of them is incorporating (parts of) the DSA guidelines into there repositories and policies (e.g. CESSDA, CLARIN, EUDAT). Yet another certification procedure is offered by the ICSU/WDS to repositories that aim to become a member of the World Data System. See: https://www.icsu-wds.org/community/membership/certification The certification of TDRs could also help publishers/editorial boards with Data Availability Policies to point their authors to the right repositories for the long-term storage of their data. 