Thank you very much for putting together this publication. I think this is a useful paper where you have done a good job overall with being transparent, and I hope it can become a peer-reviewed version soon. I think these may be my most important questions (related to clustering in Figure 1): It might already be described somewhere (or split among different locations), but I think some discussion is needed for the large cluster with mixed Mycobacterium and Mycolicibacterium (in the top-right of Figure 1). I have general genomics experience (including working with some pathogen data), but the biological meaning for this mixed portion of the dendrogram was not clear to me (since I don’t have specific experience working with Mycobacteria). I would guess this could be true for other F1000Research readers. Is it possible to provide this in a way that is easy to find (such as a section in the results, or a paragraph in the discussion)? For example, am I correctly understanding Figure 1 and Figure 10 in the Gupta et al. 2018 paper show classifications that cluster together (which would be different than the Figure 1 in this paper)? I think this has something to do with whether or not there is a green Mycolicibacterium dot on the outside of the tree, but then the question would be what to think about the Gupta Mycobacterium genomes within that branch (in Figure 1 of this paper)? Likewise, it looks like the “subgenus” separates more clearly in Figure 1 of the Matsumoto et al. 2019 paper. You mention this paper multiple times, but I don’t believe that I see a sentence that directly compares the results presented in that study to Figure 1 of this study. Unless I have missed something, I think that may be useful to add. Otherwise, these are my questions related to the interpretation of the results: The separation in Figure 2 looks pretty good, but there are some outliers. Are these well-characterized examples, or could these be misclassifications? Is there a way to connect Figure 1 and Figure 2? Figure 2 was what I noticed first and felt like I could understand. However, could you do something like separate “Same sub-species” into separate clusters (such as the 5 clusters in Figure 1, if I understand the content)? So, if some clusters have more variation then others, then that would become easier to see. Maybe this should be a Figure 3, for reasons of space. If you have performed automated assembly for all of the samples, what sort of checks have you done to justify important differences are due to true biological sequences rather than assembly artifacts (which may or may not be random)? You do mention that “good assemblies” were used from SPAdes and provide some statistics in Supplemental Table 1. However, I think it might help if i) more information about the criteria for “good” can be provided and ii) if any additional factors can be considered. For example, there is noticeable variation in the N50 values. Are there any values that tend to be more common in assemblies that don’t have a type strain or previous genome sequence (and/or that appear in the branch with mixed clusters in Figure 1, form small clusters, etc.)? Are there any features that vary with other expected (or known) genome metrics, such as the proportion or maximum length of repeat sequences? Additionally, in Supplemental Table 1, some samples are listed as “No Assembly.” Are there QC measurements that might be able to be used to flag a sample to be removed prior to analysis. This by itself provides a possible flag, but this and the earlier questions relate to whether some samples can generate an assembly but it may be less reliable than others (whether that is due to some limitation in the sample, a limitation in the total number of reads, etc.). I also have some other minor notes that might help with communicating your results: It may help readability to add numbers for the items listed after “There are four major facets of our analysis” in the Results. While the list is smaller, something similar could be done for “genome relatedness across two major comparators”. This is already in the results section (versus the introduction section, for example), but maybe it would even help to split this into 2 paragraphs and provide more of an explanation? Or, may be a visualization can help with the analysis strategy as a figure? I had a hard time quickly and effectively understanding what was meant to be communicated here. It looks like you have done a good job of sharing the raw data and providing a lot of details in supplemental files/tables. I had to start reading the paper to find it, but you also mention sharing code on GitHub. However, am I correctly understanding that these are for the programs that you used (versus code to reproduce the results for this specific study)? If you essentially have 1 wrapper script, perhaps adding that within a .zip file (to see the versions and parameters used) could be sufficient? The abstract mentions using the method “MASH”. The methods provide a link ( https://github.com/marbl/Mash ) that matches the cited reference for a pre-existing method called Mash (Ondov et al. 2016, Genome Biol. 2016 Jun 20;17(1):132). When I re-read the abstract, I can see that this doesn’t mean you *introduced* a method called MASH. I am not sure what other readers think (and this should be obvious to those with experience using that program), but I think one thing that could make this more clear to other reads would be to say “ We used Mash to classify NTM genomes ” (versus “ We describe using a fast average nucleotide identity (ANI) approximation method, MASH, for classifying NTM genomes ”). Or, am I overlooking something? It seems like a lot of the authors are described as “Investigation, Resources, Writing – Review Editing”, which kind of sounds like the contributions listed for those in the acknowledgments. Is there some sort of threshold for the amount of work used to identify somebody as an author versus being listed in the acknowledgments? Maybe this even means more authors should be added – I just thought the number of individuals with this exact set of contributions was noticeable. On the flip side, I noticed that you said “ We leave it to those more familiar with Mycobactericeae species to make those determinations ” – while I can understand that it might be difficult to provide all possible checks for all possible samples, is there at least one collaborator that might be able to list some exceptions/limitations to purely using the ANI strategy for assignments (which could be an acknowledgment, if we are talking about a contribution of a few points without revising any analysis)? I think there should only be one period in a sentence in the introduction (either before or after the quote): different NTM species were encountered in this survey.”. I think there is a minor formatting issue where only part of the word is italicized in the Introduction: Mycolicibacter gen (“gen” is not in italics) I think there should be a comma in the following sentence in the introduction: “ While this was an important survey of NTM geographical distribution the low number of NTM species ” “ While this was an important survey of NTM geographical distribution , the low number of NTM species ”. I think there is some unintended capitalization in the results: “ of a given genus U sing our ” “ of a given genus using our ” (this don’t look like the end of a sentence, so I don’t think the “U” should be capitalized) I think changes are needed (beyond an optional “suggestion”), but I think they can probably be made so that the next revision can be accepted. This is what I was trying to communicate with a decision of “ Accept with Reservations ”. Thanks Again! 