The survey presents evidence of the usefulness of building up health research undertaking capacity to help contribute to strengthening the national health system resilience to epidemics. It addresses an important topic, given ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The authors found that the research training programme, which was originally designed to strengthen the research capacity of health workers with the necessary competencies further contributing to health system resilience during COVID-19. It is great to see that researchers such as Rony and colleagues have evaluated the contribution of related training for strengthening the existing health system before or during epidemics. Such study findings will undoubtedly add new knowledge in the area, and could further be applied to reinforce health policy and practice. The survey was well-designed, respective data analysis were performed largely with care. The presentation is excellent, with careful writing including tables along with the article help the follow-up to the reader. Below are more specific comments and suggestions by section: Abstract: A very informative abstract, although data collection and instrument tool used to collect the data could also be included in the method section as well as in the text. Introduction: It was a nice overview and set the scene beautifully for the survey. Be there any similar initiatives in the past that could add to the statement of the problem? In this aspect, I would suggest the inclusion of a few statements from research findings on the 2014-2015 Ebola outbreak with respect to how it impacted the health system operation in affected countries in West Africa. By doing so, the necessity of carrying out the current survey would better be justified. Methods: The survey used a pre-tested questionnaire to collect data, and necessary changes were made to the questionnaire accordingly. Further to this, I would like the following points to be considered: Study design, only mentioned in the title. A few statements on how items in each questionnaire were developed, for example, whether benchmarked/adopted/modified, or what ways had been followed otherwise in developing them. Were validity and reliability tests performed on the questionnaire in addition to pre-test so that assuring quality? How data were summarized and analysed? Were there any missing data reported, given the low response rate (56%) obtained for the survey, how authors took control of these while analysing the data? Results: Well summarized using tables and text. What does ‘’other’’ refer to in Table 2? Good to mention it as a footnote as, for example the percentage of trainees applying skills in PGTS group for the same was significant, in fact second (67%) next to situation analysis/surveillance (81%), please list them all. Discussion: While the dearth of literature/information in the area has largely prevented authors of making a robust scientific argument about the survey findings, their implications have clearly be presented towards practical application, and in national health policy enforcement for a similar pandemic. Further, would authors to expect similar results (percentage) if high response rate was obtained vis--vis the low response rate reported on the survey (56%)? This warrants discussion, perhaps as a limitation of the survey. Conclusion : The conclusion was drawn adequately supported by the results. 