 Citing relevant literature: I find the in-text citations extremely scanty. The introduction which should weave the justification(s) of the study in specific terms and how it intends to attend to either a practical problem or/and a theoretical problem is inadequate. Explanations provided in the Introduction section generally addressed why "the performance of students should be of concern", not specifically why an investigation of the relationship between the study year and student grade should be conducted. Perhaps, and this should be justified in the literature, it is (a) to be able to design a level-specific intervention program that would support academic performance, (b) to serve as foundation for future studies that would identify factors that contribute to the positive or negative influence of a study level on the student grade. There is a slight mention of this in the concluding sentence, but more emphasis on the "why this study?" should be made known at the Introduction section. In the same vein, there should be clearer definitions of GPA and CGPA (on level basis and as overall), their relationship, probably in mathematical terms. Design of the study, methodology and data analysis: The concluding part of the Introduction section reads that " The objective of the present study is to determine the study year that students perform better academically across 12 programs" which best informs the choice of descriptive and the correlation analysis. Regression is therefore unnecessary because it accounts for influence of a variable on the other, and it must be with adequate attention to all latent and confounding variables. I also did not see ANOVA, though mentioned in the methods, in the data analysis. If it would be needed, there should thorough reading of its justification and how best it suits this work. I will suggest reading Julie Pallant's Guide to Using SPSS for further insights. Also, Variance Inflation Factor (VIF) is wrongly interpreted. Therefore, this statement "The maximum variance inflation factor shows that none of the variables is correlated" cannot be correct because (a) it contradicts an earlier statement that "A strong positive and significant relationships exist between CGPA in the different level and the overall CGPA", and (b) does not explain variance, which is square of the standard deviation, in view of understanding the variables' multi-collinearity. Note that correlation is synonymous to relationship, and it does not mean Variance in statistical terms. Discussion and Conclusion: The conclusion, since it ordinarily relied heavily on the data analysis and literature cannot be said to be adequate. There are no past related studies to situate the findings of this study and establish the fresh insights it attempts bring forth. This requires a Discussion section. A better analysis and inferences would then address the concluding section. Required corrections: Review 5 -10 past related studies to partly support your introduction, especially the justification of the study in specific terms, and as literature to situate your findings in a discussion section. Stick to "finding relationship", thus, descriptive correlation analyses would be sufficient. These, however, must be done thoroughly with report on data treatment and cleansing, and justification of the suitability of the statistical method. 