This well-written paper presents a methodologically sound study that examined the effects of prism adaptation on within- and between-object shifts of attention in healthy participants. The main finding is negative, namely that prism adaptation neither affects space-based nor object-based attention. This finding was observed despite robust adaptation effects found in open-loop pointing. The conclusion of the authors is that prism adaptation may ‘only perturb cognitive functions for which normal baseline performance is already biased’, which according to them is not the case for the task used in the present study. The title of the article is appropriate and the abstract adequately summarizes the main findings. I recommend this article, but have three minor comments concerning the introduction, methods and interpretation of the results. Introduction The authors should be cautious when discussing the beneficial effects of prism adaptation on spatial neglect. Rehabilitation of neglect certainly is a great challenge and therapeutic techniques that appear to have lasting effects following very short interventions should undergo rigorous assessment with randomized, controlled clinical trials. It should be noted that the positive results of Rossetti et al. (1998) , were not replicated in a more recent study using the same methodology ( Rousseaux et al. , 2006) . In addition, a randomized study on a much larger group of neglect patients did not find any benefits of prism adaptation, as compared to repeated pointing with sham prisms ( Turton et al. , 2010 ). I think that in the domain of rehabilitation negative results are at least as important as positive results, and should therefore be acknowledged by the authors. Methods The fact that all participants responded with their right hand in the RT task is problematic, as small effects due to prism adaptation might be masked by larger effects due to space-hand mapping. I appreciate that the authors are aware of this limitation. Results I was surprised that the analysis of results presented in Figure 6 did not yield a main group effect (the authors only describe a marginal group x horizontal location interaction). Interestingly, both adaptation groups show increased RTs when compared to the non-adapted group, an effect that is consistent across all four locations. What was the p-value of the main group effect in the ANOVA and is there a possibility to further examine this group effect (e.g., by pooling the two prism adaptation groups and comparing them to the non-adapted group)? I think this slowing of RTs following prism adaptation, irrespective of direction of the adaptation, is worth at least a comment if not further study. Suggested literature Rousseaux M., Bernati T., Saj A., Kozlowski O., 2006. Ineffectiveness of prism adaptation on spatial neglect signs. Stroke 37 , 542-543. Turton A.J., O'Leary K., Gabb J., Woodward R., Gilchrist I.D., 2010. A single blinded randomised controlled pilot trial of prism adaptation for improving self-care in stroke patients with neglect. Neuropsychol Rehabil 20 , 180-196.