This is a well-written paper. It summarizes valuable lessons learned from an extensive, not to mention expensive, conservation effort in a critical biodiversity-rich region of the world, the so-called "coral triangle". My main comments addressed to the authors would pertain to the major obstacles that conservation initiatives have been confronted with over the decades, leading to very few success stories even to this day. Im rather surprised they are not mentioned at all in the review. The real issues, in my own experience, are poverty, human population growth, and corruption (both in the government level, but also in the NGO community). Regarding the first issue, grinding poverty in the rural areas that abut coastal resources not only in the countries of the coral triangle appears to continue unabated, and is only exacerbated by dwindling natural resources, poor or negligent government, and the negative impacts of climate change (sea surface warming, drought, excessive precipitation, more violent storms). A vicious cycle ensues, as all informed individuals should know; namely, poverty begets more natural resource destruction, which begets more poverty A desperate family (and there are millions of them) needing to put food on the table will catch the last fish, or fell the last tree, regardless of the best disseminated and best articulated conservation schemes at any level or spatial scale. If the status of biodiversity is to improve in the future, shouldnt this issue be addressed? Which will probably take the authors to territory where they have little expertise, such as the local and global economic orders with their built-in inequities in terms of trade, fiscal policy, human migration, employment opportunities, etc. Though the term "macroeconomic" was mentioned at least once in the manuscript. The second issue, that of human population growth, does not need much elaboration because it is a glaring one. However, it does have implications for the success of conservation campaigns, and at least deserves mention. Finally, the issue of corruption. Its a sensitive one, and Im not sure the authors wish to tackle it head-on in case there are repercussions from national government or local officials they need to deal with in the course of their work. The matter of corruption within the NGO community Ive heard about first-hand, such as the overcharging for boat use that is then passed on to the donors. Should such facts be taken into consideration when voicing concern about the success of conservation efforts in the long-term and, with them, the well-being of local human populations (e.g. "livelihoods") that they are supposed to help ensure? As a minor comment, the paper might benefit from some graphs and other figures.