 General Comments: The authors made a very interesting observation that L-DKO mice, lacking hepatic p110α and p85α, have a milder metabolic phenotype than mice lacking only hepatic p110α. These mice have normal fasting blood glucose levels but not surprisingly they are glucose intolerant. Interestingly, the liver and WAT weights were reduced. Liver triglyceride levels were not measured to determine if the fat content of the liver was also reduced. Metabolic cage measurements would be revealing to rule in or out changes in energy expenditure of the animals. It would also be informative to know if a high-fat diet causes L-DKO animals to develop fasting hyperglycemia and/or if the fatty liver associated with this type of diet is accentuated or attenuated. In general, the results from the insulin signaling experiments are not convincing. It is unclear why the authors concluded that the residual signaling to Akt is not due to Class I PI3Ks. IRS-1 pull-downs from L-DKO liver have substantial PI kinase activity. Better experiments are needed to resolve this research question (see comment below). Specific Comments: Figures 1F 1G, Figure 2 and Figure 3E. (a) The dose of insulin used to study insulin signaling was extremely high. 5 U injected into a 30 g mouse is 167 U/kg body weight. Compare that to the 1.25 U/kg body weight used for the insulin tolerance test. Some of the signaling changes could be due to activation of an unusually high percentage of insulin receptors or insulin activation of IGF1 receptors that would not occur under physiological conditions. Attempts to explain the pathophysiological phenotypes of the L-DKO mouse based on the signaling results is therefore problematic. (b) The legends say that “Basal conditions refer to fasting of mice overnight.” Were the control mice anesthetized and injected ivc with saline, as stated under Methods? If so, the legends could be more specific. Figure 1F. Total Akt and total p70S6K should be shown. Figure 1G. (a) Why did insulin treatment of control mice not increase the amount of p85α (or other regulatory subunit) associated with IRS-1? (b) Use of a pan p85 antibody to estimate changes in p85β expression is not convincing. Lack of a good mouse p85β antibody is a limitation to the study. (c) The conclusion that similar amounts of IRS-1–bound p110β were pulled down in control and L-DKO mice is not convincing based on the blot. Figure 2. The conclusion that p110β and the other PI3Ks examined by western blotting are not responsible for the IRS-1–associated kinase activity is premature. The IPs should be assayed in the presence and absence of selective inhibitors to determine the contribution of p110β and the other enzymes to the PI kinase activity. Considering that hepatocytes make up 75-80% of the cell types in the liver, it is also possible that some of the kinase activity in the IRS-1 IP comes from p110α in the 20-25% of cells that are not targeted by albumin-Cre. Figure 3. Histological examination of the livers should be included. Liver triglyceride levels should be measured. Figures 3C 3D. The specific WAT depots and muscles examined should be identified. Figure 4A-D. Fasting insulin is higher in the L-DKO mice at 10 weeks of age. Presumably, this is why these mice are euglycemic. Insulin levels should be measured before and after the glucose challenge with mice in one of the GTT age groups. This experiment will assess if the glucose intolerance is due to inability of the L-DKO mice to mount a further insulin response. 