Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper. I have recently traveled to Greece and love traditional Greek food. It was distressing to read about low numbers of Greeks following a traditional Mediterranean diet, which has many health benefits. The authors are to be commended for undertaking this study in a worksite setting, aimed to lower fat intake. Overall, this research project represents a simple, non-invasive, low-cost method of attempting to improve health behaviors among a work force. It is unfortunate that the lack of evidence of significant change in actual health behavior is also typical of many such small-scale, short-term projects. The authors attempted to link change in knowledge with change in behavior. However, the literature is clear that change in knowledge alone is not sufficient to change behavior. The use of the Health Belief Model was presumably chosen to enhance motivation to change behaviors (even though over 60% of the population was at a normal weight, despite a “medium to large consumption of fatty foods.”). However, there was limited information presented in this paper as to how the constructs of the HBM were integrated into the classes presented to the employees. Did participants perceive any risks? Did they perceive susceptibility to a particular disease or to weight gain? This needs further explanation. Additional issues that need to be addressed are as follows: The Supplemental files (Q1 and Q2) are presented inversely from their description in text. The text indicates that the Knowledge questionnaire is File Q1, when it is in fact Q2, and the reverse is true for the Diet Habits questionnaire (actually Q1, listed as Q2 in text). [minor technicality] Q1, Diet Habits, indicates that some portions of this questionnaire were administered by an interviewer, while other portions were self-administered by participants. However, in text no mention is made of interviewer participation in the questionnaire, indicating only that participants received explanation in the Phase I session how to complete the form; greater clarification of procedure is required here. Furthermore, social pressures and positive presentation bias during personal interviews with a study administrator could have resulted in participants misrepresenting (toward a "healthy" direction) the quantities and frequencies of the foods they consumed. Particularly if the pre-intervention diet habit assessment was done via personal interview while the post-intervention was done via self-completed questionnaire, changes in dietary habits post-intervention may not have been accurately captured. This could also possibly explain the apparent increase in consumption of fried foods post-intervention. The diet habits questionnaire also asks participants about their food intake over the past month (~30 days) or 3 months; however, barely 30 days elapsed between the first day of intervention (Phase 2 - day 16) and the post-intervention questionnaire (Phase 4, day 45). If dietary changes are to be captured, either a shorter-term assessment (i.e. asking about intake over the past 2 weeks) or a greater delay between intervention and post-assessment should be considered. The authors note that some participants took vacations during the intervention/assessment period. Given the typical deviations from "normal" dietary habits that many people enjoy on vacation, and the recency (within the past month) of the diet habits questionnaire, this factor may function as a greater confounding variable in the observed lack of change in diet habits than the authors acknowledge. The 45-minute primary intervention lecture (Phase 2) was based on the Health Belief model, and it is the authors' claim that the HBM (which links beliefs and perceptions about health behaviors/risks to an individual's personal level of risk and his/her ability to control that risk through healthier behaviors) is an effective way to approach behavior change. However, Section 4 of the Knowledge questionnaire, which addresses the Diet-Health relationship, showed the least significant change following the intervention. Therefore, either the intervention lectures did not adequately target this subsection of knowledge, or else the participants were resistant to learning in this area for other reasons. The Discussion section, addressing the lack of observed behavior change, would be strengthened by acknowledging that the supposedly most critical piece of effecting behavior change was apparently not adequately targeted by the intervention, as evidenced by the lack of change in knowledge in this area. In addition, 61% of participants were normal weight. Thus, it is unclear why the authors chose the Health Belief Model, and how the intervention was tailored to address perceived risk, perceived susceptibility, perceived barriers or perceived benefits. [another technicality/clarification] Table 4 (comparison of dietary habits) would be improved with a caption or footnote clarifying that a lower score on this assessment indicates improved/more healthy eating habits. 