The TFutils package provides useful, convenient, integrated data structures for TF-related bioinformatics analyses, by incorporating the basic information of human transcription factors (TFs), such as TF classification, known TF targets, genome-wide TF binding sites and binding affinity scores, which might be used to prioritize candidate genetic variants and help understand gene transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. Importantly, it also provides an interactive interface to query TFs and TF targets implicated in human traits as discovered by many GWASs. In a quick test, all demo code in this paper worked. However, to make sure TFutils is more useful to the bioinformatics community, a few questions may need to be addressed. Here are our detailed comments and questions. TFutils includes resources from CISBP, HOCOMOCO, GO and MSigDb. There are additional human TF resources. Is there any reason not to include those resources such as JASPAR 1 , Transfac 2 , HDPI 3 and uniPro 4 ? There are potential packages that will likely import TFutils such as TFBSTools for the analysis of transcription factor binding sites manipulation, motifStack for graphic representation of multiple motifs 5 and MotIV . It will be helpful to present a few lines of code to show how to integrate data from TFutils to aforementioned pipelines. The section “Basic concepts of transcription factor bioinformatics” includes lots of background information, such as existing TF-related data sources/bases, TF classification, and how TFutils incorporates and access those resources. To make it easy to follow, we suggest break this part into the Introduction section and the Method section. The author may move the background information and TF classification to the Introduction section, and include an Implementation section in the Methods section to describe how TFutils incorporates all these data sources and how to retrieve the relevant information in TFutils and how to integrate with other packages as mentioned in 2, where the R script snippets can be displayed. To maintain/increase the user base, it is important to keep the data up to date. Currently, the data were snapshots of the CISBP and HOCOMOCO catalogs. If the resources are not updated regularly, it’s unlikely that users will use TFutils after 2-3 years. Is there a plan in place to have the resources assembled by TFutils be update regularly? How often is the update going to be? Is it going to be automatic or manually? Flexibility of the data structure is also important, as users may want to expand the utility of TFutils. Suggest authors describe how to add features to the current data structures in TFutils in the manuscript. It will be useful to add information on the numbers of TFs and targets included in the assembled resources, as well as in the original databases. There is a python package having the same name “tfutils” which is very popular. If it is not too hard to do, we suggest authors change the package name to avoid confusion Installation and running environments of the TFutils was described twice, once in the Introduction section, the other time in the Methods section: Operation: Installation. It is better to only describe this once in the Methods section. There are many short paragraphs consisting of one or two sentences and related information are scattered into different sections. For instances, the last paragraph of the Introduction section about the limitations of TFutil might be moved to the Discussion part; whereas the third paragraph in the Discussion section might be moved to somewhere at the beginning of the Introduction section or where it is appropriate. Page 6, the Summary section might be better moved to between the data availability section and the discussion section to summarize the implemented functionality of TFutil. Besides those major issues, we also have a few minor questions: Currently the abstract only mentions TF targets derived from the MSigDb. Considering that the ENCODE TF ChIP-seq data is one of the most significant resources for TF targets information as mentioned in the main text, suggest authors add how the ENCODE ChIP-seq data were incorporated into TFutils in the abstract. Page 5, please clarify the type of details in the sentence “Full details are provided in Sonawane et al”. Gene structure can be better depicted in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, perhaps adopting the gene structure visualization in most genome viewers, showing exon/intron structure and gene transcription direction. Please include the used R packages in the citation. “TFtargs()” in Figure 5 legend needs to be edited. For the subtitles under the Use cases section, suggest add find before “TFs that are direct GWAS …” and retrieve before “Traits mapped to genes that …”. 