In this article, the authors present a RVDB-prot, a reference viral protein database and its HMM profiles. The purpose of this approach is providing a complete reference database of viral proteins to identify new sequences. Their database is based on nucleotide Reference Viral Database (RVDB). The rationale of this work is that protein sequences can be better than nucleotides for searching distant homologs. In brief, their approach was as follows: RVDB database was converted to proteins, thereby creating a new dataset of 3,899,699 proteins. The protein were clustered, and these clusters used to create HMM. Words frequently present in sequence names of a cluster were used to annotate HMM profiles. The software, pipeline and final database are all available. The final data are of good quality, will hopefully be maintained along with RVDB and offer a new approach for protein virus reference. While the article is well written and the method is well described, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed: The database is described as facilitating sequence assignation. This seems a bit vague, a sentence describing possible applications could help. The introduction may describe better the current state of research in the field. UniProtKB should be cited in “existing databases” for viral proteins, and authors may add citations of its use in virus detection. (ex: UniRef90 used with success to create synthetic human virome 1 (PMID: 26045439)). This would also highlight new potential applications for RVDB-prot. UniProtKB provides data for 3,972,271 viral proteins, a bit more than RVDB-Prot (3,899,699). RVDB-prot data is based similarity gathering of sequences with viral RefSeq, which has the advantage to ignore any taxonomical issues. On the other hand, many RefSeq are provisional, and those are not free or errors. The authors may discuss the advantage of their method over existing protein dataset. Similarly, UniRef90 contains 577,105 clusters of proteins, which could be compared to the 489,207 unique proteins of RVDB-prot. Further discussion may help understanding the advantages of these two datasets. The paper could provide more details on parameters used for defining clusters with Silix. Minor remark: The naming system may be perfected. Although imaginative and automatic, it seems to be limited. For example cluster 77 in the -prot-hmm-txt.zip (v 15.1) contains 398 sequences, which are obviously rep proteins for ssDNA viruses circo, gemini and their satellites, but the names fished out by author’s method are not clear. This can be problematic for sequence assignation. Keywords for cluster 77: protein 329 replication 296 virus 183 alphasatellite 154 associated 138 putative 120 viral 103 CRESS 78 leaf 50 curl 49 initiator 49 Rep 41 yellow 39 Circoviridae 39 Actually, the name used to create RVDB-pro keywords is not clearly defined. The name of GenBank protein entry are not very consistent and this may explain these problems. Maybe using pfam or any other method of identification over the clusters may help naming them in a more consistent way. 