This manuscript describes the application of stochastic block models (SBMs) as a method to construct biological networks from different omics data. Starting from correlation-based networks of breast cancer data, SBM delivers different modules (or blocks) of the network. In order to assess the usefulness of this approach, the authors evaluate the biological meaning of the modules obtained performing a functional enrichment analysis for each module of the network. Finally, the authors include the edge confidence score computation for each edge in the resulting network. This novel application of SBMs with omics data is interesting but its utility is not clearly explained in the manuscript. First, the title is confusing, since I understood a single network is obtained from different omics data, i.e. a multiomic integration analysis, however it is not performed. Furthermore, why are these three datasets used? It seems the authors want to evaluate the SBM-based networks starting from datasets with different complexity (different number of features/samples), but the reason is not properly explained. As for the SBM model definition, because of the microcanonical formulation because of its hard constraints, network underfitting could be an important issue. Although underfitting is solved using nested (hierarchical) or degree-corrected SBMs, an explanation of this phenomena and how to deal with it would be suitable in “Fit to SBM” methodological section. Regarding the functional enrichment, the choice of the pathway database is not clear. Why is Reactome chosen for genes annotation and KEGG for metabolites? Taking into account that breast cancer related biological findings is not the scope of this manuscript, a deeper analysis of biological information revealed by network blocks is necessary: which pathways are block-specific? Which pathway or pathways are present in the bigger block? Do the pathway distances between blocks have any relation with previous knowledge about breast cancer? Furthermore, the pathway distances within and between blocks are computed just for the lower level of blocks. Since the network is hierarchical, pathway distances can be obtained for each level. This would indicate if the hierarchy is biological meaningful too. Moreover, the same genes are known to be annotated to related pathways. Therefore, this expected result does not represent a validation to determine the biological meaning of the blocks in the network. A good approach could be to select a gene X and see if the rest of the genes of the pathways, where gene X is annotated, are in the same block of gene X (or in near blocks in the hierarchy). And repeat this for a high number of genes. Finally, the edge confidence score looks like important to improve the network characterization, however they do not use this score to optimize the final network. I was expecting the comparison between the original SBM-based network and the corrected SBM-based network via edge confidence score optimization. In order to use the edge confidence scores, a way to compute thresholds for missing and spurious edges should be proposed. Resuming, SBM-based biological networks are a new way to represent omics data and it represents a novel approach for SBMs. However, a novel application should be coupled with a suitable interpretation of its results. Moreover, the main conclusion or this manuscript is not clear and the main question for a new methodological development is unanswered, why should I use this method? Specific points: 1) Data preprocessing: Why are the three datasets used? Is it just a matter of different complexity? Datasets are not completely characterized as the number of features is not indicated. Authors say missing values of metabolite data were imputed previously. It is not clear whether they performed the imputation or not. In case they did, the algorithm used is not indicated. If missing values of metabolite data were imputed, why weren't the missing values of protein data? 2) Network generation and reduction: They use different test-multiple correction rates for mRNA, protein and metabolites in order to obtain a similar degree of reduction. The authors should demonstrate this does not lead to any biases. The reduction objective is set at 10 7 edges, is there any reason? In Figure 1.D, a linear relationship is expected for the blue dots but it not perfectly linear, why? Could the scale-free reduction be modified to improve it? 3) Stochastic block models: How are the number of initial partitions (500) defined? Is there any relation between the suitable number of initial partitions and the network complexity (size)? 4) Functional enrichment: They use Reactome database for genes annotation and KEGG for metabolites, but there is no an explanation of why that choice. Figure 3.C is confusing. I do not understand the objective of this analysis. In order to demonstrate the biological meaning of the hierarchical SBM, the pathway distances comparison within and between blocks at every hierarchical level (as in Figure 3.B) would be better than the provided analysis. As mentioned before, a deeper biological interpretation of the network is necessary. I am not sure what the clustering analysis is contributing to. Modules obtained by WGCNA shows good results looking at the number significant of pathways, but are they biologically relevant? Are they related to breast cancer? 