The experimental design and procedures sound good overall. The findings are obtained for better understanding of Majalaya common carp cultured with different stocking density. I have some comments that may improve your work: The information about the feed is lacking: pellet size? Extruded pellets? In Table 1: the initial weight and final weight can be confused between biomass or individual fish. Please add details for this. In Table 1: please add the explanation for AWG, DWG, SGR and FCR in the footnote. The table and footnote should be understandable without distracting the reader from the main text. Additional comments: Comment 1 : Table 1 shows that the final biomass weight was significantly different between treatments. You claim it was because of stocking density. From my view, since the initial biomass weight is already significantly different, that can be a main reason that lead to a difference in final weight. Then, either stocking density or initial weight has an effect on final weight. Could you please explain more about this? Comment 2 : In the discussion part “this finding is similar to previous research that survival and growth of fish were independent of the stocking density” that from of my view, it is much too subjective. You refer to 2 papers to support your findings. However, growth, survival and yield effects of stocking density on aquaculture are well known for a diversity of species and seem to impact production differently. Both growth performance and survival rate, for instance, tend to be higher in low stocking density in the African catfish, C. gariepinus (Hecht et al. ,1996 1 ), Oreochromis spp. (Sorphea et al. , 2010 2 ) and Thai climbing perch Anabas testudineus (Khatune-Jannat et al. , 2012 3 ). Therefore, I suggest you should paraphrase this sentence. Comment 3 : The feeding was ad libitum in your method. Do you have excess feed remaining in the hapa? If yes, how do you manage it? How is feed intake calculated in this experiment? Does stocking density affect feed intake? 