This paper compares (i) the response of heterogeneous neurons to two different types of synaptic inputs (uncorrelated or correlated), and (ii) the response of neuronal populations having two different types of synaptic weight distribution (Gaussian or Lognormal). The main results can be summarized as follows: The chosen neuronal heterogeneity induces variability in mean spiking frequency. This variability persists under the application of uncorrelated synaptic inputs, but is masked by the application of correlated synaptic inputs. Stimulating a subpopulation of neurons in a neuronal population induces an asynchronous response when the distribution of synaptic weights is Gaussian, whereas it induces a synchronous response when this distribution is Lognormal. Then, it is speculated that switches between asynchronous and synchronous states can be controlled by neuromodulators, which would modify the network topology from Gaussian to Lognormal and conversely. After carefully reading this paper, I think that neither the content nor the form is in a sufficiently advanced stage for the manuscript to be indexed in its current form. A thorough revision is strongly suggested to boost the potential impact of the research. I provide specific comments below, in order of appearance in the text. Table and figure captions are not descriptive enough. One cannot fully comprehend the different figures, which include numerous notations, by reading the captions. Some notations are not consistent (in Fig. 1-6, ISI is noted I=*** on the left panels, and ISI on the right panels). Title : The title is totally misleading. It states that “neuromodulation influences and intrinsic read-out”, but nothing of the sort is demonstrated in the manuscript. Neuromodulation is only speculated to be a plausible source to control the mechanisms highlighted in this manuscript, without any evidence or results to support this speculation. I have nothing against speculations and interpretations, quite the contrary, but they should not appear as grand truth in the title. Abstract : The “Methods” part of the abstract is solely composed of results. This part should summarize the methods used in this paper. Methods : “ For the experiments in this paper, we only focus on variability induced by changes in the strength of the slow A-type K channels. The total current contribution for this channel is μIAs where μ was selected between 1.0 and 1.5." Please motivate this choice (both channel type and chosen range), because the model is composed of 6 voltage-gated channels that could be used to model variability. Also, I would not use “experiments” but “simulations”, although this is a minor comment. “ Time-dependence is modeled by the gating variable u. ” What does this sentence mean? Both ODEs model time-dependent evolution. “ By varying d, we can vary the inactivation dynamics of the model after a spike, by varying a we vary the inactivation dynamics throughout the computation.” I do not see the why variables a and d correspond to inactivations. a is the time constant of activation/deactivation of u ( u indeed activates/deactivates, the slope b being always positive), and d is the increase in u after a reset, which represents how much a spike activates u . “ For the excitatory neurons, we use randomly connected graphs (N,K) with different dispersion sigma *. This corresponds to normal (Gaussian) to lognormal graphs with different widths and length of the heavy tail. ”. This dispersion coefficient, and how it “corresponds to normal (Gaussian) to lognormal graphs with different widths and length of the heavy tail “, should be defined properly, because it is an important parameter in the results. “ The rewiring algorithm used to change the properties of a graph G is a greedy algorithm, which iteratively selects the node s with the highest degree ”. Does “ s ” refer to a node, or is it a measure of network synchronization? Results : “We show how we can model gain as a stored intrinsic property, defined as a spike rate in response to constant or fluctuating input of fixed strength (A/Hz)” This sentence is unclear. What kind of gain is it referring to? What is a “stored” intrinsic property? What does “fixed strength” mean for a fluctuating input? “ In Figure 1A, we show the response of MSN model neurons with a scaling of μIAs = 1.0, 1.3, 1.5 to a noisy signal, derived from uncorrelated Poisson-distributed synaptic input.” From what I understood, neurons are not connected to each other in this case. It should be explicitly mentioned, because at this stage it is unclear whether we discuss isolated neurons or neurons within a network. “ The total number of spikes includes bursts, which were excluded from ISI calculation. ” How were bursts defined? Why were they excluded from ISI calculation? But then why excluding them from one measure but not from the other? Results related to Fig. 1 and 2 : Only one example of uncorrelated/correlated input is shown, and conclusion is drawn from this example. This part requires further investigation. For instance, the increase in firing rate that we see in Fig. 2 could potentially induce overlapping of spiking rate, because it moves the neurons to a flatter portion of the f-I curve. It is important to rule out this effect to make sure that the difference is indeed due to the correlated/uncorrelated nature of the inputs, for instance by showing that increasing the firing rate with uncorrelated synaptic inputs does not induce the same effect. I also do not find surprising that inputs with high amplitude, low frequency fluctuations would affect the firing more than an almost constant input, but I guess that it is more subjective. You also talk about “a time-locked spike pattern”. How do you define it in the context of this paper? If is it synonymous of synchronization, having clearly separated frequencies does not mean neurons cannot be synchronized: one neuron could have a frequency that is twice the other and be fully synchronized, yet the frequencies would be separated. On the other hand, two neurons could fire at a same frequency and coefficient of variation, and yet not be synchronized. “To continue with exploring this property of model neurons in a networked context, we switched to a simplified model neuron7 and created a set of variations for this model (see Methods).” Again, I guess that the results of this section are provided on isolated neurons. If it is the case, this sentence is misleading. Results connected to Fig. 3, 4 and 5 : My comment connects to the one relates to Fig. 1 and 2. The spikes of Fig. 3A look much more “time-locked” than the ones of Fig. 2A, although the conclusions that are drawn from these two figures are opposite. Is the “clear separation of ISIs” such a good measure in this context? In Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, most events look like bursts. Are bursts excluded from ISI calculation like in the previous case? If not why? Again, how is bursting defined in this case as compared to the previous case? Finally, in Fig. 5 all neurons seem to burst, yet the distribution of ISIs is a Gaussian, which does not make sense, unless you are only plotting the distribution for the interburst intervals. “ We first use a Gaussian connected graph (RG) with N = 210 and K = 1800 and use 7 different neuronal types (1–6, plus the generic neuron g) with 30 Neurons each (Methods). Figure 7A shows an excerpt of the graph structure. We can see that the graph is connected such that all neurons have a comparable number of connections. This is also apparent in Figure 8, where we can see a (narrow) normal distribution for connectivity for the Gaussian graph RG. Table 2 contains the graph characteristics for both graphs.” Only one graph is mentioned in the paragraph, and Table 2 sows 5 different cases. Both graph probably mean “Gaussian” and “Lognormal”, but that should be clarified. “ We now stimulate the graph by an initial stimulation to 10 excitatory neurons (for about 1s). ” How were these 10 neurons selected? Where they selected randomly, or based on their degree of connectivity? Are they chosen to correspond to nodes with a high connectivity degree in the lognormal case? If so, then what is happening if we either stimulate neurons with lower connectivity degrees in the lognormal case, or add a few hub neurons in the Gaussian case? Is the difference in synchronization really due to the whole distribution of the synaptic weights, or simply due to the existence of hub neurons that would be specifically targeted by synaptic inputs? This question needs to be answered in order to support the conclusion “ In our model, the pairwise synchronicity s is dominated by the network topology, more precisely by the width of the degree distribution (dispersion) ranging from Gaussian to lognormal with a heavy tail.” In Figure 11, are the “experimental conditions” similar than in Figures 9 and 10? Which 10 neurons are stimulated? Discussion “ Neuromodulation disables or enhances various ion channels, such as SK-channels which guide reset times after a spike, or A-type potassium channels which influence latency to spike.” References that support these claims are needed. 