The paper describes a software used for qualitative simulations of logical models in a hexagonal grid, called EpiLog. The paper is well written, even though some parts could be slightly expanded for a better comprehension. The software is easy to use for people with logical modelling background and is a visual way of exploring populations of Boolean models and their effect on neighbouring cells. The software is freely available, cross-platform, can use open standards of logical models and its code can be studied and forked in GitHub. Nevertheless, the paper would benefit from some additions and clarifications: Major: Expansion of introduction: The last sentence of first paragraph could be completed with some of the reasons cellular automaton are well suited. Also, the relationship of present paper and [1] could be better worded. It is unclear if authors used Mendes et al approach as is or if they improved Mendes et al approach and can work with more than a dozen cells. Addressing these would enhance the understanding of the work. Discussion on the alpha parameter: The paper would benefit from a discussion on the use of “alpha-asynchronism” as logical modelling tools, until now, either used asynchronous and synchronous updates. Also, the paper presents results using alpha=1 (pure synchronous) or 0.25, but does not present results with alpha=0 (pure asynchronous). Presenting and discussing these (even in Supplementary) would allow users to have a better understanding on the effects of this parameter. Detailed tutorial: Even though the Documentation does a good job detailing the possibilities of the tool, the software users would benefit from a detailed discussion on the effect of changing spatial initial conditions, alpha parameter and, in general, the biological relevance of these. This supplementary file would also allow to expand on the discussion of Figure 2 that is absent from the paper (understandably being a software tool paper). Minor: Comparison to other software: Even though this software is the first that includes hexagonal grid and Boolean models, naming some other software that can be used for similar projects (with their pros and cons) would give the reader a better sense on the current status of the field. In Methods/Operation/Simulation settings, first sentence, authors say “For each epithelium, simulation settings define the updating schemes for both the cellular and epithelium models.” Does cellular model mean one cell and epithelium model the whole set of cells? As the phrase starts with epithelium, the current wording is a bit confusing. Figure 1 legend: “Stable pattern” is a bit confusing, maybe it would be better to use “pattern of stable states”. Figure 2 legend: Authors should describe “phase 1” and “phase 2” in the paper to understand what is the difference in panels C and D. In panel B, “DA” should be shown in the figure. In panel C, the colours for Grk and Dpp should be explained (even if they are described in previous panel). In Supplementary text, in the last part of the last sentence, the Figure in main text you refer to is Figure 2, panels C-F. Following previous reviewers’ comments, I had no errors using EpiLog on Windows. 