The paper by Gaffey and Wirth pursued two main goals. One, to identify whether , a frequently used task in the Social Neurosciences, elicits a significant cortisol response (and how that compares to the well described cortisol stress response of the Trier Social Stress Test, TSST). Two, to determine whether these stress tasks also elicit a significant change in circulating levels of progesterone, as previous research provided some evidence that progesterone might respond to a psychosocial stress task as well. The authors report that there was no increase in cortisol to the task (although there was the expected increase in response to the TSST), and they further did not observe any significant change in progesterone levels in response to either task. There are many positive things to be said about the study. The experimental design is innovative, and the major research questions (both relating to the stressfulness of Cyberball and the responsivity of progesterone to stress) are original. The combination of the two goals into one study is actually an added plus, as this allowed the cross-validation of a possible progesterone response to a stressful task using two different experimental manipulations. The study is also nicely powered (n=131), although not completely balanced. The obvious main drawback of the study is the lack of significant results; unfortunately, the authors could not find any evidence for a progesterone response to stress, and no evidence for a cortisol response to stress. As with any negative finding, it would be important to actually estimate the expected effect size from previous studies and use that to compute the power for the current study - in other words, what were the chances of finding a significant effect given the sample size present in this experiment? That information would allow the reader some judgment as to whether no significant changes are to be expected even if larger sample sizes were to be assessed. Related to this comment, the advantages and disadvantages of a between-subject versus within-subject design could also be discussed; since Cyberball and the TSST are conceptually and practically two very different tests, a within subject design could be envisioned where subjects are exposed to both the TSST and Cyberball in a counterbalanced manner, perhaps with one week difference. The net investment in time and effort would probably have been very similar, but the added advantage would have been to compare results in cortisol and progesterone within the individual (which might not have made a difference in case of insignificant stress responses to Cyberball, but still). This is not really a critique but rather a comment that could be entered into the discussion, to alert the reader to the possibility of alternative experimental designs. Another comment relates to the menstrual cycle phase, which the authors mentioned they couldnt control for in the current study. This is if course suboptimal and the authors already acknowledge this in the limitation section; however, they argue that the damage is minimal as they were interested in the change from baseline, rather than baseline differences, thus the chosen measure (AUCi) can compensate for the lack of menstrual cycle phase control. I am not convinced that this approach really resolves this particular problem - what if the magnitude of the change depends on the baseline level? For example, if you are already high at baseline, you wont see a strong response anymore? Even though there is no evidence for this in the current study, I would not be comfortable with accepting the advise that it is OK to not control for menstrual cycle phase when measuring progesterone levels in cycling young women. One other aspect of the experimental design caught my attention - the authors mention that they used the essay writing about the dream job (which is part of the TSST control condition) to fill up the time difference between the Cyberball and the TSST sessions. While it is commendable to control for total time exposure, the authors have now in reality confounded the Cyberball with at least part of the TSST control condition - might that have induced some interaction effects? From Figure 2, it appears that the TSST control (TSST-C) is actually leading to a less pronounced circadian decline overall, and that the cortisol increase between sample 3 and 4 in the group of women is actually strongest in the TSST-C group. So by itself, the TSST-C might have some effects on at least cortisol; combining it with the other stress task you want to compare against might then present a suboptimal approach, and should be critically discussed as well. On other point: In the past, effects from the biological sex of the TSST panel on the magnitude of the cortisol stress response in the test subjects has been observed. The paper doesnt mention the sex of the judges - were those mixed (one man, one woman), or unisex (which?), or changing depending on availability? For the Cyberball, what was the sex of the other ? Depending on the setup, this should either be evaluated, or mentioned as a possible limitation as it could explain additional variation in the endocrine data. Finally, one technical question: What was the reason for the three subsequent freeze-thaw cycles prior to performing the assay? Was that a recommendation by the manufacturer? This information should be added to the methods, rather than just stating it. Overall, I think that this study is an important contribution to the literature. The observation that Cyberball might not cause an increase in cortisol is important for many stress researchers contemplating various experimental designs but for that reason the addition of a power calculation is essential.