Dear Dr. Han, Thank you for the opportunity to review the revision of your Moral Growth Mindset article. I appreciate your thorough attention to detail, and particularly the improvements that were made in fully reporting the CFA results and providing rationales for the selection of constructs used to test convergent and discriminant validity in Study 2. Accordingly, I am approving the article, as only minor changes are further warranted. Thank you for your valuable contribution to moral science. I do remain skeptical about the word choice "improve your morals" found in the scale's items. My concern is that the phrase introduces unnecessary ambiguity. Are participants meant to interpret it as "improve yourself on specific moral traits" (based on your response I believe this is the intention), or are they meant to interpret it as "improve your moral values." To me, the former is directly relevant to becoming a better person, whereas the latter has very little to do with it-- we know, for example, that moral values and behaviour often show only small-to-moderate associations (e.g., Bardi Schwartz, 2003 1 ). Becoming a better person entails not only holding moral values but embodying the cognitive, affective, motivational, and behavioral expressions of one's moral values. That said, it's entirely possible that I'm overthinking this and that typical survey respondents will intuitively grasp the meaning you intend. I'll leave it to you to decide whether this issue warrants further discussion. Beyond that, I would ask you to consider the following additional minor suggestions: Consider providing the MGM scale anchors either in the "Translation of the MGM measure to English" section (p. 3) or in a note beneath Table 2. I think requiring people to find the scale anchors in the "Supplementary Materials.docx" file may prove inconvenient; some future researchers may take the items from Table 2 and make up their own anchors. In discussing Item 4's smaller factor loading in Study 2, I don't think it's fair to say it had a " slightly lower factor loading in Study 2 compared with Study 1." A difference of -.73 vs. -.39 in standardized loadings is quite substantial. Additionally, I wonder if readers will know which item is #4, since you're referring to the second item in Table 2. This issue also pertains to other items mentioned by number throughout the document. Question: Is the Implicit Theory Measure in fact domain-general (as stated on p. 5) or does it measure intelligence growth mindset? I'm not sure what the following sentence means in the context of the model fit paragraph on p. 5: "As shown in Table 1, when we recalculated indices after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7." I assume you're referring to alpha, but the context suggests you're saying the model fit indices were greater than .7, which is confusing. (It would also be confusing to say each item had an alpha of .7, since alpha pertains to the collection of items.) Best wishes, Michael T. Warren References 1. Bardi A, Schwartz SH: Values and behavior: strength and structure of relations. Pers Soc Psychol Bull . 2003; 29 (10): 1207-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Developmental Psychology, Moral Development, Adolescent Development, Mindfulness I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Warren MT. Reviewer Report For: Development and validation of the English version of the Moral Growth Mindset measure [version 3; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 9 :256 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.26396.r63220 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-256/v2#referee-response-63220 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 21 Jul 2020 Hyemin Han , University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, USA 21 Jul 2020 Author Response Dear Dr. Warren, We sincerely appreciate your invaluable comments once again. We were able to improve the quality of our manuscript thanks to your constructive comments and suggestions. Here ... Continue reading Dear Dr. Warren, We sincerely appreciate your invaluable comments once again. We were able to improve the quality of our manuscript thanks to your constructive comments and suggestions. Here are our responses to your new comments: 1. I do remain skeptical about the word choice "improve your morals" found in the scale's items. My concern is that the phrase introduces unnecessary ambiguity. Are participants meant to interpret it as "improve yourself on specific moral traits" (based on your response I believe this is the intention), or are they meant to interpret it as "improve your moral values." To me, the former is directly relevant to becoming a better person, whereas the latter has very little to do with it-- we know, for example, that moral values and behaviour often show only small-to-moderate associations (e.g., Bardi Schwartz, 20031). Becoming a better person entails not only holding moral values but embodying the cognitive, affective, motivational, and behavioral expressions of one's moral values. That said, it's entirely possible that I'm overthinking this and that typical survey respondents will intuitively grasp the meaning you intend. I'll leave it to you to decide whether this issue warrants further discussion. Response: Thank you very much for your concern regarding the use of the terms once again. We agree with you that the issue that you mentioned would be problematic in the long term, so we hope the issue is examined in our follow-up studies focusing on how different people differently perceive the concepts implied in the terms. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned with additional citations: There might be another concern regarding use of the terms, “morals and characters,” in our measure related to whether a simple belief about the possibility to improve ones’ morals (or moral values) is directly relevant to their moral growth. For instance, one previous study about the relationship between one’s endorsed personal values and behavioral outcomes reported that the correlation between values and behaviors, particularly other-reported behaviors, was moderate at the greatest 40. Despite of this potential issue, however, we decided to use the terms because we tried to design the measure so that participants intuitively perceive and interpret items about “morals and characters” while considering their own beliefs about moral growth. In fact, researchers in implicit theories proposed that both incremental and entity theories are intuitive and “implicit” to people 41, so we intended to develop our items based on this point. 2. Beyond that, I would ask you to consider the following additional minor suggestions:Consider providing the MGM scale anchors either in the "Translation of the MGM measure to English" section (p. 3) or in a note beneath Table 2. I think requiring people to find the scale anchors in the "Supplementary Materials.docx" file may prove inconvenient; some future researchers may take the items from Table 2 and make up their own anchors. Response: We appreciate your suggestion. In the revised manuscript, we presented the Likert scale that we used in the measure: As a result, the tested measure included six items as well (e.g., “No matter who you are, you can significantly improve your morals and character”) and answers were anchored to a six-point Likert scale (i.e., strongly disagree (1), disagree (2), mostly disagree (3), mostly agree (4), agree (5), strongly agree (6)) (see Extended data for the full measure 10 ). 3. In discussing Item 4’s smaller factor loading in Study 2, I don’t think it’s fair to say it had a “slightly lower factor loading in Study 2 compared with Study 1.” A difference of -.73 vs. -.39 in standardized loadings is quite substantial. Additionally, I wonder if readers will know which item is #4, since you’re referring to the second item in Table 2. This issue also pertains to other items mentioned by number throughout the document. Response: Thank you very much for your comment on the factor loading issue. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned: It would be an issue since researchers have regarded .40 as the threshold for a good factor loading 42. In addition, although it is somehow preliminary at this point, we did a quick analysis of the data collected from a part of our follow-up studies ( N = 701). The quick analysis showed that all factor loadings exceeded .75, so the aforementioned issue might be able to be addressed with further analysis with a larger dataset. Related to the policy of F1000Research , one good point to publish a paper in this platform is that it allows authors to post updated versions even after their paper has been approved by reviewers. So, to get the benefit from the platform policy that allows post-publication updates, we decided to briefly report the preliminary result in the revised manuscript: Although the issue could not be resolved completely with the current dataset, one larger dataset (N = 701 as of May 2020) that is currently being collected for the next research project was analyzed as a possible way to address the issue. When we conducted preliminary CFA with the new dataset, all four factor loadings were greater than .75 while the CFA model showed good model fit, RMSEA = .08, SRMR = .01, TLI = .98, CFI = .99. Given this, the small factor loading of Item 4 reported in Study 2, -.39, could be addressed in the long term with additional data collection and analysis. 4. Question: Is the Implicit Theory Measure in fact domain-general (as stated on p. 5) or does it measure intelligence growth mindset? Response: We appreciate your comment that requests the clarification of the term. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the point: We employed the Implicit Theory Measure 1 , which measures growth mindset in general, particularly intelligence growth mindset, and constitutes the basis of the MGM measure, to test convergent and discriminant validity. 5. I'm not sure what the following sentence means in the context of the model fit paragraph on p. 5: "As shown in Table 1, when we recalculated indices after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7." I assume you're referring to alpha, but the context suggests you're saying the model fit indices were greater than .7, which is confusing. (It would also be confusing to say each item had an alpha of .7, since alpha pertains to the collection of items.) Response: Thanks a lot for your request for the clarification of the concept. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the concern: In addition, as shown in Table 1, when we recalculated reliability indices, Cronbach α and test-retest r, after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7. Again, we sincerely appreciate your comments and suggestions. They have significantly contributed to the improvement of the paper that we have been working on. Best, Hyemin Dear Dr. Warren, We sincerely appreciate your invaluable comments once again. We were able to improve the quality of our manuscript thanks to your constructive comments and suggestions. Here are our responses to your new comments: 1. I do remain skeptical about the word choice "improve your morals" found in the scale's items. My concern is that the phrase introduces unnecessary ambiguity. Are participants meant to interpret it as "improve yourself on specific moral traits" (based on your response I believe this is the intention), or are they meant to interpret it as "improve your moral values." To me, the former is directly relevant to becoming a better person, whereas the latter has very little to do with it-- we know, for example, that moral values and behaviour often show only small-to-moderate associations (e.g., Bardi Schwartz, 20031). Becoming a better person entails not only holding moral values but embodying the cognitive, affective, motivational, and behavioral expressions of one's moral values. That said, it's entirely possible that I'm overthinking this and that typical survey respondents will intuitively grasp the meaning you intend. I'll leave it to you to decide whether this issue warrants further discussion. Response: Thank you very much for your concern regarding the use of the terms once again. We agree with you that the issue that you mentioned would be problematic in the long term, so we hope the issue is examined in our follow-up studies focusing on how different people differently perceive the concepts implied in the terms. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned with additional citations: There might be another concern regarding use of the terms, “morals and characters,” in our measure related to whether a simple belief about the possibility to improve ones’ morals (or moral values) is directly relevant to their moral growth. For instance, one previous study about the relationship between one’s endorsed personal values and behavioral outcomes reported that the correlation between values and behaviors, particularly other-reported behaviors, was moderate at the greatest 40. Despite of this potential issue, however, we decided to use the terms because we tried to design the measure so that participants intuitively perceive and interpret items about “morals and characters” while considering their own beliefs about moral growth. In fact, researchers in implicit theories proposed that both incremental and entity theories are intuitive and “implicit” to people 41, so we intended to develop our items based on this point. 2. Beyond that, I would ask you to consider the following additional minor suggestions:Consider providing the MGM scale anchors either in the "Translation of the MGM measure to English" section (p. 3) or in a note beneath Table 2. I think requiring people to find the scale anchors in the "Supplementary Materials.docx" file may prove inconvenient; some future researchers may take the items from Table 2 and make up their own anchors. Response: We appreciate your suggestion. In the revised manuscript, we presented the Likert scale that we used in the measure: As a result, the tested measure included six items as well (e.g., “No matter who you are, you can significantly improve your morals and character”) and answers were anchored to a six-point Likert scale (i.e., strongly disagree (1), disagree (2), mostly disagree (3), mostly agree (4), agree (5), strongly agree (6)) (see Extended data for the full measure 10 ). 3. In discussing Item 4’s smaller factor loading in Study 2, I don’t think it’s fair to say it had a “slightly lower factor loading in Study 2 compared with Study 1.” A difference of -.73 vs. -.39 in standardized loadings is quite substantial. Additionally, I wonder if readers will know which item is #4, since you’re referring to the second item in Table 2. This issue also pertains to other items mentioned by number throughout the document. Response: Thank you very much for your comment on the factor loading issue. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned: It would be an issue since researchers have regarded .40 as the threshold for a good factor loading 42. In addition, although it is somehow preliminary at this point, we did a quick analysis of the data collected from a part of our follow-up studies ( N = 701). The quick analysis showed that all factor loadings exceeded .75, so the aforementioned issue might be able to be addressed with further analysis with a larger dataset. Related to the policy of F1000Research , one good point to publish a paper in this platform is that it allows authors to post updated versions even after their paper has been approved by reviewers. So, to get the benefit from the platform policy that allows post-publication updates, we decided to briefly report the preliminary result in the revised manuscript: Although the issue could not be resolved completely with the current dataset, one larger dataset (N = 701 as of May 2020) that is currently being collected for the next research project was analyzed as a possible way to address the issue. When we conducted preliminary CFA with the new dataset, all four factor loadings were greater than .75 while the CFA model showed good model fit, RMSEA = .08, SRMR = .01, TLI = .98, CFI = .99. Given this, the small factor loading of Item 4 reported in Study 2, -.39, could be addressed in the long term with additional data collection and analysis. 4. Question: Is the Implicit Theory Measure in fact domain-general (as stated on p. 5) or does it measure intelligence growth mindset? Response: We appreciate your comment that requests the clarification of the term. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the point: We employed the Implicit Theory Measure 1 , which measures growth mindset in general, particularly intelligence growth mindset, and constitutes the basis of the MGM measure, to test convergent and discriminant validity. 5. I'm not sure what the following sentence means in the context of the model fit paragraph on p. 5: "As shown in Table 1, when we recalculated indices after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7." I assume you're referring to alpha, but the context suggests you're saying the model fit indices were greater than .7, which is confusing. (It would also be confusing to say each item had an alpha of .7, since alpha pertains to the collection of items.) Response: Thanks a lot for your request for the clarification of the concept. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the concern: In addition, as shown in Table 1, when we recalculated reliability indices, Cronbach α and test-retest r, after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7. Again, we sincerely appreciate your comments and suggestions. They have significantly contributed to the improvement of the paper that we have been working on. Best, Hyemin Competing Interests: N/A Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 21 Jul 2020 Hyemin Han , University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, USA 21 Jul 2020 Author Response Dear Dr. Warren, We sincerely appreciate your invaluable comments once again. We were able to improve the quality of our manuscript thanks to your constructive comments and suggestions. Here ... Continue reading Dear Dr. Warren, We sincerely appreciate your invaluable comments once again. We were able to improve the quality of our manuscript thanks to your constructive comments and suggestions. Here are our responses to your new comments: 1. I do remain skeptical about the word choice "improve your morals" found in the scale's items. My concern is that the phrase introduces unnecessary ambiguity. Are participants meant to interpret it as "improve yourself on specific moral traits" (based on your response I believe this is the intention), or are they meant to interpret it as "improve your moral values." To me, the former is directly relevant to becoming a better person, whereas the latter has very little to do with it-- we know, for example, that moral values and behaviour often show only small-to-moderate associations (e.g., Bardi Schwartz, 20031). Becoming a better person entails not only holding moral values but embodying the cognitive, affective, motivational, and behavioral expressions of one's moral values. That said, it's entirely possible that I'm overthinking this and that typical survey respondents will intuitively grasp the meaning you intend. I'll leave it to you to decide whether this issue warrants further discussion. Response: Thank you very much for your concern regarding the use of the terms once again. We agree with you that the issue that you mentioned would be problematic in the long term, so we hope the issue is examined in our follow-up studies focusing on how different people differently perceive the concepts implied in the terms. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned with additional citations: There might be another concern regarding use of the terms, “morals and characters,” in our measure related to whether a simple belief about the possibility to improve ones’ morals (or moral values) is directly relevant to their moral growth. For instance, one previous study about the relationship between one’s endorsed personal values and behavioral outcomes reported that the correlation between values and behaviors, particularly other-reported behaviors, was moderate at the greatest 40. Despite of this potential issue, however, we decided to use the terms because we tried to design the measure so that participants intuitively perceive and interpret items about “morals and characters” while considering their own beliefs about moral growth. In fact, researchers in implicit theories proposed that both incremental and entity theories are intuitive and “implicit” to people 41, so we intended to develop our items based on this point. 2. Beyond that, I would ask you to consider the following additional minor suggestions:Consider providing the MGM scale anchors either in the "Translation of the MGM measure to English" section (p. 3) or in a note beneath Table 2. I think requiring people to find the scale anchors in the "Supplementary Materials.docx" file may prove inconvenient; some future researchers may take the items from Table 2 and make up their own anchors. Response: We appreciate your suggestion. In the revised manuscript, we presented the Likert scale that we used in the measure: As a result, the tested measure included six items as well (e.g., “No matter who you are, you can significantly improve your morals and character”) and answers were anchored to a six-point Likert scale (i.e., strongly disagree (1), disagree (2), mostly disagree (3), mostly agree (4), agree (5), strongly agree (6)) (see Extended data for the full measure 10 ). 3. In discussing Item 4’s smaller factor loading in Study 2, I don’t think it’s fair to say it had a “slightly lower factor loading in Study 2 compared with Study 1.” A difference of -.73 vs. -.39 in standardized loadings is quite substantial. Additionally, I wonder if readers will know which item is #4, since you’re referring to the second item in Table 2. This issue also pertains to other items mentioned by number throughout the document. Response: Thank you very much for your comment on the factor loading issue. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned: It would be an issue since researchers have regarded .40 as the threshold for a good factor loading 42. In addition, although it is somehow preliminary at this point, we did a quick analysis of the data collected from a part of our follow-up studies ( N = 701). The quick analysis showed that all factor loadings exceeded .75, so the aforementioned issue might be able to be addressed with further analysis with a larger dataset. Related to the policy of F1000Research , one good point to publish a paper in this platform is that it allows authors to post updated versions even after their paper has been approved by reviewers. So, to get the benefit from the platform policy that allows post-publication updates, we decided to briefly report the preliminary result in the revised manuscript: Although the issue could not be resolved completely with the current dataset, one larger dataset (N = 701 as of May 2020) that is currently being collected for the next research project was analyzed as a possible way to address the issue. When we conducted preliminary CFA with the new dataset, all four factor loadings were greater than .75 while the CFA model showed good model fit, RMSEA = .08, SRMR = .01, TLI = .98, CFI = .99. Given this, the small factor loading of Item 4 reported in Study 2, -.39, could be addressed in the long term with additional data collection and analysis. 4. Question: Is the Implicit Theory Measure in fact domain-general (as stated on p. 5) or does it measure intelligence growth mindset? Response: We appreciate your comment that requests the clarification of the term. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the point: We employed the Implicit Theory Measure 1 , which measures growth mindset in general, particularly intelligence growth mindset, and constitutes the basis of the MGM measure, to test convergent and discriminant validity. 5. I'm not sure what the following sentence means in the context of the model fit paragraph on p. 5: "As shown in Table 1, when we recalculated indices after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7." I assume you're referring to alpha, but the context suggests you're saying the model fit indices were greater than .7, which is confusing. (It would also be confusing to say each item had an alpha of .7, since alpha pertains to the collection of items.) Response: Thanks a lot for your request for the clarification of the concept. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the concern: In addition, as shown in Table 1, when we recalculated reliability indices, Cronbach α and test-retest r, after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7. Again, we sincerely appreciate your comments and suggestions. They have significantly contributed to the improvement of the paper that we have been working on. Best, Hyemin Dear Dr. Warren, We sincerely appreciate your invaluable comments once again. We were able to improve the quality of our manuscript thanks to your constructive comments and suggestions. Here are our responses to your new comments: 1. I do remain skeptical about the word choice "improve your morals" found in the scale's items. My concern is that the phrase introduces unnecessary ambiguity. Are participants meant to interpret it as "improve yourself on specific moral traits" (based on your response I believe this is the intention), or are they meant to interpret it as "improve your moral values." To me, the former is directly relevant to becoming a better person, whereas the latter has very little to do with it-- we know, for example, that moral values and behaviour often show only small-to-moderate associations (e.g., Bardi Schwartz, 20031). Becoming a better person entails not only holding moral values but embodying the cognitive, affective, motivational, and behavioral expressions of one's moral values. That said, it's entirely possible that I'm overthinking this and that typical survey respondents will intuitively grasp the meaning you intend. I'll leave it to you to decide whether this issue warrants further discussion. Response: Thank you very much for your concern regarding the use of the terms once again. We agree with you that the issue that you mentioned would be problematic in the long term, so we hope the issue is examined in our follow-up studies focusing on how different people differently perceive the concepts implied in the terms. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned with additional citations: There might be another concern regarding use of the terms, “morals and characters,” in our measure related to whether a simple belief about the possibility to improve ones’ morals (or moral values) is directly relevant to their moral growth. For instance, one previous study about the relationship between one’s endorsed personal values and behavioral outcomes reported that the correlation between values and behaviors, particularly other-reported behaviors, was moderate at the greatest 40. Despite of this potential issue, however, we decided to use the terms because we tried to design the measure so that participants intuitively perceive and interpret items about “morals and characters” while considering their own beliefs about moral growth. In fact, researchers in implicit theories proposed that both incremental and entity theories are intuitive and “implicit” to people 41, so we intended to develop our items based on this point. 2. Beyond that, I would ask you to consider the following additional minor suggestions:Consider providing the MGM scale anchors either in the "Translation of the MGM measure to English" section (p. 3) or in a note beneath Table 2. I think requiring people to find the scale anchors in the "Supplementary Materials.docx" file may prove inconvenient; some future researchers may take the items from Table 2 and make up their own anchors. Response: We appreciate your suggestion. In the revised manuscript, we presented the Likert scale that we used in the measure: As a result, the tested measure included six items as well (e.g., “No matter who you are, you can significantly improve your morals and character”) and answers were anchored to a six-point Likert scale (i.e., strongly disagree (1), disagree (2), mostly disagree (3), mostly agree (4), agree (5), strongly agree (6)) (see Extended data for the full measure 10 ). 3. In discussing Item 4’s smaller factor loading in Study 2, I don’t think it’s fair to say it had a “slightly lower factor loading in Study 2 compared with Study 1.” A difference of -.73 vs. -.39 in standardized loadings is quite substantial. Additionally, I wonder if readers will know which item is #4, since you’re referring to the second item in Table 2. This issue also pertains to other items mentioned by number throughout the document. Response: Thank you very much for your comment on the factor loading issue. In the revised manuscript, we added the point that you mentioned: It would be an issue since researchers have regarded .40 as the threshold for a good factor loading 42. In addition, although it is somehow preliminary at this point, we did a quick analysis of the data collected from a part of our follow-up studies ( N = 701). The quick analysis showed that all factor loadings exceeded .75, so the aforementioned issue might be able to be addressed with further analysis with a larger dataset. Related to the policy of F1000Research , one good point to publish a paper in this platform is that it allows authors to post updated versions even after their paper has been approved by reviewers. So, to get the benefit from the platform policy that allows post-publication updates, we decided to briefly report the preliminary result in the revised manuscript: Although the issue could not be resolved completely with the current dataset, one larger dataset (N = 701 as of May 2020) that is currently being collected for the next research project was analyzed as a possible way to address the issue. When we conducted preliminary CFA with the new dataset, all four factor loadings were greater than .75 while the CFA model showed good model fit, RMSEA = .08, SRMR = .01, TLI = .98, CFI = .99. Given this, the small factor loading of Item 4 reported in Study 2, -.39, could be addressed in the long term with additional data collection and analysis. 4. Question: Is the Implicit Theory Measure in fact domain-general (as stated on p. 5) or does it measure intelligence growth mindset? Response: We appreciate your comment that requests the clarification of the term. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the point: We employed the Implicit Theory Measure 1 , which measures growth mindset in general, particularly intelligence growth mindset, and constitutes the basis of the MGM measure, to test convergent and discriminant validity. 5. I'm not sure what the following sentence means in the context of the model fit paragraph on p. 5: "As shown in Table 1, when we recalculated indices after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7." I assume you're referring to alpha, but the context suggests you're saying the model fit indices were greater than .7, which is confusing. (It would also be confusing to say each item had an alpha of .7, since alpha pertains to the collection of items.) Response: Thanks a lot for your request for the clarification of the concept. In the revised manuscript, we addressed the concern: In addition, as shown in Table 1, when we recalculated reliability indices, Cronbach α and test-retest r, after exclusion of the items, they all remained greater than .7. Again, we sincerely appreciate your comments and suggestions. They have significantly contributed to the improvement of the paper that we have been working on. Best, Hyemin Competing Interests: N/A Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 14 Apr 2020 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Mangan S. Reviewer Report For: Development and validation of the English version of the Moral Growth Mindset measure [version 3; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 9 :256 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.25564.r62237 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-256/v1#referee-response-62237 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 29 Apr 2020 Susan Mangan , Department of Psychology, Claremont Graduate University, Claremont, USA; Thrive Center for Human Development, Pasadena, California, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.25564.r62237 Han et al. suggest the creation of a moral growth mindset scale, which could make a significant contribution to the growing literature on growth mindset. The initial validity and reliability of this scale appears sound, and the inclusion of moral ... Continue reading READ ALL 