This paper proposed a functional enhancement for the agricultural journal article bibliographic database search, AGRIS, whose bibliographic page has additional web resources information relevant to its content. The web resources are automatically crawled by a customized Nutch web crawler, and labeled with some agricultural index terms, i.e. AGROVOC by a kind of machine learning module, the AgroTagger classifier. Since AGRIS bibliographies are already labeled with AGROVOC, the paper proposed a similarity measure between AGRIS bibliographies and web resources based on the number of common and originally labeled AGROVOC terms on them. AGRIS bibliographies and web resources are stored in SPARQL servers, so that the SemaGrow stack is used to easily send queries to them to calculate the similarity scores. The recommender system provides at most top 20 relevant web resources for an AGRIS bibliography by the calculation, which is serialized on RDF/XML. I recognize that the whole framework to construct the new functionality is valuable, but the paper is not sufficient with computational performance evaluation on the framework and quality evaluation for the linkages between bibliographies and web resources in an approved scientific method. Below are the suggestions for minor improvements. In page 3: In the Crawling and indexing the web section, the author describes In the section 2.1 and 2.2 in the leading paragraph. The section numbers might not be forbidden to point to sections of this article. In page 4: In the left column of the web crawler sub-section, the author shows a snap shot of the output file of a Nutch web clawer. Please describe the structure of the file. I would like to know what some tags mean to construct the structure. Why is a blank URL listed in the example? In the left column of the AggroTagger classifier sub-section, the author mentions the quality of tagging by AgroTagger such as AgroTagger results were analyzed by professional indexers showed an accuracy of approximately 80%; in 20% of the cases the results were too broad. I would like to know more precise descriptions of the quality of tagging. How large is the training set? How did the author construct the training set? Please describe the training set. In addition, the test set for tagging and examining its accuracy should be described. In the AggroTagger classifier sub-section, the figure 3 and 4 should be explicitly referenced. In the current article, those figures are not referenced in any sentences. In the first phrase of The SemaGrow Stack section, the author refers the data-intensive and inter-disciplinary Science of 2020. Does means Horizon 2020? Or, does it refer to another funding framework? Science of 2020? If it is another funding framework, please cite a relevant web site for it. Please make sure what it is. In page 6: In the recommender system section, the second paragraph of The recommender system can make use of add further endpoints to the process, the figure 5 should be explicitly referenced. In addition, for good understanding of reconfigurable structures consisting of the and the , the author had better depict both structures in the figure 5. In page 7: In the right column, the author describes the overall custom algorithm as a list form. For better understanding, this algorithm should be represented in a pseudo-programming code form. In the right column, the author mentions some experimental conditions and results of the number of AGRIS URIs and the average execution time. In addition, how many AGROVOC URIs are prepared for AGRIS URIs or Web URLs in this experiment? How long does it take for all processing? Please figure out the time of processing in the mode and the mode. Which is better from the viewpoint of computation? In page 8: In the right column, line 13, factor K should be changed to the lower case factor k. In the last similarity formula, braces ( ) should be written in the proper place. In table 2, Real Score might be Revised Score? In page 9: In the right column, the section AGRIS front-end, please indicate explicitly figure 6 in a sentence.