In this study the authors conducted a prospective case series study to test the hypothesis that on average 7 distressing images need to be treated in EMDR treatment in a sample of patients who experienced various traumatic events. My suggestions for improvements of the manuscript are listed below. Abstract: “This result was replicated twice in separate retrospective case series.” It is not clear from the Background or Methods section in the abstract that a replication study was conducted. Please provide more information about this in the Abstract. “This required three treatment sessions in a total of five appointments, on average.” This is somewhat confusing. How can three sessions be offered in five appointments? “If this bandwidth is liberated by treatment, this permits the cognitive and emotional change observed in EMDR treatment.” It is not clear from the abstract that cognitive and emotional responses were assessed in this study. Please provide information in the abstract about the instruments and analyses used in this study. Introduction: “There is no explanation of how this procedure works.” In my view, this is too strongly phrased. Prior research (e.g., from van den Hout Engelhard) have offered possible explanations for how EMDR works. On the basis of clinical experience, we hypothesize that EMDR is superior to cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) because it is faster.” This is not really convincing. There is a large body of research comparing CBT with EMDR. Please cite these studies. “The published trials do not always balance the number of sessions or treatment time.” Please provide a citation here. “Therefore, EMDR clients are getting 10 hours of treatment, while CBT clients are getting 70 hours. If the result shows equal results for each therapy, then we should conclude that EMDR is seven times faster than CBT and avoids the problem of homework compliance.” This conclusion is somewhat overstated. It is true that, if shown to be equally effective, EMDR avoids the problem of homework compliance. However, working on homework assignments in CBT or processing the aftermath of EMDR in between sessions, can both be taxing for clients and takes up time. So the conclusion that EMDR is 7 times faster leaves out the part that EMDR could be emotionally taxing for clients and takes time to process. Methods: The original analysis plan, using non-parametric, required 50 patients to complete. However, this plan was superseded by the analysis described below.” Please provide more details about this. What type of non-parametric tests were planned? Was the original number of 50 patients based on a power-analysis? If so, please provide details. “Patients in the Genitourinary Medicine clinic (GUM) were offered EMDR whenever distressing images were reported.” What kind of patients were offered EMDR in the GUM? Please provide more details about the clinic and patients. “No a prior judgements of single trauma event, multiple events or complexity of case were made.” What do you mean with “no a prior judgement”? “EMDR treatment reduces clarity and perception of distress images and consequently the distress score reduces.” This sentence does not fit the heading “Measures” and better fits in the “Therapeutic procedure” section. “On the first treatment appointment, the Foa questionnaire was also given.” Why did you only assess the Foa questionnaire at the start of treatment and not also at the end? “We investigated if there were any systematic differences between completers and dropouts, using the data collected.” This sentence is more appropriate under the heading “Data analysis”. Please provide details about the statistical approaches used to assess differences between completers and dropouts. The letter contained a list of recorded distress images and the three questionnaires.” Please provide more details. Why did the letter contained a list of distress images? And which three questionnaires? Please summarize which statistical methods were used in the Data Analysis section, instead of referring to the R script only. The “Two Informal Replications” part is not clearly introduced earlier in text. It is now somewhat abruptly phrased in text. To avoid confusion, it would be helpful to refer to Sample 1, Sample 2, and Sample 3 throughout the text. For instance, the Results section starts with describing the patients, but it is now not clear of which sample the characteristics are described. Please provide more details about the measures used (e.g., how many items, answer options). Results: Please provide details on the outcomes of the tests to compare completers with dropouts. Discussion: "This probably accelerates treatment. Only an average of three treatment sessions and five in total were required per patient.” The high dropout rate (i.e., only 50 out of 130 completed treatment) is an important limitation of this study and needs to be taken into account when drawing conclusions. 