 Title The title should be revised: delete “a candidate species for aquaculture”. It needs more parameters (Growth, feed aspect, etc.) to convey that this species can be a candidate for aquaculture. Abstract In methods: the author stated that “Egg size (50 eggs for each fish) was measured using an Olympus microscope (CX40)”. This statement should be revised, since the microscope CX40 itself cannot be used to measure the egg size. It must be a micrometer within a microscope that has been used to measure the egg size, or the author has another technique to measure the egg size. This method should be also clearly stated in the methods section. Introduction The introduction should be extended by providing more information about Asian catfish and their biological, physiological, and ecological aspects. Methods Ethical consideration : Please revise, it is seems there is a typo: "[...]the Government of the Republic of Indonesia does not require licences to be obtain to capture and rear this species, hense no licences are applicable to this study." This sentence should be rewritten: "[...] the Government of the Republic of Indonesia does not require licenses to obtain, capture and rear this species. Hence, no licenses are applicable to this study." "In the end of the experiment the H. wyckii still in good condition until return back to the pond." The word pond should be changed to river, because the fish is returned back to the original (River not pond). Rearing and selection of breeders: "Then, the broodstock of H. wyckii had been adapted and grown to maturation under the farm conditions”. The word grown should be changed to reared, because this experiment is not about growth. Water quality : “Alkalinity and hardness levels of the water were measured in each replicate according to standard procedures”. It is not clear what “each replicate” is referring to. Does it mean that the measurement was done in a few replications? Why only alkalinity and hardness? Results Results are well presented. Discussion The discussion can be extended by explaining the relationship between the results of water quality and the biological reproduction aspect, since the purpose of this study is under culture condition. Conclusion Needs slight revision based on all aspects of the findings. 