This opinion piece is on a timely, important topic and is clearly and engagingly written. Anecdotally, we find that many of our colleagues in science are unaware that open lab notebooks exist. This article will help. The authors identify several important advantages and challenges associated with the near-immediate deposition of results into the public domain, online. They use examples from their own research to highlight the possibilities. The refereeing team behind this review are seasoned users of open lab notebooks, and so are in a good position to judge the piece. We judge it to have cleared peer review from our perspective, once the following comments and suggestions have been acted upon. There are a number, which should be read not as criticism but as testament to our shared enthusiasm for this subject and its importance in the future of research. 1) Secrecy . In the introduction, reasons are suggested for why scientists may keep results secret. We would suggest that there are two important reasons that are not explicitly mentioned: i) that the scientist may want to patent something, and ii) that the scientist cannot be bothered to work out how to release research using atypical means. The first point is alluded to where mention is made of ownership, and the second point is alluded to by the mention of "paper" but we would argue these two factors are significant enough that they should be made explicit. 2) Careers . We'd be interested in whether there is a justification for the statement "Many believe that openly sharing work online will limit career opportunities." If there is none, then perhaps rephrase this more as a possibility? 3) Grants . The statement "Grant applications that highlight the use of open lab notebooks are being viewed positively" may be true (one hopes it is), but the evidence presented doesn't support that statement (the grants may have been funded because the science was so good, regardless of the dissemination plan), so again, this probably needs to be made more aspirational. 4) Errors . The authors need to address what happens if an experiment is recorded containing a mistake, and a mistake that might propagate via an ungrounded conclusion. Is there a danger in leading colleagues down the wrong path? Is there a danger to the reputation of young scientists? Would incorrect conclusions, if indexed by search engines, lead to literature pollution that might be hard to correct? 5) Machines . One must make the assumption that few people will ever read open lab notebooks, just as few people read regular lab notebooks. More needs to be made of this, since a) it is essential, rather than just desirable, that the notebook is searched and indexed by e.g. Google, and b) the entries need, ideally, to be machine readable. Could the authors comment on this - i.e. how Googleable the contents are (beyond the Dataset Search they mention) and what can be done to ensure that the entries can be understood by machines? 6) Permanence . There are many web links in the article. This is an academic publication, which is intended to last forever. It's likely those URLs will not last forever. Is there a way that the pages pointed to can be archived somehow? An important, relevant example: this manuscript does not refer to one of the pioneers of open lab notebooks - indeed he coined the phrase "open notebook science" - Jean-Claude Bradley. Bradley's blog can still be accessed but the wiki that used to house all the raw data has gone . In publishing our most recent paper that made use of open lab notebooks 1 , we took pains to archive the lab notebooks on a repository to mitigate potential loss by external providers, and to back up web pages (as PDFs) to similar places. Can the authors address the two issues here: i) should we link to web pages in academic articles without backing them up? 2) How are the lab notebooks backed up and archived? 7) Time Stamps . The authors mention "results in open lab notebook are date-stamped." It would be interesting to know whether the authors have looked into whether the date stamps are "convincing" from a legal standpoint. Would they, for example be sufficient to claim priority in a legal challenge? Is there an issue with the fact that ELN pages can be edited, over an extended period of time, or is it sufficient to ensure that the page has a robust revision history? 8) Scooping . A scooper could claim that they were simply unaware of the open scientist's work. This seems a reasonable defense. What needs to happen for ignorance of an open lab notebook not to be a defense against ignorance of prior art? 9) Citations . We are cited twice (thank you), but there are two other relevant papers the authors might be interested in citing should these be deemed by them to be appropriate: i) an extensive discussion on the use cases of an open source ELN called Labtrove 2 pioneered by Jeremy Frey's team at Southampton, and ii) a large medchem project by Open Source Malaria which was conducted entirely using open lab notebooks 1 and which may be instructive in terms of how to publish a paper based on open notebook work (also described informally here . 10) Examples of Inputs . Are there any examples the authors can point to where the open ELN has helped the research, e.g. where suggestions have been made, and acted upon, to help the science? 11) Examples of ELNs . Are there other examples of open lab notebooks being used in biomedical research? Is this, in fact, still a highly niche activity? 12) Language . The language barrier is mentioned, but we're not sure this is relevant to this paper. Language is already a barrier in the current system, though English is essentially a lingua franca across science. 13) Licence . What is the license that covers the authors' i) blog posts and ii) notebooks? To what extent is this an important choice? For example, can others take and re-use the content without restriction, or only for non-commercial purposes? 14) Raw Data . The authors mention that the ELN entries include "all data". This is an important feature of open ELNs that distinguishes the practice from a great deal of open science in which highlights might be discussed, or blogged about, but without the attendant raw data. We investigated briefly to see how much of the raw data could be accessed in the authors' cases. We have noticed that a fair number of the lab notebook entries recorded by the team in Zenodo contains PDF/Word-style summaries of data, rather than the data themselves. This limits re-use of the data. Could the authors comment on the central importance of the availability of all raw data? Examples: This blog post mentions performing synthesis of analogues based on lit procedures but there’s no link to an ELN. Same with this page. And this . This page has a link (in the 2nd paragraph) to a (structure?) data file but no backlink from the data back to the blog page, risking orphaning of content? This blog page does have a link to the ELN. There is more experimental detail, but there is no raw characterization data. Also the backlink to the blog page is broken. Many biology entries contain pictures of purifications and for the most part, the ELN pages only have a docx or pdf there. Should there be any raw data available for these kinds of pages, or are docx and PDF enough? 15) Identifiers . It is mentioned that is is desirable to have "the ability to search for experiments containing compounds with specific chemical templates". We agree. Some ELNs already allow this (e.g. Chemotion 3 and C6H6 4 ). We have found a stop-gap is the manual inclusion of chemical strings such as SMILES, InChI. Can the authors comment on whether similar things can be included in order to allow machines to understand the biology contained within the entries, e.g. UniProt numbers? 16) Metrics re Access . Is there a way of distilling out access by non-team people, or even access by the author of the page who may have accessed multiple times during the editing of a page? 17) Ownership . When a researcher moves on, does that researcher have any responsibility towards the ELN? e.g. if a mistake is found, who needs to correct it? Is it the responsibility of the PI to act as future curator? 