In this article, Mazeres et al. report a new way (spectral decomposition) of analysing the spectral imaging data to obtain a quantitative measure of the lipid organisation in plasma and internal membranes. The authors also provide an open-access image analysis platform compatible with ImageJ. The manuscript is well-written and explanatory. The focus of the manuscript is not novel aspects of the membrane organisation, it is rather the methodology which is quite useful in my opinion. I recommend publication after minor revision. Here are my specific comments: In the introduction; there are statements; “…laurdan derivatives have no preference for ordered and disordered domains…” This is not exactly accurate, the partitioning of these probes has been tested in GUVs and it is probably true in GUV systems they were tested, however, recently it has been shown that partitioning of the membrane probes is highly governed by the lipid packing of the coexisting domains (Sezgin et al. , 2015 1 ), and Laurdan signal predominantly comes from ordered domains of cell derived vesicles (Sezgin et al., 2014 2 ). Therefore, I would formalise this sentence a bit differently so that it is not misleading. “The most widely accepted model to explain the ‘red shift’ of laurdan from an emission maximum of 440 nm to a maximum of 490 nm in more polar environments is based on the reorientation, or relaxation, of structured water molecules in the direct vicinity of the probe” believe the photophysics behind this spectral shift is a bit more complicated and would be nice to mention this and refer the reader to appropriate reports such as the nice review by Amaro et al. , 2014 3 “The ANEPPDHQ, Nile Red and pyrene-derived probes, by contrast, undergo more progressive shifts in their emission maxima depending on the dielectric constants of their environments. Furthermore, the shifts in emission spectra of these probes are not necessarily linked to the degree of order of the bilayers.” Here, the statements need references. The original paper of di-4-ANEPPDHQ paper (Jin et al. , 2006 4 ) as well as Sezgin et al. , 2014 2 show the progressive shift of these dyes. And a recent report by Amaro et al. , 2017 5 shows the complicated spectral shift of ANEP dye unlike a robust response of Laurdan to molecular order. “C-laurdan, a probe first synthesised and characterised in 2007 was derived from laurdan by adding a carboxyl group to the polar head, and labels the PM of eukaryotic cells more effectively than laurdan.” Here the original C-Laurdan should be cited (Kim et al. , 2007) 6 From the Materials and Methods, I could not get what is the excitation wavelength of NileRed? Authors should comment on whether Fraction Mapper can read any spectral imaging file? (lsm, czi, lif etc) In Figure 2, there is significant “yellow signal”. The conclusion of the colocalisation is very qualitative, I suggest authors to perform pearson correlation to have quantitative measure of the colocalisation (Fig 2 and 3). Would be very useful to write the excitation wavelength of the probes in the figure legends as well as emission bands. Also, it would be extremely useful to have the figures a bit more informative and less dependent to the legend. In the current form, I had to go back and forth between the figure and the legend many times to understand the figure. Instead, if the authors put a bit of descriptive text on the figures, it would have been a lot easier to understand the figures (like they did for Figure 7 where they 3min, 15 min and 30 min as well as 4 uM and 200 nm on the figure itself). For instance, for figure 2, I would write; Laurdan, M-Laurdan, C-Laurdan on the rows and “brightfield”, “probe”, “lysotracker”, “merge” and “close-up” for the columns. Similarly I would do it for every figure so as soon as the reader looks at the figure, she can get what the figure tells without reading the legend. Similarly, they should add labels to Figure 5 and 8 on the figure what thin and bold lines or colors etc mean. Authors should comment on possible FRET between Laurdan and NileRed when they do the spectral decomposition between these two. Authors mention the “autoqueching” because of the decrease in signal with concentration. Are the authors sure that this is what happens? Can that be something else? 3min pictures in Fig7 is different than the rest, why? For Figure 10-13, it is necessary to show some quantification, qualitative assessment with the colors isn’t enough. “Considering the importance of temperature in regulating the state and order in lipid bilayers….” Authors should give a reference here such as Burns et al. , 2017 7 . In the first paragraph of the Discussion, authors should also discuss the recently published improved approach of spectral imaging analysis (Aron et al. , 2017 8 ) In the discussion, when authors discuss the differences of lipid packing, they only consider the lipid composition. They should also add a short discussion on the presence of actin cytoskeleton for plasma membrane (and absence of it for intracellular membranes) may be responsible for relatively more ordered plasma membrane compared to intracellular ones (Dinic et al. , 2013 9 ). 