The author's model 4 (supposedly representing the standard model) does not adequately represent the standard picture. In particular, the author has made the so-called chronogonic assumption that the cosmic scale factor a(t) was never smaller than now. But in the standard model, it has increased by a factor of 1090 since the time of last scattering. Regarding the photons having a constant co-moving number density, this is correct - but the author still says it is wrong. This is because the author assumes some sort of finite Universe, with a single flash occurring 13.8 Gyr ago and illuminating some region outside which there is nothing. This is evident from Figure 1 and the authors statement "there is nothing to be gained from its non-existent (or at least empty) outside" - in the standard picture, there is no outside. Rather, the standard picture is that an infinitely large Universe appeared instantaneously 13.8 Gyr ago, and then a(t) started rising rapidly. All of space was brought into existence by the Big Bang. This is why in co-moving terms photon losses from some region are always (on average) balanced by photons gained from elsewhere. There is also the additional redshifting of photons by which they lose energy individually, but certainly the co-moving number density of photons should remain the same. In Figure 1, this leads to the author only considering photons emitted from one point on the last scattering surface. In reality, what would be more useful is to draw two more multiple orange last scattering surface (LSS) cones translated along x, such that they pass through our spacetime location (at the top). The apexes would be where the dotted blue lines intersect with (almost) zero conformal time. This would more accurately represent what happened in the Big Bang according to standard cosmology, and also address the issue of why GN-z11 is currently visible. It is well known that this does lead to a causality problem in that all these LSS cones have an apex at widely separated points, so shouldn't have been in causal contact even earlier - and thus should have a different temperature. This problem is addressed by the inflationary hypothesis. Another issue is that some sort of confinement is needed to get blackbody radiation, but the author mistakenly assumes that the whole Universe must have some sort of reflective boundary. In reality, the confinement arises because the early Universe was opaque because neutral hydrogen atoms did not exist yet, and electrons have a large Thomson scattering cross section. So photons had only a short mean free path/travel time between absorptions. This is really the origin of the blackbody spectrum - not the walls of the Universe, which would be more analogous to terrestrial experiments involving a sealed-off room. At the end of page 7, the author states without justification that the visibility of high-z galaxies has not been reconciled with a hot Big Bang. There is no problem with this in the standard context - the galaxy would have been relatively close to us, but in an expanding universe, light from it would only just have been able to keep pace with the ever increasing distance remaining to the Earth. Most of the progress would be achieved at late times when the Hubble parameter was lower. The total travel time would be almost 13.8 Gyr. There is nothing unusual about this, in an infinite Universe. The problem with the authors's logic is that a finite Universe is assumed, which would indeed cause very serious problems. Although the last part on the sociological aspects is reasonably well done, I strongly recommend the author delete this last bit: but it is, of course, even more fundamental to respect reason at all. In conclusion, the fundamental assumptions underpinning the article are completely incorrect for the reasons I have explained. Therefore, I still have to recommend rejection of the revised article, and also recommend that in future other reviewers be used in order to get a second opinion. My opinion is that it is not possible to edit the article in such a way that it can ever be approved, since the only novel claim in the article is that all standard cosmologists over the past 80 or so years have made a basic blunder - but it is completely clear to me that the blunder is on the part of the author, who has not understood the most basic aspects of the standard hot Big Bang cosmological model.