In the present manuscript, the authors used dermal fibroblasts to assess possible changes in acid- b-glucocerebrosidase (GCase) levels and changes in autophagy markers between three Gaucher disease (GD) patients with Parkinson disease, three carriers of GD mutations with PD, three idiopathic PD patients, four healthy controls and three GD patients with no known PD signs. They also had one human fetal lung fibroblast line (HFL1). The authors concluded that only PD patients with a GBA mutation have altered GCase activity and autophagy, which may explain their most rapid clinical progression. The authors mentioned that there was no decrease in GCase activity in iPD patients. However, the results in Figure 1A indicate reduced GCase activity in iPD patients. It may not be significant due to the small sample used in the study, but it is obvious and cannot be overlooked. Likewise, there is a notable decrease in the level of hexosaminidase and mannosidase activity. The authors state that: "the impairments in (GCase) activity are not due to low protein amounts, in line with other studies". However, several reports have already documented decreased GCase amounts in GD derived cells. McNeill et al. (Reference 24 in the present manuscript) showed that: “Glucosylceramidase protein levels, assessed by western blot, were significantly reduced in fibroblasts from Gaucher disease (median glucosylceramidase levels 42% of control, P 0.001) and heterozygous mutation carriers with (median 59% of control, P 0.001) and without (median 68% of control, P 0.001) Parkinson's disease". Other studies described a decrease in the amount of mutant GCase in cells that derived from GD patients and carriers of GD mutations. (Jonsson et al. 1 ; Ron et al. 2 ; Lu, et al. 3 ; Bendikov-Bar et al. 4 ). The authors mention in their discussion that: “Another factor to consider is that the affected GCase in GBA related PD may be in the wrong localization such as trapped in the ER”. It has already been shown that mutant GCase is recognized as misfolded in the ER, undergoes ER retention and, depending on the ability of the ER chaperones to refold it, it will either undergo ERAD or traffic to the lysosomes (Ron et al. 2 ). Typographical errors: The authors mention HFL1 or HLF cells and I guess they are the same. GBA (or better GBA1, since there are three GBA genes: GBA1, GBA2 and GBA3) is the gene encoding acid-b-glucocerebrosidase (GCase). It is the protein (GCase) that localizes in the cell and not the GBA protein. It could also be referred to as the GBA1 encoded protein. In Materials and Methods: bafilomycin assay: ….”this concentration was derived from titrations of Bafilomysin A1 and 0.1mM and found …” The second and should be replaced by was. In the same paragraph the authors mention that after NP-40 treatment “the cells were collected”. NP40 is a detergent that disrupts the plasma membranes so following its treatment there are lysates, not cells. In the galactosidase assay the authors mention: “4-MUI a-D-galactopyranosidase”, should be: 4-MU a-D-galactopyranoside. 