The paper is a study protocol of research proposed in Osmanabad district of Maharashtra, India to improve evidence-base for understanding and acting upon gender-based violence (GBV). The study seeks to understand gender equality related knowledge, attitudes and practices among adolescents on one hand, and evaluate an ongoing intervention to reduce gender-based violence, called “Responsible Couples” (RC). The authors make a strong case for the need for such evidence (from adolescents, where interventions targeting the problem ought to begin) as well as the relative lack of effectiveness evidence from interventions to reduce GBV. Authors indicate that this could be the first of its kind large survey on this topic in Maharashtra, and perhaps among Indian adolescents. In addition, their remarks on the research capacity-building and academic exchange involved are also noted with appreciation. Background The background provides a published estimate of domestic violence (DV) ever and DV in the past 6 months. The study cited surveyed households in one city of south India, whereas the background states this as being an estimate for south India, which may not be an appropriate representation of the original study’s findings. Improving coherence through more contextual information and clarifying objectives A project goal is separately provided in addition to the research objectives. The two research objectives focus on (1) survey tool development for adolescents, and (2) evaluation of the RC program. The project goal is quite broad and both objectives fit within this goal, but it is unclear how these two objectives come together. Is there any specific reason these two objectives have been chosen? What was the rationale for choosing this particular intervention? Perhaps this is related to specific contextual information that may not be part of the protocol. Researchers could consider a section that describes the particular setting where the study is being planned as well as perhaps a section that describes work leading up to the study to provide the reader an understanding of the logic/reasoning in choosing these two objectives in order to work towards the project goal. While the background indicates that the authors will undertake a survey among adolescents (and indeed the data collection and subsequent activities confirm this, the first of the two objectives that include this appears to stop short at “…inform(ing) the development of a survey tool”. This gives an impression of this being a tool-development/feasibility study only. Clarify. Selection and recruitment The project identifies 70 villages which correspond to the area of work of partner NGO as being the study area. It is unclear from the information provided how much of the district this covers, and what the original logic is for the partner NGO to choose these villages. Since a survey is being planned, the reporting of its findings will depend on the overall choice of study site and sampling and hence further information has to be provided to enable an understanding of the study area. Some information on the larger context in terms of how this district compares with other districts in the state with respect to GBV are useful (if available). An estimate of what proportion of the district is covered by these villages is also useful. Authors indicate that the age of eligible respondents for the survey shall be 16 to 19. How will this be verified (if at all)? Will this be based on self-reporting of age? Or will researchers have an estimate/list from prior work? Will estimates/identity of adolescents in these villages be available to researchers from the existing work of partner NGO? If yes, specify how this data will be dealt with and used/not used. Authors may consider comparing their village-wise sample with adolescents in the village to come up with an estimate of their overall survey coverage among adolescents. If adolescents who are unable to read/write turn up, what will the team do? There are both technical and ethical implications of this decision to exclude this group, even if the numbers in this group are small. More so given that educational status has been declared in the background to influence GBV. Sample size Authors state that one of the reasons for choosing a sample size of 1000 is “…to ensure that results from this study will be applicable to rural areas of Maharashtra state.”. This will need to be explained clearly. Specifically, the concern is with respect to (a) how would any sample size defined within a set of villages in one district of the state “…be applicable” to the entire state? Perhaps the authors seek to achieve analytical generalisability of their findings through mixed-method/qualitative inquiry and demonstrate the relative similarity of few/many/all other districts to this district with respect to the area of inquiry, but this cannot be based on a particular sample size in my assessment. It is also noted that another logic to arrive at the size has been the resource availability. On the contrary, could an effort at achieving a sampling strategy of smaller numbers of household visits be used to further minimize sample numbers if needed? I understand that the work may have already begun, in which case, authors need to clarify this section appropriately. Authors mention a stratified sampling approach, but the survey is being conducted by invitation to a “station” at each village. How will the 125 per each age-stratum and 500 from each gender be achieved if there is a patterning in age of children who turn up at the station (for instance, older boys being less “shy” of such a station, or for instance if some stations for reasons unknown are not acceptable/accessible for particular age/gender respondents). Given that the researchers do not identify specific strategies to ensure the sample across strata, this stratified sampling appears more to be a desire at ensuring distribution of sample across all age-groups rather than an actual sampling strategy? Clarify. RC program evaluation In terms of improving the coherence between these 2 objectives, and also given that both are being implemented in the same district, it is useful to understand if the 40 villages where RC will be evaluated are a sub-set of the 70 where the quantitative survey will be conducted? The RC group in each village: Are these volunteers or paid staff of the project? Clarify. Given that the objective is to evaluate an intervention which has multiple components, an overall evaluation approach to the intervention is missing. Partly, this could be dealt with by providing more details of how the qualitative data will be analyzed from the FGDs. Also to some extent, the evaluation will only engage with relative insiders (the village level RC group) and will not include perspectives of those who "received" the intervention, a limitation. Authors could consider including a clear schematic/narrative on how the intervention is expected to work outlining the various intervention inputs, assumptions being made and how it is linked to expected outputs of the intervention (akin to a theory of change). In the lack of such a theory, the qualitative data gathered may be difficult to coherently analyze. That said, if there is a plan for doing this in another way, authors could include that. Data analysis There is limited information on how quantitative and qualitative data will be analyzed. This will have implications on the data collection methods and sampling details proposed. Also, see above about evaluation component and (lack of) details of the analysis proposed. 