This is an innovative and valuable consideration/discussion of moral injury (MI) in light of the key bioethical principles - both of which are used to justify the political issue of employee burnout within the clinical context. Given the current literature however, Shay's definition of MI (considered valuable but now too simplistic) which is used as the basis for this article, is no longer the dominant definition of moral injury since (for example) the work of Litz et al. (2009) 1 , or Jinkerson (2016) 2 , or Carey Hodgson (2017). 3 It is important to note, that since Shay's definition, there have been at least 17 different definitions of Moral Injury (refer Hodgson Carey, 2017 3 ) and currently the most comprehensive synthesized version is that of Carey Hodgson, 2018; Frontiers in Psychiatry 4 which needs to be noted by the authors of this article, indicating that there are other MI definitions but few utilize a holistic bio-psycho-social-spiritual paradigm to define or consider MI. Most of the statements within the article are sufficiently supported; however, I think it important to cite Beauchamp and Childress (2013) 5 with regard to biomedical ethics and the bioethical principles (not just Beauchamp). Further, it can be argued that the real issue of MI within the medical/clinical context (in light of the more complex definitions of MI) should actually be due to a clinician suffering "a trauma related syndrome caused by the physical, psychological, social and spiritual impact of grievous moral transgressions, or violations, of an individual's deeply-held moral beliefs and/or ethical standards due to: (i) an individual perpetrating, failing to prevent, bearing witness to, or learning about inhumane acts which result in the pain, suffering or death of others, and which fundamentally challenges the moral integrity of an individual, organization or community, and/or (ii) the subsequent experience and feelings of utter betrayal of what is right caused by trusted individuals who hold legitimate authority" (Carey Hodgson, 2018). It other words it can be argued that as a result of breaches of fundamental bioethical principles that "...grievous moral transgressions, or violations, of an individual's deeply-held moral beliefs and/or ethical standards" will occur, resulting in a moral injury (Carey Hodgson, 2018, p. 2). Then it should be explained that "A moral injury can eventuate as a result of one or two types of occurrences, namely when (i) an individual perpetrates, fails to prevent, bears witness to, or learns about inhumane acts which result in the pain, suffering or death of others, and which fundamentally challenges the moral integrity of an individual, organization or community, and/or (ii) the subsequent moral injury experience and feelings of utter betrayal of what is right, caused by trusted individuals who hold legitimate authority" (Carey Hodgson, 2018, p.2). To shift too far from such a definition/explanation would mean that it is not really a complex 'moral injury' at all - but rather a 'superficial' incident that conflicts with professional bioethics. Put simply, the more advanced / complex definitions of moral injury should be utilised and will actually co-align a lot easier with the bioethical principles. The conclusions are somewhat justified on the basis of the presented arguments; however, it is somewhat of an assumption to conclude that ....a firm understanding of bioethics ....will prevent recurrent MI! This is doubtful - indeed t'would be like saying that a better understanding of bioethics will prevent the effects of witnessing a trauma related incident (e.g., a murder). Highly improbable! There is also no evidence provided to indicate/justify that a better recognition of the connection between bioethics and MI will decrease burnout! Indeed one can speculate that better recognition might actually increase one's stress, and increase the chances of subsequent burnout! (Not decrease burnout!). The most one could argue (in the absence of solid evidence) would be that "a better understanding of the effects of breaching bioethical principles within the work place, and the possible correlation with experiencing a moral injury, may explain feelings of recurrent burnout"... but it certainly would NOT prevent MI nor unlikely to prevent injuries. The conclusion needs to be edited as well as adding a note for empirical research to be undertaken with regard to MI and clinician burnout in the clinical context. 