Very timely and valuable contribution. Well presented. Miro presentation is very handy to cover the complex topic. Professional info-graphic design might really enhance differentiating the content for better understanding. A couple of things that could be clarified: "We also considered whether more complex relationships between outcomes needed to be depicted (particularly vicious or virtuous cycles but also instances of conjunctural causation)." insider-language... please unpack. "trampolining"? "continue to socialise" - is that in reference to having some normal interaction (eg bubble group?) + theoretical: some children doing better at home due to avoidance of bullying and other violence against children... Where does this go next: #1. A key statement buried in the main text that can be brought out in the discussion: "Although it was not within the scope of this work, we suspect that the form of the school closure is likely to change the logic model quite substantially, with some impacts only being observed in longer term closures or when broader social distancing measures are in place." #2. Given that you recognize that a) previous research was on much shorter-term closures b) previous pandemics didn't have the enormous complication of asymptomatic transmission (and you might also mention cost/invasiveness/slow results of testing... ) I think that it becomes important to open the door on a) the very critical 'implementation and effectiveness of public health measures'... which will need tracking and unpacking (for different age groups) b) the variation in interventions emerging which are designed to mitigate many of the impacts. (eg. see NYC and others continuing to distribute school lunches even though "closed" etc.) I really hope that you can take this to next level (next article, perhaps) to do the same for intervention models, because we don't have the classification/language to discuss the huge range of interventions (radio, tv, teacher phone contact, teacher individual and small group mtgs with caregivers or students, peer learning groups, bubble groups, etc.. 