The manuscript provides an innovative way of using stochastic block models to perform networks for different omics data. The idea is interesting but the application should be better characterized. I was expecting a network integrating the different datasets, but the network is performed separately per each dataset. This fact should be addressed at the very beginning to avoid confusion to the readers. Also, the use of the three datasets is not justified, why these three and no others? It looks like the authors want to compare the three networks applied to the three datasets (mRNA, proteins, and metabolites) but the different sample size among other factors makes them not comparable. Finally, one of my main concern is that there is not a clear conclusion of the study, are they proposing a network that is better than the ones that already exist? (this is not assessed). Are they finding new biological insights for breast cancer? (this is not shown). The final conclusion is not clear since the authors did not give a biological example of the method application. It is not clear if the method outperforms others or if the method is able to find new biological interpretations, etc. Why people should use this method? What type of information will they obtain? More specific points: Data preparation and network generation: It is not clear to me why the authors used mRNA, protein and metabolites for this network study. Is it just because they were available, or is there a hypothesis under this selection? Why don't they use other omics data available in the TCGA? The sample size is pretty reduced for the proteomics data with only 36 samples. The other thing I do not understand is why they used metabolomics data measured in other individuals. And for the mRNA they do not give an exact sample size. Why do they use Bonferroni for mRNA expression and Benjamini-Hochberg for protein, metabolite and just 0.01 for protein? This should be better justified. They replace 0 values by NA, why? There is a big difference between a lack of expression and a missing value. Do they filter for those genes that have a very low expression among samples? They only specify this for protein data, but what about mRNA expression? Are they considered only 0 for low expression or a very small cut-off normally used in mRNA analysis? Regarding the scale-free reduction. They explain that the technique removes weak links until met a criterion based on WGCNA package, but it does not well explain the process for this and how they applied this to the data. Please explain. Fitting SBM: They built the network based on a stochastic block model (SBM) representation, the nodes of a network are partitioned into blocks according to their similarity in connectivity. It is not clear how the SBM is applied to the data and how the similarities are obtained. For the SBM representing biological function: The whole module is unclear to me since they do not provide any biological or functional interpretation. I don't understand the goal of this. Figure 3 is also quite confusing. 