The authors describe BioPAX loading and visualization support for the established BioLayout Express 3D network visualization software. As far as I know, this is the only software capable of 3D display of BioPAX derived networks. The new feature seems to work very well as described. I have a few minor comments to improve the manuscript. Minor notes: the persistent Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) URIs in Pathway Commons are not guaranteed to be consistent between releases. They can be persistent if they are externally standardized e.g. uniprot IDs, but internal pathway commons URIs may change from release to release. The manuscript would benefit from one biological use case. The highlighting expression data paragraph is interesting, but including a biological example would help potential biologist users know how to use the software for a particular analysis. It would be nice to see a future directions section e.g. is there a plan to visualize SIF networks derived from BioPAX? It would be useful to briefly mention some examples of information that is not covered in the BioPAX to mEPN mapping e.g. post-translational modifications on proteins, the directionality of edges e.g. that could distinguish between left and right participants of an interaction vs. all participants of an interaction. Some of this information is possible to show in other visualization options, such as the Systems Biology Graphical Notation, which the authors may want to reference. Software comments: The top pathways feature requires entering a keyword before the Search button is active, but with this query, it seems that a keyword is not necessary, as any query always shows all top pathways. A number of nodes have labels e.g. if they are interaction nodes. It would be nice to be able to suppress these labels somehow. It would be useful to see other information associated with the nodes e.g. data source, links to external databases. Some of this information is already shown in section 6 in panel A of the import network dialog shown in Figure 1. Is it possible to choose another layout after a network has been loaded? Bug: Clicking the information button on the right hand button tool bar brings up a help dialog called the navigation wizard. The links to PDFs at the bottom of this screen go to non-existent web pages. The edge names are all , but could be the type of edge. Minor text fixes: within BioLayout, the user may refine searches by keywords, species, data source and BioPAX type - BioPAX class type. 