This is an important body of work as men's participation is critical in achieving good maternal health outcomes. I would caution the authors from making a statement that men are the 'primary stakeholders' or 'gatekeepers' in women's health. While you make the point that is certainly true in many societies, it important to keep in mind that how women access care is more complex. The root causes which are economic and social go beyond men. A minor point about semantics: I would avoid using PIH- either use gestational hypertension (or pre-eclampsia- I could not tell from the questions what you were targeting as these two entities are very different while being on the same spectrum). Secondly, instead of 'developing countries', I would suggest 'low income countries'. I am concerned that the language and the level of knowledge required to understand the questionnaire is indeed very high. You do rightfully point this out. Can you explain why you chose such a sophisticated level? How does this relate back to your objective of assessing knowledge around morbidity? The questions are at the level a health care professional might answer. A small percentage of your sample didn't even have any education! Most questionnaires should be targeted to a grade 6 (by North American standards) level. From a public health perspective, the key messages should be to recognize that a woman is sick (perhaps even have a certain condition in mind) and to know what actions should be taken to prevent and/or treat the condition. Most certainly, the key is to seek care as soon as illness is recognized. I don't think the questions reflect this. Secondly, some of the choices are wrong- for example, anemia does not present with severe headache. In fact, many serious conditions in pregnancy present with headache and this gives the impression that a less severe condition like anemia can present like this. Heel edema/ankle edema may be present in normal pregnant women and therefore, it is not a good choice. Bed rest is actually not recommended for the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. It would be interesting to know how men whose partners previously had these conditions scored compared to men whose partners did not have these conditions. I think the authors need to revise the discussion section with more limitations and as well propose how this knowledge can be used.