The manuscript ‘’Optical characterization of epidermal cells and their relationship to DNA recovery from touch samples’’ by Stanciu CE et al. describes the genetic (nuclear DNA) and biological components (Cells and Cell debris) in samples created by touch or contact with a surface, both in controlled and non controlled situations. The question to understand and characterize the components of touch sample is of paramount importance in forensic science research. The manuscript attempts to decipher the mechanism of DNA transfer in touch samples and suggests methods to maximize the recovery of DNA from the touch samples. On the cellular components side, the FACS coupled with microscopy technique was employed to explore the number and identity of the cells in touch samples. The cells in touch samples were found to be consistent with the keratinocyte morphology and size. This work also shows that after washing hands there is tendency to shed more cells in touch samples but the increase in the cell number is not correlated with the increase in DNA yield, rather there was no or very little DNA recovered after washing hands. Thus, this study provides evidence that there is no or very little DNA associated with the cellular component of the touch samples. It makes a strong case for the next important question to ask. How we can differentiate keratinocytes from different individuals? As the authors suggests that other biological information still may be present on the keratinocytes, it opens up the possibilities of a new field for characterization of keratinocytes from touch samples. The manuscript’s conclusion that the source of majority of DNA in touch samples comes from extracellular components, not from the cellular components, is in well agreement of previous studies but the proportion of extracellular DNA is found to be higher in this study than the earlier reports. The manuscript is well written and presents the data in a logical way. Overall, the manuscript adds further knowledge to the body of knowledge existing in this field and I recommend this manuscript for indexation. However I have following minor suggestions/comments to improve the manuscript. No profiles, conventional or LCN, are shown to show the quality of DNA recovered. It will be interesting to explore the contributions (both of DNA as well as Cells components) made by normal flora of human skin. ‘’....flow cytometer using a 488 ηm Coherent solid-state laser.... ‘’ in this line and elsewhere the nanometer symbol should be written as ‘nm’. 