 Synopsis Tsoi and colleagues start with a definition of academic medicine and a summary of this career path and who chooses to take it. They then explain the pros and cons of academic medicine as have been described in the currently published literature. Finally, they present summaries of interviews conducted with five medical professionals: two MD students, one PhD student, one MD/PhD student and one experienced clinician (MD) who has returned to complete a PhD at an advanced stage of his career. Compliments It is important for personal motivations and values to be included in our understanding of career paths in all aspects of science and medicine. This article has the potential to take “common knowledge” and hearsay and put it into a peer-reviewed literature. It makes these discussions findable and citable: important steps towards progressing our understanding of addressing structural inequalities in career progression. This work stands to benefit many readers who are interested in careers in academic medical but are looking for more detailed information on the prospect. Concerns/Suggestions Audience Who is the intended audience for this opinion piece? The abstract mentions trainees, educators and policy makers, and the authors are right that this topic is of interest to all these groups. Unfortunately, the focus for each of them are quite different and I think the paper fails to provide succinct take home messages for any of them. (Alternatively, this is a qualitative research article and should be structured as such, see my comments below). I’d recommend developing the discussion section and potentially including actions that interested parties may take as a result of the findings presented in the paper. To be clear: my recommendation is to restructure the opinion article, as there is a lot of useful advice/information included in the introduction that I think could be put to better use supporting the research findings, rather than add in more information to the discussion. Integrating personal values The introduction to this opinion article outlines most of the arguments for/against a career in academic medicine so the summaries of the interviews do not end up providing much new information to the reader. If the point of the article is to present personal values, I’d recommend integrating quotes from the interview subjects along with the background literature. Although not necessary, I suspect that arranging the information around themes rather than by individual participant would synthesise the findings more effectively. Qualitative research is not my area of expertise but I enjoyed these suggestions from London School of Economics (which includes links to further reading on the topic). Missing voices There are key demographics who are not interviewed in this article on the career path in academic medicine: specifically, those of clinicians who do not see the benefits of it and/or who those who were not able to continue along this path. Furthermore, all people interviewed are students which leaves out most of the time spent along this career path. This is fine, but I’d like the authors to acknowledge that they are presenting a biased sample which may limit its generalisability for readers considering a career in academic medicine. Related to this point, and more minor in my opinion, is that this article seems to be written about academic medicine careers in Canada. I’d recommend that the authors clarify this focus in the abstract and either acknowledge that these findings may not be relevant to clinicians in other countries or develop the breadth of the introduction and discussion to consider these differences. Females Please do not refer to adult women as “females”. The use of this adjective as a noun reduces women to their reproductive abilities and diminishes their humanity (see Jezebel for my favourite article on the subject). I’m confident that this was not the authors’ intention, but given that a focus of this opinion article is the reasons women are not well represented within academic medicine, I’d advise avoiding further alienation. I’d recommend referring to women and men (rather than males) as appropriate.