This article is well written and explores the utility of the LACE index in a different setting than other published studies - A tertiary care center in Portugal. The background is well written, citing relevant articles and explaining the limitations in the ability to identify patients at highest risk of hospital readmission with various systems. Differences in the study population and the derivation and validation studies for the LACE index is discussed. Consider including the references listed below in the introduction to include literature since the publication of the first version of this paper. Methods are conventional. Inclusion of a Brier score and a Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness of fit score for each of the three outcomes (mortality, 30 day readmission, and 90 day readmission) is essential for a better understanding of the significance of the AUC values for the ROC curves and will allow a more detailed understanding of the value of the scores in this population. The Brier score will evaluate the accuracy of the LACE index in predicting outcomes in this study, and the Hosmer-Lemeshow test will evaluate test calibration in the patient population. The full inclusion and exclusion criteria (including definitions) for this study should be described in detail, in addition to the figure showing the reasons for patient exclusion from analysis. The percentages in axis labels for Figures 2 and 3 do not need numbers to the right of the decimal point (100% instead of 100.00%). Discussion and conclusions are well written, framing the results of this study in the current knowledge at the time of initial release of this paper regarding the LACE index as a predictor of mortality and readmission. Additional publications on this topic since the release date would not change the conclusions drawn by the authors. The inclusion of the Brier score and Hosmer-Lemeshow test results in the discussion and contrasting the results against other studies would be appropriate. These methodological concerns limit the rating of this interesting and potentially useful article to “Approved with Reservations.” 