The opinion piece on Open Laboratory Notebooks written by Dr.s Schapira, Harding, and the Open Lab Notebook Consortium provides a thoughtful commentary on an interesting and relevant topic. The Open Labnotebook provides an interesting and potentially powerful approach to support transition of scientific communication beyond traditional peer-reviewed scholarly publications. As the authors note, the availability of digital media provides a much wider array of approaches to support meaningful research dissemination – and to promote scientific reuse and collaboration. The authors speak primarily from their own experience – and, because the use of open lab notebooks is quite new, there is often not a lot of data to back up their comments. As such, it was hard to understand what ideas were well supported and what ideas were in need of evaluation. Along those lines, the authors do not put their work into context of the broader field – I do not have a clear sense of who else is using an open labnotebook approach, whether their experiences are similar or different, and what portions of the scientific community were finding open labnotebooks useful. This context would help in synthesizing the ideas in the manuscript. Secondly, it would be enormously helpful to understand how the authors anticipate that open labnotebooks would operate in the context of the current scientific communication framework. Do you expect labnotebooks to replace peer-review journals or to complement them? How might a researcher convey the overarching hypothesis that they are looking to address through the set of experiments run across a series of notebook entries? It seems that neither the labnotebook approach nor the existing publication approach are sufficient to fully convey scientific output by themselves. I would very much enjoy understanding the authors’ perspective on this. Along these same lines, I am curious as to how notebook readers will incorporate this form of communication into their workflow. It will have to be useful – and easy – in order to gain the desired level of adoption. I appreciated the inclusion of the notebook use statistics – it would be helpful to understand how users found these posts, what kind of users were attracted, and how they responded to this medium as a form of scientific discourse. The role of the gatekeeper was also not addressed. Open LabNotebooks are reliant on a series of technical platforms. These platforms will have an impact on the overall success based on their sustainability models, their archiving approaches, and their need for financial viability. Is there a cost to using the system – and, if not, how is it funded? Are the content fully owned by the authors and do they remain under full control of the authors? What are the responsibilities of the platforms and how might their choices impact the approach? Finally, the authors have a tremendous opportunity to ground some of this theoretical work in their own practical application. It would be useful to understand how your scientists’ experiences compared to those were anticipated. For example, one frequent concern heard by researchers is one of time – they are worried that use of the system will require an additional burden in an already over-committed schedule. How much time do the current users spend on their posts? Did this reduce over time? This same approach can be used to address the anticipate benefits. 