I want to thank the authors and the Editor of F1000 Research for the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript. Below are my comments alternatively suggestions for revision divided into the sections in which they appear. Abstract: The background of the abstract does not include any motivation for the need of this study. Instead, it describes the setting and the aim of the study. If the word limit allows I would suggest adding one sentence motivating the need of the study. If there is a need to save words I would suggest deleting the first sentence in the abstract alternatively some of the details in the methods. For example, to end the sentence starting with “The interviews and diaries were transcribed… after the word “approach”. Introduction (Aim): I would suggest using the same aim in the abstract as in the main manuscript. Now they are slightly different (for example in the abstract the authors mention “coping”). I would also suggest either using the word “aim” or “purpose” in both the abstract and the main text for consistency. Methods: First paragraph: Would it be possible to add where in the country the two hospitals are situated, alternatively how large areas of the country that these hospitals cover? Paragraph labelled “Participants”: The authors mention that the final number of participants was decided based on saturation. Would it be possible to add some more information on how you determined that you had reached saturation (either in this paragraph or in “data analysis”)? “Procedure”, fifth paragraph: The authors describe, “This study also collected data by the observational method to describe the setting, activities, and people who participated in the study”. Where can the reader see the results of these observations? Data analysis: The authors describe, “The first stage of data analysis started immediately after the first data gathering process”. Which “firs data gathering process” is referred to here? For example, does it mean that data analysis started after the first one or two interviews, after all interviews had been conducted or something different? Data analysis: Did the authors use initial coding and focused coding during the analytical process? If yes, I suggest adding this to the “data analysis” paragraph. I would also suggest using the same terminology in the methods and in the results. I.e if categories and themes and/or sub-categories are mentioned in the results then I believe it would be helpful if these are also referred to in the analytical process described in the paragraph “data analysis”. Data analysis: Did the authors start to analyze one source of material (for example the interviews) and then continued with the next or were all three sources (interviews, observations, diary entries) analyzed simultaneously. Data analysis (Trustworthiness): Were there any other criteria used to ensure trustworthiness than credibility (for example, transferability, dependability confirmability)? If, yes. It would be helpful if the authors could add some more information in relation to this. Table 1: One alternative table heading could be “Interview questions used in three rounds of interviews”. Table 2: One alternative table heading could be “Pre-prepared statements used for diary entries”. Figure 1. Could the authors please add some more detail to the figure text? For example, where can the reader see the data collection in the figure? What do the arrows, lines and squares in the figures represent? If some squares represent participants and others, for example represent the results. Could these differences be indicated by squares being different in the frame, shape or shading? Results: First paragraph: I wonder if it perhaps is enough with one decimal for the percentages presented? First paragraph: If possible, it would be interesting to also the age range of participants. Did the authors collect any information on if the participants lived in a more urban or rural setting alternatively in a smaller or larger city? If this is available, perhaps this could be added to table 3. Just after the first paragraph of the results and before the paragraph with the heading “Challenges of PIWH” it would be helpful if the authors could add an introduction of the results. I.e how many themes or categories that emerged and how many sub-categories (depending on how the authors prefer to label these) that emerged and which these were. In this way, the reader is also helped to see what the headings and the sub-headings of the results represent. Discussion: First paragraph: Here the authors state that “In this study, it was found that the challenges experienced by PIWH were different based on the mode of HIV transmission among PWID who were infected via intravenous drug use, those infected via vertical transmission, those infected via heterosexual sexual transmission, and those infected by homosexual transmission”. Here it would be helpful if the authors could add one or two sentences summarizing these differences. Second paragraph. Do the authors see any limitations with the current study being based on a qualitative study design? To me, the limitation currently raised more to the study not having a quantitative study design. Conclusions: It would be helpful if the authors could highlight what they find as their main findings in the first two-three sentences of the conclusion. 