There are some language and grammatical errors that need attention. The link provided to the BASHH guidelines is for the draft document and not the final version. More detail about the context is need e.g. where is the Walsall Centre of Sexual Health located? Reference 1: I could unfortunately not access the full article, but the reference to this 1997 article in support of post-exposure prophylaxis does not seem to be the best choice since it deals with "Immune response to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in health care workers occupationally exposed to HIV-contaminated blood" and does not seem to deal with post-exposure prophylaxis. The second reference in support of PEP is also not the most relevant reference since it is an animal study and the final conclusion of this article is that “limited antiviral drug diffusion in secondary lymphoid tissues may allow persistent viral replication in these tissues and could represent an obstacle to HIV prevention and eradication”. It would be interesting to know how many of the patients were repeat users of PEPSE. A possible recommendation could be monitoring for repeat users of PEPSE and referring them for PrEP. It would also be interesting to know what antiretroviral medication had been prescribed for PEPSE and whether this complied with the guidelines. It is preferable not to refer to "bi-sexual/homosexual" but rather to men who have sex with men and/or women. Table 1: Under “Baselines HIV Test” and “Post-PEPSE HIV Test”, grammar and placing of results should receive attention. Table 2 needs more explanation since the numbers do not add up. For instance, the text shows that 53/101 had a recommendation for PEPSE, whereas the table shows only 20 HIV+ with unknown or high VL and 18 MSM. The text shows that 30/101 had circumstances under which PEPSE could be considered but the table shows 31 cases of sexual assault. There were 15 cases of needle stick injury. This seems to be very high and since the guideline only covers needle stick injuries in the community, the circumstances surrounding the injuries should be explained. I recommend that all exposure categories be listed in order to improve understanding. It seems that Tables 1 and 2 could be merged. Table 2: The recommended VL above which PEPSE should be given is 200 copies/ml and not 40 copies/ml – the unit of measure is not given in the table. In addition, the meaning of the category “Men who have sex with men (MSM) High prevalence/unknown” is unclear. The proportion of PEPSE prescriptions administered within 24 hours (and not 72 hours) of risk exposure is the auditable outcome and should also be shown. The author states that “There was also difficulty determining whether patients who did not attend after their initial visit had completed their PEPSE course”. What measures were taken to determine this? What steps had been taken to assess the VL of HIV-infected partners? “No permission was required to conduct the study and publish these results.” I presume the author means that informed consent was not considered relevant since the data used were anonymous, but surely institutional permission was needed? Article should make reference to other related work, e.g. Ladipo Z, Chauhan M, Foster K. Survey of PEPSE provision: lessons to be learnt. Sex Transm Infect 2015; 91: 164 1 . Currie S, Shafiq V, Mellor J , et al . P73 The source of the problem – re-audit of pepse provision at an inner city sexual health clinic. Sex Transm Infect 2015; 91: A39-A40 2 Raha D; Gilson R. An audit of PEPSE in an integrated sexual and reproductive health centre resulting in change of local protocol in accordance to national guidelines: room for improvement. HIV Medicine. 17():33–34, Apr 2016 3 