This article is a retrospective on the past 15 years of the author leading the Software Carpentry effort to educate scientists about the practical value of computational tools. It also describes a set of instructional practices that have worked well (and some that have not worked so well) in this setting. It concludes with ongoing and future work to scale up Software Carpentry in light of large variations in instructor and student backgrounds, and continual changes in modern computational tools. This article is a great fit for F1000 due to the topic's relevance to researchers in life sciences (and across a diverse array of science fields), and to the author's cogent firsthand accounts of his experiences and reflections on a subject matter which he is well-suited to discuss. My main high-level comment is that the language is colloquial in many parts of this article, with lots of asides enclosed (in parentheses). That is probably fine for an opinion-based article, and it makes the writing more personal and approachable. But the author should be aware that this is how the article appears to a first-time reader. Here are some more detailed comments, none of which are pressing: "From red to green" -- it took me a while to understand the "red", "orange", "green" light analogy the author was making in this section. That seems to be culturally specific. (I don't think I've seen an orange traffic light.) "Versions 2 and 3: Another red light" - I didn't understand why these were two separate versions. Maybe it's simpler just to call this Version 2 and update the subsequent version numbers? "It works too well to be interesting" -- This blurb felt a bit harsh toward CS professors. It makes it sound like they teach only topics that lead to new publishable research. In my experience, teaching and research are fairly decoupled, so professors have no qualms about teaching materials from, say, 30-year-old compilers or databases textbooks, which are obviously not leading to new research. Perhaps a more likely explanation, which the author points out later in the article, is that there simply isn't room in CS curricula to offer these sorts of Software Carpentry-like materials, and nobody vouches strongly enough for them. Typo in caption: "Enrolment figures" - "Enrollment figures" "What we do" - "Day 1 a.m.", etc. -- that's hard to parse. I thought the author meant "1am" like they were offering a class at 1 in the morning. Same with "1pm", "2am", "2pm". "Day 1 - morning" would be clearer. "during the practical" - I'm not familiar with this phrase. Is that a typo, or a figure of speech? "It's a refreshing change from teaching undergraduate calculus." -- would Software Carpentry instructors ordinarily teach calculus? Seems more like they would be teaching physics or programming or something. 