Strong et al . is a characterization of the fecal microbiome from Aythya americana. Wild waterfowl have been implicated in zoonotic disease transmission and can confound water quality studies which track fecal contamination through waterways. Adult ducks culled during hunting and pond water were both sampled. The relationship between the pond and the ducks is unclear in the text. The text suggests that the pond was free from Aythya americana , but both within the range of Aythya americana and visited by other waterfowl. This article is not only an exploration of a relevant sample type but also a teaching exercise for master’s degree students. This fundamentally worthy goal presents recognized limitations. One fecal sample was sequenced by Roche 454 FLX pyrosequencing; six additional samples were sequenced by Ion Torrent sequencing. One water sample was sequenced by 454 pyrosequencing. After quality control of the reads, singletons were removed, the reads were clustered into OTUs at 3% divergence and the centroids of each OTU assigned to taxa by BLASTn against a GreenGenes database. The major conclusion of the article - in the title, abstract, results and discussion - represents the major problem with the article. There is a significant gap in evidence between a representative read from an operational taxonomic unit based on clustering a partial 16S rRNA sequence at the 3% level and an inference of virulence. This point can be pressed from both sides. The connection between taxonomy and 16S rRNA sequences is not generally precise to the species level ( Chan et al ., 2012 as one example). In certain cases, curated databases have allowed such a connection ( Conlan et al ., 2012 ). The 16S rRNA has a non-obvious relationship with ecology ( Tikhonov Wingreen, 2013 ; Preheim et al ., 2013 ; and Vandewalle et al ., 2012 ); small changes can reflect large differences, larger differences can reflect no difference at all. This comes around to the other side: even within an MLST sequence type within a named species, virulence can be highly variable ( Weissman et al ., 2012 ). Using a larger sample of the genome is not necessarily an improvement over the 16S rRNA. It depends on which sections of the genome are selected ( Polz et al ., 2006 ; Preheim et al ., 2011 ; etc). As a result, it is perhaps technically correct to call a species “linked to human and animal diseases” but without any statement about how likely a duck feces isolate is to belong to a human, domestic animal, or even waterfowl pathogen subtype, the claim is frankly unsound and even alarmist (‘Duck hunters should also be aware of the risk…”). Thus, the focus of this article on the pathogenic potential of the duck feces microbiome is problematic. This issue is widespread in the literature, unfortunately, and contributes to the issues which Jonathan Eisen raises (http://phylogenomics.blogspot.com/2013/08/overselling-microbiome-award-swiss.html) in his ‘overselling the microbiome.’ Major experiments would be required to substantiate the claims of pathogenic potential by introducing duck fecal microbes into animal models of disease. Another possibility is the use of deep shotgun metagenomics, perhaps combined with long read or single cell sequencing to permit genome assembly, to enable a bioinformatic approach. The authors state that it is not possible to provenance a pathogen, but should they have whole genome sequence from cases (including ill waterfowl, domestic animals or humans) and from waterfowl feces, there could be strong grounds for such a claim. The claim that the bacteria present in the feces are not those in the pond water is unsustainable (‘devoid of any obvious pond water eubacterial constituents’). Not only is this contradicted in Figure 2, but the depth of sequencing was insufficient to demonstrate that the organisms are not present in both samples. That the dominant microbes are not the same is a reasonable claim. However, few microbiologists would have expected the duck feces or the water to be representative of each other. In addition, with a single water sample, one might claim that the water does not fall within the range of the duck samples; but the inverse claim cannot be sustained statistically for lack of multiple samples. This analysis can be performed under R using packages developed for microbiome analysis (ie phyloseq McMurdie Holmes, 2013 , and HMP La Rosa et al ., 2012 ). There are other analyses which could fruitfully be included in the manuscript without any additional sequencing. For example, there is no graphical or statistical comparison of the 7 fecal samples. These samples – including the pond sample - are not compared to any of the water samples from the earth microbiome project databases , IMG/j , or MG-RAST databases . The comparison might be limited because the methods of DNA extraction and sequencing were not standard for these other projects, but there are 824 aquatic samples and 6 bird samples in the IMG/j database, samples from birds in the MG-RAST database, and bird and freshwater associated samples in the EMP. Overall, in fulfillment of the obligations of formal review, the data appears to be collected appropriately and the methods described adequately. The data is included in the publication. The paper itself requires revision with regard to the conclusions and could be substantially enhanced by some additional bioinformatics.