While Thailand’s UHC reforms have attracted considerable international attention and praise, primary care has remained one of the more problematic aspects of the healthcare system because of concerns about staffing and quality. The English-language literature remains thin when it comes to the strategies being used to lever quality improvements in Thailand, especially the use of performance management techniques. The experience of both the P4P initiative and the introduction of QOF and the associated incentives described in this paper will therefore interest international policy actors and scholars, as well as satisfying the NHSO’s evaluation needs. One of the strengths of this paper is the focus on implementation and the attempt made to empirically investigate the impediments to rolling out the scheme as designed. The specifics of this implementation story are interesting with past outcomes initially used as a proxy for real performance against targets, poor coordination between the MoPH and NHSO, weaknesses in IT systems and data capture, and limited centre-periphery communication among the noted problems. Tension between the MoPH and NHSO is a persistent theme in research studies of the Thai UHC reforms, and comes up here in the form of a mismatch between MoPH KPIs and NHSO QOF indicators. We do not have a large stock of such implementation case studies in developing countries, so this is an area where the paper makes a very useful contribution. In general the paper is logically structured, using appropriate subheadings. The qualitative analysis remains at a fairly basic level, as I think is dictated by the constraints of the shorter papers published in this journal. The authors use the simple but effective strategy of illustrating propositions with a series of short data extracts. There are interesting data on what front-line actors think about the fairness of the QOF initiative and the unresponsiveness of the traditional Thai bureaucratic system (especially as manifest in the MoPH hierarchy). Overall I think the paper works well for this journal and would suggest only minor amendments. 1. I felt that the Introduction could have been slightly clearer about one or two points and that a claim about staffing needed double checking. To align with other work I suggest ‘Social Security Scheme’ rather than ‘Social Health Insurance’ for workers in formal employment. The NHSO ‘is entitled to provide contracts to qualified CUPs’ from both the public and private sectors (this seems the point the authors wanted to make here). It is my understanding that some sub-district health promoting hospitals are supported by doctors, usually working on a rotation basis. Is this incorrect? 2 Under Methods it is worth clarifying what the two consultation meetings involved. What was done seems similar to what qualitative researchers term ‘respondent validation’ or ‘member checking’. The participants were not the same group as the focus group participants, but – as I understand it – were asked to assess the face validity or plausibility of the initial findings. This was then feed back into the final analysis. I’m not sure if my interpretation is right though, and an extra sentence or two would help clarify this. 3. The meaning of the term ‘civil registry’ is not clear to me. Does it mean registration data used to determine the CUP’s beneficiary population, based on members enrolled using house registration documents (tabien baan)?