In this opinion article, Alexandre Angers-Loustau and colleagues address a hot topic in Diagnostic Microbiology regarding the implementation of next generation sequencing platforms for the identification of antimicrobial resistances. In particular, they focus on a specific step of the long pipeline which goes from sample collection to data interpretation and management, namely the bioinformatics analysis of sequencing data. It's been more than 10 years since the introduction of the first NGS instrument, but an adequate standardization and harmonization level of the many different platforms is not yet accomplished. The article is very well written; it is concise but covers all the important issues that need to be considered when willing to implement such technologies for the purpose of AMR detection. I only have some minor points for the authors: In section 2.1, page 5, regarding the potential presence of sensitive information (e.g. reads of human origin) when including real experiment datasets in the benchmark. I don't see the problem here. How the availability of anonymous DNA sequence information could compromise the patient's privacy? Of course, patient's identity must be separated from sample's ID, but the de-identification process is a standard procedure and others methods have also been developed for this purpose (see for example this paper from Qamar et al. (2014) 1 ). Please discuss about this. Since this is an opinion article, I would like the authors to 'expose' themselves a little bit more on some points. The challenges are presented by explaining the state-of-the-art, but it is not easy to me to understand authors' thinking about the possible solutions. Obviously they can't have answers for all the challenges, but they could express some personal positions (for example, what about "Who should generate the benchmark resource"? To me, there should be a centralized action aimed, as far as possible, at the definition of a global standard (similar for example to the WHO HPV LabNet Proficiency Studies for Evaluating HPV DNA Typing Methods). What do the authors think about this? Finally, no reference is made to microorganisms other than bacteria, but AMR may be related also to viruses and eukaryotic microorganisms. Are there any difference or peculiarity regarding the bioinformatics analysis of sequencing data coming from them? 