This is an excellent, well-written and well-researched opinion paper about barriers to female progression on the academic career ladder. Though Kamerlin carefully positions herself in the context of the Swedish research system and in the natural sciences, her observations (unfortunately) apply to many more contexts and fields. I would like to pick up on one point that Kamerlin discusses at quite some length: the issue of implicit bias. This is an issue facing many women from very early on in their academic career, as a result of deeply entrenched stereotypes about what constitutes a proper scientist, what a scientist looks like and what a scientist does. Kamerlin rightly points out how these implicit biases affect women's own career choices, in addition to the hiring and promotion procedures they are subjected to, and even the peer review of their grant proposals and papers. There is one point about implicit bias that the author leaves untouched though in an otherwise broad-ranging and very comprehensive article. And this is the point about how academic merit itself is not objective and a-political, but heavily masculinised . I recommend reading the excellent article by Margaret Thornton on the contemporary re-masculinisation of the academy (Thornton, 2013), in which she shows how academic capitalism also exercises incidental gender effects. In today's highly competitive and precarious climate, Thornton argues, researchers of any gender are incentivised to focus mainly on masculinised performance measures that promote productivity and accumulation of capital. In the process, other - feminised - activities are seen as unproductive. This includes pastoral care for students, thinking, reading, anonymous reviewing, and mentoring of junior researchers. What counts is that which can be counted. Anything else is rendered as 'waste'. I hope that discussions about barriers to female career progression will also spearhead into an open debate about the kind of science we currently hold in highest regard in the first place . Does 'the gendered sub-text of technopreneurialism' (Thornton, 2013: 134) override more complex notions of quality and academic virtues? Does 'benchmark masculinity' (ibid: 136) affect the kinds of knowledge we produce under such conditions? That said, I wholeheartedly agree with Kamerlin that we need more mentors, and more role models. And she is definitely one of them. Many researchers should find inspiration in how Kamerlin uses the networks and platforms at her disposal to further the discussion about the gender gap in the academy, and how she is putting into practice a different set of leadership skills, in order to make a difference. References 1. Thornton M: THE MIRAGE OF MERIT. Australian Feminist Studies . 2013; 28 (76): 127-143 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT de Rijcke S. Reviewer Report For: Where are the female science professors? A personal perspective [version 2; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1224 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14201 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1224/v1#referee-response-14201 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 20 Jun 2016 Lynn Kamerlin , Department of Chemistry - BMC, Uppsala University, Sweden 20 Jun 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Thank you for your careful reading of the manuscript, and for your kind words, both of which are much appreciated. Thank you also for the valuable reference, which covers a ... Continue reading Thank you for your careful reading of the manuscript, and for your kind words, both of which are much appreciated. Thank you also for the valuable reference, which covers a point that is often overlooked, and I think actually very important in terms of understanding the parameters shaping our experiences as researchers. One can only hope that such researcher trickles down to practitioners to cause a paradigm shift towards a more healthy working environment for the next generation of academics. Thank you for your careful reading of the manuscript, and for your kind words, both of which are much appreciated. Thank you also for the valuable reference, which covers a point that is often overlooked, and I think actually very important in terms of understanding the parameters shaping our experiences as researchers. One can only hope that such researcher trickles down to practitioners to cause a paradigm shift towards a more healthy working environment for the next generation of academics. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 20 Jun 2016 Lynn Kamerlin , Department of Chemistry - BMC, Uppsala University, Sweden 20 Jun 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Thank you for your careful reading of the manuscript, and for your kind words, both of which are much appreciated. Thank you also for the valuable reference, which covers a ... Continue reading Thank you for your careful reading of the manuscript, and for your kind words, both of which are much appreciated. Thank you also for the valuable reference, which covers a point that is often overlooked, and I think actually very important in terms of understanding the parameters shaping our experiences as researchers. One can only hope that such researcher trickles down to practitioners to cause a paradigm shift towards a more healthy working environment for the next generation of academics. Thank you for your careful reading of the manuscript, and for your kind words, both of which are much appreciated. Thank you also for the valuable reference, which covers a point that is often overlooked, and I think actually very important in terms of understanding the parameters shaping our experiences as researchers. One can only hope that such researcher trickles down to practitioners to cause a paradigm shift towards a more healthy working environment for the next generation of academics. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Krylov AI. Reviewer Report For: Where are the female science professors? A personal perspective [version 2; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1224 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14351 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1224/v1#referee-response-14351 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 14 Jun 2016 Anna I. Krylov , Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14351 This is an excellent paper discussing the factors responsible for slow advancement of women in academe. The author points out to societal pressures and expectations, uneven distribution of family responsibilities, and unconscious biases. Her points are well documented and supported ... Continue reading READ ALL 