The authors provide a case report of a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency secondary to RAG deficiency. Whole exome sequencing was utilized to ensure a rapid and accurate diagnosis. Overall, the report is well written. Despite this there are some minor changes that should be considered. I also do not appreciate the novelty of this report and what it adds to the existing literature. The clinical diagnosis of severe combined immunodeficiency is clear. The routine use of next generation sequencing approaches are widely used to provide accurate and rapid diagnoses. Introduction Page 3: I would consider focusing the introduction on the topic of RAG deficiency. Page 3: I would also note that an accurate and timely diagnosis is vital to the provision of life-saving therapy. Page 3: At the end of the first paragraph the word “sometime” is missing an “s”. Page 3: In the last paragraph of the introduction you talk about a genetic variation E770K. A genetic variation in what gene? Please state RAG1 . Case Report Page 3: When talking about the patient weight, height, and head circumference I would add in percentiles. Page 3: Please define the abbreviation “PICU”. Page 3: I would review the units on measurements. I would consider using SI units. For example, please review the use of “mg%”. I would address this issue throughout the manuscript. Page 3: How was HIV and tuberculosis excluded? Page 3: Is chest X-Ray correct? Page 3: Was there any evidence of eosinophilia? Page 4: For the immunological evaluation - were antibody responses assessed? Were RA/RO populations assessed? Were T cell responses to mitogens assessed? Was TCR diversity assessed? Was maternal engraftment assessed? Page 4: Please define the abbreviation “IVIG”. Page 4: How was the CMV infection identified? Where was the “infection”? How was staph pneumonia identified? Page 4: I would consider adding a “Methods” section where you talk about the whole exome techniques used and confirmatory sequencing. I don’t really like how it is right in the middle of the case report. Page 4: In the 4 th paragraph I would italicize “RAG1”. This should be addressed throughout the manuscript. Page 4: You mention that the mutation was previously reported. This detracts a bit from the novelty. I would also consider noting the RAG activity that was assessed in-vitro from the citation. Discussion Page 4: You fail to use the abbreviation “SCID” in the first paragraph of the discussion which you defined earlier. Page 4: Please define the abbreviations “XR, Jak3, and ADA”. Page 4: I would include the portion about the transplant course in the case report section and not at the end of the discussion. I would add in additional details as well - what type of conditioning was used? Graft-versus-host-disease prophylaxis? What was the etiology of the hypertension? PRES? What was the organism isolated during sepsis? Any other post-transplant issues such as GVHD, VOD, etc.? Was engraftment assessed (i.e. lineage specific chimerism)? 