The article describes an important new development for the Cytoscape project: bridging the gap between complex yet powerful desktop applications to easy-to-use, installation free web application focused on the analysis and presentation. I consider this workflow as an important bridge between the two worlds. The article is technically sound and mostly well written. Some structural comments and concrete suggestions for improving the manuscript are listed below. What I am currently missing in the manuscript is a description of a workflow for cleaning up the exported visualizations. Especially in the KEGG example, the result is rather messy and clearly requires some additional authoring. How would one go about this process? How long would it take? I would suggest adding another figure that shows a post-cleanup version and a paragraph commenting on the process. Also, it would be great to see a comparison of the original layout in Cytoscape in addition to the web-based layouts, ideally for all the results figures, so that readers can clearly judge the quality of the approach. This could also put my previous comment into context, as maybe the KEGG layout isnt much better in Cytoscape standalone, since the KEGG annotations typically dont contain sufficient information about the layout. Structural Suggestions: For this argument: "However, since they were designed before the re-discovery of Ajax, developers could not predict the success of JavaScript and related web technologies today." I would suggest to add that it was simply not feasible at the time since the technology and bandwidth was not available. Regarding this sentence: "It is hard to perform exploratory data analysis only with static images, especially when visualizing large data sets, because some of the details are lost due to the limited size of printed papers or computer screens." I would suggest to also argue that this static approach is especially problematic for networks, as the size of all but trivial networks requires dynamic features to be useful. Here: "If biologists can use the existing powerful desktop application and these emerging web technologies for data visualizations and sharing, it opens up a new way to understand large and complex biological data sets." I think the main point is that it has the potential to combine the best of two worlds: powerful authoring tools and easily shareable interactive results, but Im not sure whether this is "a new way to understand[ing]". Rather it is a new way of engaging users, through a much simplified process. "via a web platform (e.g., browser)" - what would be other web platforms? Or do you mean "i.e., in the browser" The hierarchy in the Cytoscape.js exporter section isnt clear. The following two captions seem to be of the same level as the root section. I suggest removing the captions completely and simply make the converters bold in the text. Also, these sections sometimes lack clarity. For example, it is not clear what a Cytoscape Table and Network is. I assume that is clear when one knows the software well, but it would be good to clarify this here for readers who are not that familiar with Cytoscape. What are "non-compatible value filterings" ? "The root node of the tree should be specified manually by the user" - should or must? Caption Figure 4 : "Visualization of a sample network (galFiltered.sif) by D3.js force-layout." - What is the data shown here? Should a reader know that from the file name? The file name seems irrelevant here. I would rather add a brief description of the data. Some grammar and style suggestions: "to popular JavaScript library readable formats" - to "formats readable by popular JavaScript libraries.". "and Java-based feature-rich toolkits were developed" - " and many Java-based feature-rich toolkits were developed" . "technologies, Cytoscape Consortium" - " technologies, the Cytoscape Consortium". "libraries (matplotlib, ggplot2)" - " libraries (e.g., matplotlib, ggplot2)". "The goal is to enable shared visualization of Cytoscape networks via a web platform (e.g., browser), and our strategy is to enable conversion from Cytoscape data objects to a format friendly to web apps, and to provide a template code for creating an interactive web application." - split into multiple sentences. "is part of Cytoscape 3 core distribution" - "is part of the Cytoscape 3 core distribution". "The D3.js exporter is an app, and this means" - " The D3.js exporter is an app which means" "The D3.js exporter is an app, and this means" - I suggest clarifying " app" . Is this a cytoscape plugin? "we implemented template HTML5 projects to render the exported JSON files." - "we provide template HTML5 projects to render the exported JSON files.". "developed by Cytoscape Consortium" - "developed by the Cytoscape Consortium". "There are two core functions in this exporter module: network/table converter and Visual Style to CSS converter." - I would suggest rephrasing this to explain on a high level what these modules do. "except the following: nested networks," - " except for nested networks,". "c onverting Cytoscape Visual Style" - is this a noun? or do you mean "Cytoscapes visual styles". In Figure 1, the code in the "Continuous Mapping as collection of Mappers" is unreadable as it is too small. "Once exporters generate JSON files, users need actual web applications to visualize the data." - "To visualize the exported JSON files, actual web applications are needed to visualize the data." . "visualization code to see the data." - "visualization code." "Third, all data sets are exported as JSON files, and finally they can create custom web-based, interactive visualizations from the template projects (Figure 2)." - This sentence mixes active and passive. I suggest re-writing it in the active voice since the previous sentence is active as well. "The combination of Cytoscape 3 and new JSON exporters can be used as data integration tool for web-based visualizations" - "The combination of Cytoscape 3 and the new JSON exporters can be used as a data integration tool for web-based visualizations.". "created with D3.js force-directed layout" - "created with the D3.js force-directed layout". "such as Treemap or Chord Diagram" - " such as Treemaps or Chord Diagrams". "License MIT License" - " License: MIT License". "Template code generator website: https://github.com/cytoscape/cyjs-sample" - "Template code generator website https://github.com/cytoscape/cyjs-sample". 