This report tries to identify EEG, EMG and kinematics features that permit prediction of movement production, in order to use functional electrical stimulation (FES) to compensate for tremor in neurological patients. The rational and the methodology is sound, but several points must be clarified in order to improve the validity of the result and to increase readability of the results of these important and worthy results, not only for academics but also in the clinical settings. The queries can be answered, clarified or considered for more advanced reports in the future. Introduction: In Figure 1 the dashed line seemed to indicate the movement, but how it is possible that the movement itself is predicted by the movement kinematic - that should be zero before movement. Except if some thresholds are defined, pre-thresholds movements are the predictors. Please clarify the sentence "decrement of the rest tremor before movement onset" - does it means that the reduction in tremor is not the initial voluntary movement but a different neural command which is being inhibited by the voluntary control? Then define physiological characteristics, frequency amplitude, of tremor. Otherwise it would be difficult to distinguish between the reduction of tremor and the initial phases of movement. Methods: "Mean age of the patients was 62 20 years" . It would be more precise to describe the age of each individual subjects. Means are useful for high number of subjects. Same for other parameters. "After (1) hearing an acoustic signal, the patient (2) prepared themselves mentally for the execution of movement and (3) performed the task." It is not clear how long it takes this preparation. Was it induced by the experimenter instructions or it was an spontaneous strategy? How long does each of the phases take? Is it neccesary to indicate the files code? Otherwise please suppress it. "EEG signals were sampled at 256 Hz (re-sampling at 1000 Hz for synchronization purposes). " It seems that the data were re-sampled to a higher frequency. Could it be considered an interpolation rather than a re-sampling? Anyway it would be better to sample at 1000 Hz, if needed. Figure 2 is very difficult to follow, maybe doing a composite figure with accelerometer, gyroscopes and magnetometers separated would be better. One example of tremor suppression would be appreciated. "The peaks (β/α and β/α ratios) higher than a defined threshold were considered as indicators of a potential voluntary movement. given that they represent the detection of the cortical motor preparation of the movement" The authors are very confident with this option, but some information should be given to the non-specialist of BCI. "Three time intervals were studied: pre-movement period, movement period, post-movement period. The pre-movement period (lasting 2 seconds) was defined according to the acoustic order given to the patients and the detection of the beginning of movement via the gyroscopes." Please give a more precise description of the time window analyzed - 2000 ms before the movement? 2000 ms after the auditory signal? In the middle? Was there always 2000 ms between auditory signal and movement? "The peaks (β/α and β/α ratios) higher than a defined threshold were considered as indicators of a potential voluntary movement" Was the threshold pre-defined a priori (which value?), or adjusted following the predictive value. "More than 800 possible EEG/EMG combinations (n=832)", please clarify the origin of these 832 combinations. "Where p is the probability of movement and n the number of movements predicted", please define more precisely the probability of movement. In general, it would be desirable to have an experimental protocol in which the subjects have the opportunity to decide if he/she wants to move or not. Or still better to go to a more ecological situation in which the subject is instructed to do the finger-to-nose movement at its own pace. And compare false positive and false negative predictions. Results: "The mean QP was 8212% (median = 83.5%) for the β/α ratio and 79.510.4% (median = 80%) for the β/α ratio." Please report individual subjects' values. Figure 3 reports values of QP much lower than the mean values reported in the text. Please clarify. Which are the coherence values for Figure 4? The Y axis is missing. Figure 6: Is not the predicted predicting? Or, is not the movement pre-threshold predicting the post-threshold movement? Is that the reason why the Y channel is so good predictor of movement? Please clarify. If it is reduction of tremor, please show some examples. The motivation of the simulation is not clear, because only the EEG can be simulated, not the movement. Please clarify the interest of the simulations study or remove it. Discussion: The discussion seems to clarify that the excellent predictor of reduction of tremor is produced by a different command than the voluntary control. But tremor should have a definite frequency, and this frequency property of the tremor seems not be taken in account in present report.