The manuscript elucidates the activity of Cajuputs to Candida albicans and Streptococcus mutans in mixed biofilms. The effect was assessed using CV assay, MTT, CFU, genes expression and SEM. The authors claim that Cajuput inhibits biofilm and production of polysaccharide by S. mutans. This study is fascinating; however, major revision is suggested to improve the manuscripts. The following are the comments for authors to consider: Section: Introduction It would be best if the authors can include the objective/s and the hypothesis of the study in the introduction section. Section: Methodology Microbial strains and MCEO sample: Did C. albicans was grown in aerobic or anaerobic? For MCEO Pulau Buru, what is the temperature in the boiler? If it is 100 degrees Celcius, won't it affect the active compound of the extract? Is this the same method used for the other extracts? If yes, it would be great if you mention that in the paragraph. CC preparation: Won't 150 degrees Celcius affect your active compound? If that is the method, it would be better if you can put a citation on the method. As the expertise in natural product, it seems the temperature is too high for an extract. Unless if the method is commonly used in the preparation by the local. Mixed biofilm formation: When you prepare the mixed biofilm, you did mention that you grew C. albicans in SDB and S. mutans in BHI in equal volume. Did you mix both media to prepare biofilm? If not, please make it clear in your text. Why did you coat the well with fetal bovine serum? Better if you can explain why because that is not the standard method used in polymicrobial biofilms study. For you control G0, you mentioned the biofilm was developed without CC. What is the final volume of the well? Did that remain to 200 uL or 140 uL of TSB? If it was 140 uL, how do you compare with other wells which the total volume is 200 uL? Morphology analysis of dual-species biofilm formation: Why did you choose acrylic as the surface to form a biofilm, and how do you relate this with well that have a different surface? Section: Results Effect of CC on dual-species biofilm development: 'Susceptibility' is generally referred to as the antimicrobial activity of the extract. In your research, you are emphasizing on biofilm (Figure 2) and not the antimicrobial effect of the extract. Figure 1. In the legend, the author mentioned that different letters represent significantly different. What does the author comparing too? Significant compared to what? Better to mention. What is a, b and c represent? E.g. 'a' in Figure 1A doesn't show significant at 3 hours. The figure seems confusing. I would suggest improving the figure to ensure understanding of readers. Similar to figure 2. Effect of CC on the morphology of dual-species biofilm: Figure 3A doesn't look corncob to me. Please read this article: The microbial infection of biomaterials: A challenge for clinicians and researchers. A short review. Journal of Applied Biomaterials Biomechanics 2005; Vol. 3 no. 1: 1-10 1 What do you mean by microcolonies with reference to the figure? Please explain. How do you determine significant from SEM image? What was the statistical analysis did you use to claim the significant of your SEM? Did you use image J or any software to measure the biofilm based on your SEM? If yes, better to mention in your methodology. If not, please remove the 'significant'. Effect of CC on the expression of biofilm-related genes: The author mentioned 'upregulated dominantly'. What do you mean by dominantly and compare to what? G0? G1? What do you mean by 'to maintain the commensal form of C. albicans '? Section: Discussion The author claims that all CC groups reduce biofilm biomass. What is the author comparing too? Based on my observation, there is no significant difference in total biomass for 24 h and 0 h when all formulation are compared to G0. Please check your statistics. Figure 4D. This doesn't look cocci shape to me. More like bacilli/rod. I hope you did verify your sample prior to the experiment. Attached is the SEM of commonly seen Streptococcus mutans under SEM. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-08558-x 2 The author mentioned that lower gtfB indicate the fewer binding site. Glucosyltransferases (Gtfs) are enzymes and not a 'binding site'. This is too speculative. Please consider to rephrase or to remove the statement. The author also emphasised a lot on quorum sensing molecule which is not studied in the manuscript. The author also mentioned that QSM is not measured quantitatively. This statement can be misinterpreted none of the section showed the authors have conducted study on QSM either quantitatively or qualitatively. Please consider rephrasing. Overall, this is a good study; however, more improvement is needed to fit with F1000research, a Q1 journal. 