David Soergels opinion piece applies numerical calculations and common (software engineering) sense to thinking about errors in scientific software. I have seen no other piece that so simply and brutally summarizes the likely problems with current software development approaches in science, and I wholeheartedly agree with his recommendations. I think that the recommendation for a common trusted workflow system is an interesting one; I am particularly impressed by the point that we need separate implementations of important software, as this is often neglected by funding agencies and non-computational scientists. The large majority of the points in the paper are well taken and should not be controversial except perhaps in aggregate! The only major flaw in the paper is an overstatement of the central thesis. For example, The title is too definite; it needs a "probably" (which may decrease pithiness); Same with the abstract. One fix might be to eliminate the first sentence and move the last sentence to the top. For scenario 1, its a pity there are no citations for these numbers, because they are nonintuitive (I found 20% executed to be too low, until I really thought it through, and then I agreed; but Im not sure many people will believe). Is there any way to either bound or "suppose" these numbers a bit more? I would say that if the statements can be softened a bit to indicate that all of this is *almost 100% certainly the case but we cant actually say it definitely* then the article would be very acceptable. I didnt see the reference to the sign error debacle at the appropriate "sign error" point in the paper: http://boscoh.com/protein/a-sign-a-flipped-structure-and-a-scientific-flameout-of-epic-proportions.html Another reference that could be usefully added, given space: http://www.fastcompany.com/28121/they-write-right-stuff It might be worth adding a reference to the recent SSH debacle, where it turned out that incredibly well used software had a significant flaw. In other words, its not enough for software to be well used for it to be correct! (Space permitting.)