This paper was overall well presented and argued. The introduction is clear and makes a good rationale for the analyses in testing a contested area of the literature in gender differences in NAFLD. There are several points in the methods and discussion that could be made clearer however. Methods Firstly the description of the study population is inadequate. Who the cohort are in terms of age and gender is clear. But we need to know how and why the cohort was recruited. It does not diminish the importance of the findings if cohort participants are not representative of the general population but it is still necessary to explain how they are different. Were they recruited because they were at particular risk of certain health conditions? Or just from the general population? How were they contacted? This will have implications in the discussion of your findings. Also there are several references to those who consumed alcohol being excluded from the analysis. But there is no explanation of how this alcohol status was determined, and whether there was a threshold for alcohol consumption over the lifecourse. That is, are even occasional social drinkers excluded? The NAFLD itself was diagnosed using ultrasonography. But what about the other health conditions included in the analysis? Was diabetes also doctor diagnosed, or self-reported. And 'other underlying diseases are mentioned. What are they and how were they diagnosed? In summary we need to know what questions were included in the baseline questionnaire that led to these categorizations. Results The results are well presented overall. There is one point that was a little unclear. In the 4th paragraph the authors mention interaction of the NAFLD with periductal fibrosis. No mention was made of this condition in the Methods. I am unclear what the importance of this interaction is or why it was mentioned. Discussion This section is also well set out and argued. The main point missing here is again who the cohort are, and whether the prevalence figures reported are applicable to the general population. I will state again here that not being nationally representative does not reduce the value of the findings. But it needs to be mentioned. Lastly a minor point in the discussion. In the 'Age-gender interaction' section the authors state that '..NAFLD becomes comparable between men and women at the age of 60 years.' This does not appear to be true from the results. This point could maybe be explained more clearly. 