 Research Title: It seems to be clear. However, it was conducted only in sub-districts in one province of Thailand. The title is a big one; how can this study represent the rural area of Thailand? There were 7,435 sub-districts in 2018. Only two sub-districts were selected as the representative of the rural area. Introduction: “Hence, we conducted this research to determine the factors affecting stress among the elderly in rural Thailand.” It was indicated in the manuscript. The title and the significance of this study focus on the overview of Thailand, whereas the study areas examined were only 2 sub-districts and Muang District (city). Can they be representatives for rural areas? As indicated in Research methodology. Methods: “The study sample size was calculated by using a confidence level of 95%, the coefficient of the error = 5% and the population proportion of 0.05.” Authors got 403 sample size. What is the formula for sample size calculation? “Hence, 403 elderly people were interviewed in this study by simple random sampling method from a list of promoting hospitals registering elderly patients”. Do the researchers collect only elderly patients? Can they be the representatives for elderly people there? Are the subjects Thai nationality? In this province, there might be some migrants who lived in this province for more than one year and they can communicate in Thai? “Face to face interviews of 40 minutes per participant were conducted”. Is it a digit for interviewing time? Time is used for controlling the interview. Authors indicated that the tools were tested prior to usage. Is IOC used for testing the content validity? For example, “Cannot sleep due to stress or overthinking”, the question was asked directly to the point of stress, is it biased? Cronbach’s alpha coefficient of the questionnaire was calculated as 0.80. It might be the total score of a questionnaire? “Kuder-Richardson 20 coefficient, was assessed as 0.79.” Please clarify the meaning of this statement. Data were analyzed using SPSS Statistics version 20.0. Is this a licensed software? Model 2 is a present illness like; hypertension, musculoskeletal disorders and diabetes. Does this variable count for “existing illness” and “no existing illness” or consider the number of existed diseases for a regression analysis? Administrative approval was gained from the head of the hospitals before the study began. Does this study focus on the elderly in the hospital? Results: Having no education, could the authors use another word replacing “no education”? Income (per month US$). The researchers did it during 2017, at that time the Thai Baht value is different from the current situation (please specify the exchange rate). Smoking and alcohol drinking status, the authors classified only 2 categories “Yes” and “No” at the interviewing time. The experience of consumption or smoking were not considered. Some just quit or stop smoking or drinking, are they influencing the stress? In term of stress management as indicated in the manuscript. Please describe more details of this issue. What are they? For example; low level of management, what does it mean? “ This indicates the use of alcohol among the elderly is positively associated with their current illness, likely due to their perception that the alcohol will help with mental relaxation. ” Is there any scientific information supporting this statement? For the results indicated in Table 5, are there any perception variables used in the model? Because of drinking, are they facing the stress or they have stress then they decided to release it by drinking? Conclusion : It is not clear for the conclusion and recommendation is not available there. 