This study describes a psychophysical experiment in which three children who had recently experienced a concussion were asked to perform a visuomotor adaptation. Their performance was compared to three children with no concussion history. While the motivation for the study was sound, I have a number of concerns with this manuscript: Introduction: However, the association between pediatric concussion and sensorimotor function has not been investigated. An inaccurate statement, de Beaumont has done some work in this area, as has Danckert (review references listed at end). Methods: Wont Measure 2 always co-vary with Measure 3? Perhaps I am misunderstanding something. The rate of adaptation should always be related to the point at which they reach baseline performance, no? Major concern: Given the variety in symptoms and behavioural response to concussion, a study using only 3 children should be considered along the lines of a case study, or extremely preliminary data at least, more suitable for an abstract. Minimally, it should be made clear in the intro that this is a case study (only mentioned at end of methods). In general, this type of study is not appropriate as a case study since adolescent concussion is not, unfortunately, a rare or unusual situation. It would not be overly cumbersome to have an appropriate sample size (10-12 each group), fully analyse the data, and only then report the findings. It should be noted if this was the participants first concussion or not, since this is often an important distinguishing variable in post-concussion recovery rate. It should also be noted if the experimental group members were still symptomatic (via something like a SCAT3). Major concern: Given the significant neurocognitive and neurological development between 12 and 15, three age-matched controls would have been better. Also, because of sex-related differences in visuomotor control (see Gorbet et al. 2007, 2011) and sex-related developmental differences in this age range, the sex of the children should be stated and matched with controls. Typically this paradigm includes a phase whereby participants do a number of trials in a null field. The level of aftereffect serves as an indication of the extent to which the adaptation was incorporated. This might be useful for the present design. TMT result: Again, there is the issue of comparing a 12 year old to 15 year olds to a 17 year old, so it is difficult to judge whether this is an age effect or a concussion effect. Age is typically a strong covariate for coordination measures taken pre/post-concussion (see Dalecki et al. 2015). It appears that the worse the concussed participant did on the TMT, the later the point of adaption-baseline match (cc1 and cc3 vs cc2). This is something which cannot be explored with n=3, but should be noted and examined with the larger data set. Conclusion: The concept and approach are interesting and potentially useful, and indeed the use of sensorimotor impairment in the absence of current-standard symptoms post-concussion is an important area of study. However, the inappropriate presentation as a case study and the lack of age (and sex) controls make it difficult to consider this a full and rigorous study. In its present form it is suitable as a presentation of preliminary data at a conference rather than a cite-able publication. I look forward to seeing the complete study. Minor comments: Methods, paragraph 1: grammar issue (tense change) Selection criteria for subjects were the same between patients and controls (except their concussion status), which were: subject is 1017 years of age,regularly participates in an athletic activity, is English-speaking, is right handed, and has no neurological disease or peripheral disorder affecting movement of the right arm. Figure 1a: Is the axis mislabeled for figure 1a (left)? The methods state that there are 40 baseline trials. Figure 1b: consider using a different symbol shape for controls, difficult to distinguish open versus filled circles. Figure caption error (two references, no f reference) References: De Beaumont L, Tremblay S, Henry LC, et al . Motor system alterations in retired former athletes: the role of aging and concussion history. BMC Neurol. 2013;13:109. Locklin J1, Bunn L, Roy E, Danckert J. Measuring deficits in visually guided action post-concussion. Sports Med. 2010 Mar 1;40(3):183-7. Gorbet DJ, Sergio LE. Preliminary sex differences in human cortical BOLD fMRI activity during the preparation of increasingly complex visually guided movements. Eur J Neurosci. 2007;25:1228-1239. Gorbet DJ, Staines WR. Inhibition of contralateral premotor cortex delays visually guided reaching movements in men but not in women. Exp Brain Res. 2011 Jul;212(2):315-25. Dalecki MS, Sergio LE . Prolonged cognitive-motor impairments in children with a history of concussion. #2-D-107, Canadian Association for Neuroscience, 2015, Vancouver, BC. http://can-acn.org/documents/2015/CAN2015_Abstract_Booklet.pdf 