In this paper, a bibliometric analysis of the Sericulture field has been carried out by means of science mapping analysis. To do that, SciMAT and Bibliometrix was employed. Although the paper is interesting, it must be further improved. In general, it is not well organized and it is difficult to read, and therefore, understand. Regarding the methodology, authors must to clarify the use of two software. And also, authors must to read carefully the methodology used since some concepts seem not clear. Moreover, the contribution of the paper to the field is very little. Authors do not extract relevant conclusion from the results. They just describe the figure and tables. Also, the objectives are not clear. In what follows, some comments and suggestion are listed. The introduction describes the sericulture research field deeply, but the objective and research questions of the paper are missing. Authors must to clarify if there are other bibliometric analyses focused on that topic, and the importance of this research. Two software tools are used in this study: SciMAT and Bibliometrix. But, they are not properly cited. Both software have associated a publication published in important journals. For example, SciMAT is published in JASIST in 2012 1 and Bibliometrix is published in JOI in 2017 2 . Authors should cite correctly the software used. Moreover, there is a reference to SciMAT, but authors confused the methodology used by SciMAT with the paper describing SciMAT. Both paper should be cited. Why authors use SciMAT and Bibliometrix? What is the query used to retrieve the data? Authors should clarify why they used two different databases to retrieve the data. If two databases are used, authors should not take into account the citations, since may vary in WoS and Scopus. Authors perform a deduplication step over the keywords? How Figure 4 was created? Why the conceptual evolution is shown before the strategic diagrams? It does not make sense. Thus, Figure 8 (strategic diagrams) must be place before Figure 7 (evolution). Last paragraph of page 6 does not provide nothing interesting, since it is just describing the overlapping figure in a textual way. Authors should make an effort to show the knowledge learned. Regarding the strategic diagrams, authors just put them but any comment is added. This is the most important part of the papers, and there is any comment describing them. Also, the strategic diagrams are difficult to understand since they have a lot of themes. I recommend to set a higher threshold for the data and network in SciMAT. Why authors make a complementary analysis of the last five years in five different periods? In this subanalysis, authors made the same errors than in the analysis of the other periods. That is, no comments (or just a few) describing the results. Finally, the discussion and conclusion must be further improved. Authors must make a great effort extracting knowledge from their results. That is, authors should not just mention the results shown in Tables and Figures, but describe and interpret the results. 