In this study the authors determined several micro-RNAs and mRNA expression of IL-2 in the PBMC obtained from 225 paranoid schizophrenic patients and 225 healthy normal control subjects. They found that all studied micro-RNAs, for example miR-16, miR31, miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-181c were overexpressed in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of schizophrenic subjects compared with normal control subjects. They also found that the IL-2 mRNA expression was down regulated in schizophrenic patients compared with normal control subjects. This is an important study of miRNA and IL-2 in schizophrenia. The results are significant. There are many strong points of the study. The number of study subjects is very large -- 225 patients with paranoid schizophrenia and 225 sex- and age-matched normal control subjects. They determined relevant miRNAs in the schizophrenic patients. They also determined the mRNA expression for IL-2, which has been studied in schizophrenia and was found down-regulated in this study. A procedure for isolating the RNA from PBMC is well described and the methods used for mRNA determinations and miRNA determination are also sound. The Introduction is to the point and relevant. The Discussion is pertinent and the Methods are described clearly. Overall, this is a very important and strong study of miRNA and IL-2 in schizophrenia. I have only a few minor comments: What was the drug-status of the schizophrenic patients at the time of this study? Were all of them drug-free or were on treatment with any drugs? They studied the mRNA expression of IL-2 in schizophrenic patients. The rationale for studying IL-2 has been described. However, it is not clear why they did not study the mRNA expression of the cytokines IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α, the abnormalities of which have been implicated in schizophrenia. They determined the mRNA expression of IL-2 and were comparing the results with the protein expression determined by other investigators in the plasma of schizophrenic patients. These comparisons may be fine but may not be relevant. Can they describe if there are other studies of mRNA in schizophrenic patients and maybe they should cite those. For example, Pandey et al. (2015, 2018 1 , 2 ). 