General comment: The authors are trying to compare the results of Trabx and AGV in FHI patients, but the main concern and cofounding factor are the significant difference between the rates of phaco surgery during the follow up which is known as a risk factor for the failure of Trabx. This effect could be more prominent when another risk factor such as chronic uveitis is present. The main cause of such difference between 2 groups, in terms of success, with sharp downward slope after month 6 is most probably related to cataract surgery. This needs to be discussed more. Specific comments: The hypothesis mentioned in the last paragraph of introduction which has been stressed again in the first paragraph of the discussion needs more justification and explanation. What does it mean: “having lower failure rate but at the expense of higher average pressure in AGV” According to the cited article “ Lower IOPs were noted for the trabeculectomy group during the first year. With longer follow-up, the IOPs and the cumulative probabilities of success were comparable between the two groups ”. Higher success rate for AGV in other studies such as TVT was due to higher rates of hypotonia in Trabx which was not the cause of failure in the present study. Combined glaucoma surgery and phaco was among the exclusion criteria, but 2 cases in Trabx have had a combined surgery. These cases should have been excluded. By considering which criteria, in some cases Trabx and in others AGV were performed? The definition for hypertensive phase is not precise and cannot differentiate those cases with non functioning tube from hypertensive phase. Please give some explanations and give the rate of hypertensive phase. How many surgeons did perform those surgeries? Were there cases that needed postop needling or subconjunctival antifibrotic injections? Was the grading of inflammation on those with failed surgery during follow up different from the others? Although the following 2 references have used old fashion type of surgery (No antifibrotic or 5FU) but still according to reference 26 and 27 the 5 year success rate of Trabx was 78% and 67% respectively. This has been mentioned less than 30% in the article. Please correct or give explanation. 