Previous reports of a positive correlation between Vg gene expression and longevity in the hymenoptera prompted this interesting and timely test of Vg gene over-expression in Drosophila . The data show that there is no simple strong benefit to life span when over-expressing Vg genes in the Drosophila adult fat body, using the S1-106 Gene-Switch driver strain. In addition, because a life span increase was observed in a control cross involving over-expression of GFP, the results suggest possible effects of the drug, the activated Gene-Switch transcription factor, the GFP, or the variability of the assay. These results underscore the importance of careful controls for possible life span effects on the conditional gene expression system itself, independent of the specific identity of the gene being over-expressed. The data are clearly presented and support the conclusions above, however, the generality of the conclusions must be tempered somewhat given the limited scope of the study. In previous Drosophila studies life span extension was observed when transgenes were expressed with certain drivers, but not others, including some cases where the drivers tested had similar tissue specificities. Those results indicate that the precise tissue-specificity and/or level of transgene expression can be important. In the present study the Vg transgenes were expressed using a Gene-Switch driver strain that yields expression in only a subset of the fat-body tissues, so it remains possible that over-expression of the Vg genes using a driver with more extensive expression pattern in the fat body and/or other tissues might create a life span increase. The conclusions regarding the possible cause of the life span increase in the control cross are based on the assumption that over-expressed GFP has little or no phenotypic effect. However the one Drosophila study cited reports a significant (negative) effect of GFP expression on aging phenotypes (using different drivers). If GFP can have negative effects in some tissues it seems possible it might have positive effects when expressed in other tissues (for example, the effect of killing the IPCs or the germ cells can increase fly life span). For these reasons it is not clear whether the life span increase observed in the present study results from the drug, the activated Gene-Switch, or the GFP. Finally, it should be noted that this result was not replicated. These considerations limit the support for a possible negative life span effect of the Vg transgenes as suggested in the Abstract and Discussion. 