This article reports an overall description about developing a free and open source software designed for qualitative data analysis. This software assists researchers to organise and categorise the initial codes they create through data analysis process in various qualitative methods such as thematic analysis, ethnography and grounded theory. As this software is free and easily accessible, it will be useful for many researchers who do not have access to more sophisticated tools. The authors highlighted the ease of use and free access of this tool as its main benefits and I do agree with them. Nonetheless, they did not compare the capabilities and performance of this software with one or two well-known tools in this field to explain its strengths and weaknesses. Obviously, the existing tools have several options for deeper level of analysis and also some facilities for analysis of non-text data such as image, audio and video. As a result, I think the authors should also remind the reader about the inevitable limitations of this product. I also recommend the following revisions in the article: 1. The article should be more informative in terms of distinctive features of this software comparing to similar tools in this context. 2. The first citation in the introduction section (Lewis, 2004) has been published 14 years ago while since then the area of qualitative data analysis (QDA) has been developed considerably. As a result, I recommend to include a few recent citations in this section to provide the reader with a more accurate image of the current trends and issues in this area. 3. The case presented in this article is based on a relatively small collection of data. Accordingly, we still do not know how effective the software will be in larger data sets. As sometimes, the huge volume of the data in large scale studies may reduce the performance of a software. 4. The authors mentioned popular qualitative data analysis tools such as QDA Miner Lite does not support Persian and Arabic languages. Nonetheless, the case presented in the article is English and we still do not know about the real performance of this new tool in other languages such as Persian and Arabic. 5. The conclusion is too brief at this stage and it should be more detailed and insightful. A good conclusion summaries the main points of the article and invites the reader to think further about the focal point presented in the discussions. In general, this article is based on a creative idea but still requires some revisions and I hope the software presented here will be useful for researchers who use qualitative approach in their studies. 