This is the careful revision of a thorough study on a 20-item questionnaire for assessing paranormal beliefs using a visual analogue scale with 10 items on belief and 10 items on experience. The test was applied to 361 subjects in an observational study and to a second group of 646 control subjects recruited in their lab. Statistical tests were used to determine validitiy, reliability, internal consistency as well as test-retest reliability. The results show that the questionnaire matches these quality measures. The study is novel and timely. But there still is room for improvement. The authors call their scale noetic. Noetic refers to the philosophical concepts of mind, understanding or intellect and was elaborated as a notion of high-level scientific thinking in the nineteenth century. The authors quote the ancient ethymology on page 4. Accordingly, the title of the study in its present form suggests a broad belief concept comprising both natural and potentially paranormal beliefs. Since the authors treat noetic, however, synonymous to paranormal and since paranormal beliefs are the content of the paper, noetic is misleading for the title of this paper and ought to be replaced by e.g. paranormal. Likewise, the authors fail to provide a greater picture of what a belief is. In fact, natural or normal beliefs are essential products of brain function (Seitz et al. in this journal; cited in the paper). In contrast the paranormal beliefs of the kind the authors address in this study are considered to result from abnormal brain function. As paranormal beliefs are the objective of the study, the questionnaire is not applicable as a general or comprehensive belief scale. This should be stated in the discussion. Right from the first sentence of the introduction the authors point out that they focus on “paranormal beliefs”. Also, the authors suggest that belief pertains to the abnormal or paranormal and provide a good survey about similar studies. But it remains unclear what abnormal beliefs are in comparison to delusion-like beliefs as investigated in the normal population by Pechey and Halligan (2011). The scale items (presented in Appendix I) consist of statements beginning with “ I believe …” (B-statement) and throughout with one statement “I have personally had this experience” (E-statement). In contrast to what the authors note the high correlation of the ten B- and E-statements is not surprising, as both statements involve the same types of neural information processing. The B-statements reflect a personal inference explaining a previous perception or experience of high personal relevance, which is a belief as described earlier by Seitz and Angel in this journal (cited in the paper). Therefore, it is justified that the authors call these phrases B-statement. For comparison, the E-statement focuses semantically onto an experience of a paranormal perception. Asking the subjects to approve or deny this statement, however, requires that the subjects recall this very perception or experience. This recall from memory has a probability of being true for the subject which also reflects a belief and would be expressed correspondingly by “I believe that I have personally had this experience”. Consequently, this renders the E-statements to be essentially B-statements as well. The authors present nicely the development of their scale (pages 3 through 4). This should go under a headline of its own. For comparison, study 1 refers to the procedures described on pages 4 through 5. Therefore, the headline of study 1 should be moved accordingly. It is unclear who the 899 participants are (page 4 left column). If this pertains to both study populations, why is this number mentioned here? Please, clarify. Likewise, it is unclear, in which subgroups these participants were analyzed. Page 12, left column, line 1: I guess it should be than instead of that. 