In the manuscript “Nuclear envelope impairment is facilitated by herpes simplex virus 1 Us3 kinase”, the authors used transmission electron microscopy, Cryo-field emission scanning electron microscopy and super resolution confocal microscopy to examine the sizes and numbers of nuclear pores and nuclear membrane surface area in wild type HSV-1 or DUs3 virus infected cells. They conducted quantitative analysis and confirmed several previous observations such as nuclear membrane expands in HSV-1 infected cells, Us3 deletion leads to folds and invaginations of nuclear membrane, and Us3 kinase activity is necessary for capsid release into the cytoplasm, etc. They also found that nuclear pore number decreased HSV-1 infected cells, with more interpore distance measured, compared to that of mock infected cells. The authors generated beautiful EM images to carefully describe nuclear morphological changes that help us understand the HSV-1 egress process. Several issues need to be addressed before the manuscript can be indexed. In Figure 3, the authors demonstrated nuclear envelope impairment in wt HSV-1 infected cells. In Figure 4, they described folds and invaginations of nuclear membrane in DUs3 infected cells. It would be more scientifically accurate if the authors compare both wt and DUs3 in the same TEM experiment, define the descriptive criteria for pore dilation and pore impairment, and then quantitate the pore impairment side-by-side. Via Figures 1 and 2, the authors showed pore size and number in mock and HSV-1 infected cells. They went on to measure and count pore size and number for statistical analysis. However, the scale bars in Figures 1 and 2 are different. Visually it is difficult to compare the pore sizes or to understand what they meant for “large clearly confined holes”. On page 7, three places in parenthesis it says “(Figure 5C)”, but it actually refers to Figure 5D. Proofreading should be done before submission. It causes a great deal of confusion. Figure 6: what does the red-orange color represent in 6B and 6C. Describe them in the figure legend. Also on page 7, the last sentence of conclusion says “we conclude that nuclear membranes enlarge upon HSV-1 infection, but pore formation is delayed or inhibited, and insertion of host cell membrane proteins ceased”, the last part of “insertion of host cell membrane proteins ceased” is unfounded from the data in this manuscript. On page 12, the authors showed NE impairment (Figure 3) in wt HSV-1 infected cells, and refer to previous publication that capsids are not released from PNS into cytoplasm in the absence of Us3 but capsids are found in the cytoplasm albeit in a number lower than wt infection, and then concluded DUs3 capsids enter cytoplasm via nuclear pore impairment. The part “via nuclear pore impairment” will need more evidence. Also on page 12, higher number of RC and capsids were observed in DUs3 infected cells, compared to wild type infection. How about the extracellular infectious virion production? 