This paper describes a state-of-the-art system, which is capable of real-time photoacoustic imaging of a living human body. The authors evaluated fundamental characteristics of the system, such as spatial resolution and angle-dependent visibility of a target, and also showed the feasibility of the system in in vivo imaging of vascular trees in a living human body. The system is able to visualize small vessels with good resolution and contrast. The contents of the paper would be of interest for the readers. Upon indexing, I suggest revisions described below: There are number of referenced papers published from authors' group. On the other hand, the papers from other research groups seem few. Are there no more related works from other research groups? Although the method for image reconstruction is described in [21], it would be better to describe how to do that briefly. Particularly, the diverged laser light has a significant spatial inhomogeneity as shown in Fig. 3. Can you obtain an image by one shot of laser pulse with such a spatial inhomogeneity? Using such a diverging light source, photoacoustic signals would also be spatially inhomogeneous. Do you need any correction compensating for such a spatial inhomogeneity in the light intensity? It would be more informative if you describe the reason for the use of fluctuation of the light source in the fluctuation mode (FM). Does the fluctuation change the spatial distribution of artifacts? If so, it is understandable that image quality is improved by averaging. The size of an ultrasonic transducer element is relatively large (2 mm). I understand that the sensitivity of each transducer element should be high, but are there any effect of the element directivity on image quality, such as artifact generation? In p. 7 and l. 2 in the right column, epsilon_Delta Hb should be epsilon_Hb? In p. 7 and l. 3 in the right column, I found an expression "epsilon_Delta Hb and is". "and" should be removed? As explained in the paper, the scan time increases with widening the field of view. Do you need any motion compensation technique because the spatial resolution is very high? In the case of alternative laser irradiation, are there any effects of movements of blood cells during the repetition period of 50 ms? In the in vivo experimental results, relatively large vessels are also visualized, and movements of blood cells in such a relatively large vessel would be significant owing to relatively high flow velocity. In Fig. 6b, I can see some artifacts. Such a distribution of the artifacts (sidelobes?) depends on the spatial arrangement of array elements based on the Fibonacci grid? It would be better to describe why artifacts can be suppressed by the Fibonacci grid and how large the sidelobe level is when a regular grid is used. Particularly in Fig. 6e, I can see remarkable range (y-direction) sidelobes. What is the source of those sidelobes? Also, such sidelobe components do not affect the estimation of oxygen saturation? 