In this article, authors investigated association of miR-31, miR-146a, miR-181c and miR-155 with schizophrenia pathogenesis, as well as their link to IL2 gene expression in disease. It was noted that 225 patients with paranoid schizophrenia and 225 sex- and age-matched controls were recruited in study. Peripheral blood samples of each patient was used. Results have shown a higher expression of studied mi-RNAs in schizophrenic patients vs control group. As well as lower expression of IL2 gene in schizophrenic patients vs control group. IL2 rs2069778 SNP was not associated with schizophrenia. It is kindly requested from authors to address following comments: In Introduction section, it is indicated that interleukins and other cytokines and their receptors play an essential role schizophrenia predisposition, development, progression and treatment response. Most of the cited literature reported non-conclusive results in order to support such strong statement. Consideration to rephrase wording "essential" is suggested. It is stated that 225 patients with paranoid schizophrenia and 225 sex- and age-matched controls were recruited in study yet only 61 and 66 patients were tested for micro-RNA expression and IL2 gene expression respectively. It is not clear which inclusion and exclusion criteria were utilized to have only 127 patients tested in total. Providing more information/explanation on these criteria is suggested. It is also stated that all subjects were genotyped for this study. Does this refer to total number of patients or only to ones which were tested or micro-RNA expression and IL2 gene expression? No information on disease stage, type of medications, relevant medical history, concomitant medications and especially comorbidity was provided/discussed for tested patients. MiRNA and IL2 can effectively participate in the pathogenesis of several pathological conditions, such as cancer and metabolic, infectious, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, Possibility of such comorbidity and influence on the study results should be considered and discussed. Also, observed results of differences in miR-181c and miR-31 expression in T allele carriers should be discussed in more detail. 