This is an interesting paper which gives a lecturer who is new to learning technology an opportunity to try a relatively straight forward intervention. The paper describes the use of Google Web 2.0 technology tools, namely Google Docs and Google Slides to help with the ecology field work of first year students. I think it would be good to alter the use of the terminology, and refer to first year students as Level 4. I would also like to know the range of degree programmes which these students are enrolled on, and what the gender ratio is. The first link in the introduction Challenger Philosophy requires the use of a password to enter the content. I think it would be good in the introduction to say something about what the challenger philosophy is, as readers will not be able to access this information via the link. In the development of this idea, it would be good to know what had been done in previous years, and what promoted the change to this new approach, or was this a new module? The introduction gives a good rationale for this choice of technology intervention, e.g. enhanced group work, opportunity for peer assessment, and a greater opportunity for cohorts to get to know each other and to discuss data generated. Other educational literature is cited to support the rationale. In the results, the authors stated that the students mainly succeeded in setting up Google Accounts. This suggests that some did not? If they did not, what were the barriers? (This was actually subsequently looked at in the discussion). The authors indicate that after the group work the students showed a greater awareness of ecology techniques and the campus, how was this information gathered? Was it through informal discussion, or was it through comparison to previous experiences of work produced in this module? This needs some clarification. There were interesting reflective comments from the authors, but I would like to see some information on the student evaluation, it would be particularly interesting to see if any themes were emerging from student free text comments on the skills which they considered they had developed. If this module has run before, without this technology intervention, is there a difference in the marks obtained for the module? The authors mentioned of the information several times during the paper. I think some referral to the wealth of literature surrounding research-led teaching where ownership is a key outcome of this type of learning, would enhance the paper.