This is an opinion article on a very important topic: how to make necessary post-publication changes to a scientific article as quickly as possible and in a way that will not confuse readers. It argues that the current methods (retraction, replacement, expression of concern, correction, erratum, comment) are slow and confusing. Instead a proposal is launched to separate making the changes needed from the fact finding about why it went wrong and if someone is to blame and should be sanctioned. While developing their proposal the authors opt for more neutral language and suggest to let the term amendment replace emotionally laded terms like retraction. I applaud the authors for raising the issue, but I should say that I’m more convinced by their analysis of the problem than by the solution they propose. The piece is well written and quite clear in explaining its core ideas, but I would like to raise a number of points with the single purpose of inviting the authors to broaden the scope of the article a bit and to rethink some of the elements of their proposal. The current manuscript is in fact a quite technical policy paper that contains many details on how all versions, amendment notices and metadata could be linked together with a view to make all changes transparent and traceable. While it indeed is important to be able to follow the history of changes to a published article, the technical details are only relevant for the small audience that would be responsible for ‘making it happen’ if the proposal is implemented. I assume that many readers will not be interested in the technicalities and will also find them difficult to follow. I was puzzled by the fact that the example that explains how the amendment model works in practice was buried in a supplement. This needs to be the core of the main text at the expense of the technical details that would be more fitting for a supplement. The example in the supplement illustrates my main concern by assuming that in cases of alleged research misconduct it’s clear what is wrong and needs to be rectified before a full investigation is concluded. That may be the case in some instances of plagiarism like massive text recycling and clumsy image duplication. But in my experience most allegations of research misconduct are not so clear and almost always the accused does not only deny that he or she did something wrong, but also contests that it is wrong. Consequently authors will usually resist any amendment of their published work before - and often also after - the conclusion of the full investigation. I agree that the amendment model will probably help to make necessary changes more quickly and more clearly if the authors request them or agree to requests made by others. But editors and publishers have a track record of doing nothing without having consent from the authors. And I cannot see why this would be different under the new paradigm. This needs to be discussed in the opinion article. Who should make the final decision about publishing an amendment? The current manuscript seems to suggest that this is the role of the publisher. But I assume that most scientific journals have some form of editorial independency from its publisher and that consequently the editor-in-chief will decide. Of course the publisher has the role of providing technical assistance and legal advice. I would have expected some remarks that make clear that the authors are in favour of evidence-based policy and meta-research. That could for example imply a proposal to perform a Delphi study among editors and authors with the purpose to gain a better understanding of what these stakeholders think about the problem and which solution they would prefer. Similarly I would have expected a plea to thoroughly evaluate the intervention proposed when it is piloted. I rather like the fact that at the end of their piece the authors link the amendment model to the broader picture of transparency of the publication process. The role of pre-prints, pre-registration, publication of data and data-analysis plans, post-publication peer review, and anonymous commenting (e.g. on PubPeer) are all very briefly mentioned. But the article might improve if they explain in a bit more detail how these phenomena may help or hinder the implementation of the amendment model. There is one technical detail that puzzles me. How can we make references to outdated versions go away? Authors that write a new paper often use their collection of PDFs or their own often quite primitive system for storing (the metadata of) relevant publications. This may be the main reason why retracted papers are still cited. Maybe the list of references of a new manuscript can be checked whether the latest version is referred to by some clever piece of software. And I wonder whether it would also be feasible to update the references of articles that are already published. I’m not convinced that the term retraction can be avoided completely. The authors propose to substitute this with complete amendment . But when for instance the data were fabricated or no mandatory informed consent was obtained, there is nothing to amend in the sense of providing a better version of the paper. The publication in these instances just needs to be disqualified and will not be substituted by a new version. Retraction seems to be by far the best word for it. Complete amendment will probably work well if the authors for instance acknowledge that huge mistakes have been made in the data-analysis and want to replace their article by a version in which that issue is solved. Complete amendment might then indeed be a better term than honourable retraction as proposed by Daniele Fanelli. 