The successful targeting of DPP4 using small molecule compounds to treat type 2 diabetes has attracted a great deal of attention towards the study of this protease. The authors applied sophisticated techniques that they have developed in order to discover that two DPP4 inhibitors, including one that is in limited clinical use, can to some extent inhibit the activity of a bacterial lipase (PI-PLC). Many lipases and esterases and hydrolases including DPP4 and related enzymes use the alpha/beta hydrolase fold and the authors show how this related protein topology can place the residues in positions that are sufficiently similar to interact with an inhibitor. The major difficulty with this paper is that it attempts to connect these data with possible clinical outcomes. No evidence for such a link is presented. Therefore, the title and much of the conclusions need to be modified so that they reflect the data without speculation. Two inhibitors of DPP4, LAF237 and K-579, were studied. K-579 is not in clinical use. LAF237 is licensed in Europe and is known to exhibit some inhibition of the DPP4-related proteases DPP8 and DPP9. The extent of inhibition of DPP8 and DPP9 by LAF237 is believed not to have physiological effects in humans. The IC50 of LAF237 on DPP9 is less than 0.01 mM. The IC50 of LAF237 on bacterial PI-PLC is 0.1mM, which is close to the lower limit of detection of inhibition of an enzyme. No mammalian homolog of PI-PLC was examined. The literature that the authors cite to suggest that DPP4 inhibition might be detrimental for human health, particularly the pancreas, is data on sitagliptin or exenatide. Exenatide is not a DPP4 inhibitor and sitagliptin is quite different to LAF237, both in protease specificity and in chemical structure. The contact points of LAF237 and sitagliptin in the catalytic site of DPP4 differ considerably. The authors present no data on sitagliptin or any other DPP4 inhibitor (other than LAF237) that in is the clinic. The images of overlaid catalytic triads of various enzymes presented in Fig 1 and Fig 3 need to be depicted in 3D in order to evaluate how close they are in 3D. Intermolecular distances should be shown on thee figures. To convince the reader that LAF237 sits into and makes contacts with enzymes other than DPP4, we need to see the compound docked into the structure of each enzyme of interest.