I agree for the most part with the points made by the other reviewer of this paper. Here I will not repeat any of the points previously made but I have several to add which I think the authors and readers should consider. Introduction 1st paragraph. One of the most common symptoms of gonorrhea in males, urethral discharge, was not mentioned. 2nd paragraph. The following statement is incorrect: “Gonorrhea is caused by pelvic inflammatory diseases,…” I think the authors meant to say “Gonorrhea causes pelvic inflammatory disease which can lead to sterility…” This is a typographical error which significantly changed the meaning of a sentence. There are other less significant such errors throughout the paper and, as recommend by the other reviewer, the paper would benefit from proofreading to detect and correct these. Background information on the national prevalence rates of syphilis and gonorrhea would be helpful in understanding the results of the study. Are such data available? If so they should be provided in the introduction. Results It is striking that all the independent variables tested where independently associated with level of knowledge about syphilis and gonorrhea despite the fact there must be significant confounding of the analysis i.e., for example, socioeconomic status is always strongly correlated with educational level. This correlation is so strong it is somewhat surprising that that both variables were independently associated knowledge levels. The large sample size probably accounts for this and this the major strength of the paper. Discussion It was striking that the Barisal region had significantly higher knowledge levels than the other districts. From what I could learn on the internet, this is a relatively rural area which, based on the results of the comparison of rural vs. urban area knowledge levels, should have had lower knowledge levels. Dhaka is the largest city in Bangladesh yet knowledge levels in the Dhaka region were significantly lower than in the Barisal region. It would be important for the authors to help the reader understand this unexpected finding in the Discussion Section of the paper. If there are better sexual health education programs in Barisal, perhaps these could be adapted in other parts of the country. The statement concerning the importance of mass media that songs can communicate awareness of syphilis and gonorrhea struck me. Is this really true in Bangladesh? If so, it would be novel and it would be interesting to know more songs used for sexually transmitted infection (STI) education. Conclusions Four geographic regions were singled out as parts of Bangladesh with the lowest knowledge of syphilis and gonorrhea. However, it does not appear that there is much difference between these four regions and the Dhaka and Khulna regions. Only the Barisol region seems to have be better knowledge of these two STIs than any of the other regions. The main message of the paper is clear as stated in the concluding sentence. Much greater knowledge of STIs in needed throughout all of Bangladesh regardless of socioeconomic status and educational level. This will be a daunting task given the relatively low levels of access to mass media in the country. 