This paper by Carlos de Lannoy et al. is a timely review of the choices available for genome sequencing based on Oxford Nanopore technology. This is a fast-moving field, and potential entrants will be well served by this exposition of the many options available. However, precisely because it is a fast-moving field, several of these options are already obsolete (yet relevant in providing context for recent developments). In addition, the many options in bioinformatics are confounded with a multiplicity of genome types (small prokaryotic to large repetitive) and nanopore chemistries. Many readers would benefit from additional support in navigating these multiple menageries. For this reason, we would like to ask the authors to address the following issues in more detail: All methods discussed have been tested using nanopore data, but never using comparable datasets. Therefore, evaluating for example the percentages of sequence correctness is not straightforward. A table simply listing the methods with some of their key characteristics/assembly statistics/nanopore chemistries/genomes assembled would be helpful. Similar confusion is always looming because of the many nanopore chemistries that have been available. For example, on page 7, on the improvement of the Metrichor basecallers: the improvement here, from 68% to 95%, also coincides with the shift from R7.3 to R9. While this is mentioned as ‘numerous improvements in chemistry and hardware’, it would be clearer if the nanopore chemistry generation is explicitly mentioned whenever such percentages are listed. The in-depth discussion of assembly methodology is clearly delimited to methods focusing on nanopore data only. But is this actually already a feasible option, and if not, what is needed to make this happen? All of the assembly pipelines discussed still fall short of reference genome quality. At the moment, sequence correction using short-read data (Pilon) remains necessary. Why/when should one choose for nanopore-only assembly, as opposed to hybrid? Both basecalling and polishing are nanopore-specific bioinformatics tasks, however the de novo assemblers are in principle (and often in practice) suitable for any long-read technology. Therefore, a brief discussion comparing PacBio and nanopore for genome assembly is appropriate. PacBio-specific assemblers are briefly mentioned (SMARTdenovo, Falcon), but how do they relate to e.g. Canu? A few minor issues: p2, p6: please change ‘chapter’ to ‘paper’. p3, second column, modifications of the R9/CsgG pore: this is a good location to briefly introduce R9.4/R9.5 p5: ‘multiple reads may be linked together by hairpins into chimeric reads’ - multiple molecules Figure 5: explain that the white wells are ignored. p8, Canu: ‘Where possible, gaps between unique unitigs are filled with repetitive elements.’ This may need some rephrasing, ‘repetitive element’ is a specific term – not necessarily identical with ‘non-unique genome content’. p8: percentages for DeepNano: ‘more accurate … (approximately 70% versus 77%) and … (approximately 88% versus 87%)’. Which is which? Figure 7, 3rd kmer: the reverse complement of CTC isn’t TCT. p11: a few extra days of CPU time spent on polishing is acceptable for large genomes, but a major bottleneck for bacteria – polishing then takes longer than sequencing. Do these timings refer to prokaryotic genomes? 