This work deals with the methods to compare and overlap structural variant events and presents an analysis of these methods against one of the best studied single genome for structural variant calling - the Genome in a Bottle HG002 - and the extensive population-level structural variant callset from the 1000 Genomes Project. Although in SNP and Indels the problem of determining whether two representations of a call are the same event, this problem is significantly more difficult more structural variant events. In the current state of the field, this is an open and challenging problem. The presented analyses are valid. Any review of this work can point out an almost infinite number of parameters for the analysis that can be argued over, such as: What are reasonable size ranges to merge events? What are proper criteria for filtering events? Is it appropriate to include calls from so many methods in merging - should we identify some as unreliable? Should certain callers be weighted more highly than other based on reliability? How do we consider orthogonal support from different methods - are 3 Illumina methods based on different signals (coverage, insert size) as good as 2 Pacbio? Are the differences in how we discover events types (INS/TRA/DEL) significant enough that we need new comparison methods for some? What are we missing, but we're not aware we're missing. Do the current methods have any major blindspots? Etc... This list could be nearly infinite, mostly because so many questions in this field are unsettled. The most important contribution of this work is as a foundation that frames these discussion points. The ability to point to data around a strategy for overlapping and analysis is an important step in progressing beyond discussion of all the items that can be considered. The results may be valuable to these tool developers to identify structural variant types, sizes, and genomic contexts which their methods perform poorly on. In addition, the annotation ability may be useful in the annotation and interpretation of structural variant events (one could imagine making BED files for genome regions identified in ExAC or gnomAD as important for and scanning samples or structural variant events that look unusual or damaging in an individual or which impact genes associated with phenotypes of interest). The number of possible future directions for this work is unusually large (the questions listed above are a good start). There are a number of decisions about the approach that I disagree with and would do differently, but to determine which of those opinions/approaches are valid would require work to the scope of being one (or many) additional publications. I look forward to community efforts which continue to refine the methods to compare and annotate structural variant calls building on the concepts outlined here. 