Unfortunately I remain unconvinced about the contribution of the work presented in this manuscript. The results are presented through case studies rather than formal evaluation. Claims are made relating to various capabilities of the system that are not justified; for instance, the statement that the tool can split the text into "various IMRAD parts" is neither explained (in terms of Methodology -- does this simply involve searching for specific key words such as "Abstract" or "Introduction"?) nor directly evaluated. There are no quantitative evaluations of performance that support the claims that are made, only statements that the tool has been "validated in-house". This does not constitute a scientific evaluation of the tool. Closer inspection of the Text box of Figure 1 suggests that the text is not in natural reading order; I see several lines from separate columns juxtaposed. The XML file produced for this text retains the columnar structure and shows The Lipid-Pro application can be configured on Microsoft Windows immediately followed by supported by Waters qTOF instrument platforms, acquires intact in the next column field without any straightforward way to extract the linear order of the text; the second sentence here clearly does not follow on from the first. I don't see how this format would be useful at all to anyone wanting to do natural language processing on this text, as the authors state. (NB: information retrieval and natural language processing are not the same and the textual representation assumed for NLP is very different than for IR; it is very important to retain the natural text flow and sentence structure for NLP tasks.) The premise of the work is still not adequately justified; the journals examined no longer (if they ever did; I doubt PLoS or PeerJ, for instance, ever did) publish work as images requiring OCR of the whole document. Lumping HTML and PDF together (as "simple formats") is clearly inappropriate; they have very different characteristics and indeed in HTML the text is nearly always in straightforward linear structure. However, not all PDFs are created equal and most PDFs have perfectly extractable (non-image/non-scanned) text these days through tools such as PDFbox. The authors have not responded to my prior comment that many publishers are already making documents available as nicely structured XML, in a format far preferable to what the authors are producing, due to richer provided semantic structure. The extraction and analysis of images themselves may be useful; doing OCR of text in an included image could be valuable. The authors claim that this is unique to their tool. It may be, and this may be the most useful part of their tool. However it is unclear how well the tool does this; a close look at Figure 1 identifies some clear errors, e.g. "Coiled" rather than "Collect"; "Nud" rather than "Nucl"; etc. What level of error is tolerable?