Considerable genome data is now available for isolates of many members of the family Enterobacteriaceae . As we move away from well-defined species such as E. coli and Salmonella, taxonomic assignments become blurred and there is now a great need to develop standardized tools for proper classification. A particular case is that of the species Enterobacter, where only 12 of the 35 historically classified species in this genus are valid. The present manuscript reevaluates taxonomic allocation of members of the Enterobacter cloacae complex using whole genome sequences (WGS). It is important to remember that the dataset comprises primarily of draft genome sequences of varying quality and with only a very small number representing truly closed genomes. Isolates of the E. hormaechei complex are often associated with clinical disease. Based on the data from this study there are now two novel subspecies of E. hormaechei designated as E. hormaechei subsp. hoffmannii and E. hormaechei subsp. xiangfangensis respectively. In addition, a new species E. roggenkampii is proposed. Overall the study predicts the existence of 7 additional species within the genus Enterobacter . The bulk of the analysis is based on a single tool viz. MASH-based ANI and is supplemented by the panOCT tool developed by the authors. The authors should consider the use of additional software tools to determine the overall genome-related index (OGRI). Specific comments: Clade A-E represent the five subspecies of E. hormaechei. The average nucleotide identity (ANI) for the clades A-D and E are at the borderline ANI-species definition. In view of the fact that data is based mainly on draft genomes, the utility of supportive assignments based on the total numbers of unique genes must be considered carefully. For such closely related clades, multi-tool-based analysis of taxonomy are helpful to reassure the claims. To support the species/subspecies distinction, particularly for those closely related clades, the use of widely used taxonomic tools such as the digital DNA-DNA hybridization tool, GGDC should be employed to strengthen the claims. ANI values can vary when using different calculation tools as for e.g. with JSpecies and ANI calculator. The use of MASH algorithm leads to minor variation in ANI values and makes the borderline species definitions presented here difficult to interpret. To confirm separation of E. timonensis and E. lignolyticus from the genus Enterobacter , comparison with members of the closest genera (for e.g., Klebsiella, Citrobacter etc.) should be added. Finally, biochemical and fermentation characteristics are key indicators for phenotypic characterization of isolates in diagnostic laboratories. The final paragraph on biochemical properties is inadequate and could lead to confusion of phenotypes and undo the very purpose of the proposed classification scheme. Thus the gat operon is not exclusive to E. hormaechei subspecies hormaechei as stated, but is also present for e.g. in type strain E. bugandensis EB-247 T . 