This study outlines three open-source hardware solutions to microphones for bioacoustics monitoring. The authors justly acknowledge the lack of transparency from current manufacturers of the technical details of the components, especially the microphone element. Another important note is the decrease in cost in comparison to off-the-shelf products which as the authors note, are not only expensive but difficult and impractical to get repaired. Considering the increasing use of open-source hardware in the bioacoustic field this article is a very nice addition to allow practitioners an easier time of assembling their own equipment. Even though this is a nice article, it is a bit difficult to follow at times and it doesn’t flow that well. The introduction is good, but I recommend the authors to look through the structuring of the methods and the results section. The justification for only testing MEMS elements is not thorough enough as it is not compared to the other types of elements that are on the market. What are the benefits of using a condenser element for example? For the sentence below (methods section) I think it is better to just state the representative frequencies rather than giving readers (especially inexperienced ones) the impression that these are representative frequencies for those taxonomic groups (amphibians and birds go above 10kHz depending on species for example). Especially as it is stated in another section that insects can also hear sound up to ultrasonic frequencies. "1 kHz (birds and amphibians), 10 kHz (insects), and 40 kHz (bats)" The English need to be proof read up throughout, three examples follow (especially in the methods section, I think it makes it a bit stodgy and difficult to follow). “This microphone would be intended mainly for bats.” reads better as “This microphone is intended for bat recordings”. “This microphone is the cheapest, simplest, and, like its namesake, ugliest design.” Sentences like this one can be cleaned up a bit, Bufonides are not ugly (you just have not looked closely enough), and there are better words to use than ugly (i.e. basic design, rough etc). “It is thus preferable to reflow-solder MEMS elements to printed circuit boards, which can be made in electronic laboratories or workshops equipped with reflow ovens.” Sentences like this one does not make a lot of sense (after the comma), I had to re-read several times before I understood what you meant as the way the sentence is structured it could refer to the MEMs element or the circuit board (but you mean neither). I would use a full stop instead of using a comma then re-write the second part to something along the lines of “Reflow-soldering can be performed in reflow equipped electronic laboratories or workshops”. The section I was really interested in was to see how the weatherproofing affected the performance of the microphones – however, there is only mention of how it affects the ultrasonic frequencies? It would be nice to see a graph of how the frequencies are affected by different levels of waterproofing (it would even be interesting to see how complete waterproofing, such as a plastic bag compares to vents and no proofing as I’ve worryingly seen that used at times). In general, the result section feels a bit rushed and not developed enough. It was especially difficult to follow, both in the methods and results section, which element and which vent was used where. Occasionally only the vent is mentioned and no element (remind the reader again). I think you missed a bit in the discussion, it is worth mentioning that the first time all these things must be sorted out they will take considerable time and I think your estimate of labour is on the low side. It often takes considerable effort to figure out where to source everything the first time – in addition it needs to be highlighted that these cost estimates are for Europe (Germany to be precise, it is in the supplementary information but I do not think it is mentioned in the text), there can be considerable variation depending on where you are based (both lower and higher). The sourcing time is also a labour and it can take considerable time to find suppliers, sort out shipments etc so it should at least get a mention. I am pleased that someone has managed to find waterproof vents that come in smaller batches than 10,000 pieces. I also acknowledge the quite comprehensive supplementary material that is attached with more in-depth details of assembly – the article itself is really the tip of the iceberg of the amount of work that has gone into this study. I do believe that comprehensive manuals and instructions like these are a necessity to ensure other people use it. All in all, this is a very nice and timely article and I hope we start seeing more of this kind of work that is written for field scientists coming out. 