The paper of Estill et al. reports on possible future scenarios for SARS-CoV-2 epidemic in Switzerland. The results look plausible and may have important implications for a policy-making process. However, I think the study requires a more detailed sensitivity analysis and more flexibility in the proposed scenarios. In my opinion, the adopted values of the parameters (90% of reduction in contacts, 56% reduction, etc.) could be more variable, and additional analysis could help to determine their most efficient values. I also think that the Discussion section could propose a better overview of the problem and give comparison with other studies. Some other remarks of mine are below. Figure 1b vs 1c: I would have thought that the deaths counts should be lagged by approx. two weeks compared to ICU bed occupation. However, the black curve in 1b peaks visually at the same time as in 1c. Could the authors check this more carefully and confirm that there is some lag? Figure 1d vs 1c: What confuses me more is that there is no visually distinct time lag between reported cases and deaths. Figure 1: what are the Credible intervals for each trajectory? Compartmental model: it would be nice to have at least a brief description of the adopted model. For example, whether it includes asymptomatic carriers, hospitalized/quarantined people. It would be also good to know if the transition times follow exponential distribution or are described by gamma distribution. The authors could elaborate more than simply saying that all parameters are directly adopted from Ref.4. I believe that the considered scenarios may represent some minimalistic set, but it would be also nice to have a more detailed sensitivity analysis. For example, the reduction of contacts in Japan was set to 80% during the first wave, and it was proven to be sufficient. The authors of the present study consider the reduction at 90%, which may be more difficult to implement. Hence, I may have a question: how much should we actually reduce the contact rate? I may have a similar question regarding the seasonal forcing and choice of 7 June for lighting up the social restrictions. What would be a reasonable choice of such date? Is 7 June chosen optimally? I am a bit unsure if students (in 20s) and workforce subpopulation (in 30s-40s) can be attributed to the same age group. In my opinion, they have a quite distinct contact pattern. 