 Integrated Biomedical System This article addresses a very important topic, the integration of different kinds of data from different domains for joint analysis. This is indeed the future of research to jointly analyze genomic, clinical, life style and environmental data. The authors claim to have developed an “Integrated Biomedical System”, a platform that collects and stores in a single place different data sources, like genome data (SNPs, NCBI), proteomic data (PDB, SwissProt), physiologic data (heart rate, skin conductance, respiratory rate derived from sensors), life style data (nutrition, prescriptions, other medications, sleep pattern) and air pollution data from EPA and used it for some kind of study. This is a considerable achievement, but it is presented in an unclear, incomplete and insufficient way. To begin, what is this manuscript? A description of a new software tool, a study of the integration of sensor data, a pilot of a software tool? The purpose of the manuscript should be clearly stated; it determines how the results have to be presented. An important aspect of such a study is how data is measured, treated and processed. There are different methods and algorithms used to analyze data from sensors used for monitoring. For example, sensor signals can be contaminated with noises or interferences. In addition, responses to these signals could be different for different persons. In this context, sensor data need calibration. All these issues are not discussed. In fact, the integration of data from diverse sources results in data with different data formats, data models, metadata schema, etc. and this must be addressed. Efforts of other groups working on the integration of sensor and physiological data should be mentioned. For example, Arturo Arino from the University of Navarra combines in the PAIRQURS project physiological data with location data and air pollution data measured with sensors attached to bicycles [1]. These sensors record the levels of selected atmospheric pollutants, like CO, NOx, Ozone, and airborne particles, together with auxiliary data (Temp, HR) and GPS coordinates and transmit processed packets via GPRS to a central database. In detail: Methods The Methods section is very weak. What is the Experimental Procedure ? Protocol design and approvals are mentioned; but is it a medical study? What is the study design? What is the comparator? It is stated that the study was planned for 20, later 40 participants. But how many volunteers actually participated, what gender, age, number of drop-outs, ...? Data privacy protection is a hot topic for medical data and GPS data. It should have been considered in the informed consent, because with GPS data identifiability of persons becomes a problem. Privacy protection should have been discussed. “Volunteers have full choice of all elements of the research project …” What does this mean? Can participants determine the study protocol? There is sometimes redundance in the text: For example, "COUHES approval", "Entering events, meals, prescriptions…” is mentioned 2 times It seems that some terms are used arbitrarily. For example, the " Genome part" contains also Proteome data. "Interactome" means the whole set of molecular interactions in a cell, like the human protein-protein interactome. But in the manuscript Interactome contains even heart rate, ECG, respiratory rate, etc. The Exposome encompasses the totality of human environmental exposures. But in the manuscript it contains measurements of activity and sleep and nutrition. The Integrated Biological System is obviously a software tool, including several databases. But no exact information about the structure and architecture of the system is given. How many tools / modules, what interfaces, how many databases, what data models, what standards, etc. Global unique identifiers are mentioned. How are these identifiers integrated in the system? A GUID is a number that the program generates to create a unique identity for an entity; why is this used for data exchange between sites (and between which sites). Implementation . This section contains partly redundant information with Integrated Biological System, describing that Ruby on Rails was used, some of the databases, etc. Better a list should be provided that describes all components of the application setup and their connections. Operation Concerns the use of the Integrated Biological System. “Users can upload data through the web interface”. This is very basic information, without any details. But what data, what format, how to use the interface,...? Measurement procedures are missing. What are the Analytical Methods? Statistical Analyses? Some information is included in Fig. 1 (like, Bland-Altman plot is mentioned, but why use this plot?) Results The Results section has the same subtitles as the Methods section. But here the results of the pilot study should be presented in a standardized and comprehensive way. First, what is the primary result of the pilot study? The detailed numeric outcome could be summarized in a table. Many problems are mentioned, like devices worn only during active periods, contact pads drying out, battery recharging, etc. What was the effect on the data? This should be mentioned. In addition, an interpretation of Fig.1 is missing. The reason for comparing such a large number of different devices is missing. Were different devices worn by the same person, were multiple measurements done? Several rather vague statements, for example: “multiple devices were tested ..” how many? “Some devices also …” how many? "This data was integrated to enable …” how? "… provided by a subset of volunteers.” How many? "Example longitudinal measurements from a single individual ..” how was this person selected? "Analytical modules were developed …" belongs to Methods "GPS tracking of outside activities …" how could outside activities be differentiated from inside activities? “…data from nearby EPA or other air quality monitoring stations.” More information is necessary. How were the monitoring stations selected, how far away are these stations from the participant, what kind of data is provided by the stations, what kind of calibration was used, …? Discussion Here the results should be discussed in a critical way. This is completely missing in the manuscript. The vision should be put to the final end of the manuscript. It is stated that individual monitoring devices, genetic data, blood biochemistries, nutrition, exposures, … were integrated into a unified system. But the integration was not complete, because the genetic data seems to be missing in the results section. Important is to discuss how good this integration was, and all results should be evaluated critically. Reference https://eudat.eu/news/interview-with-arturo-ari%C3%B1o-from-pairqurs 