The title and abstract are appropriate, but the abstract would be better if it could be more specific about the total set of analyses provided by the pipeline. In general, the article is well constructed but lacks significant information on the methods. I would prefer to see an actual methods section with more detail and the parameters used for each of the programs. I couldnt find this at the web-server either, but that information should be in the manuscript. Also, much of the information needed to reproduce these analyses is missing. For example, what are the accession numbers of the genome sequences used? What were the settings and versions of the software? How were the HMM and BLAST searches compared? What settings were used in the BLAST part of that comparison? The authors describe one genome, or 21 ( section)- what is meant by this and how is it done? Like the other reviewers ( Granger Sutton and Bruno Contreras-Moreira ), I share the concern about a blanket cutoff for similarity. This may not be appropriate for all protein families, so being able to adjust this as a user would be helpful. Regardless, the authors should provide better justification for the cutoff (literature-based or experimental: investigating how changing parameters affects the outcome of these analyses). If the results could be provided at a range of cutoffs, the user could inspect the effects of this change and make decisions accordingly. In the same vein, allowing some flexibility to add or change databases might improve the longevity of this work. One obvious additional database would be the Sifting Families database ( Sharpton et al., 2012 ). There are now several pan-genome analysis pipelines available, for example see the following recent publications: Contreras-Moreira Vinuesa (2013) Benedict et al . (2014) This situation is analogous to that of microbial ecology, where competing pipelines are common. It would be very helpful for the authors to point out specifically what distinguishes this pipeline from existing tools and why readers should use it. This not only will improve the usefulness of the manuscript, but encourage adoption of your software. I have some additional specific edits that I think will improve things further: speciation event, or a duplication event Add: (orthologs and paralogs respectively). subject set of organisms. ggplot2 package (citation/website needed). Supplementary figures: legends should specify what the numbers are inside the bar plots. Also, some additional specificity describing what is being shown in the four internal plots for A and B would be helpful. The type in S1/S2 is almost too small to be legible on my screen even in the expanded view. Finally, keeping consistent color coding between A and B would speed comparisons, e.g., Pfam is green in three plots, red in one. Figure 3- what are the numbers inside the cells? Why are the pairwise comparisons of genomes with themselves included? S. thermophilus is used in making yoghurt, and considered to be probiotic, while the other strains are pathogenic. (Citations needed) Please define GO slims What is the purpose of showing the distribution of gene length according to different databases in figures 5, and S1, S2, S3? What is meant by single genome annotation by the PanFunPro approach? What are the methods for genome annotation? This sounds like a different analysis than that demonstrated in the current manuscript. Please provide more details on annotation and how this approach is done with the pipeline. The code is downloadable from the second link under but the first ( http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/~oksana/PhD_Thesis/PanFunPro/ ) did not allow me permission to download. 