Whether sensorimotor gating, as evaluated by the prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex paradigm, is attenuated or exaggerated in ASD is still controversial. The present study attempted to investigate this using a mutant mouse model. Specifically, neuronal deletion of Pten in the mouse is expected to result in P13K/AKT/mTOR hyperactivity implicated in ASD onset. The study may potentially clarify whether this genetic manipulation would be sufficient to modify PPI expression. No difference between mutants and wild type (WT) mice was reported. Indeed, the magnitude, habituation and threshold of the startle response as such were reported to be highly comparable between genotypes. The null results led the authors to conclude that the contribution of the mTOR pathway to ASD-related PPI deficits is limited. Closer examination of the methods and data reveal significant concerns that undermine confidence in the reliability and robustness of the reported findings. No attempt was made to examine sex difference, while it is highly relevant to ASD. Methodology details were not sufficient. Essential test parameters such as ITI and SOA in prepulse-pulse trials were not reported. Wide of response window was not reported, although it could be discerned from the raw data file. Apparently, 8 (out of 17) mutant mice died from Experiment 1 to Experiment 3. This led one to suspect that the mutant mice had serious and widespread physiological defects, which could undermine any meaningful comparison. One would like to see body weights reported at least. Were the mutants significantly lighter? Statistical results are poorly reported. Only “main effects” (supposedly the genotype effects) were considered. Statistics towards ascertaining the presence of startle habituation (e.g., Trials or blocks of 10 trials effects), and prepulse inhibition (the effect of prepulse intensities) etc. are not provided. To report that “no main effects were found for habituation F(1,27)=…” is inappropriate, because the comparison of habituation between genotypes could only be meaningfully evaluated by reference to the Genotype x Blocks of 10 trials interaction. Reporting the main effect of Genotype does not allow an effective assessment of the habituation profile, merely the overall magnitude of startles. The plot shown in Figure 1a cannot be reproduced from the raw data provided. It is also observed that the first trial of Day 1 data were all very low (in all mice). This is highly unusual and may indicate a protocol failure, or misalignment of data. Examination of Day 2 data for PPI assessment also reveals another anomaly. At least 4 mice (ID: 2081, 2084, 2085, 2072) exhibited very weak startle values (well under 100) in all “120startle” trials – substantially lower than the startle magnitude obtained on the previous startle habituation test. The change is massive and inexplicable. The problem may be more extensive and include other mice. The authors should exercise due diligence in examining their data before analysis. In their discussion of Kwon et al.’s (2006) reported findings of a PPI deficit (Nse)-Pten KO mice, the authors mistook the prepulses at 4dBm 8dB and 16dB as the actual magnitude of the prespulses used by Kwon et al. In fact, these refer to prepulse of intensity at 4, 6 and 18 decibels units above background. The use of 70, 75 and 80dB prepulses here were presented against a background noise level of 68dB, and thus effectively be +2, +7 and +12 decibel units above background. Hence, it is incorrect to conclude (by comparison between the present study and Kwon et al.) that “there may only be changes in percent inhibition in Pten mutant mice when the prepulse in comparatively quiet”. If anything, the +2 (or 70 dB) condition here was even lower than the weakest prepulse used by Kwon et al. The authors evaluated the startle reactivity curve as a function of increasing pulse intensity – as a means to examine the “startle threshold”. Yet no attempt was made to measure individual startle threshold for comparison between genotypes. Otherwise, it is misleading to conclude that threshold did not differ when only the group’s average profile was presented. Hence, although the available data tend to support the overall lack of an effect of the gene KO on PPI, the methods, presentation, data analysis are clearly inadequate. 