Pjanic, Miller and Quertermous suggest a genetic mechanism that may account for the correlation of latitude, frequency of blond hair color and prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in European populations. The mechanism involves TCF7L2 and its regulation of KITLG in skin tissue. Specifically, they describe (i) that rs12821256 (SNP associated with blond hair color) alters a binding site for TCF7L2, (ii) that KITLG contains other binding sites for TCF7L2 in its vicinity (Fig1A in the manuscript) and (iii) that rs7903146 in TCF7L2 (the strongest known risk SNP for T2D) acts as a trans-eQTL for KITLG in skin tissue (Fig 1B in the manuscript). The manuscript does not provide new evidence, but connects disparate evidence from GWAS, ENCODE, eQTL databases and molecular studies to put forward a very interesting hypothesis. However, and even if the pieces do fit together, more clarifying evidence is needed to validate this hypothesis: Fig 1B shows that C-allele increases expression of KITLG in skin tissue (this is T2D protective allele, but this is not indicated anywhere in the text). According to the authors’ mechanism, C-allele should also lead to higher expression of TCF7L2 and consequently lower expression of KITLG in individuals with “blond” allele at rs12821256. However, and here lies the main caveat of the study, the evidence for a trans-eQTL is minuscule. The authors need to explain how much of the variance is explained at each step (for instance, variance in expression levels of KITLG in skin tissue that can be explained by rs7903146). Even if the proposed mechanism is interesting, a minor contribution by rs7903146 could not “explain” the core hypothesis. The authors should go beyond SNP associations and validate this mechanism by looking at TCF7L2 expression levels (and its correlation with KITLG levels among genotypes) in skin samples from GTEx. There are 200 such individuals available, which should be enough to validate this point. Moreover, other association evidence from GWAS could strengthen the hypothesis. For instance, rs7903146 should have a suggestive p-value for being a “blond hair” SNP and rs12821256 blond allele should in turn have a suggestive p-value for being a T2D protective allele (as blond people should be overrepresented among T2D cases). The authors could check publicly available GWAS p-value files to check this point (preferably within cohorts of a very homogeneous genetic background, e.g. Iceland). Are there studies on the extent to which the lower prevalence of T2D in Northern Europeans is genetic in origin? Is there any evidence from less heterogeneous sources at the environmental level? For instance, do European Americans of Northern European ancestry have less T2D than other European Americans? Prevalence data is suggestive, but more evidence would reinforce the authors’ point about a pleiotropic mechanism between blond hair color and genetic protection to T2D. At the very least, the authors should discuss more about this part of the hypothesis. Related to the previous point, do the authors think this molecular mechanism explains the lower prevalence of T2D in Northern Europeans, or it is one of many other causal factors? This aspect should be made more clear for readers. Fig 2B is redundant 