This is a well-written opinion article that presents a well-articulated argument for the science community to increase the practice of “openness” in research. After clearly defining “open” research (caveat below), key components of the article include a discussion on the importance of open research to science, some recommendations on how researchers can conduct their research “openly” and how universities can support such work, and there is a discussion about challenges to open science. The article is a valuable contribution to this growing movement. Although the article is well written and the argument is clearly articulated with appropriate references to the literature, I believe that there are a few points that the authors should consider and respond to prior to this work being approved for indexing. The authors reference the work as a “review” but in the parlance of F1000Research, it is an opinion article and it is written as such since it is an argument for conducting more open research. Thus, this reviewer suggests not referring to the work as a “review.” The article title and a few areas within the text are written specifically toward engineering research, but this topic transcends disciplines and much of the content can be applied broadly. As such, the authors should consider whether the title and respective text should be less restricted to engineering. Perhaps the authors could present the topic as one that is more broadly applicable but then more clearly state that they are using engineering as a case study/example to illustrate their points. The authors begin the main text with a clear definition of open science, but it is unclear if this is the authors’ definition or if it is taken from the literature. This should be clarified. The authors should consider adding a bit more discussion on the challenges associated with open research. For example, more could be said about how the culture of academia doesn’t particularly value open research currently. Today’s academic culture is still too focused on where a journal is ranked based on impact factor and this plays into aspects of faculty life such as faculty hiring, promotion/tenure, faculty performance evaluations, post-tenure review, etc. While the authors touch on some of these points, a greater discussion and recommendation for a culture change could be a valuable, thought-provoking addition to the article. More could also be said regarding some of the minutia of how open research needs to be implemented especially related to the infrastructure needed to support it and the financial costs associated with the infrastructure. Who should pay for hosting, pay publications costs, etc.? In summary, this is a well-articulated article on an important, timely topic. The few points above slightly dampen this reviewer’s enthusiasm at this time related to giving full approval. As such, I look forward to reviewing a revised version of the article. 