In this paper The developmental transcriptome of contrasting Arctic charr ( Salvelinus alpinus ) morphs Gudbrandsson et al . have tested for differential gene expression at multiple developmental time-points among a number of Artic charr morpho-types from Lake Thingvallavatn (3 wild morphs, 1 studied with RNA-seq and qPCR, the others with qPCR only) and Holar aquaculture (1 domesticated morph, RNA-seq and qPCR). They have also studied multiple tissues/body regions for a subset of the differentially expressed genes found with RNA-seq. The goal of the paper was to find candidate genes that may underlie variation in morphology, with a focus on craniofacial morphology related to benthic vs. limnetic feeding. In general, I think this goal was met and this paper contributes to our understanding of the mechanisms contributing to morphological evolution in a non-genetic model organism. The authors provide an extensive, multi-time point comparison of two morphologically divergent groups of charr reared in a common environment (reducing the influence of phenotypic plasticity) and have collected a tremendous amount of data. This information will help them to hone in on the genetic loci contributing to phenotypic evolution in this very interesting system, and on the effects of domestication. However, there are a number of major issues that do need to be more clearly addressed in the manuscript prior to final publication. I have outlined these comments below. Major Comments Introduction : Requires some reorganization, clarification of what phenotypes have evolved in parallel among morphs, and how the authors separate the effects of domestication (SB vs. AC) from benthic/limnetic evolution (SB/LB vs. PL/AC). a) At present, the introduction focuses upon the utility of instances of parallel evolution to help us determine how repeatable evolutionary change may be. This is definitely true, and the repeated evolution of the dwarf, benthic morph (SB; the focus of the introduction/abstract/discussion) in many lakes strongly argues that this phenotype has evolved via natural selection. However, it is not clear to me if true seen among the SB (small benthic) and LB (large benthivorous) vs. AC (Holar aquaculture) and PL (small planktivorous) morphs because not enough information is provided for me to assess this. To support the argument for parallelism the specific traits that have evolved in parallel among morphs must be displayed and the evolutionary history of these morphs should be clarified (e.g. in paragraph 6 and Figure 1). As well, any related non-parallelism in traits should also be discussed (i.e. how are the domesticated AC and wild PL different?). At present Figure 1 only shows the AC and SB morphs, and does not point out the specific traits they are interested in. This is critical background information for readers who are not familiar with this system. b) The comparison of AC (domestic, limnetic-like head) vs. LB (wild, benthic like head) looks at two confounded variables: domestication and the benthic/limnetic morphology. This should be clearly stated in the introduction, and the use of the additional morphs (PL, LB) in detangling domestication vs. benthic/limnetic evolution should be noted. c) The use of the AC morph is still a bit unclear to me. The argument for point ii) of the availability of abundant AC material could be expanded by providing more information on the like features of this morph and why it is an appropriate comparison to a benthic morph, the genetic divergence from the lake Thingvallavatn fish, and also the selection regime it has experienced (selection for limnetic features? What other traits vary with domestication?). d) Paragraph 2 Much of this paragraph, including discussing the ability to measure gene expression and relate to phenotype in fishes, is unnecessary as fish are no different from other vertebrates in this respect. Instead, the final sentence One approach to identify pathways related to function or morphological differences is to study gene expression during development should become the topic sentence and expanded upon to explain why gene expression studies are especially relevant ways to link genotype to phenotype in evo-devo studies. e) Better highlight the strengths The authors have done a wonderful job of assessing multiple developmental time points and rearing fish in a common garden environment. However, they do not highlight these strengths. Some small notes on the importance of controlling for phenotypic plasticity in these traits (which are known to be quite plastic) to better study genetic differentiation would be a nice addition. Methods: a) Page 4 paragraph 1 - Clarify the number of fish used to make the crosses (this will help us determine the likelihood of selecting a full or half-sib for sequencing/qPCR). b) I should note that I am not an expert in the analysis of RNA-seq data, but luckily the first reviewer has done an excellent job of commenting upon these aspects of the project. I fully agree with their comments and suggestions. I would also like to see more information on the methods used to pool samples and how RNA-seq data was normalized among samples, developmental times and morphs. I will also note that the authors often use S.salar for comparisions, not O.mykiss , which is a closer relative to S.alpinus . The reasons for this approach should be discussed. c) I am also not trained as a population geneticist. However, from my experience studying paralogous genes in salmonids, and with respect to the authors own findings for the Nattl paralogs (Fig 4), I do not think it is prudent to assume that the expression of paralogous genes is stable in the methods (page 12). In fact, Berthelot et al . (2014) find the opposite (see my comments for the discussion). d) The authors should use their genetic information to test if the fish chosen are siblings with each other (full or half-sibs). This may have important implications for the population genetic analyses. e) Page 5 - It is not appropriate to change the meaning of the word . I think it is much clearer to use the term paralog group or gene family when referring to the fact that the authors do not study single genes, but instead groups of paralogs. f) Selection of genes for qPCR the methods by which genes for the qPCR studies (Fig 3) were selected should be clearly noted. From my reading, it seems that most of these genes do not significantly vary among SB and AC at the 1% FDR level (Tables 1 and 2; only Natterin?). Thus, I am assuming these genes are only significant at the 5% FDR level (S1 file) why focus upon these and not those significant at 1%? As well, it would be good to include information on why different genes were selected for Figure 3 (qPCR validation of whole fish) and Figure 4 (candidate genes-qPCR validation in just the head). Finally, the abbreviations used for qPCR validation should also be listed in Table 1 for easy comparisons among figures/tables. Results Figures: a) Include an experimental design figure - At present, it is difficult to keep track of all of the morphotypes, tissues, and developmental time points used without referring to the methods. Thus, an experimental design figure summarizing the samples used (morphotype, population, sample size, developmental time point), how they were pooled and which techniques were used to measure gene expression on each sample (RNA-seq and/or qPCR) is needed. b) Include the LB and PL morphs in Figure 1 and clarify traits of interest The legend states that differences in size, coloration and head morphology are apparent, but it would be better to specifically point out the differences they are referring to. F1000 is for a general audience, and this would help non-ichthylogists better understand what ecologically-important traits the authors are interested in (e.g. those related to benthic/limnetic feeding). In addition, the two other morphs used in the qPCR studies should also be displayed (large benthivorous and small planktivorous) to facilitate phenotypic comparisons and assess parallelism in benthic/limnetic feeding and/or the effects of domestication on AC. c) Figure 5- this is actually a table not a figure (?) and is a bit confusing. I think it is much easier to interpret Figure S2 (displaying the data as in Fig 3 and 4), and that Fig 5 and S2 should be switched. It would be great to show significant differences in mRNA content in this, and all other figures, by including symbols. Also, full gene names should be listed in all figure legends. Discussion: The discussion focuses on the SB morph (page 17 The objective of this study were to get a handle on genetic and molecular systems that associate with benthic morphology in charr by mainly focusing on the small benthic morph in Lake Thingvallavatn, Iceland), while the introduction discusses parallel evolution (indicating that the comparisons should be among many morphs). These are two different topics i) mRNA content differences among benthic vs. limnetic morphs changing in parallel or ii) linking mRNA content to phenotype in SB (benthic, wild) vs. AC (limnetic head, domesticated) morphs. In particular, the role of domestication vs. wild fish divergence needs to be addressed. At present these two topics/questions are mixed in the introduction/discussion and should be addressed separately. a) Paragraph on Immune Defences - Is immunity also expected to evolve in parallel in all benthic morphs? Is this predicted to be unique to SB vs. AC? Whatever the case, the parallelism (or not) in these genes should also be discussed, and whether this relates more to domestication in AC or differences between limnetic vs. benthic fish. Much of the functional discussion can also be cut. b) Page 18 The information about genes found to be differentially expressed among morphs in your prior work should also be in the introduction, as it is background work that explains why you took this transcriptomic approach. This can also be used to explain why you focused in on particular qPCR genes. c) A discussion of domestication related differences vs. benthic/limnetic differences should be included. I think the data from head gene expression is very interesting (Figs 5, S2) and really speaks to this question. d) In general, the role of stochastic evolutionary processes, and not just selection (artificial and natural) should be noted. For example, if the AC charr were simply taken from a stock with a different mtDNA haplotype then these differences in the mtDNA genome might not be adaptive, just random. If the AC fish has much higher mtDNA expression might this be simply a domestication issue and not indicative of selection in SB as stated? Finally, you find that not all mitochondrial transcripts (which are transcribed as a polycistronic transcript) are found at similar levels (Table 1) what does this tell you about differential degradation/post-transcriptional processes? e) There is no discussion about the Analyses of polymorphism in Arctic charr transcriptome (Table 3, 4, 5), except for the mtDNA. Minor Comments Introduction: a) Paragraph 3 Furthermore, recent estimates from the rainbow trout.by utilizing multiple data sources the genome assembly problem of this family can be solved. I am not sure how this statement is relevant to this particular study. This and the following statement seem more appropriate for the methods/discussion to me. b) The morphs being discussed should be clarified throughout the paper. For example, the authors often state among morphs/among charr populations but it is not clear which of the many morphs they are referring to (e.g. Paragraph 5, first sentence on allozymes and mtDNA and later sentence on MCHIIa do you mean all 4 morphs of specific 2-way comparisons? Are some morphs more differentiated than others?) Methods: a) The authors should note why they did not use the PI (large piscivorous) morph in any qPCR studies (in the methods or discussion) as this would be a nice morph to use in their tests for parallelism. b) Page 5 (last paragraph) the methods used to remove particular variants needs to be clarified. In particular, why the assumptions used to remove variants are valid by referencing past studies. Figures Results: a) Figure 2. The key for Figure 2 should include a specific heading for morph and time-point with the abbreviations restated [e.g. Timepoint: 141 dpf, Morph: Small Benthic (SB)]. b) Figure 6 would be helpful to label the protein coding genes in this figure as well as the 12s and 16s RNAs. c) Figure 7 It is not clear to me which variant is present in which morph. Adding the nucleotide to the x-axis (i.e. frequency of m1829G for B) would make this figure easier to quickly interpret. The and should also be defined in the legend and it would be more appropriate to use scientific names for all species. Discussion: a) Discussion of reference 32 The discussion of reference 32 is not put into the proper context. Figure 6 of this paper (Berthelot et al . 2014) shows that there are many genes that have no correlation among expression patterns and/or differences in expression levels (1573, 1248, and 1895=4716 paralog pairs), and that together these represent more than the 1,407 correlated/similar expression level paralogs. This section of the discussion needs to be modified. b) The Norman et al . (2014) paper should be mentioned earlier if this is available why was it not used for their analyses? As well, the last sentence in this paragraph can be cut as it is evident. c) Page 18 Our new data also demonstrate differences in craniofacial elements between AC- and SB-charr, along a limnetic vs. benthic axis 79 . Are you referring to ref 79 or data from this study? If you are referring to 79, clarify and note what you found. This occurs a few times in the discussion General grammatical errors There are a number of grammatical errors throughout this paper (e.g. 31 genes were higher expressed in SB and 40 genes higher in AC-charr that may help sculpture benthic vs. limnetic heads pg 19).