 Title and Abstract: I think these are both a little misleading. The integrated intervention was not evaluated in such a way that would allow for rigorous evaluation (there were too few trial arms) – I think the presented results can only be used to compare the two different trap types. The sentence in the abstract that indicates the higher mosquito egg collections found using the novel trap is also misleading – analysing total egg counts over the course of the experiment actually indicated higher captures with the standard ovitrap. Article content: There are major issues with the study design. Not least of all, it does not allow for the assessment of any additive benefits from community engagement and healthcare worker education. The authors tested their new ‘ovillantas’ trap against standard ovitraps. Unfortunately, they only used lure-baited water in their novel trap meaning any difference found between trap types could just as easily be a result of the lure as it was the new trap design. Although cost was mentioned several times in the study, no indication was provided of the relative costs of the new tested trap (plus lure and construction time) versus the standard trap and so no conclusions could be drawn pertaining to cost effectiveness. Recycling the water in the traps is a good idea in the short term because natural chemicals emitted by ovipositing mosquitoes are attractive to future ovipositors. However, there must be an optimum duration over which water can be recycled, beyond which the build-up of algae etc would actually be unattractive to ovipositing females. This was never mentioned. Lack of internet access in this remote population is something that perhaps should have been identified as a major study limitation before the attempted use of web-based education services. After community participation inevitably wanes and the eggs are no longer collected and routinely removed/destroyed, the ovillantas will provide ideal breeding grounds for disease vectors. Part of the study involved community education on eliminating breeding grounds from participant houses but these ‘traps’ sound as though they themselves will become ideal larval sites in time. The only ways around this would be the removal of traps by trained personnel over a predetermined time period or the continual surveillance of the local communities’ upkeep of the traps – both expensive and unlikely to occur. Count data were analysed using t-tests. Count data are typically not normally distributed (typically they are Poisson or negative/binomial distributed) and would require alternative analysis methods. Minor issues in the content include the assertion that ovitraps have previously been shown to significantly reduce adult mosquito numbers – to the best of my knowledge this is not the case. Also, the authors mention that the 500m dispersal ability of A. aegypti informed the distribution of the intervention households (no more than 50 metres apart) but I neither understand this logic nor agree with this very-much-upper-estimate in A. aegypti mosquito movement. Conclusions: Overall, I’m left with questions over the usefulness of this new tool relative to the standard trap – depending on how the authors analysed their data they showed improved captures with both traps (and neither analysis was conducted rigorously). I also am left unsure of the additional benefits in terms of community participation or education/training because the study design did not allow for these to be tested independently. Data: The data appear to be presented clearly and are in a format that allows for their future use by other scientists. 