The manuscript uses k -mers from whole-genome sequences to recapitulate phylogenetic relationships from trees to networks. The analyses seemed to be convincing, and of general interest. I just have some comments on the manuscript structure and some other minor suggestions. The authors used Ernst Haeckel’s phylogeny and Biogenetic Law to start their manuscript. Although it is fun to read all these historical pieces, the link between Haeckel’s ideas and the construction of networks using k -mers was not made strong in the current version of the manuscript. The authors compared alignment-free data against sequence alignments, and stated that the sequence alignment approach “ignores important evolutionary processes that are known to shape the genomes of microbes” followed by mentioning recombination, genome rearrangement, and lateral gene transfer. This is not accurate, as sequence alignments can also be used to reconstruct web-like phylogenetic relationships, which are sometimes called phylogenetic networks (e.g., Huson and Bryant 2006). I think it is important to carefully define and compare the networks mentioned in this manuscript and the phylogenetic networks mentioned by Huson and Bryant. Along this line, approaches based on sequence alignments might not all assume tree-like relationship. Furthermore, the authors mentioned evolutionary events, such as recombination, genome rearrangement, and lateral gene transfer, that are difficult to study using sequence alignments, but did not provide detailed evidence on whether k -mers can tackle them all. I suggest the authors to rather stay closer to their data and make more specific statements. In the third introduction paragraph, “By default, it is assumed that the best alignment can be achieved simply by displaying the sequences in the same direction and inserting gaps where needed. This assumption is largely valid when working with exons or proteins of morphologically complex eukaryotes. However, in microbes this assumption is violated...” I feel the meaning of “assumption” in each of these sentences is a moving target. If they are talking about orthologous sequences, the analysis of orthologs should hold for both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. The key here, I guess, is the comparison of ortholgs, versus, the comparison of exenologs even non-homologs. Another minor point is the use of “microbes”, which can mean, bacteria, archaea, and small-eukaryotes. I don’t think it is a good word to use here. The authors did not justify the use of the 143 genomes. It seemed that they were inherited from their previous study conducted some time ago, and likely skewed in terms of taxon-sampling. Since taxon-samping is important for tree-like phylogenetic analysis, it would be nice to address how the improved (or more balanced) taxon-sampling can benefit the network analyses. The authors wrote “... in agreement with previously published studies; as such, this tree represents reality as presently understood, i.e., is biologically correct”. The use of words such as reality, biologically correct here, is inappropriate. The data of Wigglesworthia, Coxiella and others are of potential interest. The readers would definitely appreciate some real data analyses to address them, which are currently lacking. The cited references are relatively recent and skewed. Some of the older and more influential papers need to be added (for both networks and alignment free).