 This is potentially a very interesting article, and I think it could ultimately make a positive contribution to the evidence base. However, this paper has a number of serious flaws. More information and detail required: - The abstract and results are superfluous and do not report on some of the major findings. - More can be made of the data in figure 4. Why, for example, are leaves so much used, when in the rest of Africa roots are being predominantly used? - The information from figure 3 is not reported in the results or discussion. For example it would be interesting to know why digestive was so much treated. Discussion, conclusion and recommendations: - The discussion focuses most on generalities and not specifics as is found in the results. - Data on methods of preparation, administration, age and gender are not reflected in the results and discussion. This is particularly important for gender as the level of knowledge of local/rural African communities vary. Women are generally more knowledgeable in local households, but men are more knowledgeable when they are traditional healers. - References are seriously lacking in the discussion – thus no scientific authority is applied to most of the statements presented here. Thus this discussion is basically just an opinion. - Some parts of the discussion need rearranging to either the results (end of 2nd paragraph) or the conclusion (3rd paragraph). - Significant tracts of the discussion do not appear to be relevant to the study at hand, particularly the last two paragraphs of the discussion; the authors should consider removing these. - The current conclusion does not address the core data of this manuscript. - The authors should provide reasons for the points made in the ‘Recommendations’ section. Inconsistencies: - Questionnaires: In the abstract and main text it is implied that multiple questionnaires are used but only one is provided. - It says in the sampling strategy that experience as a herbalist was not essential, yet in the discussion it states that indigenous medicinal knowledge is a closely guarded only passed to family members. It would have been worthwhile to know the ratio of interviewed traditional healers/practitioners vs. lay people – there is a significant difference in their level of knowledge. - In the discussion the authors state that indigenous knowledge is confined to mainly the elderly but this study targeted only people above 50. In Africa that constitutes the elderly. Thus we have no data on the knowledge level of people younger than 50. Therefore we have no data to backup this statement. Language: - Some attention to the accuracy of language used is required; some words need removing, the authors should define what they mean by ‘key species’ (abstract) and appreciable knowledge (page 2) and replace the term ‘cured’ with ‘treated’. Notes on plant family classification: - Bequartiodendron oblanceolata is from the Sapotaceae family. - Malvaceae is the correct family name for Hibiscus spp ; Malvoideae is a subfamily. 