 General comment: It is important to recognise that the focus of the study is of interest in contemporary obstetrics. However, the methodology employed by the authors is inappropriate which limited the information which the authors were able to extract from the hospital records of the participants. Therefore, the result obtained was ‘overstretched’ and ‘over-interpreted’ while attempting to use it to answer the research questions leading to inferences that are not derivable from the results. While the authors imply causal relationships between the measured parameters and perinatal mortality, there is insufficient evidence from the results to establish these claims. It is therefore unacceptable to draw such ‘strong’ causal conclusions without evidence as was done in this article. A retrospective study is not the appropriate study design to make such conclusions attributed to it in this article. Title: Insert ‘in’ before Kenya Abstract: Background: This is poorly worded and may be confusing; it should be revised to make it clearer. Change ‘discussion’ to conclusion. However, the opinion expressed in this sub-section is not derivable from available evidence in the study ; it is more of assumptions and repetition of reports of previous studies. I do not agree that CS rates of 18.4%, 23% and 27.1% were too low. Authors to relate this to the recommended WHO CS rate. Introduction: This is too lengthy. It should end with a statement of the aim/objectives. The objective should be incorporated into the introduction instead of making it a separate sub-section. Methodology: The information about the study facilities are grossly inadequate: I am interested in more information on the setting, cadres of staff, who takes decisions, were all patients reviewed by a doctor or the doctor is invited after complications has set in, were there on-call doctors who slept in the hospital, who monitored the labour and who performed the CS? The selection method for individual facilities especially the non-public is not clearly defined. How was sample size determined for each component of the study? How did you assess the qualitative component? Was it individual interview or focused-group discussion? Your definition of effectiveness of MDS as ‘the extent to which the hospital manages all major causes…’ is not clear. How was this assessed? There is no evidence that the bed capacity of the facilities were matched as claimed by the authors- what is the evidence of matching in 25,55 and 70 versus 13, 62, 54? The matching should be in terms of individual facilities, not aggregated. Do you mean that the 13 bedded facility was performing CS regularly? Are the public facilities free? Generally private facilities are more expensive compared to public hospitals; thus, low socioeconomic people are more likely to patronise them. The effect of low social class on perinatal outcome therefore becomes a confounding factor in this comparison with those from private facilities. In addition, the status of the mother and fetus at presentation is a well-known factor that affects perinatal mortality; this was not evaluated for in this study. In addition, antenatal and early labour events no doubt affect perinatal outcome, these were not considered. How many cases were emergencies, what were the identified complications? Do any of these facilities conduct maternal and perinatal death reviews? How many facilities had neonatologist? Which mode of anaesthesia are available and used. Availability of resuscitation facilities and mode of anaesthesia no doubt can affect perinatal mortality. For the qualitative component, I was expecting responses on mode of presentation, identified delays, how soon emergencies are attended to, limitations of care, issues about whether complaints were made earlier and administration's response, etc. Results: The information provided is not enough. Discussion: Line 3: change ‘were’ to ‘was’ Line 3: delete ‘just’. Lines 13 – 23: There is no evidence from this study to confirm that ‘the short time available to monitor the mother and newborn’ was responsible for the perinatal mortality. This can only be scientifically deduced if you compare women with good to those with poor perinatal outcome. This was not done. Page 4, first paragraph: You seem to be mixing up a number of issues here and the references are inappropriate. The ‘21% higher mortality perinatal mortality of facility over home deliveries’ does not imply a mortality rate of 21% as you suggest. Rather it is a comparison. Do you imply that it is better to deliver at home rather than hospital? Since the discussion and comparison here is not for home versus facility delivery, the comparison is inappropriate and will confuse the readers. It is ‘dangerous’ to encourage home delivery without skilled birth attendant in this century. Please remember that other reasons for the apparent ‘increased mortality’ for facility deliveries will include the fact that it is the ‘bad cases’ that typically comes to the hospital in low-resource countries. Thus, it will be unfair to expect too much in cases of severely compromised mother and fetus. We need to know the state of both mother and fetus at arrival- how many came with intrauterine fetal death, fetal distress or critically ill mothers? I wish to state that the ‘higher fatality’ from hospital deliveries may be difficult to establish because facility data is captured unlike home deliveries which are not recorded. On what data is the comparison made then- verbal reports? 2 nd paragraph: there is no evidence to suggest that the quality of care in the public hospitals was lower than the private ones. Therefore, you are over-interpreting your limited data. 3 rd and 4 th paragraphs- there are no evidence in the study indicating a causal relationship. 5 th paragraph: Although there was no monitoring by external agencies, the study did not explore in full the institutional audit and evaluation processes. Therefore, we cannot assume as was done by the authors. This study is seriously limited by inadequate parameters to validate the strong causal relationships claimed by the authors. References: Many references do not have last pages. Authors should insert the last pages while online only articles should have the DOI number inserted. Recommendation: This article cannot be indexed in its current form. I suggest that the authors should revise it along either of the suggestions below: If they choose to maintain the available results, the article should be revised into a description while all causal claims not derivable should be deleted. Authors may choose to retrieve additional information as outlined above that will enable them to scientifically validate the causal claims. 