In this paper, the authors provides comprehensive analyses to compare two third-generation sequencing technologies (PacBio and ONT) for RNA sequencing. The comparison was conducted in many aspects, including read lengths, mappability, chimeric and gapped alignments, error patterns, isoform identification, and isoform abundance estimation. To my knowledge, this paper is the first comparison of PacBio and ONT and using each of them in hybrid with Illumina, and its comparison results will provide valuable information about these two third-generation technologies to the transcriptomics field. My comments/questions about some contents in this paper are summarized below. In the isoform identification task, it is unclear how the authors defined "true positive and false positive isoforms" assembled by StringTie from Illumina reads? In Figure 1, why does ONT 2D have more reads than ONT 1D? In the comparison of error patterns, the definition of “homopolymer pattern” is unclear. In Figure 2, only the percentages of mapped reads of each read category are shown. While this is important information, it would be also important to know the absolute numbers of mapped reads in each category. In Figure 3, the row containing labels “A C G T ” above the insertion row should be better placed above the mismatch row. In Table 2, the top row labeling is confusing. It would be clearer to remove "Over-annotated library (100)", "Correct library (68)", and "Insuf cient library (43)" from the top row. Also why does the "Illumina+Insufficient" row have one additional cell? In Figure 4, it would be better to make the circles in Venn diagrams proportional to the numbers? It is unclear why the authors included the insufficient annotation and the overannotated cases in the study of isoform identification and isoform abundance estimation. Since they are only applicable to the Illumina data using StringTie but not relevant to the PacBio or the ONT data, including them seems deviation from the theme of the paper. In Figure 7d, are the seven novel isoforms verified? 