The opinion article by Alexandre Angers-Loustau and colleagues addresses an increasingly encountered question by clinical and public health microbiology laboratories - what are the considerations in developing a benchmark for validating methods to identify antimicrobial resistance determinants from high-throughput sequencing data? This is an important step in using sequencing data for this purpose, and this article reports back on the discussions by a panel of experts in the field of antimicrobial resistance surveillance. In general, the article is well-suited to publication in F1000Research , offering insight into an issue of global importance, and I thank the authors for making the discussions from the October 2017 meeting organised by the Joint Research Centre public. It is well written and explores each of the discussion questions with supporting literature. My suggestions for improvement are minor and addressing them is left up to the authors' discretion. My overall comment is that while many of the relevant considerations are raised, as a clinician and researcher, I am left with the burden of all these concerns, but no clear direction in how to address the challenges (other than a few comments in the conclusion). I appreciate the purpose of the paper was to summarise the challenges identified at the meeting, but I think this (opinion) article could be enhanced and have a greater impact if more expert opinions and ideas on how to proceed were included. Minor comments: Introduction (page 4) It would be nice to know a little more about the panel of experts - for example, what mix of background or fields did the experts come from e.g. clinical or public health microbiology, bioinformaticians, epidemiologists, veterinary microbiology etc.? Section 2.1: real experiments vs simulated read sets (page 5) This section highlights some important concerns (e.g. filtering host DNA or patented genetically modified food DNA), but these are more relevant to identification of antimicrobial resistance from metagenomic sequencing data - this is alluded to in the text, but not explicitly stated. Given the other technical challenges with this, I wonder if the discussion should focus more on the "real experimental" data from cultured bacterial organisms – the more likely initial validation before validation proceeds to metagenomic datasets. Section 2.2: how should the set of resistance genes/mechanisms be agreed upon (page 6) The considerations here are well explored, but I wonder if there could be some mention of variation in benchmark datasets depending on the purpose of resistance gene/mechanism detection. For example, detection of AMR genes from environmental or livestock samples may have a different focus, and thus different benchmark targets to detection of AMR genes in organisms from human samples. Even among human samples, there may be differences in the mechanisms prioritised for detection between testing for clinical treatment and testing for epidemiological surveillance (mcr-1 is a good example). Section 2.3: how can the "true" value of the samples be guaranteed (page 7) Great section and discussion. Along the lines of the discussion, I am interested to hear the authors' thoughts on whether it is sufficient to validate NGS for predicting AMR against standard susceptibility testing (e.g. MIC), or whether clinical studies evaluating treatment outcomes based on NGS detection are required (i.e. treating based on genotype vs phenotype). My only comment for this section is that perhaps some of the commentary is more directed at validation of NGS for "identifying antimicrobial resistance" rather than "identifying antimicrobial resistance determinants" as stated in the title - two subtly different targets. Perhaps some of the discussion could be clarified here. “HTF5 format” (page 4) should actually be “HDF5 format”. MIC should be spelt out at the first usage - minimum inhibitory concentration. 