This is an interesting paper from MSF epidemiologists that aims to determine some of the reasons for significant increases in malaria cases in DRC. It is imperative to prevent the emergence of anti-malarial drug resistance and patient adherence and compliance is critical to this issue. The data presented here provides evidence of what is happening in the field and touches on patients attitudes and knowledge in this area. The authors focus on patient compliance and statistically examine socio-demographic and other factors for non-adherence to the prescribed time schedule and dosage. A key finding is the low rate of adherence, which has significant impact on drug-based treatment of malaria. Non-adherence due to vomiting or feeling unwell in a proportion of individuals is an important finding for the drug formulation community; how can this be overcome by changing the formulation or possibly the route, in the future? Timing was also highlighted as an obstacle to correct drug administration; again this is an obstacle that should be tackled both by drug developers, practitioners in the field and those interested in health literacy. The authors should consider minor revisions to their paper to discuss these issues in more depth. For example, based on their data, what are the next critical steps that should be focused on; from both a practice, and more long-term, drug design perspective? How can we succeed in patient education relating to the importance of adherence and designing and implementing a system that results in better patient adherence? Given that the authors found that gender is a significant factor; can the authors suggest how this finding should be used to develop strategies to improve patient compliance? Finally, the authors discuss the problems of trying to compare across studies due to different study designs and methods. From a methodology perspective, therefore, it would be useful if the authors included the full questionnaires used in this study as an appendix, with the objective of replication of the study in other areas.