Second review of Gudbrandsson et al . “ The developmental transcriptome of contrasting Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus) morphs”. Overview: The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers will find these changes, along with several clarifications provided in the published response to reviewers section, to facilitate transparent interpretation of this large and diverse study, including its strengths and caveats. My overall opinion of the study remains unchanged – it is interesting and reports findings of merit that will be followed up on in future work. I am thus happy to approve version 2 of the paper . I did spot a few typos or grammatical issues that the authors might address and had some final comments that might be addressed – all of a minor nature and easy to address. Abstract – “ energy metabolism and blood coagulation genes ” remove “ genes ” Abstract - “ Comparison of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequencies reveals ” change “ reveals ” to “ revealed ” (for accurate use of tense) Introduction – “ Examples of such species complexes are provided finches of the Galapagos island” should be “ Examples of such species complexes are provided by finches of the Galapagos island ” Introduction: “ Thus we were quite keen to apply RNA-sequencing to analyze ecomorphs in our study system, Arctic charr ”. The authors should add the Latin name for charr here, rather than in the next paragraph. Introduction: “ The family is estimated to be between 88–103 million years old 21,22 . A whole genome duplication event occurred before the radiation of the salmonid family 21–24 which has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event ” It would be simpler to just state that the common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago. The actual age of the salmonid family depends on whether one considers the (extinct) direct ancestors to salmonids that didn’t experience genome duplication to be salmonids. Introduction: “ Furthermore, recent estimates from the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that on the order of 4500 were retained in rainbow trout 22 ” This information is inaccurate. Firstly, based on the paper cited (Berthalot et al . 2014), this information should state that around 4,500 pairs of ohnologous genes were retained from Ss4R (i.e. around 9,000 separate genes). More importantly, without going into detail, the stated data represents a non-comprehensive fraction of the genome. I suggest the authors update this part of the text with accurate estimates, since the number of retained Ss4R ohnologue pairs in much larger than what is stated. The authors might also draw in more comprehensive data from the recent publication of the Atlantic salmon genome (Lien et al. Nature, 533, 200–205) 1 . The simplest way to present the information is to state that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained (both stated papers are in agreement about that). Figure 1: It would be easier for the reader to link the text and images if the authors updated with ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’ and ‘d’ panels for each of the different charr morphs. Introduction: “ In this study, we compare SB-charr from ” should be “ In this study, we compared SB-charr from ” (again, it is correct here to use past tense – the authors should check the rest of the manuscript for similar tense issues). Figure 2: Minor comments – the text “ Map on salmon genes ” is vague and open to several interpretations. Better: “ Map on Atlantic salmon expressed sequence tags ”? References 1. Lien S, Koop BF, Sandve SR, Miller JR, et al.: The Atlantic salmon genome provides insights into rediploidization. Nature . 2016; 533 (7602): 200-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Macqueen D. Reviewer Report For: The developmental transcriptome of contrasting Arctic charr ( Salvelinus alpinus ) morphs [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :136 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9044.r13702 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-136/v2#referee-response-13702 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 02 Dec 2016 Arnar Palsson , University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland 02 Dec 2016 Author Response Overview:   The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers ... Continue reading Overview:   The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers will find these changes, along with several clarifications provided in the published response to reviewers section, to facilitate transparent interpretation of this large and diverse study, including its strengths and caveats. My overall opinion of the study remains unchanged – it is interesting and reports findings of merit that will be followed up on in future work. I am thus happy to approve version 2 of the paper .   I did spot a few typos or grammatical issues that the authors might address and had some final comments that might be addressed – all of a minor nature and easy to address. Abstract – “ energy metabolism and blood coagulation genes ” remove “ genes ”  Abstract - “ Comparison of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequencies reveals ” change “ reveals ” to “ revealed ” (for accurate use of tense)  Introduction – “ Examples of such species complexes are provided finches of the Galapagos island” should be “ Examples of such species complexes are provided by finches of the Galapagos island ”  Introduction: “ Thus we were quite keen to apply RNA-sequencing to analyze ecomorphs in our study system, Arctic charr ”. The authors should add the Latin name for charr here, rather than in the next paragraph.  Reply: They have all been fixed. Introduction: “ The family is estimated to be between 88–103 million years old 21,22 . A whole genome duplication event occurred before the radiation of the salmonid family 21–24 which has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event ” It would be simpler to just state that the common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago. The actual age of the salmonid family depends on whether one considers the (extinct) direct ancestors to salmonids that didn’t experience genome duplication to be salmonids.  Reply: Good suggestion, we now use this wording. Introduction: “ Furthermore, recent estimates from the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that on the order of 4500 were retained in rainbow trout 22 ” This information is inaccurate. Firstly, based on the paper cited (Berthalot et al . 2014), this information should state that around 4,500 pairs of ohnologous genes were retained from Ss4R (i.e. around 9,000 separate genes). More importantly, without going into detail, the stated data represents a non-comprehensive fraction of the genome. I suggest the authors update this part of the text with accurate estimates, since the number of retained Ss4R ohnologue pairs in much larger than what is stated. The authors might also draw in more comprehensive data from the recent publication of the Atlantic salmon genome (Lien et al. Nature, 533, 200–205) 1 . The simplest way to present the information is to state that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained (both stated papers are in agreement about that).  Reply: We thank the reviewer for a good point and clarification. We adopt the wording and rewrote part of this paragraph, it now reads: “The common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago, the fourth vertebrate whole- genome duplication (Ss4R) 21 – 24 . This has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event) in salmonid lineages. Estimates from the rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained in rainbow trout 22 .” Figure 1: It would be easier for the reader to link the text and images if the authors updated with ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’ and ‘d’ panels for each of the different charr morphs.  Reply: This has been fixed. Introduction: “ In this study, we compare SB-charr from ” should be “ In this study, we compared SB-charr from ” (again, it is correct here to use past tense – the authors should check the rest of the manuscript for similar tense issues). Reply: Fixed, we went through the manuscript and corrected a few more errors of this type.  Figure 2: Minor comments – the text “ Map on salmon genes ” is vague and open to several interpretations. Better: “ Map on Atlantic salmon expressed sequence tags ”? Reply: Fixed, put “ Map on Atlantic salmon ESTs” in the figure and “ESTs = expressed sequence tags ” into legend.    Overview:   The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers will find these changes, along with several clarifications provided in the published response to reviewers section, to facilitate transparent interpretation of this large and diverse study, including its strengths and caveats. My overall opinion of the study remains unchanged – it is interesting and reports findings of merit that will be followed up on in future work. I am thus happy to approve version 2 of the paper .   I did spot a few typos or grammatical issues that the authors might address and had some final comments that might be addressed – all of a minor nature and easy to address. Abstract – “ energy metabolism and blood coagulation genes ” remove “ genes ”  Abstract - “ Comparison of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequencies reveals ” change “ reveals ” to “ revealed ” (for accurate use of tense)  Introduction – “ Examples of such species complexes are provided finches of the Galapagos island” should be “ Examples of such species complexes are provided by finches of the Galapagos island ”  Introduction: “ Thus we were quite keen to apply RNA-sequencing to analyze ecomorphs in our study system, Arctic charr ”. The authors should add the Latin name for charr here, rather than in the next paragraph.  Reply: They have all been fixed. Introduction: “ The family is estimated to be between 88–103 million years old 21,22 . A whole genome duplication event occurred before the radiation of the salmonid family 21–24 which has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event ” It would be simpler to just state that the common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago. The actual age of the salmonid family depends on whether one considers the (extinct) direct ancestors to salmonids that didn’t experience genome duplication to be salmonids.  Reply: Good suggestion, we now use this wording. Introduction: “ Furthermore, recent estimates from the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that on the order of 4500 were retained in rainbow trout 22 ” This information is inaccurate. Firstly, based on the paper cited (Berthalot et al . 2014), this information should state that around 4,500 pairs of ohnologous genes were retained from Ss4R (i.e. around 9,000 separate genes). More importantly, without going into detail, the stated data represents a non-comprehensive fraction of the genome. I suggest the authors update this part of the text with accurate estimates, since the number of retained Ss4R ohnologue pairs in much larger than what is stated. The authors might also draw in more comprehensive data from the recent publication of the Atlantic salmon genome (Lien et al. Nature, 533, 200–205) 1 . The simplest way to present the information is to state that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained (both stated papers are in agreement about that).  Reply: We thank the reviewer for a good point and clarification. We adopt the wording and rewrote part of this paragraph, it now reads: “The common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago, the fourth vertebrate whole- genome duplication (Ss4R) 21 – 24 . This has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event) in salmonid lineages. Estimates from the rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained in rainbow trout 22 .” Figure 1: It would be easier for the reader to link the text and images if the authors updated with ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’ and ‘d’ panels for each of the different charr morphs.  Reply: This has been fixed. Introduction: “ In this study, we compare SB-charr from ” should be “ In this study, we compared SB-charr from ” (again, it is correct here to use past tense – the authors should check the rest of the manuscript for similar tense issues). Reply: Fixed, we went through the manuscript and corrected a few more errors of this type.  Figure 2: Minor comments – the text “ Map on salmon genes ” is vague and open to several interpretations. Better: “ Map on Atlantic salmon expressed sequence tags ”? Reply: Fixed, put “ Map on Atlantic salmon ESTs” in the figure and “ESTs = expressed sequence tags ” into legend.    Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 02 Dec 2016 Arnar Palsson , University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland 02 Dec 2016 Author Response Overview:   The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers ... Continue reading Overview:   The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers will find these changes, along with several clarifications provided in the published response to reviewers section, to facilitate transparent interpretation of this large and diverse study, including its strengths and caveats. My overall opinion of the study remains unchanged – it is interesting and reports findings of merit that will be followed up on in future work. I am thus happy to approve version 2 of the paper .   I did spot a few typos or grammatical issues that the authors might address and had some final comments that might be addressed – all of a minor nature and easy to address. Abstract – “ energy metabolism and blood coagulation genes ” remove “ genes ”  Abstract - “ Comparison of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequencies reveals ” change “ reveals ” to “ revealed ” (for accurate use of tense)  Introduction – “ Examples of such species complexes are provided finches of the Galapagos island” should be “ Examples of such species complexes are provided by finches of the Galapagos island ”  Introduction: “ Thus we were quite keen to apply RNA-sequencing to analyze ecomorphs in our study system, Arctic charr ”. The authors should add the Latin name for charr here, rather than in the next paragraph.  Reply: They have all been fixed. Introduction: “ The family is estimated to be between 88–103 million years old 21,22 . A whole genome duplication event occurred before the radiation of the salmonid family 21–24 which has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event ” It would be simpler to just state that the common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago. The actual age of the salmonid family depends on whether one considers the (extinct) direct ancestors to salmonids that didn’t experience genome duplication to be salmonids.  Reply: Good suggestion, we now use this wording. Introduction: “ Furthermore, recent estimates from the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that on the order of 4500 were retained in rainbow trout 22 ” This information is inaccurate. Firstly, based on the paper cited (Berthalot et al . 2014), this information should state that around 4,500 pairs of ohnologous genes were retained from Ss4R (i.e. around 9,000 separate genes). More importantly, without going into detail, the stated data represents a non-comprehensive fraction of the genome. I suggest the authors update this part of the text with accurate estimates, since the number of retained Ss4R ohnologue pairs in much larger than what is stated. The authors might also draw in more comprehensive data from the recent publication of the Atlantic salmon genome (Lien et al. Nature, 533, 200–205) 1 . The simplest way to present the information is to state that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained (both stated papers are in agreement about that).  Reply: We thank the reviewer for a good point and clarification. We adopt the wording and rewrote part of this paragraph, it now reads: “The common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago, the fourth vertebrate whole- genome duplication (Ss4R) 21 – 24 . This has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event) in salmonid lineages. Estimates from the rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained in rainbow trout 22 .” Figure 1: It would be easier for the reader to link the text and images if the authors updated with ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’ and ‘d’ panels for each of the different charr morphs.  Reply: This has been fixed. Introduction: “ In this study, we compare SB-charr from ” should be “ In this study, we compared SB-charr from ” (again, it is correct here to use past tense – the authors should check the rest of the manuscript for similar tense issues). Reply: Fixed, we went through the manuscript and corrected a few more errors of this type.  Figure 2: Minor comments – the text “ Map on salmon genes ” is vague and open to several interpretations. Better: “ Map on Atlantic salmon expressed sequence tags ”? Reply: Fixed, put “ Map on Atlantic salmon ESTs” in the figure and “ESTs = expressed sequence tags ” into legend.    Overview:   The authors have addressed the comments made by myself and Anne Dalziel. They have incorporated a range of associated changes into version 2 of their paper. Readers will find these changes, along with several clarifications provided in the published response to reviewers section, to facilitate transparent interpretation of this large and diverse study, including its strengths and caveats. My overall opinion of the study remains unchanged – it is interesting and reports findings of merit that will be followed up on in future work. I am thus happy to approve version 2 of the paper .   I did spot a few typos or grammatical issues that the authors might address and had some final comments that might be addressed – all of a minor nature and easy to address. Abstract – “ energy metabolism and blood coagulation genes ” remove “ genes ”  Abstract - “ Comparison of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequencies reveals ” change “ reveals ” to “ revealed ” (for accurate use of tense)  Introduction – “ Examples of such species complexes are provided finches of the Galapagos island” should be “ Examples of such species complexes are provided by finches of the Galapagos island ”  Introduction: “ Thus we were quite keen to apply RNA-sequencing to analyze ecomorphs in our study system, Arctic charr ”. The authors should add the Latin name for charr here, rather than in the next paragraph.  Reply: They have all been fixed. Introduction: “ The family is estimated to be between 88–103 million years old 21,22 . A whole genome duplication event occurred before the radiation of the salmonid family 21–24 which has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event ” It would be simpler to just state that the common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago. The actual age of the salmonid family depends on whether one considers the (extinct) direct ancestors to salmonids that didn’t experience genome duplication to be salmonids.  Reply: Good suggestion, we now use this wording. Introduction: “ Furthermore, recent estimates from the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that on the order of 4500 were retained in rainbow trout 22 ” This information is inaccurate. Firstly, based on the paper cited (Berthalot et al . 2014), this information should state that around 4,500 pairs of ohnologous genes were retained from Ss4R (i.e. around 9,000 separate genes). More importantly, without going into detail, the stated data represents a non-comprehensive fraction of the genome. I suggest the authors update this part of the text with accurate estimates, since the number of retained Ss4R ohnologue pairs in much larger than what is stated. The authors might also draw in more comprehensive data from the recent publication of the Atlantic salmon genome (Lien et al. Nature, 533, 200–205) 1 . The simplest way to present the information is to state that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained (both stated papers are in agreement about that).  Reply: We thank the reviewer for a good point and clarification. We adopt the wording and rewrote part of this paragraph, it now reads: “The common ancestor to salmonids experienced a whole genome duplication 88–103 million years ago, the fourth vertebrate whole- genome duplication (Ss4R) 21 – 24 . This has provided time for divergence of ohnologous genes (paralogous genes originated by whole genome duplication event) in salmonid lineages. Estimates from the rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) genome suggest that ohnologous genes are lost at a rate of about 170 genes per million years, and that around half of the original Ss4R ohnologue pairs are still functionally retained in rainbow trout 22 .” Figure 1: It would be easier for the reader to link the text and images if the authors updated with ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’ and ‘d’ panels for each of the different charr morphs.  Reply: This has been fixed. Introduction: “ In this study, we compare SB-charr from ” should be “ In this study, we compared SB-charr from ” (again, it is correct here to use past tense – the authors should check the rest of the manuscript for similar tense issues). Reply: Fixed, we went through the manuscript and corrected a few more errors of this type.  Figure 2: Minor comments – the text “ Map on salmon genes ” is vague and open to several interpretations. Better: “ Map on Atlantic salmon expressed sequence tags ”? Reply: Fixed, put “ Map on Atlantic salmon ESTs” in the figure and “ESTs = expressed sequence tags ” into legend.    Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 01 Jun 2015 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Dalziel A. Reviewer Report For: The developmental transcriptome of contrasting Arctic charr ( Salvelinus alpinus ) morphs [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :136 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6869.r9419 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-136/v1#referee-response-9419 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 09 Jul 2015 Anne Dalziel , Institute for Systems and Integrative Biology (IBIS), Department of Biology, Laval University, Quebec City, QC, Canada Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6869.r9419 In this paper The developmental transcriptome of contrasting Arctic charr ( Salvelinus alpinus ) morphs Gudbrandsson et al . have tested for differential gene expression at multiple developmental time-points among a number of Artic charr morpho-types from Lake Thingvallavatn (3 wild morphs, 1 ... Continue reading READ ALL 