In this original research work the authors have developed a novel method for detection and sequencing of HCV genomes from clinical samples adopting a DNA probe approach. Similar methods have been developed previously for targeted genomes. This approach has been adapted for HCV and has great potential to be applied to other RNA viruses. Overall, in my opinion, this paper is an interesting and novel application which resolve few long standing issues with identification and sequencing of complex viral populations from clinical samples. It would be very helpful for the readers if the authors would address the comments below. It would be helpful to have more details on how the first set of probes were chosen. The authors state that these were 155-157 probes, each of length 120t, which roughly equate to 2 full HCV genomes. Can the authors describe what exactly was the algorithm to identify those fragments from the total genomes considered? It is clear that the second set for the rare GT were constructed with 80% dissimilarities from the first set. The critical message is that this approach seems to break the barrier of sequencing very low viral loads in an unbiased approach. I found this a very important result. It is however clear from the data that the attempt is not fully successful as only partial genomes are obtained. Maybe some more clear statements highlighting where we are up to with this method and what can be done to improve. I would recommend to have Supp Figure 1 in the main text as this is a rather interesting result showing that there is a better enrichment for low viral loads. I dont fully agree with the authors with the conclusions. This method is still not reliable in terms of detecting near-full length genome at low viral load, and therefore the classical PCR-primer genotype specific primers are needed. Rather, I would encourage the authors to discuss more the implication of such an approach (and improved ones into the future) for sequencing more complex scenarios, such as recombination, multiple infections, reinfections, superinfection etc. A comment that I hope will generate some feedbacks DAA treatment are much better than those considered in this manuscript. HARVONY and GS-5816 are breaking the barrier of 95% SVR pan genotype. This is the first time in history of antiviral therapy of such a limited drug resistance. I think the proposed method will have higher chances to be applied in other settings (as mentioned before to study complex genomic rearrangements) Maybe worth thinking about this. Finally, this work made me also wonder on what limitations still exist that this method does not assess. It would be interesting to mention that for understanding viral evolution, including drug resistance, there is need to identify compensatory mutations and epistatic interactions, which may occur between viral mutations that are far apart in the genome. This is a problem of haplotype reconstruction which has been proven to be very difficult to solve if the staring points are short reads. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on such a novel and interesting work. 