The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be congratulated for taking the time and effort to examine the artifacts they observed rather than just ignoring them and moving on. In its current form, however there are some important points that need to addressed in the manuscript to ease reader comprehension and focus the research on one topic or more clearly describe of the findings and implications of the 2 topics in the manuscript. What is the focus of the manuscript, the study of the effect of polyphenols on egg, or the artifact(s) resulting from the use of HRP? The title of the manuscript suggests the manuscript is focused to point out a potentially very serious and mis-leading artifact of using HRP for western blot signal generation, but the content of the text is mixed between pointing of the findings of the egg/tea polyphenol study findings and the HRP artifact I would argue that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of the paper (as suggested in the title) and more in-depth discussion of the findings/implications is needed Please consider re-writing the second paragraph of the introduction to sharpen the focus of the manuscript to coincide with the title…rather than the focus of green tea polyphenols on egg allergens. In the introduction some discussion and referencing of ‘ghost bands’ from past publications would be useful and possibly a discussion of the topic of reciprocity failure (if relevant here) in signal generation? Would the ghost bands be expected to obscure ‘real’ bands nearby or migrating at the same pace? Did the authors notice these artifacts in their own past publications on similar topics?Plundrich et al 2014 1 . If so, this should be discussed and any discrepancies in their findings or conclusions that can be attributed to the HRP artifacts should be noted. Findings using peanut allergens and tea (or other sources of) poly-phenols that lead to the same artifacts are important to point out. Can the authors find a related published article/examples of other groups that may have suffered from the same artifact and mis-lead the authors of that research to put their findings in the context of other using the same reagents? Could the authors please star/mark the bands that are considered “several additional proteins” that were detected with NBT staining but not CBB on Fig 1B? Could the additional bands noted on Fig 1B represent oligomers/aggregates of the ovalbumin and ovotransferrin, and are these same bands present on the immunoblot? Could you test directly the proposed interaction between HRP and green tea polyphenols observed by the blot in Fig 1C and Fig 2G? Concerning the dark lysozyme band, this is a very important finding, but what evidence is there that this band is actually lysozyme? Are the authors aware of other examples of this non-specific artifacts with biotinylated 2ndary antibody-neutravidin-HRP complexes? Consider changing the wording of the section; “due to a non-specific reaction between the secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” referring to the band in Fig 2D that I believe requires the secondary biotinylated antibody and the neutravidin-HRP conjugate. In the conclusion the words “hyperactivated HRP” are mis-leading because there is no evidence of increased specific activity for the HRP so consider rewriting this sentence. References 1. Plundrich NJ, Kulis M, White BL, Grace MH, et al.: Novel strategy to create hypoallergenic peanut protein-polyphenol edible matrices for oral immunotherapy. J Agric Food Chem . 2014; 62 (29): 7010-21 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Mattison CP. Reviewer Report For: Protein-bound polyphenols create “ghost” band artifacts during chemiluminescence-based antigen detection [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :254 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11446.r20889 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-254/v1#referee-response-20889 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 26 May 2017 Mary Ann Lila , North Carolina State University, USA 26 May 2017 Author Response Comments to the Author: “The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be ... Continue reading Comments to the Author: “The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be congratulated for taking the time and effort to examine the artifacts they observed rather than just ignoring them and moving on. In its current form, however there are some important points that need to addressed in the manuscript to ease reader comprehension and focus the research on one topic or more clearly describe of the findings and implications of the 2 topics in the manuscript. “ *What is the focus of the manuscript, the study of the effect of polyphenols on egg, or the artifact(s) resulting from the use of HRP? The title of the manuscript suggests the manuscript is focused to point out a potentially very serious and mis-leading artifact of using HRP for western blot signal generation, but the content of the text is mixed between pointing of the findings of the egg/tea polyphenol study findings and the HRP artifact I would argue that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of the paper (as suggested in the title) and more in-depth discussion of the findings/implications is needed *Please consider re-writing the second paragraph of the introduction to sharpen the focus of the manuscript to coincide with the title…rather than the focus of green tea polyphenols on egg allergens. Answer: Thank you. We re-wrote the second paragraph of the introduction in consideration of these points, to emphasize that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of sharing these research results. *In the introduction some discussion and referencing of ‘ghost bands’ from past publications would be useful and possibly a discussion of the topic of reciprocity failure (if relevant here) in signal generation? Answer: Thanks. We have now included a sentence about previous studies. *Would the ghost bands be expected to obscure ‘real’ bands nearby or migrating at the same pace? Answer: Thank you. Based on our observations, no. However, major proteins we investigated were well separated. We may not be able to exclude the possibility of “real” bands to be obscured by a (especially strong) “ghost” band close by and/or migrating at the same pace. *Did the authors notice these artifacts in their own past publications on similar topics? Plundrich et al 2014 1 . If so, this should be discussed and any discrepancies in their findings or conclusions that can be attributed to the HRP artifacts should be noted. Answer: Thank. Yes, this was observed in Figure 2 of the Plundrich et al. 2014 paper (soluble fraction, top of blot shows high molecular weight material that appeared as a “ghost” band/smear). It was also observed in the Plundrich et al. 2015 paper, Figure 3 B (peanut protein-cranberry polyphenol complex) above Ara h 2 in the digestive samples (appears that smeary lanes appeared somewhat as “ghost” bands. In both cases, however, this did not affect findings made and conclusions drawn. In addition, the same treatments were re-tested using a new protocol (fluorescence Western blotting) and the data was consistent with that previously reported. We now included a sentence about this in the discussion. *Findings using peanut allergens and tea (or other sources of) polyphenols that lead to the same artifacts are important to point out. Answer: Thank you. Please see answer above. *Can the authors find a related published article/examples of other groups that may have suffered from the same artifact and mislead the authors of that research to put their findings in the context of other using the same reagents? Answer: Thank you, this is a good question. At this time, we are not aware of any other studies that reported on similar artifacts such as those we found. After all, the detection method we used is one of many possible approaches. *Could the authors please star/mark the bands that are considered “several additional proteins” that were detected with NBT staining but not CBB on Fig 1B? Answer: Thanks. We have now indicated those additional proteins and the respective sentence in the text slightly rephrased. *Could the additional bands noted on Fig 1B represent oligomers/aggregates of the ovalbumin and ovotransferrin, and are these same bands present on the immunoblot? Answer: Thanks. The additional bands/smears observed are protein-polyphenol complexes/aggregates that have been revealed by the NBT stain. Coomassie Brilliant Blue also stains proteins that are complexed with polyphenols (see smears in Figure 1 A), however, the NBT stain more sensitively stains proteins that have been modified by polyphenols. Those protein complexes are also present on the immunoblot, however, most of them appeared as “ghost” bands. *Could you test directly the proposed interaction between HRP and green tea polyphenols observed by the blot in Fig 1C and Fig 2G? Answer: Thank you. This is a good question, and could be followed up on. We think green tea extract could directly be added to a PVDF membrane and similar experiments as in this study could be performed to test the direct effects between green tea polyphenols and HRP. *Concerning the dark lysozyme band, this is a very important finding, but what evidence is there that this band is actually lysozyme? Are the authors aware of other examples of this non-specific artifacts with biotinylated 2ndary antibody-neutravidin-HRP complexes? Answer: Thanks. The tentative identification of lysozyme was based on literature. Lysozyme was the only protein found in the 15 kDa range (MW~14 kDa; Desert et al. J Agric. Food Chem., 2001, 49: 4553–4561). We are not aware of other examples of this non-specific binding. However, it is possible that the biotin-moiety of the secondary antibody was able to bind to lysozyme, as has previously been observed by Green et al. (Nature, 1968, 217: 254-256), although this group described weak interactions. It is also possible that the secondary antibody concentration used was high and resulted in non-specific binding to lysozyme when other reagents were omitted. *Consider changing the wording of the section; “due to a non-specific reaction between the secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” referring to the band in Fig 2D that I believe requires the secondary biotinylated antibody and the neutravidin-HRP conjugate. Answer: Thanks. In fact, the “secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” refers to the “secondary biotinylated antibody that has been bound by neutravidin-HRP conjugate”. We have reworded the sentence to make it clear. *In the conclusion the words “hyperactivated HRP” are misleading because there is no evidence of increased specific activity for the HRP so consider rewriting this sentence. Answer: Thank you. We agree and have reworded this sentence. Comments to the Author: “The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be congratulated for taking the time and effort to examine the artifacts they observed rather than just ignoring them and moving on. In its current form, however there are some important points that need to addressed in the manuscript to ease reader comprehension and focus the research on one topic or more clearly describe of the findings and implications of the 2 topics in the manuscript. “ *What is the focus of the manuscript, the study of the effect of polyphenols on egg, or the artifact(s) resulting from the use of HRP? The title of the manuscript suggests the manuscript is focused to point out a potentially very serious and mis-leading artifact of using HRP for western blot signal generation, but the content of the text is mixed between pointing of the findings of the egg/tea polyphenol study findings and the HRP artifact I would argue that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of the paper (as suggested in the title) and more in-depth discussion of the findings/implications is needed *Please consider re-writing the second paragraph of the introduction to sharpen the focus of the manuscript to coincide with the title…rather than the focus of green tea polyphenols on egg allergens. Answer: Thank you. We re-wrote the second paragraph of the introduction in consideration of these points, to emphasize that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of sharing these research results. *In the introduction some discussion and referencing of ‘ghost bands’ from past publications would be useful and possibly a discussion of the topic of reciprocity failure (if relevant here) in signal generation? Answer: Thanks. We have now included a sentence about previous studies. *Would the ghost bands be expected to obscure ‘real’ bands nearby or migrating at the same pace? Answer: Thank you. Based on our observations, no. However, major proteins we investigated were well separated. We may not be able to exclude the possibility of “real” bands to be obscured by a (especially strong) “ghost” band close by and/or migrating at the same pace. *Did the authors notice these artifacts in their own past publications on similar topics? Plundrich et al 2014 1 . If so, this should be discussed and any discrepancies in their findings or conclusions that can be attributed to the HRP artifacts should be noted. Answer: Thank. Yes, this was observed in Figure 2 of the Plundrich et al. 2014 paper (soluble fraction, top of blot shows high molecular weight material that appeared as a “ghost” band/smear). It was also observed in the Plundrich et al. 2015 paper, Figure 3 B (peanut protein-cranberry polyphenol complex) above Ara h 2 in the digestive samples (appears that smeary lanes appeared somewhat as “ghost” bands. In both cases, however, this did not affect findings made and conclusions drawn. In addition, the same treatments were re-tested using a new protocol (fluorescence Western blotting) and the data was consistent with that previously reported. We now included a sentence about this in the discussion. *Findings using peanut allergens and tea (or other sources of) polyphenols that lead to the same artifacts are important to point out. Answer: Thank you. Please see answer above. *Can the authors find a related published article/examples of other groups that may have suffered from the same artifact and mislead the authors of that research to put their findings in the context of other using the same reagents? Answer: Thank you, this is a good question. At this time, we are not aware of any other studies that reported on similar artifacts such as those we found. After all, the detection method we used is one of many possible approaches. *Could the authors please star/mark the bands that are considered “several additional proteins” that were detected with NBT staining but not CBB on Fig 1B? Answer: Thanks. We have now indicated those additional proteins and the respective sentence in the text slightly rephrased. *Could the additional bands noted on Fig 1B represent oligomers/aggregates of the ovalbumin and ovotransferrin, and are these same bands present on the immunoblot? Answer: Thanks. The additional bands/smears observed are protein-polyphenol complexes/aggregates that have been revealed by the NBT stain. Coomassie Brilliant Blue also stains proteins that are complexed with polyphenols (see smears in Figure 1 A), however, the NBT stain more sensitively stains proteins that have been modified by polyphenols. Those protein complexes are also present on the immunoblot, however, most of them appeared as “ghost” bands. *Could you test directly the proposed interaction between HRP and green tea polyphenols observed by the blot in Fig 1C and Fig 2G? Answer: Thank you. This is a good question, and could be followed up on. We think green tea extract could directly be added to a PVDF membrane and similar experiments as in this study could be performed to test the direct effects between green tea polyphenols and HRP. *Concerning the dark lysozyme band, this is a very important finding, but what evidence is there that this band is actually lysozyme? Are the authors aware of other examples of this non-specific artifacts with biotinylated 2ndary antibody-neutravidin-HRP complexes? Answer: Thanks. The tentative identification of lysozyme was based on literature. Lysozyme was the only protein found in the 15 kDa range (MW~14 kDa; Desert et al. J Agric. Food Chem., 2001, 49: 4553–4561). We are not aware of other examples of this non-specific binding. However, it is possible that the biotin-moiety of the secondary antibody was able to bind to lysozyme, as has previously been observed by Green et al. (Nature, 1968, 217: 254-256), although this group described weak interactions. It is also possible that the secondary antibody concentration used was high and resulted in non-specific binding to lysozyme when other reagents were omitted. *Consider changing the wording of the section; “due to a non-specific reaction between the secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” referring to the band in Fig 2D that I believe requires the secondary biotinylated antibody and the neutravidin-HRP conjugate. Answer: Thanks. In fact, the “secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” refers to the “secondary biotinylated antibody that has been bound by neutravidin-HRP conjugate”. We have reworded the sentence to make it clear. *In the conclusion the words “hyperactivated HRP” are misleading because there is no evidence of increased specific activity for the HRP so consider rewriting this sentence. Answer: Thank you. We agree and have reworded this sentence. Competing Interests: No competing interests Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 26 May 2017 Mary Ann Lila , North Carolina State University, USA 26 May 2017 Author Response Comments to the Author: “The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be ... Continue reading Comments to the Author: “The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be congratulated for taking the time and effort to examine the artifacts they observed rather than just ignoring them and moving on. In its current form, however there are some important points that need to addressed in the manuscript to ease reader comprehension and focus the research on one topic or more clearly describe of the findings and implications of the 2 topics in the manuscript. “ *What is the focus of the manuscript, the study of the effect of polyphenols on egg, or the artifact(s) resulting from the use of HRP? The title of the manuscript suggests the manuscript is focused to point out a potentially very serious and mis-leading artifact of using HRP for western blot signal generation, but the content of the text is mixed between pointing of the findings of the egg/tea polyphenol study findings and the HRP artifact I would argue that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of the paper (as suggested in the title) and more in-depth discussion of the findings/implications is needed *Please consider re-writing the second paragraph of the introduction to sharpen the focus of the manuscript to coincide with the title…rather than the focus of green tea polyphenols on egg allergens. Answer: Thank you. We re-wrote the second paragraph of the introduction in consideration of these points, to emphasize that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of sharing these research results. *In the introduction some discussion and referencing of ‘ghost bands’ from past publications would be useful and possibly a discussion of the topic of reciprocity failure (if relevant here) in signal generation? Answer: Thanks. We have now included a sentence about previous studies. *Would the ghost bands be expected to obscure ‘real’ bands nearby or migrating at the same pace? Answer: Thank you. Based on our observations, no. However, major proteins we investigated were well separated. We may not be able to exclude the possibility of “real” bands to be obscured by a (especially strong) “ghost” band close by and/or migrating at the same pace. *Did the authors notice these artifacts in their own past publications on similar topics? Plundrich et al 2014 1 . If so, this should be discussed and any discrepancies in their findings or conclusions that can be attributed to the HRP artifacts should be noted. Answer: Thank. Yes, this was observed in Figure 2 of the Plundrich et al. 2014 paper (soluble fraction, top of blot shows high molecular weight material that appeared as a “ghost” band/smear). It was also observed in the Plundrich et al. 2015 paper, Figure 3 B (peanut protein-cranberry polyphenol complex) above Ara h 2 in the digestive samples (appears that smeary lanes appeared somewhat as “ghost” bands. In both cases, however, this did not affect findings made and conclusions drawn. In addition, the same treatments were re-tested using a new protocol (fluorescence Western blotting) and the data was consistent with that previously reported. We now included a sentence about this in the discussion. *Findings using peanut allergens and tea (or other sources of) polyphenols that lead to the same artifacts are important to point out. Answer: Thank you. Please see answer above. *Can the authors find a related published article/examples of other groups that may have suffered from the same artifact and mislead the authors of that research to put their findings in the context of other using the same reagents? Answer: Thank you, this is a good question. At this time, we are not aware of any other studies that reported on similar artifacts such as those we found. After all, the detection method we used is one of many possible approaches. *Could the authors please star/mark the bands that are considered “several additional proteins” that were detected with NBT staining but not CBB on Fig 1B? Answer: Thanks. We have now indicated those additional proteins and the respective sentence in the text slightly rephrased. *Could the additional bands noted on Fig 1B represent oligomers/aggregates of the ovalbumin and ovotransferrin, and are these same bands present on the immunoblot? Answer: Thanks. The additional bands/smears observed are protein-polyphenol complexes/aggregates that have been revealed by the NBT stain. Coomassie Brilliant Blue also stains proteins that are complexed with polyphenols (see smears in Figure 1 A), however, the NBT stain more sensitively stains proteins that have been modified by polyphenols. Those protein complexes are also present on the immunoblot, however, most of them appeared as “ghost” bands. *Could you test directly the proposed interaction between HRP and green tea polyphenols observed by the blot in Fig 1C and Fig 2G? Answer: Thank you. This is a good question, and could be followed up on. We think green tea extract could directly be added to a PVDF membrane and similar experiments as in this study could be performed to test the direct effects between green tea polyphenols and HRP. *Concerning the dark lysozyme band, this is a very important finding, but what evidence is there that this band is actually lysozyme? Are the authors aware of other examples of this non-specific artifacts with biotinylated 2ndary antibody-neutravidin-HRP complexes? Answer: Thanks. The tentative identification of lysozyme was based on literature. Lysozyme was the only protein found in the 15 kDa range (MW~14 kDa; Desert et al. J Agric. Food Chem., 2001, 49: 4553–4561). We are not aware of other examples of this non-specific binding. However, it is possible that the biotin-moiety of the secondary antibody was able to bind to lysozyme, as has previously been observed by Green et al. (Nature, 1968, 217: 254-256), although this group described weak interactions. It is also possible that the secondary antibody concentration used was high and resulted in non-specific binding to lysozyme when other reagents were omitted. *Consider changing the wording of the section; “due to a non-specific reaction between the secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” referring to the band in Fig 2D that I believe requires the secondary biotinylated antibody and the neutravidin-HRP conjugate. Answer: Thanks. In fact, the “secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” refers to the “secondary biotinylated antibody that has been bound by neutravidin-HRP conjugate”. We have reworded the sentence to make it clear. *In the conclusion the words “hyperactivated HRP” are misleading because there is no evidence of increased specific activity for the HRP so consider rewriting this sentence. Answer: Thank you. We agree and have reworded this sentence. Comments to the Author: “The findings of this manuscript should be published because the implications of the HRP findings on current and past research could be widespread. The authors should be congratulated for taking the time and effort to examine the artifacts they observed rather than just ignoring them and moving on. In its current form, however there are some important points that need to addressed in the manuscript to ease reader comprehension and focus the research on one topic or more clearly describe of the findings and implications of the 2 topics in the manuscript. “ *What is the focus of the manuscript, the study of the effect of polyphenols on egg, or the artifact(s) resulting from the use of HRP? The title of the manuscript suggests the manuscript is focused to point out a potentially very serious and mis-leading artifact of using HRP for western blot signal generation, but the content of the text is mixed between pointing of the findings of the egg/tea polyphenol study findings and the HRP artifact I would argue that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of the paper (as suggested in the title) and more in-depth discussion of the findings/implications is needed *Please consider re-writing the second paragraph of the introduction to sharpen the focus of the manuscript to coincide with the title…rather than the focus of green tea polyphenols on egg allergens. Answer: Thank you. We re-wrote the second paragraph of the introduction in consideration of these points, to emphasize that the HRP artifact is the primary purpose of sharing these research results. *In the introduction some discussion and referencing of ‘ghost bands’ from past publications would be useful and possibly a discussion of the topic of reciprocity failure (if relevant here) in signal generation? Answer: Thanks. We have now included a sentence about previous studies. *Would the ghost bands be expected to obscure ‘real’ bands nearby or migrating at the same pace? Answer: Thank you. Based on our observations, no. However, major proteins we investigated were well separated. We may not be able to exclude the possibility of “real” bands to be obscured by a (especially strong) “ghost” band close by and/or migrating at the same pace. *Did the authors notice these artifacts in their own past publications on similar topics? Plundrich et al 2014 1 . If so, this should be discussed and any discrepancies in their findings or conclusions that can be attributed to the HRP artifacts should be noted. Answer: Thank. Yes, this was observed in Figure 2 of the Plundrich et al. 2014 paper (soluble fraction, top of blot shows high molecular weight material that appeared as a “ghost” band/smear). It was also observed in the Plundrich et al. 2015 paper, Figure 3 B (peanut protein-cranberry polyphenol complex) above Ara h 2 in the digestive samples (appears that smeary lanes appeared somewhat as “ghost” bands. In both cases, however, this did not affect findings made and conclusions drawn. In addition, the same treatments were re-tested using a new protocol (fluorescence Western blotting) and the data was consistent with that previously reported. We now included a sentence about this in the discussion. *Findings using peanut allergens and tea (or other sources of) polyphenols that lead to the same artifacts are important to point out. Answer: Thank you. Please see answer above. *Can the authors find a related published article/examples of other groups that may have suffered from the same artifact and mislead the authors of that research to put their findings in the context of other using the same reagents? Answer: Thank you, this is a good question. At this time, we are not aware of any other studies that reported on similar artifacts such as those we found. After all, the detection method we used is one of many possible approaches. *Could the authors please star/mark the bands that are considered “several additional proteins” that were detected with NBT staining but not CBB on Fig 1B? Answer: Thanks. We have now indicated those additional proteins and the respective sentence in the text slightly rephrased. *Could the additional bands noted on Fig 1B represent oligomers/aggregates of the ovalbumin and ovotransferrin, and are these same bands present on the immunoblot? Answer: Thanks. The additional bands/smears observed are protein-polyphenol complexes/aggregates that have been revealed by the NBT stain. Coomassie Brilliant Blue also stains proteins that are complexed with polyphenols (see smears in Figure 1 A), however, the NBT stain more sensitively stains proteins that have been modified by polyphenols. Those protein complexes are also present on the immunoblot, however, most of them appeared as “ghost” bands. *Could you test directly the proposed interaction between HRP and green tea polyphenols observed by the blot in Fig 1C and Fig 2G? Answer: Thank you. This is a good question, and could be followed up on. We think green tea extract could directly be added to a PVDF membrane and similar experiments as in this study could be performed to test the direct effects between green tea polyphenols and HRP. *Concerning the dark lysozyme band, this is a very important finding, but what evidence is there that this band is actually lysozyme? Are the authors aware of other examples of this non-specific artifacts with biotinylated 2ndary antibody-neutravidin-HRP complexes? Answer: Thanks. The tentative identification of lysozyme was based on literature. Lysozyme was the only protein found in the 15 kDa range (MW~14 kDa; Desert et al. J Agric. Food Chem., 2001, 49: 4553–4561). We are not aware of other examples of this non-specific binding. However, it is possible that the biotin-moiety of the secondary antibody was able to bind to lysozyme, as has previously been observed by Green et al. (Nature, 1968, 217: 254-256), although this group described weak interactions. It is also possible that the secondary antibody concentration used was high and resulted in non-specific binding to lysozyme when other reagents were omitted. *Consider changing the wording of the section; “due to a non-specific reaction between the secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” referring to the band in Fig 2D that I believe requires the secondary biotinylated antibody and the neutravidin-HRP conjugate. Answer: Thanks. In fact, the “secondary HRP-conjugated antibody” refers to the “secondary biotinylated antibody that has been bound by neutravidin-HRP conjugate”. We have reworded the sentence to make it clear. *In the conclusion the words “hyperactivated HRP” are misleading because there is no evidence of increased specific activity for the HRP so consider rewriting this sentence. Answer: Thank you. We agree and have reworded this sentence. Competing Interests: No competing interests Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 13 Mar 2017 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 Version 2 (revision) 26 May 17 read read Version 1 13 Mar 17 read read Christopher P Mattison , United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), New Orleans, USA R Hal Scofield , Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation (OMRF) , Oklahoma City, USA Biji Kurien , University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, USA Jernimo Carns , Laboratorios LETI, Madrid, Spain Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Carnés J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 03 Jul 2017 | for Version 2 Jernimo Carns , Research & Development Department, Laboratorios LETI, Madrid, Spain 0 Views copyright © 2017 Carnés J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions General comments The manuscript by Plundrich et al. describes that chemiluminiscence Western blotting with horseradish peroxidase modifies the signal when protein-bound polyphenols are investigated by this methodology. However the authors demonstrate that this signal is an artifact of the methodology , named "ghost band artifact". According to these results the authors confirm that the interpretation of the results must be investigated in detail. This is a relevant study because this methodology is commonly used, independently of the proteins and extracts investigated and it is useful for the understanding of the reaction and the interpretation of the results. The highlights of the article are clearly described in the manuscript. This reviewer considers that this findings are relevant when this methodology is going to be considered for the quantification of the proteins or when the objectives of these studies are to compare the concentration of different proteins in the same extract. In that case, the results obtained cannot be appropriate as a consequence of the different composition of the proteins (polyphenol aggregates particles). This topic should be discussed. Another point to take into account is the concentration of polyphenol aggregates in the proteins. According to the SDS-PAGE shown in the article (Figure 1A and 1B) and Western blot (Figure 1C), the highest concentrations are influencing significantly the image, however, the percentage of polyphenolic components that the authors are adding does not seem realistic in a common extract. This topic should be clarified and discussed. The authors should propose and include different alternatives with the objective to purify the natural extracts that contain these substances, by removing them, for example, using extensive dialysis or even treating the natural extracts . These studies could add value to the study. Minor comments The introduction section should be focused and introduce the application. A reference should be add in paragraph 2. Previous studies have shown ghost bands… Please add what are these previous studies. Are they included in reference 3? Figure 2. Please add KDa to indicate that 20, 30, 40 etc correspond to this unit Methology should be detailed The authors should discus their experience with other extracts. Are they comparable? Probably it would be better to move their experience with peanut to the discussion section. The authors should propose different alternatives or at least include this topic in the discussion section. 