In this manuscript, the authors created a web-based interface which hosts ChIP-seq data from 20 published experiments, and allows the users to 1) access the compiled lists of TF targets that met the criteria set by the authors, 2) identify the transcription factor(s) that regulate his/her gene of interest, and 3) perform co-expression analyses with user-provided RNAseq data. Although there are other web-based services that allow at least part of what is described above, the authors argue that this is the first platform that provides a uniform format for 20 genes. I would like to agree with the authors about the value of such a format. Of the above three functions, the first two are fairly straightforward and seems to function as expected. However, I feel that the description found in the manuscript about the co-expression analysis did not contain enough information. The authors provide a list of 100 genes with their FPKM values in 4 different tissues as a demo. The manuscript describes the set as “100 genes (including some transcription factors) were selected randomly from this dataset”. When comparing this list of 100 with the list of TFs in this database however, I see that 16 out of 20 TFs in the database are included in the list of 100 genes. This seems more than “some” to me- please describe specifically. When I run the demo, none of the 4 that are not in the list of 100 are found to be co-expressed with any of the genes. I think that would make sense because I don’t see how one can deduce co-expression between a given gene and a TF it the TF is not expressed in the data set. If this is indeed a requirement, I would like to see that stated in the manuscript. Also, typically how many tissues/times would need to be in the dataset? (When I remove one of the columns in the demo set I don’t get any hits, probably due to less statistical power of the data set.) It would be beneficial for the readers to know the approximate number experiments needed for a correlation analysis. In general, I would really appreciate if the authors could explain how co-expression analysis works – does it first perform co-expression analyses within the genes in the uploaded dataset, identify the TFs in the data base, then select the ones that have the consensus motif? A lay-friendly flow chart would be much appreciated. Also, it would be nice if the algorithm identified the motif and the distance from the ATG in the co-expressed genes. Minor points include: On the “Experiment” tab- for each TF, would you please include the link to the original publication? One can trace back using GEO NCBI, but it would be easier for the users if the publication is included as an additional column. To demonstrate the application of correlation analysis on finding potential TF-target gene pairs, a RNA-Seq dataset (Segaran, 2007) has been added to Expresso as a demo” I am fairly certain that the reference provided here is wrong. Methods “a peak locus peak” a peak locus? 