I have made editing comments on the PDF file . The protocol is well written. Some editing comments e.g. for a couple of tables the title is misleading. Also at some places the population considered for screening mentioned as over 40 years whereas in most places including in tables/figures = 40. This needs to be corrected. At several places abbreviations are used, so it would be useful to provide a glossary at the end of the paper. Also, the term "Icare" is used without defining it properly. In the introduction paragraph, the authors have not provided difference in two types of glaucoma and why one's share is greater then other in India and whether their share is consistent with other LMICs. In the methods section there are problems in calculating various costs at the organisation level as well as at the patient level. For patient level, the out-of-pocket expenditures on medical equipment/aids has not been considered due to glaucoma care. The training cost to field staff has been considered but their validation of enhanced skills for correct detection of glaucoma screening has not been elaborated. At organisation level, there is not enough clarity about calculating the unit cost and portioning of staff time used for screening. Multiple activities of staff and multi-usages of fixed cost items such as equipment, furniture and buildings as well as variable cost items (e.g. drugs and consumables) has not clearly been spelt out. Salary cost does not include the employer contribution to pension, earned/casual leave etc. and thus staff cost to the organisation turned out to be 40-60% higher than salary alone. The overhead cost (e.g. admin and management - usually 29% of medical personnel cost) has not been fully explained. Repairs and maintenance of equipment and depreciation for equipment/furniture/vehicle are not explained. Most importantly, the capital cost in terms of building and land (rental value) has not been considered at all. The opportunity cost of buildings and equipment used in the production of services, we need to have an estimate of the costs involved and to make assumptions about both the length of time that the ‘investment’ will be tied up in the service, and the rate of return on that investment. In public health services ‘long-run marginal opportunity cost’ is focused, which is the cost of supporting one extra patient while recognising the financial implications of necessary expansion to the service. In the UK, a buildings’ useful life is considered 60 years thus the annuitizing rate is 2.5% (i.e. converting a capital investment into the annual equivalent cost for the period over which the investment is expected to last). In terms of cost and cost-effective analysis, the paper has not provided enough details including methods of smoothing the costs data. The long-term benefits of early detection of glaucoma through screening has not been elaborated and modelled. It is important to bring into cost-effectiveness framework by quantifying the contribution of screening and prevention in reducing the disease related morbidity, blindness and premature mortality. The inclusion of above comments will definitely improve the quality of the protocol. 