An interesting and important article related to young key population (YKP) in Myanmar. The article mainly focused on the health seeking behaviours of YKPs (Young men having sex with men and Young female sex workers) in relation to STI treatment and HIV testing. It also seeks the utilization of Drop in centres by YKPs. Following clarifications and amendments are need on the manuscript. General observation Although RH services were included in the objectives, the authors mainly focused on the STI symptoms, HIV testing and DIC utilization. The qualitative part of the study was weak in analysis and did not identify the main themes analysed. Was not clear what themes were ask and analysed and what was the added value to the quantitative study. Methodology needs to be more elaborated for the mix method studies using specific guidelines for qualitative and quantitative research methods. Clearly defining the unmet need for health information seeking is required. Specific observation Abstract Sample size for the qualitative and quantitative study should be moved to the methodology paragraph. Abbreviations should be avoided if possible in the abstract. If need to please specify before using it. Introduction As the focus of the study is youth 15 to 24 years, the first paragraph is a bit confusing shifting from 10-24 and 15-24 in the same sentence. Methods There are three main outcome variables that seem to measure the health seeking behaviour. There is a missing variable on obtaining health information. Please clarify. Rationale for use of purposive sampling needs to be specified and more details of the sampling and data collection procedures are required. Recruitment of participants for the qualitative study was not mentioned and the sample size for KIIs and IDIs was not observed. Using note takers in the interviews for populations like MSMs and FSWs,how was the breach of confidentiality ensured. Advantage of using a mix method study would benefit the study methodology stronger. Need to specify the main themes analysed for qualitative thematic analysis. Results There is lack of results on health information seeking. Not clear how many percent try to seek health information and what are the main barriers? Table 4 describes the qualitative analysis but the linkage is missing with the quantitative findings. Description of the qualitative findings seems more appropriate if it could be linked to the quantitative data. Very little qualitative information is observed. Discussion Discussions need a conclusion paragraph to draw the main findings and a way forward. 