The authors reported a detailed summary of their genomic hackathon, hackseq, to help those interested in organizing similar hackathons in future. The hackseq brought together 66 biological and computational scientists with diverse demographic background to collaborate on nine projects on genomics ranging from data visualization to algorithm development. All the participants had positive responses in post assessment and showed interests in future hackathons. The background is clearly articulated. There are detailed descriptions on hackseq format and technical and logistical requisites, which are useful for future hackathons. Brief research project summaries are also described with more information available on GitHub. The data for reproducing the figures are made available on F1000 and schedules and application forms are available on GitHub. Major comments: Strengths: Overall, sharing details and experiences of the hackseq such as recruiting project leaders and participants, assigning teams, logistical and technical requisites, and post assessment is valuable for the open science community to organize future hackathons. It is a great idea to organize the hackathon as a satellite event of bigger events. The bigger events can help on travel cost of participants and more importantly promote hackathon participations. This hackseq is very successful at recruiting diverse participants, because it has a representative committee that encourages female, minority and early career scientist participations and also good promotion strategies that it partners with organizations such as Society for Canadian Women in Science. Weakness: The team leaders seem to have a critical role in each project, but their roles and responsibilities during the hackathon are not clearly mentioned in the manuscripts. Minor comments: Last paragraph in “Hackseq format” section: it states that participants ranked top three projects on which they would like to work, but there are four projects of choice in the application form. First paragraph in “Core logistics” section: stationary - stationery. Second paragraph in “Discussion”: female percentage in biology is significantly higher than in engineering. Thus the direct comparison of female participation rate of hackseq to engineering (NASA and Spotify) hackathons is not meaningful. Discussion: assessment is difficult with participants from diverse background. Some discussion on the current assessment and possible improvement would be useful.