The article provides a good overview of a pilot project that was run through ELIXIR to develop a training program to teach foundation computing and data skills to researchers. The authors give context of ELIXIR's mission and aims and how the pilot was put together and rolled out. It also provides information about the pilot's impact, specifically mentioning subsequent activities that took place because of the project. Given that this is an opinion article, it would be interesting to learn more about what ELIXIR did before employing the Carpentries model in terms of computational and data training. What other training platforms or methodologies have they tried and how do the Carpentries compare to other models they've employed. It would also be very useful if the authors could explain exactly what aspects of the Carpentries appealed to ELIXIR specifically and caused them to adopt it during the pilot. They did describe both Software and Data Carpentry, but it would be useful to explicitly describe why the Carpentries had such an appealing fit for ELIXIR’s need. There are many organisations these days that resemble the ELIXIR structure of hub and nodes, not only in the life sciences but also in nanoscience, mathematics and statistics, and other areas. This kind of information may help those who are not familiar with the Carpentries to evaluate whether a similar approach for developing computational capacity in their organisations may be relevant to their specific contexts. In some cases the authors use words such as "community of experts" and "experienced instructor", "perfected". Two of the core philosophies of the Carpentries are openness and collaboration. Although the Carpentries include a large number of experts and experienced instructors, the community embraces anyone who can contribute in any way and is by no means an elitist club of experts. In many cases lesson contributions are made by learners or newly qualified instructors. The Carpentries is specifically open and welcoming to anyone, not only the experts. The quality of the lesson material could equally be attributed to the collaborative development process, peer review, and repetitive use in workshop settings, and to leadership in its development by experts who often also play the role of lesson maintainers. The Carpentries are ever-evolving organisations that constantly learn from their community of instructors and learners, as well as research about learning and teaching in order to offer more relevant training, to improve the lesson material, the format of the workshops, and the teaching methodologies. Instead of describing workshops as having been "perfected" it could potentially rather be described as "constantly evolving to incorporate the latest research on teaching and learning" or something to this effect. The authors could reference the original Data Carpentry publication where it indicates that Data Carpentry started running workshops in 2014 (http://ijdc.net/index.php/ijdc/article/view/10.1.135/386). The authors should note that SQL was removed as a core topic from the Software Carpentry curriculum in May 2015 (https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/03/and-now-we-are-three.html). Another interesting datapoint might be to show how many of the newly trained instructors delivered the training that followed after completion of the pilot action. Were ELIXIR members teaching ELIXIR workshops? Were they teaching at non-ELIXIR workshops as one of the outcomes of the pilot was to help build instructors that could serve the broader community? The authors specifically stated that this was one of the intentions of the pilot as well. In the section under “Outreach”, the authors mention that the Pilot commenced in late 2014 but under the section “Pilot action overview and goals” it is stated that the pilot ran from March 2015. Could the authors please clarify? In a study done by Beth Duckles in 2015 Carpentry instructors were asked what personal and professional benefits were associated with being involved in the Carpentries. This report is a valuable reference to provide more clarity on the reason for instructors volunteering to teach. A number of reasons for teaching were listed including but not limited to (1) having the opportunity to travel, (2) building their resum (teaching experience), (3) enjoying being part of a community, (4) improving their teaching skills and learning from other instructors, (5) learning to communicate and present more efficiently, and more. The authors may want to provide more concrete reasons for why instructors teach and reference the report available at https://software-carpentry.org/files/bib/duckles-instructor-engagement-2016.pdf Moving the section on Software and Data Carpentry before the section about ELIXIR and the Carpentries may make more sense logically. 