This article discusses and proposes a blockchain based smart contract system to improve transparency of clinical trials. The current issues in scientific credibility in clinical trial findings include missing data, endpoint switching, data dredging, and selective publication. There have been efforts to solve these issues with legislation, but it can be seen that they do not solve the issues alone. Prior to this paper, a blockchain method was described to solve these issues. This paper extends the idea by using smart contracts with blockchain. The paper is well-written and referenced. I have few questions that need more clarification: Regarding FDA regulations, “ more than half of trials have failed to do so ”. What were the key reasons why this happened? This could be contrasted to issues that this type of blockchain would solve. How is “proof-of-existence” verified by network? How is verification orchestrated in the network? What resources are required from participants to join this blockchain? Untrusted participants. Can you elaborate more what do you mean by this term? EMA. What is EMA in this picture and does it have some special role compared to other participants? CDMS. How is data synchronized and standardized between various participants? What does it require from participant perspective? Checklist The appropriateness of the title: OK Whether the abstract provides an adequate summary of the article: OK If there is a comprehensive explanation of study design, methods and analysis, and their suitability to the investigation: OK Whether the conclusions are balanced and justified on the basis of the results: OK With regards to the data (if applicable), whether sufficient information has been provided for replication of the experiment, and/or if the data are in a usable format: OK Overall, I think this study is really interesting and I enjoyed reading it. Blockchain 2.0 and its applications are now emerging in various fields and it is important that research is being conducted. Looking forward for more results regarding this study in future.