This manuscript describes a survey of adherence monitoring availability, and views regarding the benefits of such, in the context of UK national CF centres. Aims, methods, results are described in sufficient detail for the reader to understand and follow. The discussion is reasonable and does not exceed the scope of the data. The results demonstrate substantial limitations in clinicians’ ability to capture and utilise adherence data in clinical care- findings important to highlight and necessary to address. I have the following major comments: The 8/29 response rate from centre directors is disappointing. This may therefore represent significant selection bias and this bias should be explicitly mentioned in the limitations; i.e. centres with less interest in an adherence monitoring system are less likely to respond. The sub-optimal response rate may also indicate limited interest or engagement among some centres for implementing a concerted adherence monitoring system. The authors might consider including this in their discussion, in a sensitive and tactful manner. While the respondents agreed a user-friendly system to make adherence data available in consultations was desirable, they were not asked what barriers currently stood in the way of implementing this- (staff, equipment, time). If this survey is repeated in future, this would yield useful information to develop and implement such a system. As a practitioner outside the CF field, I am surprised that adherence monitoring is not a routine part of routine assessment, especially prior to the use of eye-wateringly expensive advanced therapies. For example, the Severe Asthma centres in the UK are tasked with ensuring objective adherence data is acceptable prior to commencing biologics (far less expensive than gene potentiators), and the Australian Pharmaceutical benefits system requests that adherence is addressed prior to prescription of biologics (although objective measurement is not a requirement here). While clinicians are naturally (and, I judge, correctly) reluctant to set adherence thresholds requirements prior to implementing advanced therapies, knowledge of adherence patterns is always desirable when contemplating stepping-up any therapy. The authors may consider drawing comparisons between the practice in CF and severe asthma fields even in the UK alone. 