 Case Report: Case Report: Rare site for intraoral meningioma The case report presents an extracranial meningioma of the hard palate. The patient’s gender is conformed to the tumor but there are (likely) no contributing or risk factors associated with its occurrence. The lesion is asymptomatic and incisional biopsy was examined routinely and certain microscopic features were suggestive of meningioma. The specimen was further stained with a panel of markers and was diagnosed as meningioma of the palate. Unfortunately the patient did not return for surgical removal. Is the background of the case’s history and progression described in sufficient detail? The patient’s background can be improved if relevant findings are reported such as previous exposure to radiation as a potential risk for development of meningioma. Are enough details provided of any physical examination and diagnostic tests, treatment given and outcomes? This is one of the unfortunate incidents where patient is not committed to treatment. Although it seems that the patient is asymptomatic except for the size of the palatal swelling, absence of radiograph (even if non-indicative) and not mention neurofibromatosis-type2, undermine the reader’s understanding of the case. The clinical picture is good and clear. Is sufficient discussion included of the importance of the findings and their relevance to future understanding of disease processes, diagnosis or treatment? Discussion is fine although it would’ve been beneficial to cite the other reported palatal lesions by Kishore A (2000) and Sinha (2002), for example. 1 , 2 The immunohistochemistry test panel discussion would be more useful for the non-pathology reader if there were brief comment on the value of such tests of uncommon oral lesions with perplexing presentations. Consequently, a short list of lesions to be included in a general dentist’s record when similar cases are detected, would be useful. Few editing or English language corrections would help. For example “follow-up was not done because of loose of contact” in which “loss not loose” is meant. The statement is repeated in abstract and discussion and significantly alters the meaning of the sentence. Is the case presented with sufficient detail to be useful for other practitioners? Extracranial meningioma are rare and intraoral lesions are even rarer. It is of high pathological interest of both specialist and general practitioner to get updated on occurrence, presentation and diagnostic methods of such tumors. The case and the tumor presented are useful, relevant and with corrections, the report would be more impactful. Conclusions must be more powerful and instructive for the practitioner to: Expect the unexpected when similar lesions are encountered. Suggest an effective strategy to ensure patient’s return when the outcomes are suspicious. 