 1. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version The introduction starts awkwardly with a description of the alternative ways of conceptualising alcohol misuse. For the definitive version of the paper, I would strongly suggest that the relevant sections of the introduction be reshaped. Authors’ response The nomenclature describing ‘harmful use of alcohol’ and ‘alcohol use disorders’ are cumbersome and somewhat contradictory across organizations and publications, with, for example... Reviewer’s comments on this response The response from the authors has missed the point of my comments. Essentially I felt that much of the introduction was irrelevant to the main thrust of the paper and the research proposed within it, and therefore it should be reshaped. The title itself may be misleading because it refers to “alcohol use disorder”. The essential aim of the study is the implementation of interventions for excessive (or hazardous) alcohol consumption or as the authors term it “heavy drinking over time” and it is operationalised as 50+ grams of alcohol per day and an AUDIT-C score of 8+. To use “heavy drinking” as the target for the intervention is entirely reasonable and I agree that it fits with epidemiological data and a primary care perspective. My point is that this should be argued for and defined at the beginning of the introduction, eliminating unnecessary material in the first two paragraphs and elsewhere. The title of the study needs to be changed too. The term “alcohol use disorder” is not synonymous with “heavy drinking”. In the Oxford dictionary a disorder is defined as “an illness that disrupts normal physical and mental functions” and the ICD and DSM definitions refer to cognitive, behavioural, and patho-physiological phenomena, with no reference to the amount of alcohol consumed (indeed, in the DSM-5 IRT analyses, consumption variables did not explain any additional variance and so were excluded). I note that patients who have an alcohol use disorder (defined as AUD of 6+) will be referred to specialist services (as is appropriate), rather than being managed as part of the brief intervention. All this is needed is some further reshaping of the introduction and to consider whether the title should be modified to clarify the target of the study. The authors may wish to refer to the WHO definition of “hazardous alcohol use” in the draft ICD-11 [This was included in the draft of ICD 10 but it was deleted from the published version because the ICD 10 Committee did not consider it was a disorder and therefore its inclusion could not be justified]. 2. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version With regard to the “treatment gap” caution is advised about extrapolating too much from the findings Authors’ response Yes, this is likely true. Nevertheless, there is an apparent and widespread gap between those who might benefit from advice and treatment and those who get it (like high blood pressure). We have added some words of caution in measuring and reporting treatment gaps. Reviewer’s comments on this response It is true – check the NESARC data. I entirely accept the rationale for trying to bridge the treatment gap but on average (based on the countries from which we have data on this), the patients in the present study are likely to have a lower level of heavy drinking and fewer comorbid disorders than those who access treatment currently. 3. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version Is there any work reported for the three countries selected on the professional supports available to PHC staff? Authors’ response There have been existing studies on testing the impact and implementation of primary health care based screening and advice programmes in Latin American countries, and these are referenced in the paper... Reviewer’s comments on this response The revisions address this comment. 4. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version Reference is made to various scaling-up approaches but the paper would be strengthened by a description and discussion of the theoretical concepts underlying the framework proposed. Authors’ response We have added text on implementation and scale-up literature to the first part of the discussion. Reviewer’s comments on this response The revisions address this comment. 5. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version Will the investigators have access to medical records and PHC throughput data? Author's response In all three countries, electronic health records are used. Provided... Reviewer’s comments on this response The revisions address this comment. 6. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version Overall, this is a very ambitious and complex research program and I became concerned in reading it - in all its complexity - that it might not be achievable with staff who have no prior involvement in research and who are working in resource-constrained health care systems. Authors’ response We respond by considering that these are false and prejudicial assumptions. The CVs and experiences of the investigators in the three country sites surpass those of many investigators who have implemented similar international studies in ‘high-income’ countries. Further... Reviewer’s comments on this response Not a bit of it! My comments have nothing to do with the calibre of the investigators or the countries involved. The investigators include some of the most renowned researchers in this field and several also have a detailed knowledge of and working experience in the health care systems of Central and South America. I use the term “resource constrained” as referring to competing priorities when there is finite amount of money. Many countries in the middle or lower income bracket have well developed primary health care systems. Two examples are Cuba and Iran. In Iran there is a primary health care network with doctors, nurses and other health care professionals which extend throughout the country and covers more than 98% of the population. I do not have direct knowledge of health care systems of the three countries involved in the study (my experience is mainly in Asian countries), but World Bank reports on the health care systems describe these resource constraints. The response I was expected was something like the following: “Country A has a population of X million and a per capita GDP of Y. It has a well developed primary health care system which is based on universal health insurance and provides free health care at the point of contact (or provides reimbursement with minimal or no out-of-pocket costs). This system of primary care covers the entire country apart from certain remote areas and includes 95% of the population. The municipalities selected all have access to primary health care facilities, and … ”. Information about the municipalities is provided in the protocol. This sort of information provides me with confidence that the study proposed is feasible in a particular country. A principle of a paper is that the methods contain sufficient information that (i) allows the reviewer to be confident that the study’s objectives can be met, and (ii) that there is sufficient information that another group of investigators could if they wish replicate the study. I am confident in the authors’ capabilities but that was not the point that I was raising. 7. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version There is a statement “During all phases of the scale-up, we will document impact on other sectors (education, social care, criminal and justice, etc.) base on resource use measurement.” This is a huge additional amount of work. Authors’ response This is a misunderstanding. It requires quite minimal data collection from samples of patients. There are then robust tried and tested methodologies to estimate costs per outcome based on the collected data... Reviewer’s comments on this response More information has now been provided which reassures me that what appeared to be a very major and potentially time consuming aim of accessing multiple alcohol and other related social outcomes will, through the availability of linked databases be feasible, in part through a sampling process. 8. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version The paper would be more convincing (to this reviewer) if it were linked to budgetary inputs. Authors’ response The purpose of a protocol is to describe the scientific approach. We would not be proposing this study if we did not consider that we had sufficient resources to implement it. Reviewer’s comments on this response I would hope not, but the onus is also to provide sufficient information to convince an independent reviewer that the study is feasible. For all the grant giving organisations I know this is essential and it would be a strength of a protocol paper if there was reassurance that the level of support was sufficient for each site to undertake and facilitate the work – in terms of personnel required; I am not asking for the monetary amounts. Again the principle is of providing sufficient information that the study could be replicated if desired by independent investigators after it had been completed. 9. Reviewer’s abbreviated comment on original version Although there are approximately 160 references, an impressive number for a protocol paper, there are some surprising omissions Authors’ response We have included references to the WHO Phase III and IV studies, which the first author of this paper coordinated whilst he worked with WHO. We have added the Funk et al. reference (REF 159). Reviewer’s comments on this response The revisions address this comment.