I think that this article is a useful contribution and would recommend others to read it as well. I should disclose that I am one of the organizers of the ASAPbio meeting, so perhaps that colors my opinion of the article, which describes outcomes of the meeting. However, I do feel that McDowell has done a very good job separating information from his personal opinion. Both are useful to know and his clear wording defines that boundary. McDowell also has done a good job describing the goals of the meeting and the main topics discussed. There was a reasonable amount of confusion on social media, and thus I think that it is valuable to have McDowell clearly spell out the main themes. Furthermore, a complete record of the meeting can be found here, in cases readers want to go directly to the record: http://asapbio.org/meeting-information This article is largely written as a meeting report and an opinion piece. But it is particularly timely and important to have the voices of young scientists (like McDowell), especially in essay form. Junior scientists are suffering the most from the current publication system. But they also are the most vulnerable in their careers to managing any changes that might be introduced. They are also the ones who will inherent any new science communication system that will be built. Thus, junior scientists (not just senior scientists like myself) should be given the opportunity to write articles on this matter, such as the thoughtful piece by McDowell. The general message is that preprints are manageable and adaptation to a world of preprints and journals is not hard and indeed very welcome by junior scientists. I need not micromanage the content of this article with my review, especially as the information is accurate and the boundary between opinion and information is well defined. There is a lot of interesting material here in the piece, including McDowell’s discussion of the dilemma of the K99 NIH and publication (and how preprints might help) and the subject of scientific priority. Needhi Bhalla (another referee) also raised points of discussing more about journal submissions in the physics community. Paul Ginsparg discussed this point in his ASAPbio talk and you can download his slides next to his talk on the agenda (or also watch his talk): http://asapbio.org/meeting-information/schedule-location But to quote from his slide 13:” ’07-’14 data (HEP): 80% with journal ref; vast majority of rest subject to some form of review (conf proceedings, theses, lecture notes)”. Thus the vast majority of work going to arXiv goes to journals and the remainder also are mostly subject to some form of peer review. The same scenario is likely to happen in biology.