The article titled The ubiquitous and ancient ER membrane protein complex (EMC): tether or not? authored by Jeremy G. Wideman is a comprehensive study to determine if the EMC proteins are truly conserved. Using homology searching algorithms the author has shown that except for a few branches the EMC proteins are present in the vast majority of the eukaryotes and reasoned in favor of the presence of EMC proteins in the last eukaryote common ancestor (LECA). In addition the author has also identified two genes in S. cerevisiae to be orthologues of Emc7 and Emc10 which supports the finding of Jonikas et al . where these two proteins were co-immunoprecipitated along with the other EMC proteins. In light of the increasing scientific attention on the EMC proteins over past few years and their multifaceted roles in cell physiology I find this article to be quite relevant in delivering a thorough understanding of this protein complex from the evolutionary perspective. Thus this study by Wideman will be helpful in further understanding of the biology of the EMC proteins. On its scientific merit I consider this article to be substantially important for getting published with F1000Research. However there is one major concern, which Id like to be addressed before endorsing the acceptance of this article. The author has described Emc9 to be present only among the vertebrates. However the HomoloGene database of NCBI shows Emc9 homologs to be present in Drosophila melanogaster and Anopheles gambiae ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/homologene/41095 ). I assume that the homology searching algorithm used by the author has designated the Drosophila Emc9 homolog protein NP_611731.1 as Emc8 which calls for a discussion by the author. Furthermore, this led me to explore whether Emc8 and Emc9 share any sequence homology. Using pairwise alignment of NCBI Blast ( http://goo.gl/B8T0P3 ) between human Emc8 (NP_006058.1) and Emc9 (NP_057133.2) I found 44% sequence identity between these two proteins with 93% query coverage and an E value of 2e-57. No other Emc proteins, besides Emc8 and Emc9, share such high degree of sequence identity. This makes me curious of whether Emc8 and Emc9 could be paralogs in the vertebrates. In such case the gain of Emc9 among the vertebrates could be explained by a possible duplication of Emc8. In light of this I would request the author to elucidate possible reasons for the high degree of sequence homology between Emc8 and Emc9 and discuss the anomaly between his data as presented in this article and the HomoloGene database.