This is an interesting piece of work, although very incomplete. I actually hesitated between recommending acceptation or rejection, but decided to settle on the former because any new contribution on traditional knowledge related to medicinal plants should be welcomed. However, I do have several important concerns to raise about this article. First, it should be made very clear that the study is based on the knowledge of only 3 respondents. Each of them might know a lot, but they still are just 3 respondents. Completely different results altogether could have been obtained by interviewing 3 other respondents. Second, it is hard to evaluate the actual contribution of the study to the scientific knowledge, as no other study on traditional knowledge related to medicinal plants in Kenya or tropical Africa is cited. A quick search in Web of Science shows that 87 papers were published in the last 15 years for Kenya alone. Third, more details should have been provided about the forests in which sampling took place. Calling them tropical is not enough. Information on species richness, for example, would have been needed to appreciate if the 40 species recorded as medicinal plants form a significant or trivial proportion of the complete species set. In addition, dominant species and forest dynamics should have been provided to facilitate comparison with other studies. Also, the choice of the forest blocks where sampling took place should have been justified. Fourth, information should have been provided about how ethical issues were addressed. Traditional knowledge is a sensible topic (even the more so when it relates to medicinal plants) and a precautionary approach should be taken to ensure protection of intellectual property rights. Fifth, the choice of the 3 respondents should have been explained in more details. Why only 3? Why these 3? Were they men or women? Knowledge is not shared equally between genders. Etc. Other comments: The abstract is too general and does not provide all the relevant results. The English should be checked by a native speaker. Some sentences are awkward, some words are missing, and some words are uselessly repeated. Figure 1 does not show the effect of forest fragmentation, so the first paragraph of the “Study area” section should not imply that. Why wasn’t BirdLife International (2004) added to the reference list and cited properly? Population density should be given as a number of people per SQUARED kilometers. “Salaza” is not shown on Fig. 1. Please make clearer the distinction between “block”, “fragment”, “section”, etc. Herbarium voucher numbers should be provided, or, at least, the name of the herbarium where samples are kept should be given. A total of 40 medicinal plant species seems low. How does it compare with other studies in African tropical forests? Why use quotation marks when writing “cure”? This uselessly sheds a doubt on the efficacy of medicinal plants. I am surprised that none of the species (especially herbs) was used entirely (instead of just leaves, or fruits, or other parts). How were the disease classes chosen? The “vector-borne” class is not a type of disease, but rather a way of transmission. It can include digestive, psychic, or other types. Furthermore, several common ailment categories were not reported to be treated with medicinal plants. Explanations should have been provided as to why. Authors should have followed, for example, Cook’s (1995) classification : Cook FEM (1995) Economic Botany Data Collection Standard. Kew: Royal Botanic Gardens. 