The present article by James et al. details a study within a trial (SWAT) of including a pen and/or cover letter with a postal questionnaire. A two-by-two factorial randomized control trial was conducted that assessed the effect of including a branded pen, a ‘social incentive’ cover letter, both a pen and ‘social incentive’ cover letter, or a standard cover letter as control. The primary outcome measure was the return of a postal questionnaire with secondary outcomes of time to return the questionnaire, completeness of the questionnaire, requirement for a reminder letter to be sent, and overall cost effectiveness. Overall, there was no effect of any intervention on return of questionnaires and no effect on secondary outcome measures. A meta-analysis was conducted with respect to including a pen with the questionnaire and its effect on response rate, with pooled results supporting the inclusion of pens. We would firstly like to commend the authors for presenting the methods clearly and providing supplementary material which enhances replicability. Below we indicate points which could be addressed and identify areas of improvement to further enhance the quality of this article. Major points to address: The peer review team would like to highlight the following areas for clarification. Potentially confounding incentives The ‘social incentive’ intervention cover letter is described as including a “mild level of social incentive”. In referencing the supporting citation for the cover letter (Cotterill et al ., 2017) 1 , the social incentive used is social pressure. Social pressure is described as conveying to participants that “information about their behavior will be noticed (Cotterill et al ., 2017) 1 ”. The present paper then describes the cover letter as “intended to highlight to the participant that their questionnaire responses are noted and valued”. It is apparent that reminder letters were also sent to some participants. A reminder letter could be argued to be another “mild level of social incentive” as it is similarly conveying to participants that their behaviour (i.e. not returning the questionnaire) is being noticed. Can the authors comment on the potential for the reminder letters to confound the results? The reminder is not included among the supplementary documents, but we would be interested in the authors’ thoughts on the potential for unintended social pressure cues or behaviour change techniques being delivered through the reminder letter. In reviewing both the standard and social incentive cover letter, it is noted that they are identical apart from the personalized table indicating the participants’ previous responses. Similarly to the above point regarding unintended social pressure cues, we wonder if the phrases “We would be very grateful if you could return the completed questionnaire to us[…]” and “Your input to this trial is very important to us[…]”can be unintentionally introducing confounding social pressure by highlighting that their questionnaire responses are “noted and valued”. Can the authors reflect on how the addition of these phrases (and thereby the possibility that unintended ‘social incentives’ were applied within the control group) may have potentially affected results? Under the section, “Interventions”, on page 3, it is mentioned that an unconditional 5 note was included with the questionnaire for all participants. Due to the financial incentive present, we would just like to clarify if the inclusion of the 5 note was controlled for in the analysis. It is referenced in the “Discussion” section that the host trial included three other methodological SWATs that have a potential for contamination or interaction. If possible, it would be good to offer brief descriptions or links to other SWATS in the supplementary materials to better understand their potential to confound intervention effects. Theoretical foundation of cover letter Applying the Behaviour Change Techniques (BCT) taxonomy definitions to the intervention letter raises the possibility that the intervention being tested is more akin to “feedback on behaviour” (see Michie, 2013) 2 , given that the letter provides informative feedback on the frequency of questionnaire return, rather than the BCT taxonomy definition of ‘social incentive’ (i.e. “Inform that a verbal or nonverbal reward will be delivered if and only if there has been effort and/or progress in performing the behaviour"). It is worth noting that some readers may interpret the meaning of 'social incentives' quite differently than how it is conceptualised here. Can the authors offer some clarification on this for the reader and on the theoretical underpinnings of the intervention? Adding citation(s) to clarify their conceptualisation of 'social incentive' would be helpful. It is also unclear whether the authors regard the social incentive cover letter as a form of “social reward”: noted on page 4, the authors state that gender was controlled for within the logistic regression model to “control for potential differences in anticipation of social rewards…”. It does not appear that participants are presented with additional verbal or non-verbal reward above the standard letter with just the inclusion of the response table. It is noted in Cotterill et al . (2017) 1 that social pressure is “unlikely to be effective among those who are very committed to the behavior” which appears to be the case given that response rates across groups are 95%. Given that there are two prior postal response timepoints, was identifying if this group is highly committed to questionnaire response considered? Minor points to address: Regarding Table 2, are BMI, EQ-55D-5L score, and number of falls relevant to include? The table is already quite extensive and this data may detract the reader’s attention from other variables (e.g. age, sex) more pertinent to the study. The pen is described as York Trials Unit branded. Was there branding specific to the host trial? It might be that participants would be quicker to recognize the trial versus the CTU. How might this affect the social incentive? Could it be mentioned briefly in the main body of the paper that the meta-analysis was undertaken as part of PROMETHEUS? We notice it is mentioned in the acknowledgments but one of the review team members was confused about the inclusion of the meta-analysis. Overall assessment: We would like to commend the authors on a concise and well-articulated presentation of the present study. The study is well designed and it is clearly presented with accompanying data and figures making it highly reproducible. We recognize the importance of each individual SWAT’s contribution to a larger body of evidence and the conclusions drawn and the recommendations for future work are appropriate. We have suggested potential limitations and concerns with the theoretical foundations of the social incentive cover letter and the presence of potential confounding incentives but our overall assessment is that the article meets its objectives and its strengths merit indexing. Contribution to this peer review : This peer review was conducted by Taylor Coffey, Dr Louisa Lawrie and Dr Eilidh Duncan as part of TC and LL’s training. All reviewers contributed to writing the report. 