 STUDY PURPOSE The purpose of the present study was to describe the perceived benefits and challenges of pulmonary rehabilitation program for patients with COPD from the point of view of patients, professionals, and significant others (carers). TITLE AND ABSTRACT The title reflects the content of the article. The abstract provides a suitable summary of the work. The conclusion would be strengthened by a main message. INTRODUCTION The introduction provides detailed information about the area of research, gaps in the literature, and techniques employed to answer the research question. The references to the relevant literature on the mixed method design were also provided in order to support the proposed methodology. METHODS The design of the study was also described clearly, including thematic generation and consensus, as well as responsibilities for integration. However, the authors state that the focus is on the quantitative analysis rather than the qualitative analysis, yet the analysis described appears to be qualitative in nature, and the authors comment on the need to maintain qualitative rigour throughout the study. A ranking by median scores by the participants is still qualitative in nature. If the intent is to undertake a quantitative analysis of the data, the selection of the median rank and interquartile ranges as appropriate statistical tests that is meant to answer the study research question seems insufficient. The authors might want to explore the differences between the different groups in regard to the perceived benefits and challenges of pulmonary rehabilitation program for patients with COPD. We consider that there is a need for clearly stating the hypothesis being tested and a motivation for selecting specific statistical analysis, should a quantitative analysis be intended. The individual data table would be better presented in the results section. RESULTS The results section is appropriately explained, but the emphasis is again placed on the qualitative than quantitative research findings. In addition, the authors state that 20 participants were initially included in the study (8 patients, 8 professionals and 4 others) and 12 participants were finally included in the analysis. Given the small sample size, there is also a need to specify the status of the participants who did not complete the study. This information may influence the interpretation of the study results. There is also a disagreement between the evaluable responses across the paper: 60% on the page 6 versus 70% on the page 9. The authors also state that COPD patients who were currently participating in or completed a pulmonary rehabilitation program within the last 2 years were approached to participate in the study. However, Table 1 shows 2005 as year of PR program for one COPD patient. It is also worth mentioning the weak participation of physiotherapists in this study, although the pulmonary rehabilitation program was the main component of this research and the physiotherapists play a significant role in the delivery of pulmonary rehabilitation program. The thematic template generation does not offer clear guidance to the reader on what are the clear benefits and challenges the list is somewhat self-evident and simplistic, and appears to focus on the benefits of the pulmonary rehabilitation program, but the challenges are not clearly articulated. DISCUSSION The conclusions are generally balanced and justified, although special emphasis is placed on the qualitative findings. Some of the discussion would be better suited to the results. The main benefits and challenges of pulmonary rehabilitation for patients, carers, and professionals as presented in the themes are not specific enough to be of use for making recommendations for improving the pulmonary rehabilitation program.