There has been no attempt to use my suggestions for making the abstract clearer, and you ignored many of my suggestions for improvement in grammar and sense and my requests for clarification in the rest of the manuscript. Never mind. I don't agree with your argument about repeatability. In your response to my previous critique, you wrote: "Regarding the issue of ‘repeatability’, we would argue that since this perspective deals with the ability to predict the responses of future patients (i.e., individuals with similar characteristics to past ‘responders’), then repeatability of these responses is not only relevant, but vital. Although we would not deny the real benefit to an individual patient of any significant improvement in clinical outcome, if this benefit is not ‘repeatable’ in that it is reliably casually related to treatment administration (e.g. score improvement is largely due to fluctuations in symptoms that would have occurred otherwise), then it should not be taken as evidence for use of that treatment in future (similar) individuals." In other words, you think a treatment has to reproduce a benefit on a second administration in the same subject if it is to produce benefit on the first administration in a similar subject. But if the treatment produced a benefit on the first administration in one kind of subject, then there is no reason to assume it would not produce benefit on the first administration in a similar subject. Besides, we are often talking about treatments that are supposed to produce a permanent cure, in which case the question of repeatability is not an issue. But if the effect of the treatment wears off, a repeat of the same treatment could fail acutely for the same reason it failed chronically the first time (a change in the subject resulting in desensitization), so you can't extrapolate from the effect of the second treatment in the first subject to the expected effect of the treatment the first time it is administered to a similar subject. In the paragraph on regression to the mean, you state "The fact the t 1 score is used to calculate both baseline and change scores (i.e., that they are mathematically coupled) results in further inflation of this relationship (see 22)." No, it doesn't "further inflate" regression to the mean. You get exactly the same artefact whether you use t1 to predict t2 or t2-t1. The benefit of predicting the change score is that the artefact is more obvious in scatterplots. Some of the new material is beyond my expertise. It reads OK. Find "which for many some conditions" and remove either "many" or "some". In the same paragraph, "31,32" needs to be superscripted. Whether 33 and 34 need superscripting is a problem with that method of referencing. "availability of different kinds of data to that derived " should be "availability of kinds of data different from those derived" "may be a potential" is another double doubtful you will probably not bother to fix.