This is a short but interesting paper and is extremely well written. I use the adjective “short” because the novel results occupy fewer than eight pages, if the figures and tables are ignored. Nevertheless, the results are interesting and well worth publishing because they do address a significant problem. The issue in question is well explained on pages 3-5. The literature background appears to cover all relevant research, but I suggest that two of the references be changed. I would replace the ACS meeting abstract cited at 12 with Brown and Martin, 1997 1 . That paper does not mention “85%” specifically, but it does discuss the cutoff threshold in detail. Reference 14 is useless: a researcher novel to the field of similarity could not locate MACCS keys by seeking a non-existent company which had an office in San Leandro in 2005. I would prefer to see “activity classes” written out in full: it is not a long-winded term, and ACs looks a bit like a typo for ACS. On page 8 the sentence “Thus, similarity searching can be mimicked by systematically comparing compounds having the same activity and active compounds to random database compounds” is not clear enough. Further down the page it is made clear exactly what is compared with what, but that is too late. I also did not fully understand the statement “Comparison of random database compounds is not carried out during similarity searching. However, the similarity value distribution resulting from the latter comparison can be monitored as an additional reference.” Maybe: “Comparison of random database compounds to random database compounds is not carried out during traditional similarity searching, but the similarity value distribution resulting from this comparison can be monitored as an additional reference in mimicked similarity searching”? (Note also that it is better not to start a sentence with “However”.) On page 13 there should be a heading saying “Conclusion” before the sentence that begins “In conclusion”. The sentence beginning “In conclusion, in this study, we have addressed the issue how molecular similarity calculated using fingerprints and activity similarity might be related to each other from a fundamental point of view…” is ambiguous, e.g., “…molecular similarity calculated using both fingerprints and activity similarity, might be related to what?” Admittedly there is no comma, but it would be clearer to say “In conclusion, in this study, we have addressed the issue of how, from a fundamental point of view, activity similarity might be related to molecular similarity calculated using fingerprints…” At the very end the phrase “…was hundreds of times higher for compounds sharing the same activity than randomly selected or active vs. random compounds.” is not clear enough. In short, I like the science, and I think it should be indexed, but I would like to see a few minor improvements to the text as detailed above. References 1. Brown R, Martin Y: The Information Content of 2D and 3D Structural Descriptors Relevant to Ligand-Receptor Binding. Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences . 1997; 37 (1): 1-9 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Warr W. Reviewer Report For: Activity-relevant similarity values for fingerprints and implications for similarity searching [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (Chem Inf Sci):591 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8986.r13264 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-591/v1#referee-response-13264 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Ertl P. Reviewer Report For: Activity-relevant similarity values for fingerprints and implications for similarity searching [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (Chem Inf Sci):591 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8986.r13265 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-591/v1#referee-response-13265 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Apr 2016 Peter Ertl , Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8986.r13265 An interesting manuscript focusing on a relationship between molecule similarity and biological activity, one of the most important (and still not fully solved) problems of applied cheminformatics. The topic is therefore relevant to drug design. The question the authors are trying ... Continue reading READ ALL 