This is a very good paper and the science is sound. We suggest some minor technical writing issues that need to be addressed (see below). We think the figures could be much improved by making them less busy. Some suggestions were handled as comments, but overall many of the figures could be improved by shifting words out of the figure and into the captions or supporting text. The first two figures in particular have many words, and we think some of the labelled anatomical structures are either unnecessary to label or could be abbreviated to make the figure appear less busy. That being said, the figures are very good and help considerably in making the arguments outlined in the paper Specifics: Page 2, First Paragraph The second sentence reads i.e., the extinct glyptodonts and giant armadillos, and the living armadillo s, instead it should read i.e., the extinct glyptodonts, extinct giant armadillos, and the living armadillos. Page 2, Fourth Paragraph The seventh sentence ( Extinct sloths have been divided ) is redundant with the first paragraph of the introduction and should be rewritten. Page 2, Fourth Paragraph In the eighth sentence, small sized should be . Page 2, Seventh Paragraph In the first sentence, it is not clear to what institution Department of Geology refers. Furthermore, Table 1 contains a reference to YPM that is not explained in this paragraph. Page 2, Seventh Paragraph In the second sentence, does not require quotation marks. Page 3, Table 1 see previous comment about no explanation for the abbreviation YPM. It will also need to be added to the table caption. Page 4, Figure 1 The label pointing out the zygomatic arch in Fig. 1A may be unnecessary for the intended audience, and removing the label will clean up the diagram. Furthermore, the label in the lower portion of Fig. 1A doesnt seem to refer to anything since it lacks an arrow and it is not contained inside the line drawing. Page 7. Figure 4 The sentence in the figure about the shaded surfaces indicating occlusion is also included in the figure caption and can be removed from the figure itself. Page 12, Figure 8 I would prefer to read the explanations of the arrows in the figure caption rather than overlaying the figure. Page 13, Sixth Paragraph The third sentence reads The relative size, orientation and position of these should read The relative size, orientation, and position of these. Page 14, Seventh Paragraph In the first sentence, muscle has should be muscle has. Page 15, Twelfth Paragraph The first sentence ( This muscle group controls the soft palate position and facilitates .) is an incomplete sentence. Page 16, Fifth Paragraph The fourth sentence The fossil record should be referenced. Page 17, First Paragraph The first sentence ends with denoting change in habitus . Is the word really the word that was intended? I think the word habit would be preferable. 