Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review this manuscript. I think that this article highlights several important aspects. New genomic technologies will add to the complexity of genetic disorders. Both pre-test and post-test counselling are of great importance to understand what information the new technologies can bring as well of course the limitations of the tests and results. I do also think as the writer states that patients as well as relatives might need even more support related to the results (both when no diagnosis is set or when a very rare diagnosis is found, there is limited knowledge is present). It is thus important to be able to help and support the patients in that situation and as the author states in a citation; receiving the result can be not the end but the start of the journey. Genetic counsellors’ roles might also change and develop in this genomic area. So as a subject I think this is an important paper. However, I have some major issues regarding this paper, which need major revisions prior to possible indexing: Title I think the title is long and not very clear. I think it needs to be shortened, given a more focused topic. Aim For me the aim (focus) of the manuscript is not completely clear. What I can see there are two different focuses: 1) What support do these parents need regarding acceptance and coping 2) How can genetic counsellors take part in this area I think the manuscript should benefit from either focus on one of those aims OR to clarify that there are 2 aims/focuses. Structure The manuscript should benefit from changing the structure of the text. I think it is a little unstructured moving back and forward between things. Introduction I think the introduction is too long and to detailed on the different definitions on ID. It is not necessary for the aims of the manuscript. I would also change the order of the subtitles of the introduction. After the first part on the definition and prevalence I think it would be more relevant of having the section on "Diagnostic Tools". I think that this part also can be shortened. Then I think that the section on parental responses and support needs to be put together as one section. There is a bit of overlap between them. Check for overlaps. I do think the section on the different coping issues is very good and relevant. At the end of the left column page 3 I would change the focus from "how it will affect the role of genetic counsellors....." to how it would affect the need for support and genetic counselling and if so, how genetic counsellors can participate in this area of support. Role of genetic counsellors I think it is a very interesting approach that GCs can play a role here. However it lacks discussions on what unique skills GCs have to take this role. What is included in GC education? The author talks in a sentence about that GCs need to be more prepared to do this and that the current knowledge is not sufficient and that further education might be needed. I would like to see a development of the discussion on this and references to studies on the education and role of genetic counsellors. Example I do believe that it is good to show things by examples and I think the citations from parents is a good ways of showing parents thoughts and experiences. However, for me the example of childhood overgrowth stands a little on it is own and does not add very much here. I recommend to take that out. Conclusion I think the conclusion could be clearer and should benefit from clarifying the aim/aims of the study. In summary, I think it is an interesting paper within an interesting area, but which needs major revision to be indexed. 