This method article written by Dr. Blackwood is aimed to provide a simple and reproducible protocol generating neurospheres from lateral ganglionic eminence in late embryonic mice and demonstrate its applicability for further immunocytochemical assays. Several aspects and protocol steps, however, require clarification: This protocol includes multiple sections with crucial steps. One suggestion that could make the protocol even greater for educational purposes is providing a brief paragraph to sections 1, 2 and 3 (prior to individual steps) that will explain what is important in this section and list all the necessary reagents and tools that will be used. This will help anyone who is using this protocol for the first time to prepare all required items for this protocol section easier rather than finding the specific reagents and volume from each individual step. Table 1 details equipment, reagents and catalogue numbers; however, the digital camera used for acquiring the images is not listed. The model of stereo stereomicroscope (step 2.5) should be added to table 1, as well as the optimum magnification required or used in this protocol. The type and model of humidified incubator in step 3.19 would also be helpful for reproducibility. Section 3 called “primary neurosphere culture” is the main section explaining the method of neurosphere generation. In other publications, e.g. Raponi et al. (2007) 1 , a filtration using a 40um-mesh-nylon cell strainer to dissociate cells after triturating. It may be valuable to add a note after trituration step that at this point similar step could be done if the purpose is to obtain uniform suspension from tissue. The “Data acquisition and statistics” section requires more details. Specifically, the additional valuable information could be addressing the distance from the culture plate, whether this is an important factor for further size measurements and if so what was the distance between the camera and the well. What was the zoom factor used here? The section “Primary neurospheres at 7 days in vitro can be used for immunocytochemistry” is aimed to demonstrate applicability of this protocol. The GFAP/DAPI is used as an example. While it is stated in the “Introduction” that neurospheres have been used to study molecular mechanisms controlling differentiation of both neural and glial cells, it is not very clear why GFAP was used for this example. Maybe author could clarify or explain why more specific markers were not used here instead of GFAP. From the Fig. 4 it looks as only 1 cell within the neurosphere was GFAP+, hence I believe using a more specific antibody could produce more representative result. Several references provided to this review detail markers that could also be used. Lastly, I believe another interesting question that could be potentially valuable here is the step explaining the reader, which factors or characteristics of the neurosphere help to determine that the neurosphere is mature. In summary, after addressing these comments, I believe this method article is a good protocol that can be used as a reference and educational tool for both researchers that are familiar with similar techniques and those who approach it for the first time. 