The authors describe the architecture of NeLS, the Norwegian e-Infrastructure for Life Sciences. Use cases provide an overview on how the NeLS infrastructure operates. The infrastructure can deal with sensitive and non-sensitive data. The microservices oriented architecture allowing several universities to propose a national service is well explicited. The integration with data-generating platforms will help users to manage efficiently their research processes. The article is well written and provides a good overview of the infrastructure. The description of the use case improves the understanding of the operations. Additional informations and source code are available on a GitHub repository. Comments Major remark : The data management could be more explicitely described in the article. The data analysis workflow is well described from the data analysis point of view but the usage of SEEK in the NeLS infrastructure is only briefly mentioned. Some additional description on SEEK usage and interest for NeLS users could improve the article. In the Figure 1 : there is a mention of "data curation into structured storage". This data curation is not explained in the text and this raises some questions. Is this data curation using SEEK ? Minor remarks : In the abstract, it is stated that "NeLS is also integrated with the SEEK platform in order to store large data files produced by experiments described in SEEK". This should be rephrased since it gives the impression that the SEEK platform is used to store large data files. In the second chapter of the introduction, the flow of ideas is not clear. A comparison is made between BaseSpace, Geneious and SEEK before mentioning GenomeSpace. Why compare BaseSpace, Geneious and SEEK that are tools that do not really compare since the first two are focused on data analysis and the last on data management? Maybe there could be some rephrasing needed (this could also help to improve the data management focus mentioned in my first comment). Concerning BaseSpace and Geneious, it could be less judgemental to say that their service is chargeable instead of expensive. And to say that their platform is private. It could be interesting to describe briefly why the GenomeSpace setup could not be adapted. In the data reproducibility chapter some reference genomes are made available on the five Galaxy instances. Is it possible to describe how this is achieved and how everything is synced? Some quantitative data about the number of users are needed in order to better estimate the community covered. In the abstract there is a mention of a "project-oriented fashion". This expression is strange to me. Maybe replacing fashion by way or method or mode? Typo : The headlines are numbered and sometimes there is a dot after the number and sometimes not. And they are not numbered in the templates if I am not mistaken. In 2.1 Authentication whether the user is who he claims to be instead of whether the user is who they Page 9 col 1 line 29 : e-infrastructure Page 9 col 2 line 15 : some strange font glitches in the pdf file (but not online) Page 9 col 2 line 17 : can help in instead of helpin 