This manuscript provides solid data indicating that quercetin can protect plants grown in tissue culture or aquaculture conditions from the oxidative stress imposed by paraquat, which interferes with chloroplast electron transport. The experiments are adequately described and scientifically valid, albeit, they are limited to basic assays of plant growth and overall protein oxidation levels. The data shown appear to be of good quality and appropriate statistical analyses have been provided in most cases. The major weaknesses of the manuscript are that the studies are rather preliminary and the major general conclusions are not entirely supported by the data. The manuscript would be strengthened if the authors addressed the following points by providing more data or limiting the conclusions to what is clearly supported by the data: The conclusion that quercetin can be used as a general antioxidant stress protectant for plants is too broad and would require additional data to be accurate. First, only one type of oxidative stress was assessed; additional assays compatible with the tissue culture format (e.g. salt, metal, cold stress etc.) are needed to support this generalization. Second, the authors only point out at the end of the Discussion that the use of quercetin as a stress protectant is likely limited to tissue culture or aquaculture of plants. This point should be made clear earlier in the manuscript and in the abstract. It isn’t clear how quercetin exerts the observed effects. The authors appear to believe that it is due to the well documented antioxidant properties of this flavonoid; however, no data are presented to indicate whether quercetin was taken up by the plants and if so, how the amounts accumulated compared to what is normally found in the test plant species. It is well documented in animal cells that quercetin affects a number of signaling pathways (e.g. JNK and other MAP kinases, Akt etc.) that are conserved in plants. Thus, it is possible that quercetin-induced tolerance may be more complex than simply scavenging ROS. Several minor points that would be helpful to clarify are: What treatments summarized in Figure 1 are statistically significantly different? The authors suggest that the rescue of tt4 plants was not as robust as that observed in wild-type or the other tt mutants tested; however, based on the error bars, it isn’t clear how significant the observed trend is. Whether the reduction in protein oxidation observed in the acute short-term treatments also occurred in plants treated under the conditions of the growth assays. 