I am sending my comments and criticism to the research article entitled A Phase 2A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot trial of GM604 in patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS Protocol GALS-001) and a single compassionate patient treatment (Protocol GALS-C), written by Kindy M, Lupinacci P, Chau R, Shum T and Ko D This article describes that the GM604 is a peptide with a sequence identical to one of the active motoneuronotrophic factor. This peptide modulates many ALS-associated genes, promoting decreased expression of SOD1, repression of genes associated with the intrinsic apoptosis pathway, and increased expression of genes associated with mitosis and cell division. It is a very interesting peptide that may be investigated in this neurologic disorder as well as in other neurodegenerative and neurovascular disorder including Ischemic Stroke. GM604 according to this papers it is a safe drug, therefore I consider has to be applied in larger number ALS patients since this trial includes only 12 ALS patients treated with this peptide and 4 placebo treated patients This article is described as multi-center phase 2A, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled pilot trial, however in the abstract is reported a 2-center trial ALS diagnosed as definite ALS was performed according to the El Escorial Criteria. However, it is not described whether clinical and neurophysiologic criteria including Awaji criteria were used. The procedures used for patient evaluation in this trial were performed with scientific rigor, However: a)There is a small number of ALS patients (8 in treatment and 4 in placebo group) b) In this paper the authors describe objective measurements including ALSFRS-R Time Up and Go and Hand-Held Dynamometry and FVC, although most of these objective measurements are not very sensitive to follow up in research drug trial, however I consider these measurements have to be performed every 4 weeks at least during 24 weeks mostly the ALSFRS-R The authors did not describe in the methods section the type of CSF analysis performed. However, they described in the section of statistical analysis that biomarker in plasma and CSF was compared between treatment groups The biomarkers in blood and CSF are not considered as objective measurement of clinical outcome, probably some biomarkers may be used as possible effect of experimental drugs or dell therapy into the motor neuronal environment. The biomarkers so far reported in the literature are considered as some potential candidates for diagnosis or prognosis in ALS patients including Cystatin C, SOD1, pNfH, Neurofilament Heavy Chain Tau/tau ratio, and CSF Cytokine Pathway reported recently for our research group A table reporting adverse events between ALS treated patients and controls has to be integrated in the paper. This is a research article that involves treated and control ALS subjects therefore I believe that historical controls are not needed The authors did not report in the methods, type of CSF analysis were done in treated and control ALS patients. However, in the statistical analysis they compared biomarker results in blood and CSF between treatments All patients included in this research are in an early state of ALS. There is a short time between clinical onset and inclusion to the trial (8.9 and 5.2 months in treated patients and placebo group respectively). I believe that these patients could be followed at least for 6 months after inclusion to this research protocol It was previously reported that the average decline in the ALSFRS-R score in ALS patients is -1.1 points per month and -13.32 points per year. Therefore, in this trial a comparison has to be done between treated ALS patients and those in the placebo group. Merit Cudkowicz describe a decline in ALSFRS-R score of 3.6 point for placebo group and -2.2 in patients using dexpramipexole dose after three-months period follow-up. Since the observation period in this research trial (12 weeks) is similar than Cudkowicz report, a comparison of ALSFRS-R score among them is worthwhile Recently in ALS patients, slow and fast progressors have been identified using a probabilistic model with the ALSFRS-R score over 12 months follow up in ALS patients under placebo treatment. I judge this analysis may be useful in this research protocol as well as in a future trial with GM 604 In this research article objective measurements were performed including ALSFRS-R, Time Up and Go and Hand-Held Dynamometry at screening, baseline, 2, 6 and 12 weeks as well as safety and tolerability that only was applied in eleven patients. However, in TUG, Grip Strength and HHD scores, no significant treatment differences were observed between placebo and treatment groups. No statistically significant changes were found in the FVC among ALS treated and placebo. The slope for ALSFRS-R for the placebo group changed minimally before and after treatment and in those patients treated with GM 604 had no statistically significant changes at 12 weeks. I believe this no representative changes among treated and placebo group is due to a) small number of patients and controls included in this trial 2) short period of follow up and 3) the objective measurements used in this trial need to be strengthened The objective measurements in this trial could be: The Tractography including measuring of the Anisotropic Fraction of the pyramidal tract that is mostly originated in upper motor neurons of the frontal motor strip and the Motor Evoked Potential at baseline and 3 to 6 months after inclusion. Although these objective measurements may be more useful to objectively determine the potential protective effect of this peptide to motor neurons. Finally, I consider that the authors presented an interesting paper to be published as a short communication including some modification I have described above that include in future trials a higher number of patients as well as improve the objective measurement about safety and efficacy. To combine results obtained in this trial with some other (advanced ALS in compassionate treatment) it is no suggested since they already reported that results in other report. 