The specific aim of this Research Note is to demonstrate that C. elegans can be used as a useful in vivo model to study mutations in actin associated with human myopathies, specifically in this case, cardiomyopathies. The authors have thus expressed only in the muscle tissue of C. elegans GFP-chimeras of wild type (WT) actin and two actin mutants (E100K and P165A) equivalent to human actin mutants E99K and P164A both of which are known to cause hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in humans. The authors then study by fluorescence microscopy the localization of the actin-GFP in the body wall muscle, the sarcomeric organization using fluorescent phalloidin to visualize F-actin, and worm motility. Their main findings are that all of the GFP-actin proteins incorporate into the sarcomere with only the E100K mutant causing sarcomeric disarray and that both mutant actins, but not WT, form GFP-positive aggregates that do not stain with fluorescent phalloidin or with an array of actin antibodies even after implementing antigen retrieval protocols. From that, the authors suggest the relevance of C. elegans to study actin-related cardiomyopathies. However, actin aggregates have not been detected in mouse heart from animals expressing the E99K mutant nor have aggregates been reported in human cardiomyopathies from subjects with either of the mutations used here. Thus, we are left to wonder, as indeed the authors have themselves, if the aggregates are specific to nematode muscle, if aggregate formation by the mutant actins is enhanced by the presence of the GFP-tag, and what other molecules are found in the aggregates that might provide a clue to their composition. As the authors have clearly written in their introduction, there is a need for further characterization of pathogenic mutations and expanding the available organisms to study specific diseases is always welcomed, as every model comes with their benefits and caveats. In spite of this, and the fact that the manuscript is well written and self-critical, there are some limitations in the studies presented that prevent us from approving its acceptance at this stage. Although it is understandable why the authors choose to express the fluorescently tagged version of the actin mutants, expression of the untagged versions should also have been examined to see if the sarcomere disruption by the E100K occurs in the absence of the GFP tag. It is recognized that under these conditions it would not be possible to obtain ratios of the expressed transgene with the endogenous protein, but with a fluorescent protein expressed from a different promoter, it should be possible to obtain worms with the untagged actin mutants to determine its effect on sarcomere disruption. As recognized by the authors, the GFP tag could increase the propensity of the construct to oligomerize/aggregate. Whether this could be driven by GFP aggregation on its own is not clear. It has been reported that GFP linked via its C-terminus to a 16 amino acid "degron" peptide is not effectively degraded but forms aggregates very similar to the ones observed here when expressed in the body wall muscle of C. elegans (Link et al. , 2006 1 ). Since the aggregates observed in the current study have not been found to contain actin, one has to wonder if some cleavage has occurred to give rise to the same type of GFP-aggregates observed by Link et al. Why these do not form with the GFP-WT actin is unknown, but might reflect its greater stability to proteolysis. It would be useful to know if the number of aggregates correlate with total GFP intensity in a muscle cell. Also, the absolute level of the expressed proteins relative to endogenous actin is problematic. As recognized by the authors themselves, their western blot was made with whole organism lysate and the signal of endogenous actin was near saturation. Although the contribution of actin from regions outside the body wall muscle is thought by the author's to be low, if it were possible to isolate only the body wall muscle, the values would be more meaningful. For the results to mimic human disease pathology, the authors need to try and reproduce the ratio between mutant and endogenous actin. As the authors demonstrate decreased worm motility when overexpressing total WT GFP-actin, it is clear that the expression of exogenous actin must be kept low to avoid potential toxic effects, although in this case it is unclear if the decreased motility arises from the presence of the GFP-tag. While trying to explain the difference observed in their worm model with results from a previous paper (Song et al., 2011) in which no aggregates were found with the E99K mutant, the first explanation given is “Thus, effects of these actin mutations appear to be dependent on cellular context.” Such an explanation actually negates the main purpose of the paper. We would thus recommend to first try to resolve the issues that have been identified in this review, because, as interesting as the starting idea is, there are some flaws that render the results difficult to interpret. Minor questions: How do the authors explain the lack of correlation between sarcomeric disarray and worm motility? Does the expression of any of the constructs lead to an increased mortality or to a reduced lifespan? The nature of the aggregates that contain the GFP should be explored in more detail. Are they phase separated protein clusters such as one finds in stress granules and which can be identified by rapid diffusion within the structure if photobleached, or are these structured solid aggregates that might be able to be isolated, such as those from human from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy? The reason for their lack of actin staining needs to be identified since right now the title of the manuscript that states "human cardiomyopathy mutations, cause abnormal actin aggregation" cannot be used since no actin in the aggregates has been detected. 