 Main findings: The authors investigates the acuity demands of three different languages (Malay, Chinese, Tamil) for distance (handwriting) and near (printed) optotypes at two different school levels. Their results show that the acuity demand was approx. 0.1 logMAR for distance and 0.24 logMAR for near for both school levels, but they did find a significant difference between the different languages, where Chinese and Tamil had higher acuity demands for distance and near demands compared to Malay. They conclude that the acuity demand is higher than the common vision screening criteria, and that vision screening protocols should revise their cut off points. Abstract: The abstract is a fair description of the findings, and the conclusion is supported by the results. “Good visual acuity is important for children’s learning but the actual visual acuity (VA) demand” Move the abbreviation VA to first mention start of sentence. Distance and near visual acuity demands (VA) were then calculated. Remove (VA) or substitute visual acuity with VA before demand. VA is not the abbreviation for VA demands… Detailed comments The central question raised in this clinical paper is not novel or original, but is of general interest internationally and specific interest to readers using Chinese and Tamil language, and within the scope of f1000. Introduction The introduction covers relevant topics related to the study, but there are more citations that could be added in the first sentence “Good vision has always been integral to proper education development in children” (e.g. Quaid et al, 2013 1 ; Kulp et al, 2016 2 , Basch et al 2011 3 )) “This could possibly lead to other visual issues being overlooked, such as hyperopia.” Is supported (e.g. Falkenberg et al., 2019 4 , Mayro, et al 2018 5 ). It is not evident the authors have performed a proper literature search, “ A literature search found … ”as they do not mention any details of such a search (search words and combintations, databases…), I suggest re-writing to we have only identified 3 studies… Methods and statistical analysis, and its interpretation appropriate? The methods are well described and appropriate for the aim, there are some issues regarding the size of the sample sizes of the three schools –where there are 40 Malay (latin) classrooms, and only 10 of each Chinese and Tamil. Further, it would be useful to have all the raw data from each classroom, and not just the average for each classroom. “The critical detail on a letter is arbitrarily taken as 1/5…” Remove arbitrarily –it is explained in the paragraph above. The calculations could be tidied up by explaining MAR in the text. It should be earlier, as the term logMAR is introduced in the paragraph above the figure. Statistics: When the sample sizes are so different between schools, it means that the one-way anova is not appropriate statistics. Results It is not clear that the VA demands for distance and near in table 2 is the overall mean for all three schooltypes – and this is problematic as the authors find a significant difference between the Malay and Chinese/Tamil schools both for distance and near. This means that for Malay (latin), the VA demand for distance really is 0.24, not 0.1 –this is on line significant difference in VA. For near VA is 0.3, a difference of approx. 2 lines. This means that for Malay schools, most pupils will probably have good enough vision – even taking into account the near VA reserve. I think it would add to the manuscript if the authors calculated and showed what the habitual near VA should be for comfortable near work for the three schools. (For Chinese and Tamil it is unlikely the children have the required VAs…, and most are probably working close to their VA thresholds) this should be elaborated. There seems to be a significant difference between distance and near VA demands, even if there are no difference between stage 1 and 2. There is no need for a separate table 3, as this is stated in the text. I suggest to remove. The most interesting findings are the differences between type of schools, for both distance and near. However, there is a large difference in sample sizes, so authors should use more appropriate statistics for the analysis. Information that is in table 4 do not need to be repeated fully in the text. Discussion: The point that there is a different demand for distance and near should be included in the discussion. Further that there is significantly higher demands for the twenty Chinese and Tamil classrooms, compared to the 41 Maylay classrooms for both distance and near VA. “This could be due to similar writing sizes in students’ workbook writings and printing as all schools use the same textbooks but with different languages”. Is this relevant as the near VA demand was printed material? Rephrase. Conclusion: In my opinion, the authors should be careful to average the VA demands for distance and near across languages, as they clearly are different. The conclusion should reflect this, as the VA demands reported, are heavily influenced by the minority of the classrooms tested (the 20 Chinise/Tamil compared to the 41 Malay). Tables: Tables 1-3 could be adapted to fit in a column, and arranged more appropriately in the final version of the text for readability. significant differences should be marked in tables by e.g.* Table 2: the VA demands should be taken out of the table, as this average do not reflect correctly the sample as it is the 20 Chinese/Tamil schools that pull the average down. This should also be commented in the results, as this is not really accurately representing the data. Table 3: I suggest to remove as all information is stated in the text. If kept, the interesting thing is probably that there is a difference between distance and near –sig differences should be marked. Table 4: This is the most interesting results, please redo statistics and mark out significant differences. 