I have gone through the manuscript entitled “Absence of toll-like receptor 9 Pro99Leu polymorphism in cervical cancer” submitted by Alex Chauhan et al. for its publication in F1000Research. The authors have studied the polymorphisms of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) Pro99Leu polymorphism in cervical cancer to examine its role in cervical carcinoma in elimination of viral pathogens though recognition of CpG islands. It is suggested that polymorphism of TLR9 gene may influence the recognitions of the above DNA sequence leading to elimination of infection. The authors have used as many as 110 cervical cancer samples and normal cervical smears from 141 healthy controls and employed PCR-RFLP and sequencing methods for detection of genotype variation. The authors could not find any variation in genotypes of TLR9 hence authors concluded that the specific polymorphism C296T/Pro99Leu has no role in cervical cancer. This is a very clean and straight forward study which could not find any link between TLR9 polymorphism and cervical cancer. The data and the figures presented including PCR and PCR-RFLP and sequencing pictures are excellent and convincing. However, there are few points which need to be clarified/corrected before the manuscript is accepted and indexed. My comments are as follows: The whole study is based on only one TLR9 gene polymorphism. Authors need to very clearly justify their choice of TLR9, and not other TLRs in Introduction as well as in the Discussion. It is well established that the causative agent for cervical cancer is due to infection of specific types of high risk Human papillomaviruses. Any study on cervical cancer demands for an obvious correlation/association with HPV status of the cervical cancer. If at all no HPV analysis has been done, the authors must discuss this in the Discussion. There are several English and grammatical errors throughout the manuscript. Authors need to carefully re-read the manuscript and correct the manuscript. Few obvious errors are indicated here:- i) Methods: 3 rd line: reaction and restriction fragment length ii)Conclusion: 1 st line – the present study demonstrates no involvement – (delete ‘results’), 3 rd line – delete ‘worldwide’ and in 4 th line – delete ‘participants’, replace it with ‘subjects iii)Table 1 last column below Visualized on: write 2% Agarose gel. Data set 3: delete ‘unedited’. In summary, the manuscript may be accepted for indexing after the authors made the minor revision of the manuscript as suggested above. 