This is a useful article and software package to help apply cytoscape.js to heterogeneous knowledge graphs. KnetMaps.js adds several features surrounding the cytoscape.js graph visualization, such as the legend, information panel and download functionality. Following the setup guide to run the sample application locally was fairly straightforward. The software is available online to test at both http://knetminer.rothamsted.ac.uk/KnetMaps/ and http://daisychain.appliedbioinformatics.com.au/ . Developers can obtain the source through npm and biojs, where the package is named knetmaps. KnetMaps.js requires that input data be in a specific format and there are examples of this in the setup guide. The format is easy to understand, but combines data and styling information per node or edge. Separation of these concerns would add clarity and conciseness. A user wishing to display heterogeneous data, i.e. data containing different node and edge types, might find KnetMaps.js could save them development time. Several features that one might want to add on top of cytoscape.js are provided out of the box, such as the interactive legend, node/edge information panel, PNG/JSON export functionality, filtering and a variety of layout algorithms. However, for any substantial deviation from the UI design provided, a developer might be tempted to start with cytoscape.js directly, which has many online examples and is well documented. Minor revisions: Software PNG export. This functionality does not currently include the interactive legend, which would be useful to explain the static image. File extensions. The sample files have misleading file extensions. For example, ara2.json, which has JavaScript content, should really be a .js file. Automated build step. The running of gulp optimize could be done prior to publishing on npm. This would make it even easier for an end user to embed the necessary .js and .css files. Descriptions for example datasets. There are several example datasets available at http://knetminer.rothamsted.ac.uk/KnetMaps/ . It would be helpful to provide a brief description of where the datasets came from and what they contain. Manuscript Use of bower. I did not need to use bower to set up the sample application and would suggest removing the reference in the paper. Longer term suggestions for improvement: Add some unit tests. This would also double as documentation for developers. Use npm to install third party libraries. Several libraries, such as cytoscape, cytoscape-cose-bilkent are not installed using npm. Upgrading them would be more straightforward if the package manager were used. 