This article provides updated information on awareness level of Bangladeshi women on two important sexually transmitted diseases, syphilis and gonorrhea including associated factors with the awareness level. It has been prepared based on national survey called Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) 2011. Therefore, data used in this article is valid and widely acceptable. However, I have few suggestions and some clarity for better readability and understanding of the readers. 1. Abstract: The authors mentioned, “To date, little is known in the existing literature regarding its prevalence, and the current level of syphilis and gonorrhea awareness among women with regard to prevention is inadequate.” It is not clear whether there is lacking of information on prevalence of syphilis and gonorrhea or prevalence of awareness level on syphilis and gonorrhea. The authors did not measure the prevalence of syphilis and gonorrhea in this study. Please, clarify or revise this sentence. 2. Introduction The author should include some information on why Bangladeshi women are at risk of syphilis and gonorrhoea. Last sentence of first paragraph in Introduction section: “Per day more than 1 million individuals obtain a sexually transmitted infection, and per year, a projected 500 million individuals contract one of four sexually transmitted infections, including gonorrhoea and syphilis”- Are these infected individuals from Bangladesh or from the world population? Please also use a reference. 3. Methods: Sample design (Page 3): - I would prefer to use “Study design and study site” instead of sample design. - Did authors collect primary data using cross-sectional study design or secondary data review or analysis was applied, please clarify? Sampling procedure: - What is a cluster, or how have these clusters been defined or created? - If description of this sampling procedure is published in a BDHS report, it can be used here as a reference. If this is not secondary data analysis or it involves primary data collection, description of field visits is required. Description of questionnaire is required. Data analysis: The definition of “awareness about syphilis and gonorrhea” is required. The authors may include a specific or list of questions used to define or identity “awareness about syphilis and gonorrhea” as an example. Table 1: Did the authors mean the first category “1≤25” as “12-24” years? How many under 18 children were in this group? I would suggest to make two groups by stratifying first category as 12-17 as adolescent and 18-24 as youth. There should be a significant awareness difference between adolescents and youth groups. 4. Results: Table 2: It should indicate total 'n' for Syphilis and total 'n' for Gonorrhoea in the Heading as it is not cited in the Method section. Table 3: - Place of residence: It has been interpreted as “Women that lived in rural areas had 0.72 and 0.82 times less awareness about syphilis and gonorrhoea, respectively, than women living in urban areas in Bangladesh (Column: Right, Paragraph:2, Line:4)”- I would suggest to check this interpretation by a statistician. - Geographic region: The author should include a justification in the Method’s data analysis paragraph why they used Barisal as a reference category. In my opinion, Dhaka can be a reference category as it is capital city of Bangladesh. 5. Discussion: The authors justified with possible reasons about their findings. In first paragraph, the authors described the level of awareness separately at now and in the past. I would suggest to show this information in one sentence as, “Over one and a half decades (from 1997-2001 to 2011), the awareness on syphilis and gonorrhoea has been slightly/poorly/unsatisfactory increased from 4–5.7% to 13.3% and 5–6.3% to 15.7% respectively (ref).” 6. Grammatical or Typo-errors: The whole manuscripts should be checked by an English editor as a few typo-errors have been observed. Such as: Abstract: “Currently, syphilis and gonorrhoea among women is a topic great concern in Bangladesh. To date, little is known in the existing literature regarding its prevalence, and the current level of syphilis and gonorrhea awareness among women with regard to prevention is inadequate (Page 1).” The authors may want to write: Currently, syphilis and gonorrhoea among women is a topic of great concern in Bangladesh. Methods: “This cross-sectional study used data collected in the Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) 2011, which includes data collected from women (Page-3).” The use of word ‘collected’ twice makes the sentence unclear. Discussion: “A higher level education provides women with various opportunities, such as practice of health scare and knowledge on reproductive health (Page-6).” The author may write care instead of scare. 