This paper is a tutorial type presentation on how to capture a number of gait characteristics for use in a variety of study types using a single, lumbar-worn accelerometer. The paper does not present new data capture or analysis methods and therefore appears to be targeted specifically to new comers to gait analysis using wearable sensors. Tutorial articles of this type can be highly valued by such an audience. This is a well-organised article that is easy to follow for the most part. Given the target audience, we would recommend some further detail in places to make this a more comprehensive tutorial. Whether or not a “typical” clinical researcher would still require signal processing/analysis support to implement the analysis of the accelerometer data on the basis of this tutorial is debatable. Elements of the paper, in particular Appendix 1, serve as a useful accompaniment to the authors’ previous research such as: "Validation of an Accelerometer to Quantify a Comprehensive Battery of Gait Characteristics in Healthy Older Adults and Parkinson’s Disease: Toward Clinical and at Home Use" . General Comments: While this paper certainly has value to the gait analysis community, it is not a “Methods” paper in the journal’s strictest sense i.e. it does not describe “ a new experimental or computational method, test or procedure..” . We would submit however that it satisfies the following description: “..technical articles that describe tools that facilitate the design or performance of experiments..”. This is ultimately an editorial decision. The most validated and useful measure which users will get following this tutorial is IC and FC. This means that all the temporal characteristics can be well computed by following this tutorial. While the paper flows well in its current form and is easy to follow for someone experienced in gait analysis, extra detail and additional steps may be required for the novice, target audience e.g. further detail on calibration could be considered in places. It could be useful to include a table outlining the current commercially available products and what they measure (what is validated and what is not). The authors may consider an additional section for how one may compute more accurate spatial characteristics when using an IMU rather than just an accelerometer, as the current treatment of this issue is rather terse. If they do so, pointing the readers to relevant algorithms and existing open source MATLAB code could aid here. The manuscript is generally well-written however a thorough check of grammar and sentence structure is warranted. The following sentences are examples: "Abstract, Results: We provide an introduction to conduct a routine instrumented gait assessment" "Gait has been shown as a pragmatic and useful (bio) marker of incipient pathology, inform diagnostic, track disease progression and measure the efficacy of interventions." "The common sensor within modern wearables comprises a tri-axial (medio-lateral, anterior-posterior, longitudinal) accelerometer: due to low manufacturing cost, miniaturised size and low power consumption." "Data digitisation and associated memory within the wearable, one full battery charge of a modern wearable is sufficient to gather data every 0.01s (100 Hertz) for 7 days. The equivalent of over 180 million (60 data point/second 3 axis) data points to analyse a participant." "Each of the aforementioned may not offer the high sampling rates to gather ~180 million data points but all positives/ negatives depending on the research question and provision of pre-programed outcomes." Specific Comments: Abstract: In the methods section, where it states "open platform technology" is it fair to say this considering MATLAB is a key feature of this tutorial paper and licenses are expensive? Introduction: In paragraph two at “This can be attributed to:….”, in the interest of clarity, perhaps the authors could explicitly state and support the fact that temporal measures have been better validated than spatial ones to date and hence this tutorial mainly supports the analysis of temporal gait characteristics. Information included later in the paper under "current options" may sit better in the introduction section. As suggested above, a table outlining the stated products in addition to other wearable sensing gait analysis products, their associated sampling rates, placement, output measures and cost would help readers understand the argument for using a low cost accelerometer solution and implementing the techniques described in this tutorial. Materials Methods: The description of the signal as (i) and (ii) is misleading and may cause readers to think that under dynamic conditions there is no gravitational acceleration present in the signals. Perhaps rephrase to a summation of inertial acceleration and gravitational acceleration acting on each axes. Where the authors present a "high resolution device (100Hz)……." they should also provide recommendation on accelerometer range and sensitivity for maximising signal quality when analysing gait with an accelerometer positioned at L5. While the authors go into good detail on sensor positioning, they do not mention the importance of calibrating a tri-axial accelerometer device. Not doing so can have a negative effect on the validity of computed gait characteristics, especially spatial ones. To make this tutorial more holistic, steps and sample code to do this could be added which would help a clinician/researcher to calibrate a ‘generic’ tri-axial accelerometer. The "correcting for offset" paragraph is only a partial solution. Figure 1(a) – “Dynamic Postural Control” may be a better description of these variables? Figure 1(b) would benefit by adding the dimensions of the walking circuit to the diagram. In the pre-processing section a little more elaboration on what the "unwanted signal" is and adding a description of what the "desired signal" corresponds to would help readers new to the area of signal interpretation. In the “Correcting for offset and misalignment” section where it is stated that "the average value of [...] will approach the sin of the angles" it should be stated whether the values are in m/s^2 or g. Also, it is worth noting that this assumption may not work well when the accelerometer is undergoing significant inertial acceleration i.e. at high gait speeds. Figure 2(b)-(c) would be tough to interpret if document was printed in black and white, but clear otherwise. In steps (iii) and (v) of algorithms are there any thresholds or other inputs to the findpeaks function that people following the tutorial should know about? In the "spatial characteristics" section where h is used, it may help to more explicitly state how h is calculated in the text as well as in Figure 2(c) which is currently difficult to interpret in black and white. Discussion Conclusion: I think it would be important to reiterate here that the methods presented are for application in steady state walking. The authors state elsewhere in the manuscript that shorter intermittent walks can be pooled, but caution against the effects of acceleration/ deceleration portions of the signal. They state that this, “...can be minimised by excluding the first and last steps (values) of the walks before pooling”. This is somewhat vague and needs to be cautioned against more clearly in the concluding paragraphs.