The paper by Dr. Schs team describes on the identification of evolutionary conserved non-coding regions (ncECRs) in the -synuclein (SNCA) gene and their assessment as candidate regulatory elements. The work coupled in silico and cell-based studies. By using a comparative genomic screen between human and mouse the authors identify 32 ncECRs, out of which 11 regions exert an effect on expression level using a luciferase reporter assay approach. Their findings add on previous reports in the field that have shown, using both luciferase reporter system and human brain tissues, that the SNCA gene contains cis-regulatory sites across the 3 and the 5 LD blocks that regulate its expression levels. The study was well designed and thoroughly executed, the results are of interest to the scientific community of PD-genetics, and provide seeds for follow up studies. The paper is nicely written, logically flows and summarizes the literature in the field. However, the authors should make major revisions according to the following comments: There is some inconsistency regarding the number of the ncECRs identified in the initial screen between the different sections of the article (32, 34, 37). Please make the corrections where needed. Additional necessary control for the Luciferase experiments is a pGL-(SV40) promoter vector harboring an insert of a scrambled sequence that its size range mimics the average insert size of the tested ECRs. This is required to control for the effect of ECR lengths. What method was used for the statistical analysis? It is also not clear in the text whether all significant changes were calculated in comparison to the SV-40 promoter-only vector. That should be described in details in the method section. To demonstrate the important implication of this study the authors are recommended to follow up on an event as an example. That is to say, to evaluate the effect of a genetic variation, a PD-associated SNP, on the regulatory function of the corresponding ECR using the luciferase system established in this work. Figure 3 demonstrates overlap between PD associated SNPs and ncECR, connecting these dots will be of high significance. Supp Table: there is a typo in the coordinates of D2. In the footnote include the human genome assembly of the coordinates. Figure 2A X-axis: modify title to Omit Figure 3A. Instead include a new panel to figure 3B that indicates the position of the putative binding sites of these TFs within SNCA locus. The identification of Transcription Factor Binding Sites (TFBS) is an important step required in order to evaluate the transcriptional regulation network of the SNCA gene. To this end, the computational prediction of TFBS is a classic approach that gives preliminary data but should be interpreted with caution. Integration of the classic approach with new models described in Mathelier Wasserman (2013) is highly recommended. The relation between TF motifs and in vivo binding sites is far from simple. The analysis lacks of information about the context of the identified sequences. TF are highly context-specific, and the same TF typically binds to different genomic binding sites in different conditions. Obtaining information about the context could be helpful in better understanding the possible involvement of the predicted sites as TFBS. While this is beyond the scope of this study, this topic should be thoroughly discussed in the discussion section. 