The concept ​of creating glaucoma index buckets ​has been validated by the authors​ ​in their ​ PLoS O​ne paper 1 . They showed that similar patients with and without cataract undergoing ab-interno trabeculectomy can be combined in one ​study. I ​found the​ conclusion that use of the Trabectome​ would be potentially useful in many cases of procedures combined with cataract surgery​,​ even ​when​ the glaucoma is fairly far advanced. As the site of greatest resistance to fluid exit, removing the trabecular membrane alone could potentially lower a high enough pressure gradient, at least temporarily. With the potential to avoid a full thickness filter and its attendant complications, the Trabectome could buy time to ride out a post operative cataract pressure spike.​ I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with ​split fixation where the alternative is ​an ab-externo​ filter or tube and ​then later cataract surgery. If this procedure is more effective than iStent and other bypass procedures, and involves no costly per case costs in comparison​,​ then Trabectome with phacoemulsification may be the most prudent choice​. . ​A​t the other end of the spectrum ​in ocular hypertension patients with no current measurable damage, ​is​ the risk profile ​of Trabectome combined with phacoemulsification reasonable​,​ compared to the risk and cost of drops or SLT as alternatives? We know that the effectiveness of only one iStent, the FDA approved norm in the US, is quite often not sufficient to reduce pressures adequately.​ There was another ​issue ​to be considered. The grading system us​es​ pressure as one of the components and also use​s the ​pressure drop as ​the​ metric of success. There be some circular reasoning involved​, a​s the initial pressure head itself is a determinant of ​the resulting ​pressure drop ​using​ drops, lasers ​or​ surgery. Unfortunately the study can not be replicated exactly due to patient confidentiality considerations. ​The validated glaucoma severity scale. from their previous paper in PLoS, uses simple-to-obtain inputs: IOP, number of medications and visual field loss; graded using MD and PSD from the visual field testing.​ The combination of these factors with definable numeric values can be utilized by cataract surgeons without glaucoma subspecialties. References 1. Loewen RT, Roy P, Parikh HA, Dang Y, et al.: Impact of a Glaucoma Severity Index on Results of Trabectome Surgery: Larger Pressure Reduction in More Severe Glaucoma. PLoS One . 2016; 11 (3): e0151926 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Myers WG. Reviewer Report For: Combined analysis of trabectome and phaco-trabectome outcomes by glaucoma severity [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :762 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9096.r13591 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-762/v1#referee-response-13591 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 27 Jun 2016 Nils Loewen , University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA 27 Jun 2016 Author Response I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with split fixation where the alternative is an ab-externo filter ... Continue reading I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with split fixation where the alternative is an ab-externo filter or tube and then later cataract surgery. If this procedure is more effective than iStent and other bypass procedures and involves no costly per case costs in comparison, then Trabectome with phacoemulsification may be the most prudent choice. Authors: This study is designed to analyze how patients with more severe glaucoma fared during the one-year follow-up, and the all-inclusive design maximizes the patient numbers. The results indicate that this microincisional surgery is a viable first option even in more severe glaucoma for many patients, but the resulting pressure is not low enough for many as the survival curve demonstrates. Postoperative complications are surprisingly common after traditional glaucoma surgery. Leakage, endophthalmitis, hypotony, hardware erosion, damage to ocular tissues and other complications that are vision threatening occur with an additive probability of 77% in trabeculectomies and 58% in glaucoma drainage implants. 9 The surgeon has to discuss with each patient whether the avoidance of postoperative complications of traditional surgeries is worth the risk of an insufficient pressure reduction and the need to move on. In this context, it is important to recall that the postoperative IOP for tubes and trabeculectomies is only approximately 1 to 2 mmHg less that reported here. 10 In forthcoming publications with fewer patients and full data disclosure, we report propensity score matched results of tube shunts and trabectome for a valid comparison of these surgical modalities. Because of the speed and safety of ab interno trabeculectomy, there is also a role for combining the two to achieve a lower IOP with fewer medications. At the other end of the spectrum in ocular hypertension patients with no current measurable damage, is the risk profile of Trabectome combined with phacoemulsification reasonable, compared to the risk and cost of drops or SLT as alternatives? We know that the effectiveness of only one iStent, the FDA approved norm in the US, is quite often not sufficient to reduce pressures adequately. Authors: It is hard to compare the effectiveness of different surgeries and in various practices without a randomized controlled design. The only way to obtain a high-quality comparison is to perform matching as we have done recently. 3,5 A cost analysis is similarly specific to the geographical area and practice. Prior cost analyses suggest that SLT is better or similar to eye drops in lowering IOP and more cost effective, even returning more than initially invested. 11,12 The same can be said about micro-incisional glaucoma surgeries 13 although this depends on the long-term viability of the chosen surgical modality and costs of anesthesia. SLT is our first line of treatment before use of drops and trabectome surgery presents a sharp step up. It is certainly convenient, fast and safe to combine at the time of cataract surgery. After trabectome surgery, only the distal outflow tract generates pressure causing most patients to drop into the mid-teens while SLT achieves more of a relative reduction that depends on the preoperative IOP. Our study presented here shows that the postoperative results are mostly independent of preoperative IOP (or that a larger IOP reduction is achieved in higher preoperative IOP). There was another issue to be considered. The grading system uses pressure as one of the components and also use s the pressure drop as the metric of success. There be some circular reasoning involved, as the initial pressure head itself is a determinant of the resulting pressure drop using drops, lasers or surgery. Authors: Different from other glaucoma staging systems graded by a defect of visual field or optic nerve injury 14–16 , the glaucoma index here includes the relative resistance to treatment by individual patients. There is no circular logic, however, because we did not develop a prediction model that would have used a set of normal patients to train an algorithm and control patients within a study that were separated out from progressing patients as we have used elsewhere 17 . Both IOP and medications are reduced (or one could say the glaucoma index is reduced) by this procedure. Unfortunately the study can not be replicated exactly due to patient confidentiality considerations. Authors: HIPAA concerns are particularly relevant for this study describing many individuals. Fines can quickly climb to millions of dollars: https://www.truevault.com/blog/what-is-the-penalty-for-a-hipaa-violation.html We are very impressed with F1000Research and the compelling benefits of pre-printing and open peer review and will provide full open data with our upcoming publications. Although it is the standard not to release full datasets in clinical ophthalmology publications, we have come to realize that this is a disservice. For instance, one could apply matching strategies to other datasets to compare surgeries and we hope to make ours available for this purpose. The validated glaucoma severity scale from their previous paper in PLoS, uses simple-to-obtain inputs: IOP, the number of medications and visual field loss graded using MD and PSD from the visual field testing. The combination of these factors with definable numeric values can be utilized by cataract surgeons without glaucoma subspecialties. Authors: Yes, we agree. We were surprised that this has not been attempted before. Hopefully, better indices will become available. We have a glaucoma risk calculator in our medical record system, a customized version of Epic, and that has been a big step forward. References used in this Reply to Reviewers Loewen, R. T. et al. Impact of a Glaucoma Severity Index on Results of Trabectome Surgery: Larger Pressure Reduction in More Severe Glaucoma. PLoS One 11, e0151926 (2016). Bussel, I. I., Kaplowitz, K., Schuman, J. S., Loewen, N. A. Trabectome Study Group. Outcomes of ab interno trabeculectomy with the trabectome by degree of angle opening. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 99, 914–919 (2015). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Wollstein, G. et al. Retinal nerve fibre layer and visual function loss in glaucoma: the tipping point. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 96, 47–52 (2012). Neiweem, A. E., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Glaucoma Surgery Calculator: Limited Additive Effect of Phacoemulsification on Intraocular Pressure in Ab Interno Trabeculectomy. PLoS One 11, e0153585 (2016). Iacus, S. M., King, G. Porro, G. Causal Inference without Balance Checking: Coarsened Exact Matching. Polit. Anal. 20, 1–24 (2012). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Akil, H. et al. Clinical Results of Ab Interno Trabeculotomy Using the Trabectome in Patients with Pigmentary Glaucoma compared to Primary Open Angle Glaucoma. Clin. Experiment. Ophthalmol. (2016). doi: 10.1111/ceo.12737 Gedde, S. J. et al. in Am J Ophthalmol 153, 804–814.e1 (2012 Elsevier Inc, 2012). Gedde, S. J. et al. Treatment Outcomes in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) Study After Five Years of Follow-up. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 153, 789–803.e2 (2012). Taylor, H. R. Glaucoma: where to now? Ophthalmology 116, 821–822 (2009). Rein, D. B. et al. The cost-effectiveness of routine office-based identification and subsequent medical treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma in the United States. Ophthalmology 116, 823–832 (2009). Iordanous, Y., Kent, J. S., Hutnik, C. M. Malvankar-Mehta, M. S. Projected Cost Comparison of Trabectome, iStent, and Endoscopic Cyclophotocoagulation Versus Glaucoma Medication in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. J. Glaucoma (2013). doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829d9bc7 Brusini, P. Filacorda, S. Enhanced Glaucoma Staging System (GSS 2) for classifying functional damage in glaucoma. J. Glaucoma 15, 40–46 (2006). Mills, R. P. et al. Categorizing the stage of glaucoma from pre-diagnosis to end-stage disease. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 141, 24–30 (2006). Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study. 2. Visual field test scoring and reliability. Ophthalmology 101, 1445–1455 (1994). Zhang, X. et al. Predicting Development of Glaucomatous Visual Field Conversion Using Baseline Fourier-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 163, 29–37 (2016). I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with split fixation where the alternative is an ab-externo filter or tube and then later cataract surgery. If this procedure is more effective than iStent and other bypass procedures and involves no costly per case costs in comparison, then Trabectome with phacoemulsification may be the most prudent choice. Authors: This study is designed to analyze how patients with more severe glaucoma fared during the one-year follow-up, and the all-inclusive design maximizes the patient numbers. The results indicate that this microincisional surgery is a viable first option even in more severe glaucoma for many patients, but the resulting pressure is not low enough for many as the survival curve demonstrates. Postoperative complications are surprisingly common after traditional glaucoma surgery. Leakage, endophthalmitis, hypotony, hardware erosion, damage to ocular tissues and other complications that are vision threatening occur with an additive probability of 77% in trabeculectomies and 58% in glaucoma drainage implants. 9 The surgeon has to discuss with each patient whether the avoidance of postoperative complications of traditional surgeries is worth the risk of an insufficient pressure reduction and the need to move on. In this context, it is important to recall that the postoperative IOP for tubes and trabeculectomies is only approximately 1 to 2 mmHg less that reported here. 10 In forthcoming publications with fewer patients and full data disclosure, we report propensity score matched results of tube shunts and trabectome for a valid comparison of these surgical modalities. Because of the speed and safety of ab interno trabeculectomy, there is also a role for combining the two to achieve a lower IOP with fewer medications. At the other end of the spectrum in ocular hypertension patients with no current measurable damage, is the risk profile of Trabectome combined with phacoemulsification reasonable, compared to the risk and cost of drops or SLT as alternatives? We know that the effectiveness of only one iStent, the FDA approved norm in the US, is quite often not sufficient to reduce pressures adequately. Authors: It is hard to compare the effectiveness of different surgeries and in various practices without a randomized controlled design. The only way to obtain a high-quality comparison is to perform matching as we have done recently. 3,5 A cost analysis is similarly specific to the geographical area and practice. Prior cost analyses suggest that SLT is better or similar to eye drops in lowering IOP and more cost effective, even returning more than initially invested. 11,12 The same can be said about micro-incisional glaucoma surgeries 13 although this depends on the long-term viability of the chosen surgical modality and costs of anesthesia. SLT is our first line of treatment before use of drops and trabectome surgery presents a sharp step up. It is certainly convenient, fast and safe to combine at the time of cataract surgery. After trabectome surgery, only the distal outflow tract generates pressure causing most patients to drop into the mid-teens while SLT achieves more of a relative reduction that depends on the preoperative IOP. Our study presented here shows that the postoperative results are mostly independent of preoperative IOP (or that a larger IOP reduction is achieved in higher preoperative IOP). There was another issue to be considered. The grading system uses pressure as one of the components and also use s the pressure drop as the metric of success. There be some circular reasoning involved, as the initial pressure head itself is a determinant of the resulting pressure drop using drops, lasers or surgery. Authors: Different from other glaucoma staging systems graded by a defect of visual field or optic nerve injury 14–16 , the glaucoma index here includes the relative resistance to treatment by individual patients. There is no circular logic, however, because we did not develop a prediction model that would have used a set of normal patients to train an algorithm and control patients within a study that were separated out from progressing patients as we have used elsewhere 17 . Both IOP and medications are reduced (or one could say the glaucoma index is reduced) by this procedure. Unfortunately the study can not be replicated exactly due to patient confidentiality considerations. Authors: HIPAA concerns are particularly relevant for this study describing many individuals. Fines can quickly climb to millions of dollars: https://www.truevault.com/blog/what-is-the-penalty-for-a-hipaa-violation.html We are very impressed with F1000Research and the compelling benefits of pre-printing and open peer review and will provide full open data with our upcoming publications. Although it is the standard not to release full datasets in clinical ophthalmology publications, we have come to realize that this is a disservice. For instance, one could apply matching strategies to other datasets to compare surgeries and we hope to make ours available for this purpose. The validated glaucoma severity scale from their previous paper in PLoS, uses simple-to-obtain inputs: IOP, the number of medications and visual field loss graded using MD and PSD from the visual field testing. The combination of these factors with definable numeric values can be utilized by cataract surgeons without glaucoma subspecialties. Authors: Yes, we agree. We were surprised that this has not been attempted before. Hopefully, better indices will become available. We have a glaucoma risk calculator in our medical record system, a customized version of Epic, and that has been a big step forward. References used in this Reply to Reviewers Loewen, R. T. et al. Impact of a Glaucoma Severity Index on Results of Trabectome Surgery: Larger Pressure Reduction in More Severe Glaucoma. PLoS One 11, e0151926 (2016). Bussel, I. I., Kaplowitz, K., Schuman, J. S., Loewen, N. A. Trabectome Study Group. Outcomes of ab interno trabeculectomy with the trabectome by degree of angle opening. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 99, 914–919 (2015). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Wollstein, G. et al. Retinal nerve fibre layer and visual function loss in glaucoma: the tipping point. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 96, 47–52 (2012). Neiweem, A. E., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Glaucoma Surgery Calculator: Limited Additive Effect of Phacoemulsification on Intraocular Pressure in Ab Interno Trabeculectomy. PLoS One 11, e0153585 (2016). Iacus, S. M., King, G. Porro, G. Causal Inference without Balance Checking: Coarsened Exact Matching. Polit. Anal. 20, 1–24 (2012). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Akil, H. et al. Clinical Results of Ab Interno Trabeculotomy Using the Trabectome in Patients with Pigmentary Glaucoma compared to Primary Open Angle Glaucoma. Clin. Experiment. Ophthalmol. (2016). doi: 10.1111/ceo.12737 Gedde, S. J. et al. in Am J Ophthalmol 153, 804–814.e1 (2012 Elsevier Inc, 2012). Gedde, S. J. et al. Treatment Outcomes in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) Study After Five Years of Follow-up. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 153, 789–803.e2 (2012). Taylor, H. R. Glaucoma: where to now? Ophthalmology 116, 821–822 (2009). Rein, D. B. et al. The cost-effectiveness of routine office-based identification and subsequent medical treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma in the United States. Ophthalmology 116, 823–832 (2009). Iordanous, Y., Kent, J. S., Hutnik, C. M. Malvankar-Mehta, M. S. Projected Cost Comparison of Trabectome, iStent, and Endoscopic Cyclophotocoagulation Versus Glaucoma Medication in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. J. Glaucoma (2013). doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829d9bc7 Brusini, P. Filacorda, S. Enhanced Glaucoma Staging System (GSS 2) for classifying functional damage in glaucoma. J. Glaucoma 15, 40–46 (2006). Mills, R. P. et al. Categorizing the stage of glaucoma from pre-diagnosis to end-stage disease. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 141, 24–30 (2006). Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study. 2. Visual field test scoring and reliability. Ophthalmology 101, 1445–1455 (1994). Zhang, X. et al. Predicting Development of Glaucomatous Visual Field Conversion Using Baseline Fourier-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 163, 29–37 (2016). Competing Interests: NAL has received honoraria for trabectome wet labs and lectures from Neomedix Corp. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 27 Jun 2016 Nils Loewen , University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA 27 Jun 2016 Author Response I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with split fixation where the alternative is an ab-externo filter ... Continue reading I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with split fixation where the alternative is an ab-externo filter or tube and then later cataract surgery. If this procedure is more effective than iStent and other bypass procedures and involves no costly per case costs in comparison, then Trabectome with phacoemulsification may be the most prudent choice. Authors: This study is designed to analyze how patients with more severe glaucoma fared during the one-year follow-up, and the all-inclusive design maximizes the patient numbers. The results indicate that this microincisional surgery is a viable first option even in more severe glaucoma for many patients, but the resulting pressure is not low enough for many as the survival curve demonstrates. Postoperative complications are surprisingly common after traditional glaucoma surgery. Leakage, endophthalmitis, hypotony, hardware erosion, damage to ocular tissues and other complications that are vision threatening occur with an additive probability of 77% in trabeculectomies and 58% in glaucoma drainage implants. 9 The surgeon has to discuss with each patient whether the avoidance of postoperative complications of traditional surgeries is worth the risk of an insufficient pressure reduction and the need to move on. In this context, it is important to recall that the postoperative IOP for tubes and trabeculectomies is only approximately 1 to 2 mmHg less that reported here. 10 In forthcoming publications with fewer patients and full data disclosure, we report propensity score matched results of tube shunts and trabectome for a valid comparison of these surgical modalities. Because of the speed and safety of ab interno trabeculectomy, there is also a role for combining the two to achieve a lower IOP with fewer medications. At the other end of the spectrum in ocular hypertension patients with no current measurable damage, is the risk profile of Trabectome combined with phacoemulsification reasonable, compared to the risk and cost of drops or SLT as alternatives? We know that the effectiveness of only one iStent, the FDA approved norm in the US, is quite often not sufficient to reduce pressures adequately. Authors: It is hard to compare the effectiveness of different surgeries and in various practices without a randomized controlled design. The only way to obtain a high-quality comparison is to perform matching as we have done recently. 3,5 A cost analysis is similarly specific to the geographical area and practice. Prior cost analyses suggest that SLT is better or similar to eye drops in lowering IOP and more cost effective, even returning more than initially invested. 11,12 The same can be said about micro-incisional glaucoma surgeries 13 although this depends on the long-term viability of the chosen surgical modality and costs of anesthesia. SLT is our first line of treatment before use of drops and trabectome surgery presents a sharp step up. It is certainly convenient, fast and safe to combine at the time of cataract surgery. After trabectome surgery, only the distal outflow tract generates pressure causing most patients to drop into the mid-teens while SLT achieves more of a relative reduction that depends on the preoperative IOP. Our study presented here shows that the postoperative results are mostly independent of preoperative IOP (or that a larger IOP reduction is achieved in higher preoperative IOP). There was another issue to be considered. The grading system uses pressure as one of the components and also use s the pressure drop as the metric of success. There be some circular reasoning involved, as the initial pressure head itself is a determinant of the resulting pressure drop using drops, lasers or surgery. Authors: Different from other glaucoma staging systems graded by a defect of visual field or optic nerve injury 14–16 , the glaucoma index here includes the relative resistance to treatment by individual patients. There is no circular logic, however, because we did not develop a prediction model that would have used a set of normal patients to train an algorithm and control patients within a study that were separated out from progressing patients as we have used elsewhere 17 . Both IOP and medications are reduced (or one could say the glaucoma index is reduced) by this procedure. Unfortunately the study can not be replicated exactly due to patient confidentiality considerations. Authors: HIPAA concerns are particularly relevant for this study describing many individuals. Fines can quickly climb to millions of dollars: https://www.truevault.com/blog/what-is-the-penalty-for-a-hipaa-violation.html We are very impressed with F1000Research and the compelling benefits of pre-printing and open peer review and will provide full open data with our upcoming publications. Although it is the standard not to release full datasets in clinical ophthalmology publications, we have come to realize that this is a disservice. For instance, one could apply matching strategies to other datasets to compare surgeries and we hope to make ours available for this purpose. The validated glaucoma severity scale from their previous paper in PLoS, uses simple-to-obtain inputs: IOP, the number of medications and visual field loss graded using MD and PSD from the visual field testing. The combination of these factors with definable numeric values can be utilized by cataract surgeons without glaucoma subspecialties. Authors: Yes, we agree. We were surprised that this has not been attempted before. Hopefully, better indices will become available. We have a glaucoma risk calculator in our medical record system, a customized version of Epic, and that has been a big step forward. References used in this Reply to Reviewers Loewen, R. T. et al. Impact of a Glaucoma Severity Index on Results of Trabectome Surgery: Larger Pressure Reduction in More Severe Glaucoma. PLoS One 11, e0151926 (2016). Bussel, I. I., Kaplowitz, K., Schuman, J. S., Loewen, N. A. Trabectome Study Group. Outcomes of ab interno trabeculectomy with the trabectome by degree of angle opening. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 99, 914–919 (2015). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Wollstein, G. et al. Retinal nerve fibre layer and visual function loss in glaucoma: the tipping point. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 96, 47–52 (2012). Neiweem, A. E., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Glaucoma Surgery Calculator: Limited Additive Effect of Phacoemulsification on Intraocular Pressure in Ab Interno Trabeculectomy. PLoS One 11, e0153585 (2016). Iacus, S. M., King, G. Porro, G. Causal Inference without Balance Checking: Coarsened Exact Matching. Polit. Anal. 20, 1–24 (2012). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Akil, H. et al. Clinical Results of Ab Interno Trabeculotomy Using the Trabectome in Patients with Pigmentary Glaucoma compared to Primary Open Angle Glaucoma. Clin. Experiment. Ophthalmol. (2016). doi: 10.1111/ceo.12737 Gedde, S. J. et al. in Am J Ophthalmol 153, 804–814.e1 (2012 Elsevier Inc, 2012). Gedde, S. J. et al. Treatment Outcomes in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) Study After Five Years of Follow-up. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 153, 789–803.e2 (2012). Taylor, H. R. Glaucoma: where to now? Ophthalmology 116, 821–822 (2009). Rein, D. B. et al. The cost-effectiveness of routine office-based identification and subsequent medical treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma in the United States. Ophthalmology 116, 823–832 (2009). Iordanous, Y., Kent, J. S., Hutnik, C. M. Malvankar-Mehta, M. S. Projected Cost Comparison of Trabectome, iStent, and Endoscopic Cyclophotocoagulation Versus Glaucoma Medication in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. J. Glaucoma (2013). doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829d9bc7 Brusini, P. Filacorda, S. Enhanced Glaucoma Staging System (GSS 2) for classifying functional damage in glaucoma. J. Glaucoma 15, 40–46 (2006). Mills, R. P. et al. Categorizing the stage of glaucoma from pre-diagnosis to end-stage disease. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 141, 24–30 (2006). Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study. 2. Visual field test scoring and reliability. Ophthalmology 101, 1445–1455 (1994). Zhang, X. et al. Predicting Development of Glaucomatous Visual Field Conversion Using Baseline Fourier-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 163, 29–37 (2016). I would like to see more analysis of when an ab-interno trabeculectomy might be risky such as in severe glaucoma with split fixation where the alternative is an ab-externo filter or tube and then later cataract surgery. If this procedure is more effective than iStent and other bypass procedures and involves no costly per case costs in comparison, then Trabectome with phacoemulsification may be the most prudent choice. Authors: This study is designed to analyze how patients with more severe glaucoma fared during the one-year follow-up, and the all-inclusive design maximizes the patient numbers. The results indicate that this microincisional surgery is a viable first option even in more severe glaucoma for many patients, but the resulting pressure is not low enough for many as the survival curve demonstrates. Postoperative complications are surprisingly common after traditional glaucoma surgery. Leakage, endophthalmitis, hypotony, hardware erosion, damage to ocular tissues and other complications that are vision threatening occur with an additive probability of 77% in trabeculectomies and 58% in glaucoma drainage implants. 9 The surgeon has to discuss with each patient whether the avoidance of postoperative complications of traditional surgeries is worth the risk of an insufficient pressure reduction and the need to move on. In this context, it is important to recall that the postoperative IOP for tubes and trabeculectomies is only approximately 1 to 2 mmHg less that reported here. 10 In forthcoming publications with fewer patients and full data disclosure, we report propensity score matched results of tube shunts and trabectome for a valid comparison of these surgical modalities. Because of the speed and safety of ab interno trabeculectomy, there is also a role for combining the two to achieve a lower IOP with fewer medications. At the other end of the spectrum in ocular hypertension patients with no current measurable damage, is the risk profile of Trabectome combined with phacoemulsification reasonable, compared to the risk and cost of drops or SLT as alternatives? We know that the effectiveness of only one iStent, the FDA approved norm in the US, is quite often not sufficient to reduce pressures adequately. Authors: It is hard to compare the effectiveness of different surgeries and in various practices without a randomized controlled design. The only way to obtain a high-quality comparison is to perform matching as we have done recently. 3,5 A cost analysis is similarly specific to the geographical area and practice. Prior cost analyses suggest that SLT is better or similar to eye drops in lowering IOP and more cost effective, even returning more than initially invested. 11,12 The same can be said about micro-incisional glaucoma surgeries 13 although this depends on the long-term viability of the chosen surgical modality and costs of anesthesia. SLT is our first line of treatment before use of drops and trabectome surgery presents a sharp step up. It is certainly convenient, fast and safe to combine at the time of cataract surgery. After trabectome surgery, only the distal outflow tract generates pressure causing most patients to drop into the mid-teens while SLT achieves more of a relative reduction that depends on the preoperative IOP. Our study presented here shows that the postoperative results are mostly independent of preoperative IOP (or that a larger IOP reduction is achieved in higher preoperative IOP). There was another issue to be considered. The grading system uses pressure as one of the components and also use s the pressure drop as the metric of success. There be some circular reasoning involved, as the initial pressure head itself is a determinant of the resulting pressure drop using drops, lasers or surgery. Authors: Different from other glaucoma staging systems graded by a defect of visual field or optic nerve injury 14–16 , the glaucoma index here includes the relative resistance to treatment by individual patients. There is no circular logic, however, because we did not develop a prediction model that would have used a set of normal patients to train an algorithm and control patients within a study that were separated out from progressing patients as we have used elsewhere 17 . Both IOP and medications are reduced (or one could say the glaucoma index is reduced) by this procedure. Unfortunately the study can not be replicated exactly due to patient confidentiality considerations. Authors: HIPAA concerns are particularly relevant for this study describing many individuals. Fines can quickly climb to millions of dollars: https://www.truevault.com/blog/what-is-the-penalty-for-a-hipaa-violation.html We are very impressed with F1000Research and the compelling benefits of pre-printing and open peer review and will provide full open data with our upcoming publications. Although it is the standard not to release full datasets in clinical ophthalmology publications, we have come to realize that this is a disservice. For instance, one could apply matching strategies to other datasets to compare surgeries and we hope to make ours available for this purpose. The validated glaucoma severity scale from their previous paper in PLoS, uses simple-to-obtain inputs: IOP, the number of medications and visual field loss graded using MD and PSD from the visual field testing. The combination of these factors with definable numeric values can be utilized by cataract surgeons without glaucoma subspecialties. Authors: Yes, we agree. We were surprised that this has not been attempted before. Hopefully, better indices will become available. We have a glaucoma risk calculator in our medical record system, a customized version of Epic, and that has been a big step forward. References used in this Reply to Reviewers Loewen, R. T. et al. Impact of a Glaucoma Severity Index on Results of Trabectome Surgery: Larger Pressure Reduction in More Severe Glaucoma. PLoS One 11, e0151926 (2016). Bussel, I. I., Kaplowitz, K., Schuman, J. S., Loewen, N. A. Trabectome Study Group. Outcomes of ab interno trabeculectomy with the trabectome by degree of angle opening. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 99, 914–919 (2015). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Wollstein, G. et al. Retinal nerve fibre layer and visual function loss in glaucoma: the tipping point. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 96, 47–52 (2012). Neiweem, A. E., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Glaucoma Surgery Calculator: Limited Additive Effect of Phacoemulsification on Intraocular Pressure in Ab Interno Trabeculectomy. PLoS One 11, e0153585 (2016). Iacus, S. M., King, G. Porro, G. Causal Inference without Balance Checking: Coarsened Exact Matching. Polit. Anal. 20, 1–24 (2012). Parikh, H. A., Bussel, I. I., Schuman, J. S., Brown, E. N. Loewen, N. A. Coarsened Exact Matching of Phaco-Trabectome to Trabectome in Phakic Patients: Lack of Additional Pressure Reduction from Phacoemulsification. PLoS One 11, e0149384 (2016). Akil, H. et al. Clinical Results of Ab Interno Trabeculotomy Using the Trabectome in Patients with Pigmentary Glaucoma compared to Primary Open Angle Glaucoma. Clin. Experiment. Ophthalmol. (2016). doi: 10.1111/ceo.12737 Gedde, S. J. et al. in Am J Ophthalmol 153, 804–814.e1 (2012 Elsevier Inc, 2012). Gedde, S. J. et al. Treatment Outcomes in the Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) Study After Five Years of Follow-up. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 153, 789–803.e2 (2012). Taylor, H. R. Glaucoma: where to now? Ophthalmology 116, 821–822 (2009). Rein, D. B. et al. The cost-effectiveness of routine office-based identification and subsequent medical treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma in the United States. Ophthalmology 116, 823–832 (2009). Iordanous, Y., Kent, J. S., Hutnik, C. M. Malvankar-Mehta, M. S. Projected Cost Comparison of Trabectome, iStent, and Endoscopic Cyclophotocoagulation Versus Glaucoma Medication in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. J. Glaucoma (2013). doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829d9bc7 Brusini, P. Filacorda, S. Enhanced Glaucoma Staging System (GSS 2) for classifying functional damage in glaucoma. J. Glaucoma 15, 40–46 (2006). Mills, R. P. et al. Categorizing the stage of glaucoma from pre-diagnosis to end-stage disease. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 141, 24–30 (2006). Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study. 2. Visual field test scoring and reliability. Ophthalmology 101, 1445–1455 (1994). Zhang, X. et al. Predicting Development of Glaucomatous Visual Field Conversion Using Baseline Fourier-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 163, 29–37 (2016). Competing Interests: NAL has received honoraria for trabectome wet labs and lectures from Neomedix Corp. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Mascarenhas KG. Reviewer Report For: Combined analysis of trabectome and phaco-trabectome outcomes by glaucoma severity [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :762 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9096.r13590 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-762/v1#referee-response-13590 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 10 May 2016 Kristy G. Mascarenhas , Hartford Hospital/Middlesex Hospital, Middletown, CT, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9096.r13590 This was an interesting analysis of the use of Trabectome surgery in patients with more severe glaucomas. Comments and questions are as follows, most of which would clarify the methods and data analysis for the reader: The abstract and introduction could ... Continue reading READ ALL 