This is an exciting paper which beautifully demonstrates the value of MD simulations coupled with experimental data for understanding structure-dynamic-function mechanisms. The research appears to be carefully executed, with proper controls, and the paper is well written. Together with related papers (e.g, Stafford et al. , JACS 2014 - ref 24 ) it would be an excellent topic paper in the area of protein structure and function for an undergraduate or graduate seminar course. The results indicate that the apo state of Ec RNase H is conformationally preorganized to favor binding of magnesium ion. MD simulations suggest the primary Mg+2-binding site is actually the observed Mn+2 binding site B. This is an interesting application of MD to assess the significance of various metal-binding sites previously observed in X-ray crystal structures. 13C nuclear relaxation measurements reveal no statistically significant differences in the fast-time-scale side-chain dynamics of DENQ residues for complexes with Mg+2 modelled into metal binding sites compared with apo Ec RNase H. However, these modelling results suggest some minor structural changes in the active site that may enhance subsequent substrate binding. MD simulations from a phylogenetically diverse set of RNase H proteins, including representatives of bacterial, eukaryotic, and retroviral RNAses H, suggest that active sites that are conformationally-preorganized for metal binding are a common feature of the RNase H domain family. The work is suitable for publication in F1000Research but I do suggest minor revisions to address the following points: Fig. 1 shows strong conservation of active site residues among bacterial homogues, and Fig. 8 documents similarity in active site dynamics across a broad phylogenetic distribution, as characterized by MD simulations. The authors conclude that these dynamic properties are only subtly modulated by amino acid sequence and primarily imposed by the characteristic protein fold. As suggested by Reviewer 1 (Rafael Najmanovich), it would be helpful to document the active-site sequence variation across these homologs to support this conclusion. The authors state all simulations were performed at a pH of 5.5 to recapitulate the conditions used in prior NMR experiments on ecRNH . What is the pH optimum of enzyme function? Is there any information about physiological pH. Based on the pKas of active site ionizable groups, how might the pH selected for this study impact the conclusions. 