I enjoyed reading this paper, in particular the thorough nature of the methodology to test various configurations and their effect on amplification, directionality and quality of the audio signal recorded by the microphones. Furthermore, the three clear recommended designs will be particularly useful for ecologists to immediately start incorporating this research into their projects. Commercially available microphones rarely appreciate their weaknesses with such honesty, and as such it’s difficult to find the correct solution for each situation without specialist knowledge. I only have a small number of comments as outlined below, but generally I believe this paper is welcome, and should add to the growing appetite for high quality engineering in the field. General The structure of the paper didn’t quite flow from the Results to Discussion sections. On page 7, in the text under ‘Cost’ and in Table 1 mention is made to Bufo, Otis and Myotis whilst full descriptions of each of these configurations is only given a lot later. I’d recommend moving the recommended designs to the end of the Results section of this paper rather than Discussion The lowest frequency tested in all your examples is 1kHz, however you also mention that audible range goes as low as 20Hz. Many terrestrial mammals vocalise with fundamental frequencies under 1kHz (e.g. gibbons, elephants). Ideally we could see results starting at 100Hz or so, or if not this limitation should be made clear in the text Introduction “microphone signals are filtered at the source only for commercial reasons, to enable either bird or bat recordings and sell multiple specialised products” – I can believe this, but would like to see a citation Methods You only compare MEMS microphones for well justified reasons. However, I would still like to see this mentioned more clearly in the introduction or even the abstract. Some mention of Electret Condenser Microphone (ECM) drawbacks would be appreciated “This connection form is commonly used in most autonomous sound recorders” – which ones? Results “The vent-only and 6mm horn configurations were affected by wind friction noise at up to 3 kHz, greatly masking the 1 kHz test tones” – I expect this will be a lot worse for lower frequencies I suggested testing above? Discussion It is possible to keep windscreens mostly dry – if they are mounted under a sheltered place (e.g. under a solar panel in Sethi et. al.). They will still get wet, but nowhere near the submerged drenching described here. If this is possible, would this change recommendations? Table 1: give per unit costs too please “We would like to stress the benefit of using acoustic horns to amplify sound “for free”.” – but later you appreciate the added directionality. This is very important in mono setups and definitely not a free amplification 