Gruening et al. addressed a very important issue in the field of bioinformatics, which is the reproducibility of research analytics. The authors clearly highlighted the importance of software packaging in containers in order to enable fast deployment and building of bioinformatics workflows and analytics. Namely, they focused on the importance of documenting software versions, the availability of source codes and the need to adopt a license when using third-party software. Extending the definition of a software package to include command line tools, GUIs, APIs, scripts and specialized software packages is a very good idea although I have some reservations (see below). The authors proposed eleven recommendations to improve software packaging and containerization in bioinformatics. They also present some of the best practices as part of their recommendations. I have a few comments on this manuscript that authors would probably like to address in their revised version. Major comments ---------------------- It would be helpful if you could provide a figure on how BioContainers, BioConda and Docker talk to each other in light of these recommendations. Probably, this figure from your GitHub can be adopted https://github.com/BioContainers/specs/blob/master/imgs//workflow.png It would be helpful to show an example of how to make use of these packaged and containerized objects. Some weblinks need to be fixed on the BioContainers website, e.g., http://biocontainers.pro/docs/developer-manual/deploy-dockerhub/ , to enable new users to adopt these recommendations. Minor comments ---------------------- Bioconductor R packages usually released in versions following milestone releases of Bioconductor. Why are they distributed in separate containers? How do you make sure that people will not use different versions from different releases? The use of the words "computational biology" and "bioinformatics" interchangeably is confusing. I would recommend using one of these two words. The purpose of the first recommendation is not clear. It might need to be pronounced further. The concepts of the metadata and tag are not explained clearly. This might make it difficult for people not familiar with containers to understand Recommendation 3. Overall, the manuscript introduces a great way of standardising bioinformatics research and empowering reproducibility of data analytics in the biomedical field. 