The authors tried to demonstrate that anterior and posterior subregions of the DLFC are involved in different phases (i.e., pre-decision and decision per se , respectively) of socially relevant decisions based on subliminal emotional information. The addressed issue is important in related fields and the approach is unique. However, I consider that the following methodological issues require clarification before the evaluation of the work. Major points: Is it reasonable to use the contrasts masked facial expressions vs. baseline and decisions based on masked affect expressions vs. motor control to isolate the DLPF subregions for the socially relevant decisions based on subliminal emotional information? Activation identified in these contrasts may be affected by variety of perceptual and cognitive processes. How can the authors assumption that activation in these contrasts reflected only the decision making process be justified? Also, in the MACM approach, authors did not make the selection of the data based on the task or contrast. How, then, can the authors argue the identified connectivity specifically reflected the decision making process? The authors used 1) p 0.005 and minimal cluster size of 405 voxels for the fMRI analysis, 2) a family-wise error (FWE) corrected p-threshold of p 0.05 for the MACM/ALE analysis, and 3) some Monte-Crlo-like simulation described after the explanation of 2. I dont understand the reason for using both 2 and 3 for the MACM/ALE analysis, and also see how adaptation of these three different thresholds/criteria across three cases was justified. In the task, how can activation for the pre-decision and decision phases be separated despite the fixed close interval of the two phases? Region of interest (ROI) analysis, paragraph 2 - We conducted pairwise t-tests to: Why was this uncommon analysis necessary? Details: Introduction, paragraph 3, last sentence - Recent evidence, however, suggests that gaming and ToM scenarios are based at least partly on different neural circuits: I dont get the nuance; was there an assumption that the gaming and ToM perfectly share the neural substrate? FMRT data analysis, paragraph 3 - To ensure comparability: I dont understand what is meant by (i.e., with what?) or what has exactly been done here. In addition, authors should be clear about the for the normalization; Talairach space sometimes means just a 3D brain space. Functional connectivity analyses, paragraph 1 - above-mentioned criteria: which criteria do you mean? 