 Summary In this manuscript Cmero et al. compares a TCC based DTU workflow against at transcript based and an exon based workflow using both simulated and real data reaching the conclusion that a TCC based workflow is superior – a novel and important finding. The manuscript is overall well presented and the approach is state-of-the art. Unfortunately the actual analysis suffers from major technical problems which undermines the findings presented. Importantly these problems were NOT fixed in the second edition! Major comments : Except for Figure S6 all analysis presented is still performed on unfiltered data which makes the analysis untrustworthy. Therefore please note: The lack of expression filtering will affect all analysis presented since many lowly or zero expressed features will be included thereby skewing the global comparison due to the difference in the proportion of low/zero in the different datasets compared (as also pointed out in reference 1 1 ). This approach does reflect a typical RNA-seq analysis workflows which always include a step which filters out lowly expressed features before continued analysis. Therefore, the authors should include (or even better replace) all the current analysis with an analysis based on dataset which have been pre-filtered for expression. For inspiration of expression filtering see 1 , 2 , the edgeR::filterByExpr() function or use the classical 1 TPM cutoff. Naturally the 3 dataset should be also filtered to be comparable (same transcripts/genes tested with all methods). If, as indicated in the methods, the authors actually used the read length identified directly from the Bottomly et al. dataset as the fragment length in the Salmon quantification the entire analysis of the Bottomly et al. dataset is not trustworthy since read-length != fragment-length (!). Using wrong fragment length will disproportionally affect the the Salmon based DTU analysis (not the exon and less the ECC based approaches since they do not rely on the TPM estimation affected by the fragment length). The authors really need to elaborate on this and justify the quantification approach! I really appreciate that the Love et al. 2018 data is now also included – but it seems strange strangely selective that it is not included in the main figures and the there is no analysis similar to Fig 2. Furthermore, the authors should (also) include an analysis of Love et al. data using only 3 replicates – else the results are not comparable to the Bottomly and Sonneson results. Minor comments : Generally: The authors should use “transcript compatibility counts” (TCC) (aka not “equivalence class read counts” (EC) and derivations thereof) since TCC is the terminology used in the field when ECs are used for quantification 3 . Introduction In addition to exon and transcript based analysis approaches the authors also need to mention analysis of individual splice events (via tools such as SUPPA2 and rMATS) as well as the types of analysis which groups multiple features together (such as Leafcutter and MAJIQ) to make clear that there are 4 different approaches (with TCC based approach being a fifth (or a deviation of transcript based)). I do not require the authors to also compared the TCC based approach to the two omitted workflows – but they should be mentioned in the introduction for completeness. The authors should cite 3 for the term “transcript compatibility count”. Results Please also show the average TPR vs FDR plot (similar to Fig 3a) for the Bottomly et al. data as interpreting these measures together is necessary for a fair comparison. The authors should discuss the much larger variance in FDR for TCC and exon based approaches. Methods Please provide the unfiltered salmon quantification results (the “quant.sf” files) from the Bottomly et al. data as supplementary files to facilitate reproducibility. References 1. Yi L, Liu L, Melsted P, Pachter L: A direct comparison of genome alignment and transcriptome pseudoalignment. bioRxiv . 2018. Publisher Full Text 2. Love MI, Soneson C, Patro R: Swimming downstream: statistical analysis of differential transcript usage following Salmon quantification. F1000Res . 2018; 7 : 952 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Ntranos V, Kamath G, Zhang J, Pachter L, et al.: Fast and accurate single-cell RNA-seq analysis by clustering of transcript-compatibility counts. Genome Biology . 2016; 17 (1). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Bioinformatics with a focus of analysis of transcripts from RNA-seq data. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Vitting-Seerup K. Reviewer Report For: Using equivalence class counts for fast and accurate testing of differential transcript usage [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 8 :265 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.20869.r47845 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-265/v2#referee-response-47845 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 07 Mar 2019 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Collado-Torres L. Reviewer Report For: Using equivalence class counts for fast and accurate testing of differential transcript usage [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 8 :265 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19992.r45467 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-265/v1#referee-response-45467 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Apr 2019 Leonardo Collado-Torres , Lieber Institute for Brain Development, Baltimore, MD, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19992.r45467 In this manuscript the authors Marek Cmero, Nadia M. Davidson and Alicia Oshlack describe in detail their proposed approach for identifying genes with differential transcript usage (DTU, particularly isoform switching) using equivalence classes obtained through pseudo-alignment methods such as Salmon ... Continue reading READ ALL 