This manuscript describes the analysis of three PCR-fragments generated from a human reference sample using a MinION sequencing device. Despite the preliminary nature of the data, and the fact that the paper is based on a single run of a single sample, it will nevertheless be of significant interest, and publication as a research note is in my view justified. In fact, given the broad interest in this emerging new technology, and its applicability to all life sciences (not just human (pharmaco-)genetics), the readership might be much wider than anticipated by the authors. This constitutes at the same time the biggest weakness of the paper, since it is in parts rather inaccessible for readers from fields other than human genetics (e.g. virology or microbiology), for whom this paper might nevertheless be highly relevant. In order to address the concern that the manuscript is based on a single MinION run, and given the nature of the MAP program, it should be no problem for the authors to repeat the experiment with another sample, and while doing so specifically address the concerns of Dr. Kennedy. In addition, the authors should strive to improve accessibility to a wider audience wherever possible. Finally, it would be helpful to include additional experimental details that are currently missing. Specific comments: PCR cycling conditions should be provided. The authors refer to the SQK-MAP003 sequencing protocol. As far as I am aware, Oxford Nanotechnologies does not make the detailed protocol available to people outside the MAP program, although there have been indications that a non-technical version of the protocol will be made available for publication purposes. The authors should reference such a protocol (including a link) as soon as possible, and approach ONT about making it available to the general public, if this hasnt happened already. Did the authors perform a PCR purification prior to the library preparation? If so, what was the volume/ratio of Agencourt beads to sample? How did the authors extract reads from the fast5 files? Did they use poretools, or another tool (which should be referenced)? In general, providing more details about the exact bioinformatics workflow would be helpful. What was the rationale for the cut-off of 1/3 of reads for variant calling? It seems odd that the length of the aligned fragments from the 1D reads is so much shorter than the read length. In our hands (using a similar approach on ~2 kB PCR products amplified from virus genomes, albeit with a later chemistry/protocol version (SQK-MAP004) and using LAST for the alignment) we get much longer average alignments (92% for 2D reads, 82% for template reads, and 85% for complement reads, vs. 85%, 23% and 11% reported by the authors). This could either indicate significant advances in base-calling accuracy since the authors performed their experiments, or that their alignment is suboptimal. It might be very interesting to see whether the authors can get longer alignments using LAST or other alignment softwares in their workflow. It would be very helpful if the authors could repeat the experiment using the newest chemistry/protocol/software versions, which have changed considerably over the last months. At the same time this would allow them to address many of the concerns of Dr. Kennedy. 