Oda and Chiem present CH 4 fluxes from Vietnamese rice paddies with- and without rice plants, and conclude that the presence of rice plants reduces CH 4 emissions. Their results are interesting and convincing, and the experimental design seems solid. That said, I have several serious reservations about this paper that need to be addressed before it can be approved. The authors need to explain more clearly the relevance of their research. It might be true that the presence of rice plants reduces CH 4 emissions, but the sole purpose of paddies is to support rice agriculture. Thus, the statement that rice cultivation reduces methane emissions from paddies seems a bit strange. Does the IPCC provide estimates of emissions from rice paddies without rice plants? If not, how exactly would the results from this study contribute to understanding the contribution of rice agriculture to CH 4 emissions? The experimental design does not allow the authors to test their hypothesis as stated in the abstract. The authors aim to demonstrate that the effect of rice plants on methane emissions depends on the background emissions (i.e. without plants). However, the authors only test the effect of rice plants in paddies with high background emissions. The authors did not test the significance of differences between plots with- and without rice plants. The reference list is quite outdated; only 2 of the cited studies were published in the last 5 years. Several relevant recent papers are ignored by the authors. For instance, Jiang et al . 2017 1 reported that in paddies with high soil C contents, large rice plants reduce CH 4 emissions compared to small rice plants. Furthermore, they show the opposite effect in paddies with low soil C contents. Please note that I am a co-author on that paper; I don’t suggest that the authors need to include it, but please consider this as just one example of relevant recent research. The first sentence of the introduction is essentially an hypothesis. Yet, the authors provide no clear support to back up this statement. In the last sentence of the introduction, what does “all studies” refer to? The studies 1-6? Did these studies compare CH 4 emissions with and without rice plants? This is not clear. The text is slightly confusing is some places. For instance, in the “background” section in the abstract it’s not clear whether the authors refer to methane emissions with or without rice plants. The same is true for the last paragraph of the introduction. On page 4, second paragraph, the discussion of changes in “reduction rates” is quite confusing. Does a decrease in reduction rates mean means relatively low or high rates in plots with plants? Some basic info about the field site is missing. For instance, MAT and MAP data would be useful, as well as soil C contents. I spotted a few grammatical errors. For instance, in the background section of the abstract, “existing studies” should be “previous studies”. In the discussion section of the abstract “rice-providing” should be “rice-derived”. The first sentence of the results and discussion section should read “In the present study, we compared CH 4 emissions on the water (soil) surface of paddy fields with and without rice”. These are just a couple of examples. Perhaps the authors could contact a native speaker to have a quick look at their paper? 