The authors introduce an app for Cytoscape called Pathway Signal Flow Calculator (PSFC). PSFC allows to simulate and visualize the propagation of signals through a pathway, considering both the pathway topology and input data for node activity, such as protein phosphorylation. The aim is to provide a flexible environment that supports the integration of various custom algorithms and data sets. The paper describes several rules and algorithms for signal flow and demonstrates their effect on two small toy models as well as a bigger use case (MAPK signaling pathway), all in context of using PSFC. Furthermore, the authors provide the use case with the corresponding input files as supplementary material, a very detailed step-by-step manual for the different options of PSFC and the source code of the app. I have tested the app under Linux Mint 17.2 (64-bit), Mac OS X 10.7.5 (64-bit) and Windows Vista (32-bit) (see minor issues below). While my assessment of this paper is , I have come across some issues that are detailed below. Additionally to major and minor issues I have added a section with suggestions that I personally feel might improve PSFC. I would like to stress, however, that PSFC has full usability without considering any of the points in the latter section. Major Issues Figure 2: The definition of inhibition as source target seems counterintuitive, as a strong signal from the source should decrease the result in the target node. Should it be target source? This definition is also used by Isik et al. (Reference 4 in the paper) as well as in the document provided by the authors. Please be aware that both the text and the figures would need to be updated. Figure 2 (F,G,H): Multiple input fields is set to , the figures, however, correspond to . If it should indeed be the values for the bottom right box are wrong in all three figures. While all necessary input files for the use case are provided in the supplementary material the output is missing (apart from the screenshot of a log-file in the manual, which is not easy to read). This information should definitely be provided for all perturbations in order to be able to compare numerical values; a qualitative comparison is not enough, especially since all results are the same (up-regulation). Ideally the toy model from Figure 2 would also be provided as an .xgmml-file, as this would enable readers to test and verify different settings. Minor Issues Clicking the link for reference 5 gives an error (page not found). It is possible to install PSFC in Cytoscape running on Windows Vista 32-bit (with current versions of Cytoscape and Java), but running the calculation gives an error. I am aware that Cytoscape generally recommends using a 64-bit system, but if PSFC is for 64-bit systems only then this information could be added to the manual. Redoing a calculation shuffles the sorting of the columns in the node / edge attribute table (in terms of the order of psf_l0, psf_l1, etc.), in Linux Mint. Setting mTOR to an fc of 2 in the MAPK-example will lead to a final state where the box is completely white, even though the value is 0.75, and the box for is completely black (with a value of 4.59). This may or may not be an issue with the Cytoscape installation under Linux Mint. I dont understand the purpose of the level textbox in the flow visualization window. Does it only show the current maximum level? Page numbers should be added to the manual. Suggestions Using a two color scheme (or maybe an easily customizable one) would improve the visualization. Right now even negative values are shown in the same color as positive ones and they are indistinguishable from low positive numbers. An option to visualize the values for nodes and edges might be helpful. Clicking the Play flow button in the flow visualization window causes a pop-up which covers part of the network visualization. Maybe this pop-up could be forced to a bottom corner of Cytoscape. The play flow feature is on a very high speed if there is only a small number of levels. Ideally either the speed should be easily adjustable (and an endless mode available) or maybe the Show state button could be removed and the visualization updated directly via the slider. This would allow to control the speed and direction of the visualization very easily. It would also solve the above mentioned issue of the pop-up. Is the use of two config files (Edge Types config file and Rule config file) a requirement of Cytoscape or the parser? If not it would seem simpler to merge them and remove the redundant Function names. The file could be added to the manual instead of being a separate file, especially since there already is an extra pdf for the use case. Additional toy models with the relevant input/output in order to test and verify significance calculation, handling feedback loops and edge weights might be helpful. The paper explicitly mentions bench biologists as potential users of PSFC. I feel that the app is described sufficiently in order to allow a user unfamiliar with modeling and/or Cytoscape to use it successfully. The bottleneck would probably be generating the necessary input model. Maybe a short paragraph in the manual pointing to the relevant sections in the Cytoscape manual as well as describing the creation and changing of node and edge attribute tables would remove this obstacle.