Nikolaev et al. attempt to predict archaerhodopsin-3 structural and optical properties using in silico approaches, layering QM/MM calculations of absorption spectra over homology based structural modeling. As the authors note, such work would be invaluable for guiding the design of new archaerhodopsin variants, with potential broad applicability in the fields of optogenetics and voltage imaging. The creation of a ground-state homology model is a useful first step, but the authors should acknowledge and discuss some of the challenges that would need to be addressed for this model to be useful in predicting voltage-sensitive fluorescent properties. These are: The fluorescence of wild-type Arch-3 appears not to come from the ground state, but from a photogenerated intermediate (see 1 ). Thus a model would need to adopt the correct retinal isomerization state and opsin conformation to reproduce the fluorescence. To predict voltage sensitivity, a model would need to incorporate the intra-membrane electric field and its influence on the motion of protons within the structure. The fluorescence quantum yield depends on the branching ration in the electronic excited state between radiative and non-radiative decay pathways. A prediction of quantum yield would need to include simulation of these excited state dynamics. There are several other ways in which the manuscript could be improved: The abstract states, “the fluorescent signal for wild-type achaerhodopsin-3 is not strong enough for real applications.” The first paragraph repeats this claim. This is an overly pessimistic view. Many papers have used wild-type Archaerhodopsin 3 (note spelling) and its mutants for fluorescent voltage imaging. A more accurate statement would be, “An increase in the fluorescence of Archaerhodopsin 3 would broaden the scope of its possible applications.” Arch-1 was used as a homology model for Arch-3.How similar are the two proteins? What percentage sequence identity and sequence homology? The sole figure shows the best output structure, but doesn’t compare it to anything. It should at least be superimposed with the Arch-1 input structure. The outputs of the different alignment methods should also be compared and any differences highlighted. It would also be useful to have more details on where the Arch-1 and Arch-3 sequences differ - perhaps a linear sequence alignment and a figure showing where differences occur in the 3-D structure. The authors reference several papers which have performed site-directed mutagenesis on this protein. They should highlight those residues on their output structure. Ideally, they should also perform their AlignMe/I-TASSER analysis on one of the well characterized mutants to show if their model has predictive value. For scientists unfamiliar with the possibilities of in silico modeling, it is difficult to evaluate whether an 18 nm deviation in absorbance maximum is a lot or a little. It would be helpful to give context using other, previously studied scaffolds. How accurately can the absorbance maximum of eGFP be determined? Of another membrane protein, such as channelrhodopsin-2? The authors admirably package and make available all of the inputs and outputs of their calculations. Unfortunately, the abstruse organization of the data makes it difficult to extract useful information from their data. The root directory of the supplemental data should include a single clearly written readme.txt file explaining how to access the output structures of each of their homology models. The output files should be obviously labeled - meaning “Figure1structure” not “P96787_wi” - and be in a commonly used file format, such as .pdb. References 1. Maclaurin D, Venkatachalam V, Lee H, Cohen AE: Mechanism of voltage-sensitive fluorescence in a microbial rhodopsin. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2013; 110 (15): 5939-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: AEC is a co-founder of Q-State Biosciences We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Cohen AE and Farhi S. Reviewer Report For: A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling [version 3; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :33 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11514.r20866 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-33/v2#referee-response-20866 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 15 Nov 2017 Mikhail N. Ryazantsev , Saint-Petersburg State University, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation 15 Nov 2017 Author Response Dear Prof. Cohen and Samouil Farhi. Thank you for your review of our article “A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling”. We have carefully read ... Continue reading Dear Prof. Cohen and Samouil Farhi. Thank you for your review of our article “A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling”. We have carefully read it and made the required changes in the article. 1. The abstract states, “the fluorescent signal for wild-type achaerhodopsin-3 is not strong enough for real applications.” The first paragraph repeats this claim. This is an overly pessimistic view. Many papers have used wild-type Archaerhodopsin 3 (note spelling) and its mutants for fluorescent voltage imaging. A more accurate statement would be, “An increase in the fluorescence of Archaerhodopsin 3 would broaden the scope of its possible applications.” To refer to this comment, we added the following changes into the abstract: “One of the promising candidates for these applications is archaerhodopsin-3. While it has already shown encouraging results, there is still a large room for improvement. One of possible directions is increasing the intensity of the protein's fluorescent signal.” In the first paragraph we made the similar changes: “While the results obtained for archaerhodopsin-3 are already very encouraging, increasing the fluorescent signal of such proteins can lead to a significant progress in this field.” 2. “Arch-1 was used as a homology model for Arch-3.How similar is the two proteins? What percentage sequence identity and sequence homology?” Arch-1 and Arch-3 are very evolutionally close. We added this information in the “Methods” section of the new version of our article: “sequence identity 84.5%, sequence similarity 91.5%”. 3. “The sole figure shows the best output structure, but doesn’t compare it to anything. It should at least be superimposed with the Arch-1 input structure. The outputs of the different alignment methods should also be compared and any differences highlighted. It would also be useful to have more details on where the Arch-1 and Arch-3 sequences differ - perhaps a linear sequence alignment and a figure showing where differences occur in the 3-D structure.” To refer to this comment, we edited the “Results” section of our article. We added the comparison of outputs of the three alignment methods we used in our work. We showed that the results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms are identical, and they only slightly (in the beginning of the sequences) differ from the MP-T alignment results (Figure 1, a-c in the article). We added the following part into our article: “The results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms were identical; they differ from the MP-T alignment result in the flexible N-terminal part (Figure 1, a-c).” We also compared the crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 and the predicted model of archaerhodopsin-3 (Figure 2, 3 in the article). We showed that the structures of two proteins are very similar, and they differ only in loop regions and on the edges of alpha-helices, i.e. in the regions located quite far from the chromophore. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “Comparison of crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 with the predicted structure of archaerhodopsin-3 showed that these two proteins differ only in loop regions and on the edges of the alpha-helices (Figure 2, 3). These regions are located on relatively large distance from the retinal chromophore.” 4. “ The authors reference several papers which have performed site-directed mutagenesis on this protein. They should highlight those residues on their output structure. Ideally, they should also perform their AlignMe/I-TASSER analysis on one of the well characterized mutants to show if their model has predictive value.” We highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 (Mclsaac RS et al, PNAS, 2014) (Figure 4 in the article). The computational characterization of mutants is an interesting problem and we will consider it in our research. We hope to publish an article about computational investigation of different mutants of both archaerhodopsin-3 and Gloebacter violaceus rhodopsin. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “We also highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 5 (Figure 4). The computational characterization of these mutants is an interesting problem for further investigations.” 5. “For scientists unfamiliar with the possibilities of in silico modeling, it is difficult to evaluate whether an 18 nm deviation in absorbance maximum is a lot or a little. It would be helpful to give context using other, previously studied scaffolds. How accurately can the absorbance maximum of eGFP be determined? Of another membrane protein, such as channelrhodopsin-2?” In this study, all models provide reasonable results for the values of absorption maxima. Considering the approximations we use in the QM/MM methodologies, the deviation range up to 40 nm is considered to be good; however, in complicated cases we can obtain a 50-60 nm shift from the experimental value. Modeling of the absorption maxima is very sensitive to the quality of three-dimensional structures, and even relatively small changes of the structures can lead to huge shifts of this value. In the case of the microbial rhodopsins we obtained many results for the absorption maxima of proteins with available crystallographic structure. For example, we obtained a 29 nm shift for halorhodopsin from N. pharaonis, a 25 nm shift for archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. These results lie in the same deviation range, and for this reason we think that the models we obtained have quite high quality. Substantial errors in the models would lead to much bigger shifts (up to 100-200 nm). Considering these remarks, we added the following modifications in the “Results” section: “This deviation range is sensible considering the approximations used in our methodologies. In our previous studies, we obtained a 29 nm shift for the absorption maximum of halorhodopsin from N.pharaonis 23 , a 25 nm shift for the absorption maximum of archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. The model with the smallest deviation was predicted by I-TASSER algorithm with AlignMe alignment (Figure 2).” 5 . “The authors admirably package and make available all of the inputs and outputs of their calculations. Unfortunately, the abstruse organization of the data makes it difficult to extract useful information from their data. The root directory of the supplemental data should include a single clearly written readme.txt file explaining how to access the output structures of each of their homology models. The output files should be obviously labeled - meaning “Figure1structure” not “P96787_wi” - and be in a commonly used file format, such as .pdb.” Considering this remark, we created a new version of the archive: https://zenodo.org/record/830025#.Wcg29Fd2O1E Dear Prof. Cohen and Samouil Farhi. Thank you for your review of our article “A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling”. We have carefully read it and made the required changes in the article. 1. The abstract states, “the fluorescent signal for wild-type achaerhodopsin-3 is not strong enough for real applications.” The first paragraph repeats this claim. This is an overly pessimistic view. Many papers have used wild-type Archaerhodopsin 3 (note spelling) and its mutants for fluorescent voltage imaging. A more accurate statement would be, “An increase in the fluorescence of Archaerhodopsin 3 would broaden the scope of its possible applications.” To refer to this comment, we added the following changes into the abstract: “One of the promising candidates for these applications is archaerhodopsin-3. While it has already shown encouraging results, there is still a large room for improvement. One of possible directions is increasing the intensity of the protein's fluorescent signal.” In the first paragraph we made the similar changes: “While the results obtained for archaerhodopsin-3 are already very encouraging, increasing the fluorescent signal of such proteins can lead to a significant progress in this field.” 2. “Arch-1 was used as a homology model for Arch-3.How similar is the two proteins? What percentage sequence identity and sequence homology?” Arch-1 and Arch-3 are very evolutionally close. We added this information in the “Methods” section of the new version of our article: “sequence identity 84.5%, sequence similarity 91.5%”. 3. “The sole figure shows the best output structure, but doesn’t compare it to anything. It should at least be superimposed with the Arch-1 input structure. The outputs of the different alignment methods should also be compared and any differences highlighted. It would also be useful to have more details on where the Arch-1 and Arch-3 sequences differ - perhaps a linear sequence alignment and a figure showing where differences occur in the 3-D structure.” To refer to this comment, we edited the “Results” section of our article. We added the comparison of outputs of the three alignment methods we used in our work. We showed that the results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms are identical, and they only slightly (in the beginning of the sequences) differ from the MP-T alignment results (Figure 1, a-c in the article). We added the following part into our article: “The results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms were identical; they differ from the MP-T alignment result in the flexible N-terminal part (Figure 1, a-c).” We also compared the crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 and the predicted model of archaerhodopsin-3 (Figure 2, 3 in the article). We showed that the structures of two proteins are very similar, and they differ only in loop regions and on the edges of alpha-helices, i.e. in the regions located quite far from the chromophore. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “Comparison of crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 with the predicted structure of archaerhodopsin-3 showed that these two proteins differ only in loop regions and on the edges of the alpha-helices (Figure 2, 3). These regions are located on relatively large distance from the retinal chromophore.” 4. “ The authors reference several papers which have performed site-directed mutagenesis on this protein. They should highlight those residues on their output structure. Ideally, they should also perform their AlignMe/I-TASSER analysis on one of the well characterized mutants to show if their model has predictive value.” We highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 (Mclsaac RS et al, PNAS, 2014) (Figure 4 in the article). The computational characterization of mutants is an interesting problem and we will consider it in our research. We hope to publish an article about computational investigation of different mutants of both archaerhodopsin-3 and Gloebacter violaceus rhodopsin. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “We also highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 5 (Figure 4). The computational characterization of these mutants is an interesting problem for further investigations.” 5. “For scientists unfamiliar with the possibilities of in silico modeling, it is difficult to evaluate whether an 18 nm deviation in absorbance maximum is a lot or a little. It would be helpful to give context using other, previously studied scaffolds. How accurately can the absorbance maximum of eGFP be determined? Of another membrane protein, such as channelrhodopsin-2?” In this study, all models provide reasonable results for the values of absorption maxima. Considering the approximations we use in the QM/MM methodologies, the deviation range up to 40 nm is considered to be good; however, in complicated cases we can obtain a 50-60 nm shift from the experimental value. Modeling of the absorption maxima is very sensitive to the quality of three-dimensional structures, and even relatively small changes of the structures can lead to huge shifts of this value. In the case of the microbial rhodopsins we obtained many results for the absorption maxima of proteins with available crystallographic structure. For example, we obtained a 29 nm shift for halorhodopsin from N. pharaonis, a 25 nm shift for archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. These results lie in the same deviation range, and for this reason we think that the models we obtained have quite high quality. Substantial errors in the models would lead to much bigger shifts (up to 100-200 nm). Considering these remarks, we added the following modifications in the “Results” section: “This deviation range is sensible considering the approximations used in our methodologies. In our previous studies, we obtained a 29 nm shift for the absorption maximum of halorhodopsin from N.pharaonis 23 , a 25 nm shift for the absorption maximum of archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. The model with the smallest deviation was predicted by I-TASSER algorithm with AlignMe alignment (Figure 2).” 5 . “The authors admirably package and make available all of the inputs and outputs of their calculations. Unfortunately, the abstruse organization of the data makes it difficult to extract useful information from their data. The root directory of the supplemental data should include a single clearly written readme.txt file explaining how to access the output structures of each of their homology models. The output files should be obviously labeled - meaning “Figure1structure” not “P96787_wi” - and be in a commonly used file format, such as .pdb.” Considering this remark, we created a new version of the archive: https://zenodo.org/record/830025#.Wcg29Fd2O1E Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 15 Nov 2017 Mikhail N. Ryazantsev , Saint-Petersburg State University, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation 15 Nov 2017 Author Response Dear Prof. Cohen and Samouil Farhi. Thank you for your review of our article “A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling”. We have carefully read ... Continue reading Dear Prof. Cohen and Samouil Farhi. Thank you for your review of our article “A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling”. We have carefully read it and made the required changes in the article. 1. The abstract states, “the fluorescent signal for wild-type achaerhodopsin-3 is not strong enough for real applications.” The first paragraph repeats this claim. This is an overly pessimistic view. Many papers have used wild-type Archaerhodopsin 3 (note spelling) and its mutants for fluorescent voltage imaging. A more accurate statement would be, “An increase in the fluorescence of Archaerhodopsin 3 would broaden the scope of its possible applications.” To refer to this comment, we added the following changes into the abstract: “One of the promising candidates for these applications is archaerhodopsin-3. While it has already shown encouraging results, there is still a large room for improvement. One of possible directions is increasing the intensity of the protein's fluorescent signal.” In the first paragraph we made the similar changes: “While the results obtained for archaerhodopsin-3 are already very encouraging, increasing the fluorescent signal of such proteins can lead to a significant progress in this field.” 2. “Arch-1 was used as a homology model for Arch-3.How similar is the two proteins? What percentage sequence identity and sequence homology?” Arch-1 and Arch-3 are very evolutionally close. We added this information in the “Methods” section of the new version of our article: “sequence identity 84.5%, sequence similarity 91.5%”. 3. “The sole figure shows the best output structure, but doesn’t compare it to anything. It should at least be superimposed with the Arch-1 input structure. The outputs of the different alignment methods should also be compared and any differences highlighted. It would also be useful to have more details on where the Arch-1 and Arch-3 sequences differ - perhaps a linear sequence alignment and a figure showing where differences occur in the 3-D structure.” To refer to this comment, we edited the “Results” section of our article. We added the comparison of outputs of the three alignment methods we used in our work. We showed that the results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms are identical, and they only slightly (in the beginning of the sequences) differ from the MP-T alignment results (Figure 1, a-c in the article). We added the following part into our article: “The results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms were identical; they differ from the MP-T alignment result in the flexible N-terminal part (Figure 1, a-c).” We also compared the crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 and the predicted model of archaerhodopsin-3 (Figure 2, 3 in the article). We showed that the structures of two proteins are very similar, and they differ only in loop regions and on the edges of alpha-helices, i.e. in the regions located quite far from the chromophore. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “Comparison of crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 with the predicted structure of archaerhodopsin-3 showed that these two proteins differ only in loop regions and on the edges of the alpha-helices (Figure 2, 3). These regions are located on relatively large distance from the retinal chromophore.” 4. “ The authors reference several papers which have performed site-directed mutagenesis on this protein. They should highlight those residues on their output structure. Ideally, they should also perform their AlignMe/I-TASSER analysis on one of the well characterized mutants to show if their model has predictive value.” We highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 (Mclsaac RS et al, PNAS, 2014) (Figure 4 in the article). The computational characterization of mutants is an interesting problem and we will consider it in our research. We hope to publish an article about computational investigation of different mutants of both archaerhodopsin-3 and Gloebacter violaceus rhodopsin. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “We also highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 5 (Figure 4). The computational characterization of these mutants is an interesting problem for further investigations.” 5. “For scientists unfamiliar with the possibilities of in silico modeling, it is difficult to evaluate whether an 18 nm deviation in absorbance maximum is a lot or a little. It would be helpful to give context using other, previously studied scaffolds. How accurately can the absorbance maximum of eGFP be determined? Of another membrane protein, such as channelrhodopsin-2?” In this study, all models provide reasonable results for the values of absorption maxima. Considering the approximations we use in the QM/MM methodologies, the deviation range up to 40 nm is considered to be good; however, in complicated cases we can obtain a 50-60 nm shift from the experimental value. Modeling of the absorption maxima is very sensitive to the quality of three-dimensional structures, and even relatively small changes of the structures can lead to huge shifts of this value. In the case of the microbial rhodopsins we obtained many results for the absorption maxima of proteins with available crystallographic structure. For example, we obtained a 29 nm shift for halorhodopsin from N. pharaonis, a 25 nm shift for archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. These results lie in the same deviation range, and for this reason we think that the models we obtained have quite high quality. Substantial errors in the models would lead to much bigger shifts (up to 100-200 nm). Considering these remarks, we added the following modifications in the “Results” section: “This deviation range is sensible considering the approximations used in our methodologies. In our previous studies, we obtained a 29 nm shift for the absorption maximum of halorhodopsin from N.pharaonis 23 , a 25 nm shift for the absorption maximum of archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. The model with the smallest deviation was predicted by I-TASSER algorithm with AlignMe alignment (Figure 2).” 5 . “The authors admirably package and make available all of the inputs and outputs of their calculations. Unfortunately, the abstruse organization of the data makes it difficult to extract useful information from their data. The root directory of the supplemental data should include a single clearly written readme.txt file explaining how to access the output structures of each of their homology models. The output files should be obviously labeled - meaning “Figure1structure” not “P96787_wi” - and be in a commonly used file format, such as .pdb.” Considering this remark, we created a new version of the archive: https://zenodo.org/record/830025#.Wcg29Fd2O1E Dear Prof. Cohen and Samouil Farhi. Thank you for your review of our article “A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling”. We have carefully read it and made the required changes in the article. 1. The abstract states, “the fluorescent signal for wild-type achaerhodopsin-3 is not strong enough for real applications.” The first paragraph repeats this claim. This is an overly pessimistic view. Many papers have used wild-type Archaerhodopsin 3 (note spelling) and its mutants for fluorescent voltage imaging. A more accurate statement would be, “An increase in the fluorescence of Archaerhodopsin 3 would broaden the scope of its possible applications.” To refer to this comment, we added the following changes into the abstract: “One of the promising candidates for these applications is archaerhodopsin-3. While it has already shown encouraging results, there is still a large room for improvement. One of possible directions is increasing the intensity of the protein's fluorescent signal.” In the first paragraph we made the similar changes: “While the results obtained for archaerhodopsin-3 are already very encouraging, increasing the fluorescent signal of such proteins can lead to a significant progress in this field.” 2. “Arch-1 was used as a homology model for Arch-3.How similar is the two proteins? What percentage sequence identity and sequence homology?” Arch-1 and Arch-3 are very evolutionally close. We added this information in the “Methods” section of the new version of our article: “sequence identity 84.5%, sequence similarity 91.5%”. 3. “The sole figure shows the best output structure, but doesn’t compare it to anything. It should at least be superimposed with the Arch-1 input structure. The outputs of the different alignment methods should also be compared and any differences highlighted. It would also be useful to have more details on where the Arch-1 and Arch-3 sequences differ - perhaps a linear sequence alignment and a figure showing where differences occur in the 3-D structure.” To refer to this comment, we edited the “Results” section of our article. We added the comparison of outputs of the three alignment methods we used in our work. We showed that the results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms are identical, and they only slightly (in the beginning of the sequences) differ from the MP-T alignment results (Figure 1, a-c in the article). We added the following part into our article: “The results of AlignMe and MUSTER algorithms were identical; they differ from the MP-T alignment result in the flexible N-terminal part (Figure 1, a-c).” We also compared the crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 and the predicted model of archaerhodopsin-3 (Figure 2, 3 in the article). We showed that the structures of two proteins are very similar, and they differ only in loop regions and on the edges of alpha-helices, i.e. in the regions located quite far from the chromophore. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “Comparison of crystallographic structure of archaerhodopsin-1 with the predicted structure of archaerhodopsin-3 showed that these two proteins differ only in loop regions and on the edges of the alpha-helices (Figure 2, 3). These regions are located on relatively large distance from the retinal chromophore.” 4. “ The authors reference several papers which have performed site-directed mutagenesis on this protein. They should highlight those residues on their output structure. Ideally, they should also perform their AlignMe/I-TASSER analysis on one of the well characterized mutants to show if their model has predictive value.” We highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 (Mclsaac RS et al, PNAS, 2014) (Figure 4 in the article). The computational characterization of mutants is an interesting problem and we will consider it in our research. We hope to publish an article about computational investigation of different mutants of both archaerhodopsin-3 and Gloebacter violaceus rhodopsin. We added the following text in the “Results” section of our article: “We also highlighted the residues, which were the sites for the site-directed mutagenesis of the archaerhodopsin-3 5 (Figure 4). The computational characterization of these mutants is an interesting problem for further investigations.” 5. “For scientists unfamiliar with the possibilities of in silico modeling, it is difficult to evaluate whether an 18 nm deviation in absorbance maximum is a lot or a little. It would be helpful to give context using other, previously studied scaffolds. How accurately can the absorbance maximum of eGFP be determined? Of another membrane protein, such as channelrhodopsin-2?” In this study, all models provide reasonable results for the values of absorption maxima. Considering the approximations we use in the QM/MM methodologies, the deviation range up to 40 nm is considered to be good; however, in complicated cases we can obtain a 50-60 nm shift from the experimental value. Modeling of the absorption maxima is very sensitive to the quality of three-dimensional structures, and even relatively small changes of the structures can lead to huge shifts of this value. In the case of the microbial rhodopsins we obtained many results for the absorption maxima of proteins with available crystallographic structure. For example, we obtained a 29 nm shift for halorhodopsin from N. pharaonis, a 25 nm shift for archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. These results lie in the same deviation range, and for this reason we think that the models we obtained have quite high quality. Substantial errors in the models would lead to much bigger shifts (up to 100-200 nm). Considering these remarks, we added the following modifications in the “Results” section: “This deviation range is sensible considering the approximations used in our methodologies. In our previous studies, we obtained a 29 nm shift for the absorption maximum of halorhodopsin from N.pharaonis 23 , a 25 nm shift for the absorption maximum of archaerhodopsin-2 and a 39 nm shift for the channelrhodopsin-2. The model with the smallest deviation was predicted by I-TASSER algorithm with AlignMe alignment (Figure 2).” 5 . “The authors admirably package and make available all of the inputs and outputs of their calculations. Unfortunately, the abstruse organization of the data makes it difficult to extract useful information from their data. The root directory of the supplemental data should include a single clearly written readme.txt file explaining how to access the output structures of each of their homology models. The output files should be obviously labeled - meaning “Figure1structure” not “P96787_wi” - and be in a commonly used file format, such as .pdb.” Considering this remark, we created a new version of the archive: https://zenodo.org/record/830025#.Wcg29Fd2O1E Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Afonin KA. Reviewer Report For: A voltage-dependent fluorescent indicator for optogenetic applications, archaerhodopsin-3: Structure and optical properties from in silico modeling [version 3; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :33 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11514.r19223 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-33/v2#referee-response-19223 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 31 Jan 2017 Kirill A. Afonin , Nanoscale Science Program, Department of Chemistry, The Center for Biomedical Engineering and Science (CBES), The University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Charlotte, NC, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11514.r19223 Overall the paper by Nikolaev et al., is well written and an interesting part of the photo- and biochemical realm. The paper provides very promising results and a unique way of analyzing structure functionality. I am interested to see what ... Continue reading READ ALL 