This is an important paper on a vital topic. It provides useful directions for future research around climate change, migration and health system resilience. Nonetheless, the overall argumentation of the paper is not fully clear – and so it is difficult fully to judge the use of evidence and assess the conclusions. The broad argument seems to be intended as: Climate change and migration are inter-linked and have negative health consequences (‘climate migrants and health systems’). Health systems are vital to tackling public health challenges such as those of climate change and migration (‘climate change in the global health context’). Whilst there is increasing focus on health system resilience, this has not yet included concern for climate change or migration (‘health systems resilience in the climate change context’). There is a need for ‘interdisciplinary research’ on climate change, health systems and migrants (‘for interdisciplinary research’). However, whilst the last section presents a case for interdisciplinary research, the earlier sections essentially work towards the conclusion that climate change, migration and health systems are interlinked. In addition, although there is reference to the point that current research is conducted in silos with little consideration of the intersection between these terrains on p.5, this point is not clearly argued previously in the paper. In supporting the final step of the paper’s argument (point 4 above), I suggest, then, that there would be value in strengthening the argument around the current silo-based nature of research in these domains as well as discussing further why and how interdisciplinary research is valuable for this area of work. I propose placing both these sets of issues in the section ‘for interdisciplinary research’ (some are currently in the previous section). There may also be value in clarifying that in this context ‘disciplines’ are, I think, equated to areas of work (climate change, migration, health systems) as opposed to e.g. sociology, anthropology, clinical science etc. And then I suggest it would be helpful to: expand on the point that ‘interdisciplinary’ means ‘a certain level of integration of knowledge, methods and/or ideas’ (p.5), and to discuss more than the need for mixed methods; clarify why an interdisciplinary approach is better than a multidisciplinary one for this work (p.5); and deepen the point about the value of the focus on resilience and adaptive strategies in supporting interdisciplinary research (p.5) – as well as explaining more of the detail of Table 1 and Figure 1. (As an aside, in Table 1 I would propose there would be value in thinking about health system software as more than staff training, essentially; relationships among staff within the system and with the public also matter, for example). In terms of the earlier sections of the paper I was not sure why the first section is titled ‘climate migrants and health systems’, as the focus is on health challenges rather than health systems. I also found that the logic and structure of the sections ‘climate change in the global health context’, and ‘health systems resilience in the climate change context’ made it difficult to follow the argument within them. In ‘climate change in the global health context’, this might be because the very tight referencing practice has overshadowed the argument. In ‘health systems resilience in the climate change context’, the linkage between the different points presented is not very clear (i.e. the argument connecting them). Some other minor points for review in p.3: What is an heuristic literature review? How are the 10 papers that were identified in the PubMed search used in the text, or is the point here that only 10 papers were identified? At the first mention, briefly clarify the significance of the Lancet Countdown for this paper. One final comment: given that this is a very closely argued piece, there would be value in some really close copy editing – as, for example, missing words in sentences, long sentences, and sentences that are phrased quite clumsily, hinder understanding. 