The manuscript addresses one of the crucial problems with in India’s Revised National TB Control Program. Interestingly, the study is based on our prior study (in which I was a lead author) in 2007, which was conducted in Mumbai and rural areas of Pune district. Given the research context and the data, I feel this manuscript should go as a brief communication or notes from the field rather than a full original research article. It does not make any novel contribution, but just confirms the earlier research finding. Even to make it a brief communication, I feel some points need to be provocatively addressed. My comments are as below. Authors have provided details of their larger study, of which the current study is only a part. I feel that level of details is unnecessary here. On the other hand, unfortunately despite having a large team (as seen from the long list of authors), they did not do in-depth inquiry into the reasons for an erroneous categorization of cases, which is actually the main aim of the manuscript. They just mentioned the same reasons for erroneous categorization by providing a reference to our 2007 article without making any new contribution. Identifying the most prominent reasons would have been helpful to identify as a focus area for the policy makers to make some action plan for operational implementation of the program. In my opinion, there is not much substance to publish it as an original research article. Authors nowhere discussed the major implication of their observation that even after 10 years, there remains a big disconnect between the operational research and the program implementation, which is really unfortunate. This finding has another major implication that because of erroneous categorization, previously treated cases are being treated with first-line regimen, which results in amplification of resistance in those cases who may have primary or acquired drug resistance (from prior treatment) and/MDR-TB. This has been happening for over 10 years so one can see why India now faces the serious problem of drug resistant TB. I am not convinced with the factor analysis in Table 1 because the detailed inquiry was not made into reasons for misclassification/erroneous categorization which should have been the main focus. Authors state in discussion that as per the WHO recommendation, universal DST will be done for all TB cases. This is an ideal situation. The scale up of GeneXpert even remains questionable. The WHO global report 2018 showed that only 40% of TB cases in India were subjected to GeneXert in 2017. There are problems of shortage of cartridges, falcon tubes, power outages etc. Given the glacial speed of translation of findings from operational research in the actual RNTCP implementation, India’s claim of TB elimination by 2025 looks really questionable. 