The authors report on highlights of the growing medical and scientific literature on Tourette Syndrome in 2014. The aim was not to conduct a systematic review, but instead to discuss noteworthy articles of interest. Topics ranged from animal models and neuroimaging to behavioral treatment. Strengths of this manuscript were 1) cogent and thoughtful summary/discussion of the articles, 2) an informal and readable style, and 3) interesting content. There were several weaknesses, which if addressed, would strengthen the manuscript. Methods: it would be helpful to know the approximate denominator of articles reviewed, and what proportion were selected. Results: it would be helpful to know how/why topic areas were chosen. Weight seemed to lean strongly toward neuroimaging, which may reflect the authors primary interests and expertise. Organization of topic areas could be improved; as it stands, the reader is moved from neuroscience (animal models, imaging) to behavior therapy, premonitory urges, and longitudinal course, and then back to neuroscience (genetics). It might read more easily to start with basics (neuroscience, genetics, neuroimaging) through phenomenology (course, urges, role of stress) to treatment. The manuscript could be improved with the inclusion of pharmacotherapy updates; although the Discussion summarized that the broad spectrum of articles covered animal models, neuroimaging, and pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment, the only treatments discussed were behavior therapy, exercise and biofeedback. Suggested pharmacotherapy additions include: Gilbert, D. et al.: A D1 receptor antagonist, ecopipam, for treatment of tics in Tourette Syndrome Clin Neuropharmacol 2014; 37 (1) 26-30 Malaty, I.A. and Akbar U: Updates in Medical and Surgical Therapies for Tourette Syndrome ; 2014; Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep 14: 458; this is a review with an annotated bibliography. Work to look for in 2015: Bachmann, CJ et al.: Trends in Psychopharmacological Treatment of Tic Disorders in Children and Adolescents in Germany ; Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry 2015; 24 (2); 199-207 Lastly, there appeared to be a relative lack of articles on aspects of psychiatric comorbidity. Of particular interest is the recently published study from the Tourette Syndrome Association International Consortium for Genetics: Hirschtritt, M. et al .: Lifetime Prevalence, Age of Risk, and Genetic Relationships of Comorbid Psychiatric Disorders in Tourette Syndrome ; JAMA Psychiatry doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2014.2650