It’s interesting to know, though not surprising, that Japanese O. dioica has the same number of centromeres and chromosomes as that in Norwegian species. This piece of work can boost broad interests in using O. dioica as a new model in epigenetics and cell cycle studies. However, some results are a bit confusing to me and may be misinterpreted. In Fig 1, centromere counts at prophase are 12, and at metaphase are 6, which are inconsistent. H3S28p signals locate at inner centromeric regions, flanked by CenpA signals that mark kinetochores at metaphase in embryonic mitosis in Norwegian O. dioica . The counts of H3S28p signals should be the same at prophase and metaphase, which are 6. In addition, centromere is a piece of DNA sequence that holds a pair of sister chromatids in mitotic phase before they separate at anaphase. We can say that a chromosome has one centromere and a pair of sister chromatids at prophase. Thus, the schema representing prophase in Fig 1B should be a pair of sister chromatids is linked by one red dot at centromere. H3S28p signals in female meiosis of Norwegian O. dioica are a bit different from those in mitosis. It localizes on entire chromosomes in prophase, moves towards centromeric regions during prometaphase, and is enriched at centromeric regions (or accurately speaking, midline of a bivalent) at metaphase I. Since chromosomes are more condensed in meiosis, and the midline of a bivalent should be crossover site between homologous chromosomes, we don’t know how far away it is between centromere and crossover in meiotic chromosomes of O. dioica , and how many crossovers a bivalent has. I would say centromeric region of H3S28p signals in female meiosis with caution. Actually, H3S28p shows several spots (more than 6) during prometaphase I, as can be seen Fig S4 in Feng and Thompson, 2018 cell cycle. The stages of meiosis depend on when the oocytes are collected. Just after spawning, the oocytes are before prometaphase I. Within 10 to 15 min after spawning, it is prometaphase I. Later, it should be at metaphase I. The timing of sampling is not indicated, which makes it even harder to interpret the data. But again, it should one red dot between a pair of sister chromatids in Fig 2E. 