This is a clear and well-structured opinion piece that identifies many relevant issues concerning genetic and genomic testing and its presumed impact on society. I am unfamiliar with this journal, so I am unsure how to gauge the usefulness of this article for its readership. My main concern is the extent to which the authors claim the pervasiveness of genomic technologies. In the sociological literature, with which I am more familiar, these claims are not all clear or straightforward. For instance, Adam Hedgecoe questions the utility of genetic testing, which can increase diagnostic uncertainty (also see Anne Kerr’s work). He also argues that in the context of pharmacogenomics, genomic medicine in the clinic falls short of personalised medicine. Arribas-Ayllon (2016) reviews the literature to show that applications of genetic testing in healthcare are uneven and partial. Sophie Day et al. (2016) has also identified the ways in which genomic medicine further complicates treatment pathways for breast cancer. What is common to these and many other sociological studies is that genomic medicine consistently fall short of the hype that genetic and genomic technologies will be revolutionary and personalizing. For instance, I am troubled by the frequent use of the pronoun ‘all’ in the first paragraph to suggest that genomic medicine is all-encompassing and totalising. It is not at all clear to me that genomic medicine is rolled out as smoothly and as evenly as the authors suggest. In fact, I wonder, given the age of austerity we now live under, whether these technologies will live up to the hype of delivering a ‘truly’ personalised medicine. I also wonder about the circumstances and sites in which this technology is not routinely available to everyone. I am also troubled by the assertion made at the end of the third paragraph that genomic medicine ‘has been truly ‘mainstreamed’’. This is a strong statement. What confidence do the authors have that this is actually true? Of course, I think it serves the authors’ argument to confidently state that genomic medicine has arrived and is here to stay because it justifies the urgent need to foster public dialogue about ethical and social implications regarding complex health information. But I feel the authors are overstating these claims. Again, sociological studies maintain that the roll-out of these technologies is not even nor does it not necessarily simplify or improve treatment pathways. In so far as genomic medicine gives out complex and uncertain information, I think the author would benefit from reading the work of Joon-Ho et al. (2013) to elaborate the kinds of issues that arise when ‘returning results’ is framed in terms of a ‘dynamic resource’ of information that needs to be managed over the lifetime of an individual. This also has unique implications for genetic counselling. Although I understand the authors are discussing genetics in general, the example of DTCGT is based on a different technology to that of the previous examples concerning whole genome sequencing. DTC companies use genotyping to calculate probabilistic risk for common complex disorders. I think the technical differences between sequencing and genotyping ought to be flagged. The general reader might reach the opinion that all genome testing is based on the same technologies. In their Conclusion, the authors claim that there is a danger that genomic technology will be ‘prescriptive of how society should function, instead of the other way around’. Firstly, I don’t think this point has been sufficiently developed in the paper, or at least it doesn’t follow naturally from the arguments and examples given above. I am also concerned that because the author are buying into the revolutionary hype of genomic medicine, that society is construed as being essentially passive. Recommendations I recommend that the authors tone down their claims that genomic medicine is revolutionary and pervasive. I recommend the authors indicate that there are still significant obstacles of delivering personalised and stratified medicine in real-world settings. I recommend that the authors explore more deeply the kind of relationship individuals can expect from sequence-driven information, especially in relation to how this information is likely to change over time (see Joon-Hu et al. 2013 1 ). Minor revisions: On the last line of the second column on page 2 ‘where chemotherapies are targeted towards a people with…’ should read ‘where chemotherapies are targeted towards people with…’ On page 3, first column, in the second paragraph 2 nd line ‘provision of genetic counselling is of increasing in significance’ should read ‘‘provision of genetic counselling is of increasing significance’. 