Audry et al. examine a previously published observation (Carneiro et al., 2010 1 ) that checkpoint activation is inhibited at telomeres as a result of exclusion of histone H4K20me2 at these loci. The prior observation was done via ChIP, using a polyclonal antibody from Abcam. As addressed in the present manuscript, the inability to identify a demethylase that is associated with this effect raised questions as to the certainty of the claim. The investigators of the current study have identified what appears to be a superior antibody to evaluate this modification. The antibody from GeneTex shows improved specificity for the dimethylated state relative to that observed for the previously utilized antibody from Abcam, and furthermore displays higher affinity for H3K20me2 relative to the currently available lot of the Abcam antibody. The current study clearly demonstrates that H4K20me2 is detectable at telomeric loci, and that no differences are observed in taz1 mutant strains. The investigators took steps to normalize the ChIP data relative to total H4 levels to ensure that loci-specific variations in nucleosome levels were accounted for, which is completely appropriate for telomeric regions where histone levels are reduced relative to internal loci. Thus, the findings presented here raise further doubts about the role of H4K20me2 in checkpoint inhibition at telomeres. This study provides useful insights into the nature of DNA damage checkpoint activation, and the underlying mechanisms by which cells inhibit such pathways in response to native chromosomal features such as telomeres. While the original finding, implicating reduced H4K20me2 levels at telomeres as an inhibitor of checkpoint activation, was supported by the previously published observations, it is essential that such models adapt as new information is made available. The use of antibodies for gauging histone modification levels has been perpetually problematic for many years, as these reagents are routinely used to evaluate subtle molecular changes across large genomic landscapes, pushing the limits of the methodology. In particular, lot variation for polyclonal antibodies is a serious problem in this field. In the absence of more reliable methodologies, we must be willing to reconsider prior observations as new antibodies become available. The study presented here appropriately re-examines this prior observation with an improved reagent for detecting this modification, and the observations raise reasonable doubts regarding the original model. This study by no means settles the issue of the role (or lack thereof) of H4K20me2 in checkpoint inhibition, but the findings merit publication to ensure that other investigators continue to re-examine this model. 