 I find that the often-used term of ‘miRNA-targeting-specific promoter methylation’ (sic) should be replaced by a less confusing expression, e.g. ‘miRNA-targeted-gene promoter methylation’, as ‘targeting’ and ‘specific’ are redundant and confuse the point. Specifically, the grammatical construction would seem to indicate that there are hypomethylated promoter specific targeting miRNAs (title of a subsection) which doesn't seem to be what the author means. Otherwise, the term ‘specific’ could also lead to believe that there is a dedicated mechanism for demethylation of these subset of (miRNA targeted) promoters that would be distinct from other methylation pathways. As there is no way to know if it is the case or whether there is a unique activity biased toward genes submitted to post transcriptional regulation. Moreover, the use of both: ‘miRNA-targeting-specific promoter hypomethylation’ and ‘miRNA-targeting-specific promoter methylation’ adds to the confusion as these should indicate opposite trends or mechanisms. The author states that; ‘[MiRaGE] was designed to infer the differential expression of miRNA target genes between two experimental conditions based on the expression profiles of the target genes in question’, this is not exactly right: as stated on the MiRaGE page, ‘MiRaGE method is the method used to infer gene expression regulation via miRNA based upon target gene expression.’ Thus, it doesn't infer the expression of target genes! It infers the contribution of miRNA to the measured expression levels. So by replacing the expression levels by the methylation status of the promoter the author is trying to uncover a link between miRNA expression and the methylation of their target genes. I feel that a much needed control would be required to see how the correlation between methylation status and miRNA target gene expression differs from the correlation between non-targeted genes with similar expression levels. Another potentially damning issue is raised in Table 3: ‘It was clear that promoter methylation and miRNA regulation of target genes were significantly correlated during both cell senescence and differentiation’. Another way to interpret this would be that the expression level of those genes is correlated with the methylation level of their promoter (which is well reported in the literature), this could be considered an alternative explanation to the modification of expression levels observed in those genes (i.e. not through miRNA regulation but through chromatin remodeling). This should warrant the use of a control set of non-miRNA targeted genes to check if the promoter methylation is truly ‘specific’ of miRNA targeting. More troubling is this statement: ‘correlation coefficients exhibited opposite directionalities in cell senescence and differentiation. This means that genes with miRNA-targeting-specific promoter hypomethylation are downregulated during cell senescence, but upregulated during differentiation’. It seems that there should be a more in depth discrimination between genes that are up- or downregulated in different conditions. Is the point of this paper to indicate that miRNA downregulation is associated with hypomethylation of the promoter? If so, how do you interpret an inverted correlation in different conditions in this framework? It would seem that the expression of the ‘miRNA target genes’ is more correlated to the status of their promoter than to the presence of the miRNA. The author states that this inverse correlation ‘is not a discrepancy’ but it is actually highlighting the discrepancy that has to be explained rather than brushed off. Similarly the following statement by the author doesn't seem to be so obvious to me: ‘0.7 to 0.8, indicate that miRNA-targeting-specific promoter methylation governs at most 50% to 60% of miRNA regulation of target genes. Thus, cell line specific miRNA regulation of target genes can act within the remaining 50% to 40%.’ An alternate explanation could be that the methylation doesn't govern the expression status of the genes but reflects it partially (i.e. a degraded messenger could trigger an unknown pathway that would lead the modification of the promoter methylation and stabilize the downregulation at the genomic level. A similar logical leap is made further down in the text: ‘The fact that I observed significant changes in expression of target genes without significant changes in expression of miRNAs that target these genes implicates a role miRNA-targeting-specific promoter hypomethylation.’ It could also mean that these genes are regulated transcriptionally without the intervention of miR-548 miRNAs, there are probably other gene groups that are differently expressed in these cell lines. 