19th March 2020 - This report was updated at the request of the reviewer, as they wished to include further information in their review. The authors do a careful and well-informed analysis of the CAGR for base MS-DRG over the period from 2009-2018. While the overall trend of a 0.26% decrease in CAGR over this time frame is useful information, the comparison across MDCs provides more insight, and potentially actionable information. Having said this, the author’s implication that such results have or could have substantial impacts on hospital decision making seem exaggerated. This is particularly true in the current environment of CMS metrics for hospitals, where hospitals can lose up to 6% of total Medicare revenues annually through the hospital readmissions reduction program (HRRP), the hospital acquired conditions program (HAC), and the hospital value-based purchasing program (VBP). Similarly, hospital can earn bonuses if they are top performers in these categories. In other words, the financial implications and consequences of these programs far outstrip small decreases (or increases) in base MS-DRG rates, and as such have a much greater impact on hospital decision making. As more specifically related to the data in this manuscript, the case mix index for hospitals has been steadily rising over the time period of this study. This indicates that, despite small declines in the base MS-DRG, the patient mix at hospitals is increasing in complexity, and accordingly in reimbursements. This is occurring through two mechanisms. Disproportionately more patients with higher base MS-DRG are being hospitalized. In addition, the mix of admitted patients with MS-DRG weights with either complicating conditions (CC) or major complicating conditions (MCC) is increasing. Both mechanisms are more than offsetting the small declines in base MS-DRG. Hospital decisions on investment or resource allocation as related to MS-DRG will be based on the patient mix, and not on changes in base MS-DRG. 