I congratulate your efforts on working on treatment pathways of drug resistant TB patients. Overall, the manuscript reads well. However, I have few comments for your consideration which will help in betterment of the manuscript. The comments are mentioned separately below. Comments: The authors in the introduction state that “we aimed to determine the health- seeking pathway of presumptive MDR TB patients prior to treatment at the PMDT center”. The manuscript lacks clarity on identifying the presumptive MDR-TB patient under the programmatic settings. Probably, the authors should specifically say that the presumptive MDR-TB is based on laboratory diagnosis rather than a clinical presumption. Study settings: The authors have to specify the name of the hospital, location of the PMDT centre with the names and population of the districts it is catering to. They should also briefly describe about the types/numbers of public and private health facilities in the districts. The statement “the patient is released to outpatient care for continuation of care at Directly Observed Treatment (DOT-Plus) centers throughout the community” needs to be modified because under programmatic conditions the patients are referred for domiciliary care in the community. The name of the institution which has accrued ethics approval needs to be mentioned. Data collection: It is found that the details were collected from the time the patients experience TB symptoms. These details are not analysed and was beyond the scope of the study. For a patient, there is a thin line of difference from being a presumptive TB case and a presumptive DR-TB case. There could be a lot of subjective variability in remembering the things which have occurred in the past. It is better if the authors explain the measures taken to negate such variability during the process of interview and increased their accuracy of findings. Data analysis: Please mention the reference for adobe illustrator trail version. Time delays in health care pathways: I feel the definitions needs further clarity. The starting point for delay calculations is the point of onset of illness. We presume that the authors are taking into account that it is from the point when the patient has a laboratory diagnosis of DR-TB. The authors should explicitly mention in their definitions. Reasons for shifting from one HCF to others: These are the options or answers expected from the patients. They have to be presented in the results as the findings of patients’ interviews. Hence, should be removed from the method section. Results: For better understanding the authors have to describe their findings as numbers (percentages). The ‘p’ values mentioned in table 1 should be removed, it has no relevance. Among the 25 patients who went to private sector, 11 were diagnosed as MDR TB. What type of diagnosis did the private sector facilities made? Clinical or laboratory diagnosis? It is also mentioned that the patients are transferred to PMDT centres. Under programmatic settings, the transfer happens from one RNTCP administrative unit to the other. There is a scope for authors to present the findings of proportions of patients who underwent 1,2,3 and 4 HCF visits as a bar diagram/table stratified by public and private facilities. Discussions: The authors should remain focused on the study context. There has been much comparison with other studies. This tends to lose the focus of the readers. The recommendations have to be relevant to the study findings. Limitations: The authors can add a paragraph on limitations of the study (response rate, sample size, generalizability, definitions-subjective variability). Conclusion: The conclusion should be specific and should be described in a paragraph. 