This is a short report to investigate the infiltration rate under different treatments, conducted in 2 green houses. The treatments were 3 levels of urea input, and 3 ways for mulching. They have grown corn, rose grass, and okra, and incorporated them after each cropping season, and measured infiltration rates. Their conclusion is that the root mass affects infiltration more than incorporated residue amount, but it's flawed (details below). Introduction: The introduction has to be revised. Right now, two paragraphs that are supposed to give the background for your research aim are not structured well. Right now, you have just put related information without considering logical order. It can be improved, for example, if the first paragraph is structured like this; 1. Erosion is a major problem for the soil degradation. 2. Erosion starts when rain hits the bare soil and form a crust by braking aggregates, which decreases infiltration and increase surface runoff. 3. Therefore, to reduce soil erosion, protecting soil surface and improving infiltration rate are important. Then, in the second paragraph, you can talk about how to do that (no tillage, putting residues, incorporating organic matter etc.). Also at the end, or the next paragraph, you can talk about what is still lacking and needs to be investigated to show the originality of this report. In the last paragraph of the introduction, you put your research aim. 1), and 2) are understandable, but the last sentence is not clear. Why can "ensuring growth of different crops for the same amount of input residue with different nutrition levels and different soil moisture levels" provide answer for those two questions? Methods: You have N fertilizer treatment, and "soil moisture" treatment, but putting as "three soil moisture levels (un-mulched, ....)" is not really exact naming for your treatment, since you are not really controlling soil moisture alone (covering with mulch has a lot more effect other than soil moisture). Probably "mulching treatment"? Second paragraph: Please put the information in order. You are talking about the end of Okura cropping, then going back to the corn cropping next. Please make it easy for readers to understand by putting them in logical manner. "we repeated the above processes": What are the processes? There are so many processes in "above". Do you mean all including corn cropping? It is not clear whether you returned residues evenly among plots within the house, or across the houses. Data analysis: Since this experimental design is 2 factor, 3 levels, randomized block design with 2 replication (block), please conduct 2-way anova accordingly. Results, Discussion and conclusions: If you use the 2-way ANOVA results, you might find something interesting. Since the residue amount increases as the crop biomass and crop root biomass increases, these results are basically showing the same thing. When you had more residue (for example, when you have grown rose grass), you also had more above ground and root biomass. So the Figure 1a result is concomitant with the crop biomass (and root biomass), and not purely showing the effect of the residue amount. If you want to compare the residue incorporation effect and crop biomass (and root biomass), you need to have plots with uniform root biomass condition, and incorporate residues in different levels. 