The background to the development of the Brassica Information Portal and its origins in the CropStore system are well described. This paper is an update on the work in progress to deliver an integrated resource linking phenotype to genotype data for Brassica species. There are welcome new developments in the BIP including greater use of ontologies, in particular links with the MIAPPE initiative to capture phenotype in a systematic way and to adopt emerging metadata standards for crop phenotyping projects. A summary of the contents demonstrates that the BIP already comprises a significant scale repository for Brassica pre-breeding data and where relevant this is linked to SNP data visible with a genome browser. This paper is about the BIP as an information resource, rather than a publication of a new method. The paper provides a high level view of the technical implementation, reporting on adoption of the PostgreSQL relational database technology and the general use of Restful services as the basis for the data management operations in the BIP, including those that support improved interfaces for data loading and for browsing. A conceptual database schema is presented for the BIP database. There are other areas of BIP that are adopting good practise in science data management, including the use of Orcid identifiers for user authentication and data search and retrieval using Elasticsearch technology. The paper provides overviews of key data management tasks and gives more information in the Supplementary material provided with the manuscript. There are also links to the Open Source repository Github where the software for BIP is available and to the example code for querying the data programmatically. Overall, this is an informative paper about the current state of the Brassica Information Portal. It is not a primary research paper, but rather a report of work in progress supporting the Brassica research community with a useful resource and software that could be re-used for other crops where there is a requirement for the management and dissemination of crop genotype-phenotype datasets. While there has been good progress so far towards developing the software so that the system supports open access to the software and data, it remains unclear to what extent the FAIR principles of data stewardship are being embedded in the BIP software. (e.g. Wilkinson et al 1 ). In particular, it would be helpful for the authors to describe their plans for exposing discoverability metadata and how they view the role of BIP as a “ FAIRport ” for Brassica data. 