The authors provide a broad introduction to a novel theoretical concept, the process of believing. It is complemented by references to empirical findings that lend support to the theoretical claims. The concept’s usefulness for neuroscience and anthropology, in particular, is discussed. As the authors note, the act, or process, of believing has largely been ignored by scholars. While psychology offers insights into both cognition and emotion, believing seems not to be well covered by these theories. The authors suggest defining processes of believing as probabilistic representations, associated with specific personal meaning and value. Rooted in neural processes, processes of believing are proposed to guide human behaviour. The endeavour is topical and worthwhile, since much of our proposed knowledge is actually belief, and clear differentiation between both will be fruitful. Furthermore, belief is all too often associated with the realm of the supernatural, and thus viewed as something that is only of concern for studies of religion, etc. But believing is widespread, also in mundane everyday life, as the authors suggest. In some places, the text might benefit from more coherence. In the first section, e.g., we had the sense that the provided list of definitions is of no consequence for the rest of the manuscript. Due to the novelty of the research subject, the terminology is of special importance. The authors call “normal belief” a “brain product” linked to personal intuitive judgements about the subjective certainty of mental constructs and sensory perceptions. The term “normal belief” might not be the best choice of term, since it seems to refer to something normative, or some belief held by the majority of people (thus being normal). The reader is also left wondering about the relationship between “belief” as in “predictions about the next event”, or judgments where religious issues play no role, and religious belief. If the purpose of the term “normal belief” is to root religious belief into belief as a more general cognitive process, it should be renamed accordingly and more explicitly. The process of perception is described as resulting in “comprehending the object’s features” (p. 4), and, later, as resulting “in a meaningful illusion” (p. 4). The two descriptions seem to contradict each other; instead of calling the outcome an illusion, it might better be viewed as a “Gestalt”, i.e. a meaningful perception that provides clues for action to follow 1 , 2 . Starting from page 4, the authors review neural circuits of stimulus perception, stimulus valuation (including its emotional tone) and decision making. The authors propose that this circuit underlies belief formation ("personal probabilistic representations"). It should be noted that the neuroscience they refer to here deals with predictions about events whose valuation, and consequent motivational effects, are entirely utilitarian 3 , 4 . The purported computational processes associated with these networks concern prediction of rewarding or aversive outcomes (probabilistic predictions of reward or fear of punishment, p. 8). This leaves the reader wondering if this has the consequence that there is nothing specific about religious beliefs, relative to other utilitarian or adaptive cognitive-behavioural strategies. The ventromedial prefrontal cortex, where, as the authors note, complex properties of stimuli 5 - 8 or the context of their presentation 9 may be integrated to compute stimulus valuation and its emotional quality 10 has been touted as the neurological machinery that allows consistent decision making, in effect computing utilities as in the economic understanding of this term 4 , 11 . It is interesting to conjecture that these same networks could be the starting point of beliefs, but the evidence does not imply this in any straightforward manner. If predictions are beliefs also Pavlov’s dog was ‘believing’ after hearing the bell. Importantly, one may not be conscious of anticipating anything but still bear the motivational consequences of these unconscious predictions 12 , as when presented with conditioned cues subliminally. An issue that seems to be relevant in this respect is that these networks are very likely not monolithic (as the authors themselves note in commenting Figure 2), but are thought to involve parallel valuation and decision mechanisms, associated with different strategies to process the inputs and compute response 13 . But then one would expect the notion of belief to be explicated in terms that are more specifically relevant for some, but not all, of these mechanisms. Previous functional neuroimaging of generic beliefs 14 - 15 or of beliefs that are more specifically religious 16 raise the issue of whether cognitive decision making bears the traces of different strategies to arrive to a response, associated with different brain networks. This may be particularly relevant for beliefs, as there is good reason to single out those cognitive decisions that are marked by bias. The ventromedial prefrontal cortex seems again to play an important role in this respect 11 , 14 , 17 , as an important hypothesis is that beliefs may be a specific class of intuitive, pre-evidential judgments, demonstrably produced when a specific part of the valuation-decision making network gains the upper hand. The relationship of religious belief with biased judgment seems important, but is an issue that the manuscript leaves entirely open. Several findings also implicate the amygdala in choices where emotions and intuitions play an important role 17 , 18 . Considering the role of neural substrates directly linked to emotion when choosing between sources of meaning could add to the bigger picture of how acts of believing are linked to non-rational processes. Decision making between potential sources of meaning such as religion/spirituality, nature, community, may be related to the affective network in the brain, but not to more refined goal-directed mechanisms in the prefrontal cortex, as is suggested by a recent study 19 . On a psychological level, further construct clarification could ensue from discussing relationships between processes of believing and intuition. Research findings on intuition 20 might help to better understand processes of believing, and to identify the boundaries between both. Minor points: Schnell, 2003 21 is quoted as suggesting that “humans are born with an implicit religiosity” (p. 6). This seems to be a misreading of the publication, which aims to clarify in which cases implicit religiosity is present: “All those contents which are structured as myth, ritual or transcendent experience, and evaluated as meaningful by an individual, can be said to constitute implicit religiosity“ (p. 89). Not every person is implicitly religious, and it is not an inborn characteristic – although the propensity to elevate what is personally meaningful, and to express it by means of stories, rituals, and extraordinary experiences that go beyond the rational, appears to be common to all humans. Why does a process of believing necessarily have to have a start and a closure, as suggested by the authors? References 1. Schnell T: The Sources of Meaning and Meaning in Life Questionnaire (SoMe): Relations to demographics and well-being. The Journal of Positive Psychology . 2009; 4 (6): 483-499 Publisher Full Text 2. Schnell T: Psychologie des Lebenssinns. Springer . 2016. 3. Rangel A, Camerer C, Montague PR: A framework for studying the neurobiology of value-based decision making. Nat Rev Neurosci . 2008; 9 (7): 545-56 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Levy DJ, Glimcher PW: The root of all value: a neural common currency for choice. Curr Opin Neurobiol . 2012; 22 (6): 1027-38 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. O'Doherty JP: Lights, camembert, action! The role of human orbitofrontal cortex in encoding stimuli, rewards, and choices. Ann N Y Acad Sci . 2007; 1121 : 254-72 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Chib VS, Rangel A, Shimojo S, O'Doherty JP: Evidence for a common representation of decision values for dissimilar goods in human ventromedial prefrontal cortex. J Neurosci . 2009; 29 (39): 12315-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Smith DV, Hayden BY, Truong TK, Song AW, et al.: Distinct value signals in anterior and posterior ventromedial prefrontal cortex. J Neurosci . 2010; 30 (7): 2490-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Lim SL, O'Doherty JP, Rangel A: Stimulus value signals in ventromedial PFC reflect the integration of attribute value signals computed in fusiform gyrus and posterior superior temporal gyrus. J Neurosci . 2013; 33 (20): 8729-41 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Wilson RC, Takahashi YK, Schoenbaum G, Niv Y: Orbitofrontal cortex as a cognitive map of task space. Neuron . 2014; 81 (2): 267-79 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Roy M, Shohamy D, Wager TD: Ventromedial prefrontal-subcortical systems and the generation of affective meaning. Trends Cogn Sci . 2012; 16 (3): 147-56 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Plassmann H, O'Doherty J, Rangel A: Orbitofrontal cortex encodes willingness to pay in everyday economic transactions. J Neurosci . 2007; 27 (37): 9984-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. LeDoux JE: Coming to terms with fear. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2014; 111 (8): 2871-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Daw N, O’Doherty J: Multiple Systems for Value Learning. 2014. 393-410 Publisher Full Text 14. Goel V, Dolan RJ: Explaining modulation of reasoning by belief. Cognition . 2003; 87 (1): B11-22 PubMed Abstract 15. Harris S, Sheth SA, Cohen MS: Functional neuroimaging of belief, disbelief, and uncertainty. Ann Neurol . 2008; 63 (2): 141-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 16. Harris S, Kaplan JT, Curiel A, Bookheimer SY, et al.: The neural correlates of religious and nonreligious belief. PLoS One . 2009; 4 (10): e0007272 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 17. De Martino B, Kumaran D, Seymour B, Dolan RJ: Frames, biases, and rational decision-making in the human brain. Science . 2006; 313 (5787): 684-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 18. Seymour B, Dolan R: Emotion, decision making, and the amygdala. Neuron . 2008; 58 (5): 662-71 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 19. Viviani R, Dommes L, Beschoner P, Stingl J, et al.: Choosing between human values and food: the Pavlocian substrates of intrinsic preferences. 14th Annual Conference of the Society of Neuroeconomics . 2016. 20. Gigerenzer G: Gut feelings: The intelligence of the unconscious. Penguin . 2007. 21. Schnell T: A Framework for the Study of Implicit Religion: The Psychological Theory of Implicit Religiosity. Implicit Religion . 2007; 6 (2). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Schnell T and Viviani R. Reviewer Report For: Processes of believing: Where do they come from? What are they good for? [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2573 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10535.r18600 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2573/v1#referee-response-18600 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 17 Jan 2017 Rudiger Seitz , LVR-Klinikum Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany 17 Jan 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewers for their constructive comments and thoughtful questions concerning a number of aspects in our manuscript that stimulated us to engage in further clarifying these points. We ... Continue reading We thank the reviewers for their constructive comments and thoughtful questions concerning a number of aspects in our manuscript that stimulated us to engage in further clarifying these points. We will detail successively the corresponding changes we made in the manuscript as follows: As suggested we reviewed the first section carefully and rephrased it to enhance the visibility of coherence within the section and with respect to the rest of the paper. We explain that the notion of "normal belief" is usually contrasted to its pathological manifestations in brain diseases (page 4). In accordance with the reviewer dropped this expression from the manuscript, since it may cause associations mentioned by the reviewers which were not intended. We now are more specific concerning the questioned relation of "belief" and religious belief. We do not want to expand on the adjective "religious" which is ambiguous as we have outlined elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2016). With respect to the question of the reviewer and for improved clarity we transposed paragraphs in the final section and now state on page 20 of the revised manuscript that "religious belief" in the sense of "non-secular belief" and "secular belief" are hypothesized to be brought forward by similar, if not identical processes of believing but that they differ by their specific contents. In fact, they differ by narratives as we state on page 19. Please, note that believing is considered a fundamental brain process entirely separate from religious beliefs as stated explicitly on page 20. We are entirely happy with the suggestion of the reviewers to refer to "Gestalt". This notion was developed by von Weizscker in the 40ies of last century. To his work we now refer in the revised manuscript on page 11. With respect to the discussion about prediction we would like to point out that believing and beliefs should not be reduced to prediction. We now state on page 14 that believing pertains to experience, i.e. knowledge acquired in the past. Moreover, we outline that believing links the past to the future as it allows the individual to make predictions (pages 12, 14). For example, acquired knowledge and predictions work on the physical world being entirely probabilistic. This becomes apparent by the automatic unconscious servo control of the hand for object grasping (Diamond et al, Plisson et al; not cited on page 12). Likewise the meaning a subject attributes to an object or event reflects his/her prior experience with such an object or event providing a basis for estimating its future implication; specifically, the question is whether the object or event is beneficial or satisfying for the subject or adverse or deleterious (page 14). Finally, decision making is consistent only as long as a belief has not been modified in response to new and violating information. This topic is explained in greater detail elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2017) now cited on page 21. The comment about Pavlows reflex is noteworthy. As the reviewer points out, this is a subconscious process that cannot be influenced voluntarily by the subject. And certainly the onset of salivation induced by the conditioning ringing of a bell reflects an automatic prediction. We can exaggerate this argument extending it to all types of reflexes including the eyelid reflex and the muscle tendon reflexes: the neuronal machinery operates with the goal to protect the integrity of the organism against predicted harm or to prepare it optimally for an upcoming action. If we accept this, we may want to argue that even the basic neural circuits are equipped with a machinery that internalizes sensory experience to code for appropriate behaviour for integrity and survival of the organism. Higher cognitive and emotional functions that constitute believing are more complex working in parallel cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical circuits in the human brain. These complex brain systems are suited to afford the integrity and survival of the individual human and of groups of humans including societies as we now state on page 21. We agree that beliefs are based on intuitive pre-evidential and probabilistic judgments. We now state on page 20 that rituals are likely to bias humans to accept narratives as beliefs held in social groups as well as in secular and religious faith groups. Decision making is a brain function following and engaging judgments and predictions. In other words, decision making is down the road with respect to believing. We absolutely agree that different types of information processed in parallel and highly interconnected brain circuits come into play. The point we would like to make, however, is that the interface for such complex self-oriented computations seems to be the medial prefrontal cortex that comprises multiple functional units as evident from Figure 2 and outlined in greater detail elsewhere (Seitz et al. 2006, van Overwalle 2009). We now emphasize this issue on page 16 and refer to it later in the manuscript again (page 21). We are grateful about the clarification concerning the notion of implicit religiosity and modified this phrase accordingly (page 23). In our empirical model we use the novel sensory stimulus as starting point of the believing process and the establishment of a probabilistic representation as the endpoint of the believing process. This has now been stated clearly on page 11. However, as write on page 21 new experiences constantly entertain an update of such a representation reflecting the potentially fluid nature of beliefs. We thank the reviewers for their constructive comments and thoughtful questions concerning a number of aspects in our manuscript that stimulated us to engage in further clarifying these points. We will detail successively the corresponding changes we made in the manuscript as follows: As suggested we reviewed the first section carefully and rephrased it to enhance the visibility of coherence within the section and with respect to the rest of the paper. We explain that the notion of "normal belief" is usually contrasted to its pathological manifestations in brain diseases (page 4). In accordance with the reviewer dropped this expression from the manuscript, since it may cause associations mentioned by the reviewers which were not intended. We now are more specific concerning the questioned relation of "belief" and religious belief. We do not want to expand on the adjective "religious" which is ambiguous as we have outlined elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2016). With respect to the question of the reviewer and for improved clarity we transposed paragraphs in the final section and now state on page 20 of the revised manuscript that "religious belief" in the sense of "non-secular belief" and "secular belief" are hypothesized to be brought forward by similar, if not identical processes of believing but that they differ by their specific contents. In fact, they differ by narratives as we state on page 19. Please, note that believing is considered a fundamental brain process entirely separate from religious beliefs as stated explicitly on page 20. We are entirely happy with the suggestion of the reviewers to refer to "Gestalt". This notion was developed by von Weizscker in the 40ies of last century. To his work we now refer in the revised manuscript on page 11. With respect to the discussion about prediction we would like to point out that believing and beliefs should not be reduced to prediction. We now state on page 14 that believing pertains to experience, i.e. knowledge acquired in the past. Moreover, we outline that believing links the past to the future as it allows the individual to make predictions (pages 12, 14). For example, acquired knowledge and predictions work on the physical world being entirely probabilistic. This becomes apparent by the automatic unconscious servo control of the hand for object grasping (Diamond et al, Plisson et al; not cited on page 12). Likewise the meaning a subject attributes to an object or event reflects his/her prior experience with such an object or event providing a basis for estimating its future implication; specifically, the question is whether the object or event is beneficial or satisfying for the subject or adverse or deleterious (page 14). Finally, decision making is consistent only as long as a belief has not been modified in response to new and violating information. This topic is explained in greater detail elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2017) now cited on page 21. The comment about Pavlows reflex is noteworthy. As the reviewer points out, this is a subconscious process that cannot be influenced voluntarily by the subject. And certainly the onset of salivation induced by the conditioning ringing of a bell reflects an automatic prediction. We can exaggerate this argument extending it to all types of reflexes including the eyelid reflex and the muscle tendon reflexes: the neuronal machinery operates with the goal to protect the integrity of the organism against predicted harm or to prepare it optimally for an upcoming action. If we accept this, we may want to argue that even the basic neural circuits are equipped with a machinery that internalizes sensory experience to code for appropriate behaviour for integrity and survival of the organism. Higher cognitive and emotional functions that constitute believing are more complex working in parallel cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical circuits in the human brain. These complex brain systems are suited to afford the integrity and survival of the individual human and of groups of humans including societies as we now state on page 21. We agree that beliefs are based on intuitive pre-evidential and probabilistic judgments. We now state on page 20 that rituals are likely to bias humans to accept narratives as beliefs held in social groups as well as in secular and religious faith groups. Decision making is a brain function following and engaging judgments and predictions. In other words, decision making is down the road with respect to believing. We absolutely agree that different types of information processed in parallel and highly interconnected brain circuits come into play. The point we would like to make, however, is that the interface for such complex self-oriented computations seems to be the medial prefrontal cortex that comprises multiple functional units as evident from Figure 2 and outlined in greater detail elsewhere (Seitz et al. 2006, van Overwalle 2009). We now emphasize this issue on page 16 and refer to it later in the manuscript again (page 21). We are grateful about the clarification concerning the notion of implicit religiosity and modified this phrase accordingly (page 23). In our empirical model we use the novel sensory stimulus as starting point of the believing process and the establishment of a probabilistic representation as the endpoint of the believing process. This has now been stated clearly on page 11. However, as write on page 21 new experiences constantly entertain an update of such a representation reflecting the potentially fluid nature of beliefs. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 17 Jan 2017 Rudiger Seitz , LVR-Klinikum Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany 17 Jan 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewers for their constructive comments and thoughtful questions concerning a number of aspects in our manuscript that stimulated us to engage in further clarifying these points. We ... Continue reading We thank the reviewers for their constructive comments and thoughtful questions concerning a number of aspects in our manuscript that stimulated us to engage in further clarifying these points. We will detail successively the corresponding changes we made in the manuscript as follows: As suggested we reviewed the first section carefully and rephrased it to enhance the visibility of coherence within the section and with respect to the rest of the paper. We explain that the notion of "normal belief" is usually contrasted to its pathological manifestations in brain diseases (page 4). In accordance with the reviewer dropped this expression from the manuscript, since it may cause associations mentioned by the reviewers which were not intended. We now are more specific concerning the questioned relation of "belief" and religious belief. We do not want to expand on the adjective "religious" which is ambiguous as we have outlined elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2016). With respect to the question of the reviewer and for improved clarity we transposed paragraphs in the final section and now state on page 20 of the revised manuscript that "religious belief" in the sense of "non-secular belief" and "secular belief" are hypothesized to be brought forward by similar, if not identical processes of believing but that they differ by their specific contents. In fact, they differ by narratives as we state on page 19. Please, note that believing is considered a fundamental brain process entirely separate from religious beliefs as stated explicitly on page 20. We are entirely happy with the suggestion of the reviewers to refer to "Gestalt". This notion was developed by von Weizscker in the 40ies of last century. To his work we now refer in the revised manuscript on page 11. With respect to the discussion about prediction we would like to point out that believing and beliefs should not be reduced to prediction. We now state on page 14 that believing pertains to experience, i.e. knowledge acquired in the past. Moreover, we outline that believing links the past to the future as it allows the individual to make predictions (pages 12, 14). For example, acquired knowledge and predictions work on the physical world being entirely probabilistic. This becomes apparent by the automatic unconscious servo control of the hand for object grasping (Diamond et al, Plisson et al; not cited on page 12). Likewise the meaning a subject attributes to an object or event reflects his/her prior experience with such an object or event providing a basis for estimating its future implication; specifically, the question is whether the object or event is beneficial or satisfying for the subject or adverse or deleterious (page 14). Finally, decision making is consistent only as long as a belief has not been modified in response to new and violating information. This topic is explained in greater detail elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2017) now cited on page 21. The comment about Pavlows reflex is noteworthy. As the reviewer points out, this is a subconscious process that cannot be influenced voluntarily by the subject. And certainly the onset of salivation induced by the conditioning ringing of a bell reflects an automatic prediction. We can exaggerate this argument extending it to all types of reflexes including the eyelid reflex and the muscle tendon reflexes: the neuronal machinery operates with the goal to protect the integrity of the organism against predicted harm or to prepare it optimally for an upcoming action. If we accept this, we may want to argue that even the basic neural circuits are equipped with a machinery that internalizes sensory experience to code for appropriate behaviour for integrity and survival of the organism. Higher cognitive and emotional functions that constitute believing are more complex working in parallel cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical circuits in the human brain. These complex brain systems are suited to afford the integrity and survival of the individual human and of groups of humans including societies as we now state on page 21. We agree that beliefs are based on intuitive pre-evidential and probabilistic judgments. We now state on page 20 that rituals are likely to bias humans to accept narratives as beliefs held in social groups as well as in secular and religious faith groups. Decision making is a brain function following and engaging judgments and predictions. In other words, decision making is down the road with respect to believing. We absolutely agree that different types of information processed in parallel and highly interconnected brain circuits come into play. The point we would like to make, however, is that the interface for such complex self-oriented computations seems to be the medial prefrontal cortex that comprises multiple functional units as evident from Figure 2 and outlined in greater detail elsewhere (Seitz et al. 2006, van Overwalle 2009). We now emphasize this issue on page 16 and refer to it later in the manuscript again (page 21). We are grateful about the clarification concerning the notion of implicit religiosity and modified this phrase accordingly (page 23). In our empirical model we use the novel sensory stimulus as starting point of the believing process and the establishment of a probabilistic representation as the endpoint of the believing process. This has now been stated clearly on page 11. However, as write on page 21 new experiences constantly entertain an update of such a representation reflecting the potentially fluid nature of beliefs. We thank the reviewers for their constructive comments and thoughtful questions concerning a number of aspects in our manuscript that stimulated us to engage in further clarifying these points. We will detail successively the corresponding changes we made in the manuscript as follows: As suggested we reviewed the first section carefully and rephrased it to enhance the visibility of coherence within the section and with respect to the rest of the paper. We explain that the notion of "normal belief" is usually contrasted to its pathological manifestations in brain diseases (page 4). In accordance with the reviewer dropped this expression from the manuscript, since it may cause associations mentioned by the reviewers which were not intended. We now are more specific concerning the questioned relation of "belief" and religious belief. We do not want to expand on the adjective "religious" which is ambiguous as we have outlined elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2016). With respect to the question of the reviewer and for improved clarity we transposed paragraphs in the final section and now state on page 20 of the revised manuscript that "religious belief" in the sense of "non-secular belief" and "secular belief" are hypothesized to be brought forward by similar, if not identical processes of believing but that they differ by their specific contents. In fact, they differ by narratives as we state on page 19. Please, note that believing is considered a fundamental brain process entirely separate from religious beliefs as stated explicitly on page 20. We are entirely happy with the suggestion of the reviewers to refer to "Gestalt". This notion was developed by von Weizscker in the 40ies of last century. To his work we now refer in the revised manuscript on page 11. With respect to the discussion about prediction we would like to point out that believing and beliefs should not be reduced to prediction. We now state on page 14 that believing pertains to experience, i.e. knowledge acquired in the past. Moreover, we outline that believing links the past to the future as it allows the individual to make predictions (pages 12, 14). For example, acquired knowledge and predictions work on the physical world being entirely probabilistic. This becomes apparent by the automatic unconscious servo control of the hand for object grasping (Diamond et al, Plisson et al; not cited on page 12). Likewise the meaning a subject attributes to an object or event reflects his/her prior experience with such an object or event providing a basis for estimating its future implication; specifically, the question is whether the object or event is beneficial or satisfying for the subject or adverse or deleterious (page 14). Finally, decision making is consistent only as long as a belief has not been modified in response to new and violating information. This topic is explained in greater detail elsewhere (Angel and Seitz 2017) now cited on page 21. The comment about Pavlows reflex is noteworthy. As the reviewer points out, this is a subconscious process that cannot be influenced voluntarily by the subject. And certainly the onset of salivation induced by the conditioning ringing of a bell reflects an automatic prediction. We can exaggerate this argument extending it to all types of reflexes including the eyelid reflex and the muscle tendon reflexes: the neuronal machinery operates with the goal to protect the integrity of the organism against predicted harm or to prepare it optimally for an upcoming action. If we accept this, we may want to argue that even the basic neural circuits are equipped with a machinery that internalizes sensory experience to code for appropriate behaviour for integrity and survival of the organism. Higher cognitive and emotional functions that constitute believing are more complex working in parallel cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical circuits in the human brain. These complex brain systems are suited to afford the integrity and survival of the individual human and of groups of humans including societies as we now state on page 21. We agree that beliefs are based on intuitive pre-evidential and probabilistic judgments. We now state on page 20 that rituals are likely to bias humans to accept narratives as beliefs held in social groups as well as in secular and religious faith groups. Decision making is a brain function following and engaging judgments and predictions. In other words, decision making is down the road with respect to believing. We absolutely agree that different types of information processed in parallel and highly interconnected brain circuits come into play. The point we would like to make, however, is that the interface for such complex self-oriented computations seems to be the medial prefrontal cortex that comprises multiple functional units as evident from Figure 2 and outlined in greater detail elsewhere (Seitz et al. 2006, van Overwalle 2009). We now emphasize this issue on page 16 and refer to it later in the manuscript again (page 21). We are grateful about the clarification concerning the notion of implicit religiosity and modified this phrase accordingly (page 23). In our empirical model we use the novel sensory stimulus as starting point of the believing process and the establishment of a probabilistic representation as the endpoint of the believing process. This has now been stated clearly on page 11. However, as write on page 21 new experiences constantly entertain an update of such a representation reflecting the potentially fluid nature of beliefs. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Halligan PW and Connors MH. Reviewer Report For: Processes of believing: Where do they come from? What are they good for? [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2573 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10535.r17817 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2573/v1#referee-response-17817 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 21 Nov 2016 Peter W. Halligan , Learned Society of Wales (LSW) , Cardiff, UK Michael H. Connors , Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10535.r17817 In this paper, the authors discuss the notion of belief and its explanatory role across a wide range of academic disciplines. These include, for example, psychology, religion, philosophy, anthropology, and cognitive neuroscience. The authors aim to demonstrate that believing is ... Continue reading READ ALL 