In this review article James P. B. Lloyd summarizes the evolution of NMD in various eukaryotic organisms. He describes the process of NMD in general as well as the detection of NMD substrates by the NMD machinery and discusses the functions of several NMD factors. As a novelty, he introduces a new classification of NMD pathways based on the presence of NMD factors in different organisms. In my view, this is a well-written review that takes a refreshing new look at evolutionary aspects of NMD. However, one should keep in mind that the absence of a certain NMD pathway does not necessarily mean that it really does not exist in a particular organism. A good example for this is NMD in Drosophila, which was thought to be EJC-independent based on initial publications. However, there is now evidence that certain NMD substrates in Drosophila are degraded in an EJC-dependent manner. It is therefore possible that the classification of NMD pathways will change with future publications. Additional comments: Page 4, last paragraph on the right side: The author probably does not mean ETS1, but EST1 (Reichenbach et al. , 2003 1 ). Furthermore, a second SMG6 homologue in yeast may be NMD4, which has been originally identified in a yeast-2-hybrid screen (He and Jacobson, 1995 2 ) and was recently described by Dehecq et al. (Dehecq et al. , 2018 3 ) to be associated with UPF1. Page 4, last paragraph on the right side and page 5, first paragraph on the left side: Wang et al. (Wang et al. , 2006 4 ) and de Pinto et al. (de Pinto et al. , 2004 5 ) have reported that UPF1 and UPF2 are phosphoproteins in yeast. However, it is not clear which kinase is responsible for the phosphorylation of UPF1 and UPF2 and whether the phosphorylation plays a functional role during NMD in yeast. Page 5, penultimate paragraph on the right side: It is strongly debated whether PNRC2 is an NMD factor (Nicholson et al. , 2018 6 ). Therefore, PNRC2 is not a good example for a vertebrate-specific NMD factor. Page 6, last paragraph on the right side: the meaning of the sentence “These adaptations ensure that retention of these efficiently-spliced introns would not be repeatedly translation” is not clear to me. Page 7, question 2: It is known that SMG6 can interact with UPF1 also in a phosphorylation-independent manner (Nicholson et al. , 2014 7 and Chakrabarti et al. , 2014 8 ). This could explain how NMD substrates are degraded in the absence of SMG1 or when S/TQ dipeptides are depleted. 