There is a growing push in the computational sciences for adopting software practices that promote replicability and provide methodological transparency. In the field of microbiome research these practices should minimize the standard culprits of error-creep such as file proliferation, and incompatible formats; they should provide sound default choices for the core computational steps of sequence clustering and taxonomic assignment; and they should facilitate reproducible statistical analyses of the resulting data. By providing a step-by-step analysis of a microbiome dataset that can be completed entirely from within the R statistical computing environment, this workflow does an admirable job of bringing these best-practices to the world of microbiome science. The article takes a reader through the steps of processing raw sequence data and loading the data into R. It then demonstrates how to use basic exploratory data analysis to get a sense of the data and finally introduces the use of various statistical packages to search-for and validate patterns. The majority of the article focuses on the application of statistical concepts to microbiome data and this is where scientists would like to be spending their time. However, this allocation of ink-space is only possible because the recent release of the DADA2 package allows the authors (and subsequent users) to condense all the read-processing portion of the tutorial into a few short steps. DADA2 provides a new and arguably superior method for clustering raw amplicon reads and, by processing the reads and assigning taxonomy, it fills in the computational gap required to work completely within R. The benefits of this workflow are fairly self-evident in the amount of space in their workflow devoted to data processing versus exploration, however, there are other benefits as well, of which I will name two. First, by using packages hosted on CRAN or Bioconductor, the authors can leverage the Bioconductor build system and ensure a fully working environment, a non-trivial prerequisite in a field with myriad tools. Second, by providing an integrated set of tools there are few, if any, intermediate files required to analyze a dataset. In addition to reducing the cognitive burden of a newcomer, this generally reduces the footprint for errors. This article is an excellent introduction on how to process and analyze a 16S amplicon dataset. Because of the relative ease of working entirely within a single environment, and for the sound design principles used by the core R packages in this analysis, I predict this workflow will become a useful resource, if not a direct template, for many microbiome scientists learning to process their data.