 Summary of the report: The authors have conducted a timely and much needed research which was lacking even after about a decade of implementation of the NPCDCS. The use of mixed methods was required and quite rightly used for understanding such a complex process. The main issue with the current manuscript looks to be a confusion between two research questions: What is the number and proportion eligible for screening of DM and HTN and subsequently, among those eligible, how many were screened, diagnosed and managed for the disease under routine programmatic field conditions? What effect does improving the existing documentation system have on the above mentioned variable and can the new system make documentation and reporting better? The issue is, both are different research questions and trying to answer both of them in a single study will require better clarity in presentation and accepting the limitations of the study which will increase in number as a result of doing so. Nevertheless, since the issue is very important, with the incorporation of the suggested changes, the manuscript has the potential to be a very good one. Full report: Some specific issues are highlighted below: (A) Abstract How is it a cohort design? There is no clear exposure. If we take age, gender and residence as exposure and outcome as screened for which analysis has been done, all these variables were collected at the same time for each participant with respect to the participants time. The quantitative part of this study has a cross-sectional design and should be mentioned as cross-sectional. a) In results give denominator for 401. b) For the sentence - 'The documentation changes helped in identifying the eligible population' - this needs to be reworded to bring more clarity. c) Is willingness not a result of other factors such as recognition of relevance of screening rather being an independent enabler in itself? (B) Main manuscript: Under Study Population subheading - How was the sample size for qualitative study reached at? What was the sampling technique used? These need to be mentioned. Under subheading - Data variables, sources of data and data collection - While improving the system by developing better documentation systems has helped the researchers to get to the number screened, diagnosed and put on treatment, the qualitative part would not correctly reflect on the real field level functioning of the health centres under programmatic settings. For instance, some participants of in-depth interviews might liked to have mentioned the original documentation system (before improvement) as one of the main barriers. Since introducing the change in the recording system and seeing its outcome was not the objective, this should be mentioned as one of the limitations of the qualitative part. Under data collection subheading - Were interns posted also taken as HCWs and interviewed? Under Phase 2: Qualitative data collection subheading: a) Since the PI himself interviewed the health workers of health centres, which he supports administratively, there is a definite element of bias while the HCWs would have given their views. Also, during the initial improvement of the documentation systems, the same stakeholders would have participated. It is quite possible they got motivated during this phase which would have had an impact on their responses. Also, they understood the study objectives during this phase, which would have also had an impact on their responses. This should be highlighted as a limitation. b) It is not clear how many KIIs and FGDs were conducted initially. This should be mentioned. Under Statistical and data analysis subheading - Analysis should be as per cross-sectional study design and not cohort. In Figure 2 - some statements are incomplete/incorrect: a) Care at PHC OPD - Initial part of the statement is missing. b) Diagnosed as HTN-8/63 - I think this should be 'not diagnosed as HTN'. Under results section: Quantitative - Testing the association of socio-demographic characteristics with not being screened. Was this also a study objective? Qualitative: a) “We have trained all staff including attendants on Glucometer usage. Therefore, the screening is going on smoothly despite staff shortage.”(HCP, 55 years, male) - Was this training given before the study or after they came to know about the study as a result of initial documentation improvement discussions? Since this would influence the results. Clarity is needed on this. b) Strength of PBS - It needs to be explained how this links to the study objectives that are related to opportunistic screening and not PBS. c) Patient-related enablers - Awareness of screening - Only persons who underwent screening have been interviewed. Since quantitative analysis was done to understand the factors associated with those 'not screened', it was equally important to know their perspective in qualitative interviews. This should be mentioned as a limitation. d) Documentation and reporting challenges - It needs to be explained more as the HCPs have also found the new reporting system as an enabler, although it would have made the new documentation/reporting format a bit more lengthy. This discrepancy needs to be explained well in the discussion part. e) Patient related barriers - Waiting time and inconvenience barrier and the reluctance for FBS barrier is contradictory to patient related enablers which has listed greater readiness to undergo screening and awareness and satisfaction with services. This needs to be explained in discussion section. f) In the limitations section - Also, asking the patient if the patient has already got DM/HTN is subject to wrong recoding of information if it was only based on verbal information from patients. Unless documentary evidence was sought to confirm, this should also be mentioned as a limitation. 