This case report reviews an unusual and thought-provoking case of Group B Streptococcus meningitis in a young woman who had a recent history of both spontaneous abortion and newly diagnosed SLE. Of note, she received relatively low-dose immunosuppression prior to developing meningitis, and the authors indicate that SLE participants are typically not thought to be at higher risk for bacterial meningitis. This case report is highly relevant in that it illustrates the imperative to 1) exclude infection in the setting of altered mental status in SLE patients and 2) to investigate for potential sources of infection (recent pregnancy) in a patient with an invasive bacterial infection that is not typical of their age group. The authors imply in their Discussion that this case of GBS meningitis was more likely to be related to the patients recent history of spontaneous abortion and was less likely related to her recently diagnosed SLE. They cite a significant prevalence of endometritis (8%) in women who develop invasive GBS with pregnancy. Did the patient have evidence of endometritis on exam or imaging? Did she undergo pelvic imaging to assess for retained products of conception (or undisclosed foreign body) that could provide an ongoing source of infection? The most interesting aspect of this case is this patients significant SLE flare in the setting of GBS meningitis. The authors report that she had serologic evidence of SLE flare, hypocomplementemia, and a new diagnosis of class V lupus nephritis concomitant with her GBS diagnosis. This presents an interesting finding to expand upon in the Discussion. Although bacterial meningitis is unusual in the setting of SLE, is it possible that this young woman developed a severe flare prior to meningitis, and that the subsequent immune dysfunction predisposed her to invasive GBS? Or do the authors postulate that immune dysfunction in the setting of bacterial sepsis resulted in the SLE flare? What are the possible mechanisms that could underly a relationship between these two conditions? A brief discussion of the patients SLE flare would contribute significantly to this manuscript.