I found the paper to be clear and straightforward, easy to read and understand. I find the use of a NITRC-CE virtual machine as an execution environment in combination with Nipype an excellent mechanism for facilitating re-executability and documentation of a series of processing steps. Combined with the use of GitHub to keep track of the elements, I believe that this is a remarkably good and fairly easily implemented solution. This encapsulation is excellent for re-execution of an analysis or for applying exactly the same analysis to a novel set of data, however, as the authors state, it only begins to address reproducibility and generalizability across multiple execution environments. In this context, it is not clear to me what the processing environment was on the Mac OS comparison test, specifically what version of the OS and what version of the FSL tools were used in each case. Second, Ubuntu 12.04 is used within NITRC-CE v0.42, but the Mac OS comparison appears to be done against a machine running Ubuntu 16.04. I assume that 16.04 is a typo, but it should be corrected - and if it is not a typo, then a justification for a change in OS version should be given. In previous work by myself 1 and others 2 , we showed that differences in software version and compilation settings can lead to measurably different results. A statement expressing the software versions used and that the software was compiled using similar settings (e.g. same level of optimization, same architecture was used - x86 or x64, etc.) would be reassuring. I realize that this similarity in environment is implied by the mechanism used to install the software, but it should be stated explicitly. Overall, this is an excellent manuscript and implementation for sharing re-executable neuroimaging results. The methods and reporting can readily be repeated and replicated, supporting the main thrust of the paper. References 1. Mackenzie-Graham AJ, Van Horn JD, Woods RP, Crawford KL, et al.: Provenance in neuroimaging. Neuroimage . 2008; 42 (1): 178-95 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Gronenschild EH, Habets P, Jacobs HI, Mengelers R, et al.: The effects of FreeSurfer version, workstation type, and Macintosh operating system version on anatomical volume and cortical thickness measurements. PLoS One . 2012; 7 (6): e38234 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT MacKenzie-Graham AJ. Reviewer Report For: A very simple, re-executable neuroimaging publication [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :124 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11627.r20114 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-124/v1#referee-response-20114 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 15 Jun 2017 David Kennedy , University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, USA 15 Jun 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and helpful comments. We have revised the manuscript and design of this manuscript to meet many of the concerns raised, and we ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and helpful comments. We have revised the manuscript and design of this manuscript to meet many of the concerns raised, and we believe that this has resulted in an improved presentation. We have also reworked the repository and the way the experiment can be reproduced and extended. Reviewer Comment: In this context, it is not clear to me what the processing environment was on the Mac OS comparison test, specifically what version of the OS and what version of the FSL tools were used in each case. Response: In the various ‘comparison runs’ that we present, we now take more care in providing complete descriptions of the OS and software versions that are being used. Reviewer Comment: Second, Ubuntu 12.04 is used within NITRC-CE v0.42, but the Mac OS comparison appears to be done against a machine running Ubuntu 16.04. I assume that 16.04 is a typo, but it should be corrected - and if it is not a typo, then a justification for a change in OS version should be given. In previous work by myself 1 and others 2 , we showed that differences in software version and compilation settings can lead to measurably different results. A statement expressing the software versions used and that the software was compiled using similar settings (e.g. same level of optimization, same architecture was used - x86 or x64, etc.) would be reassuring. I realize that this similarity in environment is implied by the mechanism used to install the software, but it should be stated explicitly. Response: As above, there is clearly some ambiguity as to how we presented the ‘comparison runs’ in the original manuscript that we try to clarify in this version. In the original, the NITRC-CE AWS Ubuntu 12.04 FSL 5.0.9 run was the ‘reference’ and we compared to runs of this workflow (using FSL 5.0.9 in all cases) on local MAC OS 10.10.4, and Ubuntu 16.04 platforms. In the current version, we add a Docker version of the of the workflow (FSL 5.0.9, Debian jessie (8.7)), and enhance the description of the comparison runs. Finally, thanks for the additional references which we now also include. We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and helpful comments. We have revised the manuscript and design of this manuscript to meet many of the concerns raised, and we believe that this has resulted in an improved presentation. We have also reworked the repository and the way the experiment can be reproduced and extended. Reviewer Comment: In this context, it is not clear to me what the processing environment was on the Mac OS comparison test, specifically what version of the OS and what version of the FSL tools were used in each case. Response: In the various ‘comparison runs’ that we present, we now take more care in providing complete descriptions of the OS and software versions that are being used. Reviewer Comment: Second, Ubuntu 12.04 is used within NITRC-CE v0.42, but the Mac OS comparison appears to be done against a machine running Ubuntu 16.04. I assume that 16.04 is a typo, but it should be corrected - and if it is not a typo, then a justification for a change in OS version should be given. In previous work by myself 1 and others 2 , we showed that differences in software version and compilation settings can lead to measurably different results. A statement expressing the software versions used and that the software was compiled using similar settings (e.g. same level of optimization, same architecture was used - x86 or x64, etc.) would be reassuring. I realize that this similarity in environment is implied by the mechanism used to install the software, but it should be stated explicitly. Response: As above, there is clearly some ambiguity as to how we presented the ‘comparison runs’ in the original manuscript that we try to clarify in this version. In the original, the NITRC-CE AWS Ubuntu 12.04 FSL 5.0.9 run was the ‘reference’ and we compared to runs of this workflow (using FSL 5.0.9 in all cases) on local MAC OS 10.10.4, and Ubuntu 16.04 platforms. In the current version, we add a Docker version of the of the workflow (FSL 5.0.9, Debian jessie (8.7)), and enhance the description of the comparison runs. Finally, thanks for the additional references which we now also include. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 15 Jun 2017 David Kennedy , University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, USA 15 Jun 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and helpful comments. We have revised the manuscript and design of this manuscript to meet many of the concerns raised, and we ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and helpful comments. We have revised the manuscript and design of this manuscript to meet many of the concerns raised, and we believe that this has resulted in an improved presentation. We have also reworked the repository and the way the experiment can be reproduced and extended. Reviewer Comment: In this context, it is not clear to me what the processing environment was on the Mac OS comparison test, specifically what version of the OS and what version of the FSL tools were used in each case. Response: In the various ‘comparison runs’ that we present, we now take more care in providing complete descriptions of the OS and software versions that are being used. Reviewer Comment: Second, Ubuntu 12.04 is used within NITRC-CE v0.42, but the Mac OS comparison appears to be done against a machine running Ubuntu 16.04. I assume that 16.04 is a typo, but it should be corrected - and if it is not a typo, then a justification for a change in OS version should be given. In previous work by myself 1 and others 2 , we showed that differences in software version and compilation settings can lead to measurably different results. A statement expressing the software versions used and that the software was compiled using similar settings (e.g. same level of optimization, same architecture was used - x86 or x64, etc.) would be reassuring. I realize that this similarity in environment is implied by the mechanism used to install the software, but it should be stated explicitly. Response: As above, there is clearly some ambiguity as to how we presented the ‘comparison runs’ in the original manuscript that we try to clarify in this version. In the original, the NITRC-CE AWS Ubuntu 12.04 FSL 5.0.9 run was the ‘reference’ and we compared to runs of this workflow (using FSL 5.0.9 in all cases) on local MAC OS 10.10.4, and Ubuntu 16.04 platforms. In the current version, we add a Docker version of the of the workflow (FSL 5.0.9, Debian jessie (8.7)), and enhance the description of the comparison runs. Finally, thanks for the additional references which we now also include. We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and helpful comments. We have revised the manuscript and design of this manuscript to meet many of the concerns raised, and we believe that this has resulted in an improved presentation. We have also reworked the repository and the way the experiment can be reproduced and extended. Reviewer Comment: In this context, it is not clear to me what the processing environment was on the Mac OS comparison test, specifically what version of the OS and what version of the FSL tools were used in each case. Response: In the various ‘comparison runs’ that we present, we now take more care in providing complete descriptions of the OS and software versions that are being used. Reviewer Comment: Second, Ubuntu 12.04 is used within NITRC-CE v0.42, but the Mac OS comparison appears to be done against a machine running Ubuntu 16.04. I assume that 16.04 is a typo, but it should be corrected - and if it is not a typo, then a justification for a change in OS version should be given. In previous work by myself 1 and others 2 , we showed that differences in software version and compilation settings can lead to measurably different results. A statement expressing the software versions used and that the software was compiled using similar settings (e.g. same level of optimization, same architecture was used - x86 or x64, etc.) would be reassuring. I realize that this similarity in environment is implied by the mechanism used to install the software, but it should be stated explicitly. Response: As above, there is clearly some ambiguity as to how we presented the ‘comparison runs’ in the original manuscript that we try to clarify in this version. In the original, the NITRC-CE AWS Ubuntu 12.04 FSL 5.0.9 run was the ‘reference’ and we compared to runs of this workflow (using FSL 5.0.9 in all cases) on local MAC OS 10.10.4, and Ubuntu 16.04 platforms. In the current version, we add a Docker version of the of the workflow (FSL 5.0.9, Debian jessie (8.7)), and enhance the description of the comparison runs. Finally, thanks for the additional references which we now also include. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Hinsen K. Reviewer Report For: A very simple, re-executable neuroimaging publication [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :124 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11627.r20292 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-124/v1#referee-response-20292 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 21 Feb 2017 Konrad Hinsen , Centre de Biophysique Moléculaire (UPR4301 CNRS), Rue Charles Sadron, Orléans, France; Division Expériences, Synchrotron SOLEIL, Saint Aubin, France Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11627.r20292 This article aims to demonstrate how a neuroimaging study can be published in such a way that readers can re-execute the complete workflow with (relative) ease. Although the concrete study used as an example is probably of little scientific interest, ... Continue reading READ ALL 