Chamberlain and Szcs present the taxize R package, a set of functions that provides interfaces to several web tools and databases, and simplifies the process of checking, updating, correcting and manipulating taxon names for researchers working with ecological/biological data. A key feature that is repeated throughout is the need for reproducibility of science workflows and taxize provides a means to achieve this within the R software ecosystem for taxonomic search. The manuscript is well-written and nicely presented, with a good balance of descriptive text and discourse and practical illustration of package usage. A number of examples illustrate the scope of the package, something that is fully expanded upon in the two appendices, which are a welcome addition to the paper. As to the package, I am not overly fond of long function names; the authors should consider dropping the data source abbreviations from the function names in a future update/revision of the package. Likewise there is some inconsistency in the naming conventions used. For example there is the 'tpl_search()' function to search The Plant List, but the equivalent function to search uBio is 'ubio_namebank()'. Whilst this may reflect specific aspects of terminology in use at the respective data stores, it does not help the user gain familiarity with the package by having them remember inconsistent function names. One advantage of taxize is that it draws together a rich selection of data stores to query. A further suggestion for a future update would be to add generic function names, that apply to a database connection/information object. The latter would describe the resource the user wants to search and any other required information, such as the API key, etc., for example: foo - taxizeDB(what = "uBio", key = "1646546164694") The user function to search would then be 'search(foo, "Abies")'. Similar generically named functions would provide the primary user-interface, thus promoting a more consistent toolbox at the R level. This will become increasingly relevant as the scope of taxize increases through the addition of new data stores that the package can access. In terms of presentation in the paper, I really don't like the way the R code inputs merge with the R outputs. I know the author of Knitr doesn't like the demarcation of output being polluted by the R prompt, but I do find it difficult parsing the inputs/outputs you show because often there is no space between them and users not familiar with R will have greater difficulties than I. Consider adding in more conventional indications of R outputs, or physically separate input from output by breaking up the chunks of code to have whitespace between the grey-background chunks. Related, in one location I noticed something amiss with the layout; in the first code block at the top of page 5, the printed output looks wrong here. I would expect the attributes to print on their own line and the data in the attribute to also be on its own separate line. Note also, the inconsistency in the naming of the output object columns. For example, in the two code chunks shown in column 1 of page 4, the first block has an object printed with column names 'matched_name' and 'data_source_title', whilst camelCase is used in the outputs shown in the second block. As the package is revised and developed, consider this and other aspects of providing a consistent presentation to the user. I was a little confused about the example in the section Resolve Taxonomic Names on page 4. Should the taxon name be " Helianthus annuus " or " Helianthus annus "? In the 'mynames' definition you include ' Helianthus annuus ' in the character vector but the output shown suggests that the submitted name was ' Helianthus annus ' (1 "u") in rows with rownames 9 and 10 in the output shown. Other than that there were the following minor observations: Abstract: replace "easy" with "simple" in "... fashion that's easy ...", and move the details about availability and the URI to the end of the sentence. Page 2, Column 1, Paragraph 2: You have " I n addition, there is no one authoritative taxonomic names source ...", which is a little clumsy to read. How about " In addition, there is no one authoritative source of taxonomic names ..."? Pg 2, C1, P2-3: The abbreviated data sources are presented first (in paragraph 2) and subsequently defined (in para 3). Restructure this so that the abbreviated forms are explained upon first usage. Pg 2, C2, P2: Most R packages are "in development" so I would drop the qualifier and reword the opening sentence of the paragraph. Pg 2, C2, P6: Change " and more can easily be added " to " and more can be easily added " seems to flow better? Pg 5, paragraph above Figure 1: You refer to converting the object to an **ape** *phylo* object and then repeat essentially the same information in the next sentence. Remove the repetition. Pg 6, C1: The header may be better as " Which taxa are children of the taxon of interest ". Pg 6: In the section "IUCN status", the term "we" is used to refer to both the authors and the user. This is confusing. Reserve "we" for reference to the authors and use something else ("a user" perhaps) for the other instances. Check this throughout the entire manuscript. Pg 6, C2: in the paragraph immediately below the 'grep()' for "RAG1", two consecutive sentences begin with "However". Pg 7: The first sentence of "Aggregating data...." reads " In biology, one can asks questions ...". It should be " one ask s" or " one can ask ". Pg 7, Conclusions: The first sentence reads " information is increasingly sought out by biologists ". I would drop "out" as "sought" is sufficient on its own. Appendices: Should the two figures in the Appendices have a different reference to differentiate them from Figure 1 in the main body of the paper? As it stands, the paper has two Figure 1s, one on page 5 and a second on page 12 in the Appendix. On Appendix Figure 2: The individual points are a little large. Consider reducing the plotting character size. I appreciate the effect you were going for with the transparency indicating density of observation through overplotting, but the effect is weakened by the size of the individual points. Should the phylogenetic trees have some scale to them? I presume the height of the stems is an indication of phylogenetic distance but the figure is hard to calibrate without an associated scale. A quick look at Paradis (2012) Analysis of Phylogenetics and Evolution with R would suggest however that a scale is not consistently applied to these trees. I am happy to be guided by the authors as they will be more familiar with the conventions than I. 