In this single center randomized controlled trial (RCT), Susheela and coworkers investigate the use of dexmedetomidine and intravenous acetaminophen for the prevention of postoperative delirium in elderly patients undergoing cardiac surgery. This pilot study primarily aimed to assess the feasibility of a larger RCT with identical interventions. As a pilot project, the study is methodically sound. Overall, the manuscript is well-written and pleasant to read. The authors applied CONSORT criteria which is a definite plus. Postoperative delirium has specific features that may be related to surgery (and anesthesia) and has a probable neuroinflammatory component. I therefore do not agree with your statement that 30-40% of delirium cases could be prevented, at least not in your sample of patients undergoing cardiac surgery. So far, multicomponent interventions to prevent delirium have only been proven efficacious in a general population of elderly hospitalized patients. 1 Please also discuss the opioid-sparing effects of intraoperative dexmedetomidine. Next to the missing interaction with GABA receptors, this might be an additional mechanism for delirium prevention when using dexmedetomidine. Please discuss the reasons to exclude patients with preexisting cognitive impairment from your study. Preoperative cognitive impairment was found to be one of the most important risk factors for postoperative delirium (odds ratio ranged from 6.3 (95% CI 2.9 to 13.7) up to 11.5 (95% CI 6.1 to 20.1)). 2 By excluding these patients (also in the follow-up RCT), you likely decrease the number of patients affected by the primary outcome measure (postoperative delirium) in your study. It would be interesting to investigate the effects of dexmedetomidine and intravenous acetaminophen in these high-risk patients. I find it difficult to blind the intravenous administration of propofol and dexmedetomidine. At best, you may try to conceal the study drug from patient, surgeon, ICU caregivers, and investigators by using opaque syringes and lines. Was study drug administration really double-blind? Was there any kind of standardization in anesthesiologic management? If yes, state drugs and dosage. At what frequency did you assess patients for postoperative delirium in the ICU/on the ward? Who assessed the patients? I wish the investigators of this pilot project the best of luck with the larger ongoing trial! References Inouye SK, Bogardus ST Jr, Charpentier PA, et al. A multicomponent intervention to prevent delirium in hospitalized older patients. N Engl J Med 1999; 340: 669–76. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. NCGC National Clinical Guideline Centre. Delirium: diagnosis, prevention and management. http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg103/evidence/full-guideline-134653069. 