The authors present a well-written manuscript on a novel approach for exploring novel autoantibody (AAB) biomarkers in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD). They used an unsupervised mass spectrometry method to identify brain antigens that were bound to AABs in the CSF of these patients but not in headache patients as controls. Thereby they identified several novel candidate markers particularly in AD patients that were present in at least half of AD patients but not or almost not in controls. In PD patients, no relevant marker was identified using these criteria. Generally, this is an interesting approach as it overcomes the targeted hypothesis-based search by immunological methods and leads to the detection of until now unknown markers. For some of these new markers, a link to disease pathophysiology was proposed. However, the authors also emphasize that this is only the first step of novel marker detection strategy and recognize the limitations of their study, e.g. the low patient number, the presence of confounding factors and the need of validation in a larger cohort by orthogonal methods. Finally basic science is required to establish a link of all novel markers with disease pathogenesis and progression. In addition, there may be some more general aspects that should be addressed in the discussion section, e.g. the limited sensitivity of the method for less frequent antigens, the importance of appropriate preparation of the brain tissue templates (were dopaminergic structures of the striatum included?) and the variable antibody specificity for interindividually different antigens on brain structures. Furthermore, the heterogeneity of these diseases and the different stages included in the cohort should be discussed. Most importantly, it may be relevant that also other types of dementia (e.g. cerebrovascular) and neuroinflammatory diseases are included as further control groups. Regarding the present study it could be discussed whether markers that are present in AD but not in PD (and vice versa) are more relevant as they may be more disease specific. This means that also the other diseased patients could serve as control group. Finally, if then an AAB is present in less than 50% e.g. of PD patients but in none of all other control cohorts, this may be a valuable disease-specific marker although it is not as frequent in the specified disease as other ones. 