This article aims to highlight the importance of the Indian pharmaceutical industry for the global pharmaceutical supply chain and the important role it will play in developing therapeutic goods for COVID-19. I offer the following suggestions for further refinement of the paper. Comment 1 : The authors state that India supplies 20% of the worlds global supply of generics. They then state that India provides 40% of supply in the US and 25% in Europe, 70% in sub-Sahara Africa, and 20% in Africa. From these figures it would appear that India provides more than 20% of the global supply. Could these figures be reconciled? Comment 2 : While the emphasis in this article is about the critical role the Indian pharma industry plays in the global supply of medicines, one key lesson from the COVID-19 crisis is that there is a strong need to diversify supply chains, rather than falling back into pre-existing "critical" dependencies. This applies both to supply of APIs and manufacturing. Comment 3 : The authors mention 26 bulk drugs account for 10% of all Indian exports. However it is actually 10% of all pharmaceutical exports. Comment 4: It makes more sense to say Indian pharmaceutical companies "manufacture" or "export" 67% of WHO prequalified products, rather than "represent 67%" of these products. Comment 5 : In the last paragraph the authors state "Governments and international organizations who depend on India for their supplies should look beyond their individual demands and support the Indian pharmaceutical supply chain". I am not sure what demands are being referred to - could the authors elaborate? Comment 6 : I am not sure whether the fact that India accounts for 20% of the current global supply of generics translates into their engagement being "critical for the rest of the world['s]" future response to COVID-19 as the authors conclude. Other countries clearly have capacity to produce generics (and are currently producing 80% worth), so how the race to fulfil demand plays out is yet to be seen. Comment 7 : Given the clear reliance by what the authors call "institutional markets" on the Indian industry, perhaps the focus of the paper should be on these markets? This would be more convincing to me. For instance, in the conclusion the authors could note that since a majority of donor procured medicines used to treat HIV, tuberculosis, malaria and other tropical diseases in LMICs countries are supplied by India, it makes sense that India will play a critical role in supporting any COVID-19 response in these countries. 