 13/11/2018: This referee report has been updated from a Not Approved to an Approved with Reservations, and an additional sentence added, to reflect additional feedback from the referees after their report was published. Germanguz et al. investigate the role of TDG in the differentiation and proliferation of human neural progenitor cells using RNA interference, RT-PCR, bisulfite sequencing, and cell cycle profiling with the FUCCI system. They show that TDG knockdown, using siRNA and assessed by immunofluorescence and supported by increased levels of 5caC and 5fC but not 5hmC, correlates with an overall decrease in proportion of differentiated cells (both neurons and glia) following induction, in contrast to the authors’ expectation of increased developmental maturity following TDG knockdown. RT-PCR data show expression of neural progenitor cell markers to be unaffected by TDG knockdown. The authors then investigate cell cycle changes using FACS following TDG knockdown and report an increased fraction of G2/M cells. The FUCCI cell cycle reporter system was used to show that TDG levels are decreased outside of G1. Methylation-assisted bisulfite sequencing (MAB-seq) was used to show evidence of changes in methylation intermediate modification levels in a putative promoter region of EGR1 . The authors conclude that the reduction of TDG expression induces cell cycle specific changes that result in increased proliferation and reduced differentiation of neural progenitor cells. Overall the study uses a strong combination of experimental methods to show interesting findings but is likely a few experiments short of adding to the growing narrative involving TDG, demethylation, and cellular differentiation. One point the authors do not account for is the potential for reprogramming of neural progenitor cells to different, undifferentiated progenitors. DNMT3B knockdown has been shown to cause an increase in neural crest cell markers, hypomethylation at the Sox 10 promoter region, and ultimately prolonged neural crest emigration 1 . Therefore it seems important to confirm that the neural progenitor cells that failed to fully differentiate remained in the neural cell lineage instead of reprogramming to neural crest precursors – if reprogramming did occur this would be a significant finding. The cell cycle data are not clear; there seems to be a discrepancy between the marked effect of TDG knockdown as assessed by Ki67 staining (Fig. 5A), which suggests an increased fraction of proliferating cells, and the rather subtle effect as assessed by FACS (Fig. 5B). In particular, the authors should show the percent of cells in G1, S and G2M by FACS in control and TDG knockdown. Also, the authors should clarify why the overall DNA content appears to be reduced in TDG knockdown cells. The reported increased fraction of G2/M cells following TDG knockdown using FACS merits further investigation. The use of propidium iodide prevents noting a distinction between increased proliferation (increased mitotic cells) or if the cells are simply arrested in G2. This can be resolved by using DAPI with a mitotic marker such as phospho-histone H3. Additionally, the authors do not investigate the effects of TDG knockdown using the FUCCI reporter system. This seems to be a technically feasible experiment that would serve as an important point in the study’s overall narrative linking TDG effects to the cell cycle. The use of EGR1 as an example of methylation impacting gene expression is a point of concern. Selection of EGR1 as a gene of interest appears to be based on a single reference demonstrating methylation dependent expression in a rat model. Selection of a gene with a more established methylation dependent promotor region, such as Pax 6 , to compare with the expression profile would be a better indicator of whether TDG knockdown affects differentiation 2 . We would argue that the authors should show changes in methylation intermediate levels by TDG knockdown, using MAB-seq, in more than a single gene. A minimum of three genes would seem to be appropriate to convincingly show an effect of TDG on gene expression via changes in methylation intermediates. The following points would be helpful to be addressed: The reduction of 5hmC levels in early S phase, as demonstrated in figure 6B is mentioned as previously reported but without citation in the main text. In Figure 6B, 5hmC levels are shown to reduce in early S relative to G1, consistent with the coinciding increase in 5fC and 5caC levels. However, while 5fC and 5caC levels remain elevated in S, G2, and M compared to G1, 5hmC levels return to G1 levels and statistically higher levels than early S phase. This is a paradoxical finding and should be addressed. In the methodology described for MAB-seq, the use of phenol/chloroform extraction is noted. This method has an established risk of sensitizing DNA to oxidation and should be addressed 3 , and therefore artifactually increase the levels of the oxidized cytosine species 5fC and 5caC. It is recommended that alternative methods of extracting DNA are used after each M.SssI treatment, such as Agencourt AMPure XP Beads 4 . Minor points: Normalized is mispelled in the figure legends. Several references are missing in the Introduction and throughout the paper, such as: Cortellino et al. (2011) on TDG knockout and embryonic lethality. Hardeland et al (2007), Slenn et al. (2014) and Shibata et al. (2014), on the decrease of TDG levels in S-phase. In the Introduction, what are the references for the sentence: “Loss of methylation in specific locations…”? In Fig. 2E what are the p-values for the differentiation? In particular, is the difference in GFAP-positive cells between control and TDG-KD significant? In the MAB-seq results, can the authors clarify the sentence: “This locus was chosen as it was reported (which reference?) to have the highest distribution of 5fC, 5caC around the TSS”? For the MAB-seq analysis in Fig. 4, it would be useful to have a schematic map showing the relationship of the CpG island to the TSS. In the paragraph on the FUCCI results, “DNA glycosylation activity of TDG ” should be changed to “DNA glycosylase activity of TDG”. In the paragraph on the FUCCI results, it is not clear whether the FUCCI system was employed in hESC or hPSC cells. In the paragraph on the FUCCI results, the last sentence: “Furthermore, all these data…” is not clear and should be rewritten. The Discussion in the present form is a bit unclear, and should be rewritten, e.g. the last sentence is particularly imprecise. Also, references should be added to the Discussion. In Fig. 4C, change “5C” to “C”. 