Hu et al have compiled a useful set of matched pair datasets based on the CHEMBL database of biological activity. They describe in a straightforward manner the derivation of the datasets and basic concepts relevant for matched pairs. The following suggested modifications to the data provided would enhance their usefulness and completeness: As a result of switching the method for generating MMPs from cleavage of single bonds to a RECAP-based method, the pool of MMPs now includes substitutions of internal fragments (e.g. in Figure 3c) as well as substitution of a terminal R-group (as in Figure 3 examples a, b, and d). Although both types of MMPs involve replacement of a single structural fragment, it may be desirable for many applications to distinguish between core scaffold replacement and R-group variation. It would therefore be helpful to annotate the datasets to easily separate these two classes of MMPs. Since the authors filter out IC50s/Kis of indeterminate values, it is unclear how compounds that were clearly inactive were processed. Were compounds with IC50s/Kis that could not be quantified due to a flat dose response curve included in the datasets? The authors present a filtered dataset where a number of factors have contributed to rejection of potential MMPs, namely: the difference in size of the exchanged fragments was limited to 8 heavy atoms; the ratio of the common core fragment to the size of each exchanged fragment had to be and the exchanged fragment could have maximum 13 heavy atoms. While these are reasonable filters to obtain MMPs that truly represent small structural changes, the cutoffs selected are arbitrary and for some targets may exclude MMPs that another user might consider relevant. Rather than providing the final filtered dataset, it would be helpful if the authors would provide the full original datasets with the values of the features used for filtering annotated as extra columns. This would allow maximal flexibility in designing custom MMP sets. In the files that list the RECAP MMPs, key fields are missing that would require the user to retrieve the relevant data from CHEMBL in order to perform any analysis: (a) the Target name (only the target CHEMBL ID is provided); and (b) more importantly, the compound activities are not included. In the files that list the transfer series, for each matched pair the authors provide the two series cores and full compound smiles, but not the substituted fragments. 