This paper is describing the culture of ARPE-19 cells on fibronectin-coated membranes. Cultures of ARPE-19 cells have been used for some time as models of retinal pigment epithelium. Other cell types are used: human fetal RPE cells, pig or mouse primary RPE cells and latterly human induced pluripotent stem cells and embryonic stem cells. The method described overall is not novel, but it is very well documented in considerable detail in this paper. The use of ARPE-19 cells has some merits in terms of reproducibility. Whilst differentiated iPS cells from patients is a means of investigating diseases processes in vitro, this is time consuming and technically challenging. On the other hand ARPE-19 cells have been edited by CRISPR and could be used to the same ends possibly more easily. Further engineering of ARPE-19 cells could introduce, for example, reporters for live imaging. The methodology is clear and the protocols are detailed. The results as presented are clear. Once downloaded and unzipped, the source data are clear In the Abstract the authors say that they are describing a model of the outer retina incorporating the RPE and the supportive Bruch's membrane. I think it is debatable whether this is a good model of Bruch's membrane; there isn't a full barrier established, for example. In their characterisation they compare their data to previously published data from other systems; this isn't ideal as there could be protocol and lab differences. It would also be worth noting in the Discussion that previous work (Ablonczy et al 2011, their ref 22) has compared ARPE-19 cells to human fetal RPE cells grown on permeable filters and concluded that hfRPE cells were a better model. They concluded that ARPE-19 cells resembled a pathological RPE. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? I cannot comment. A qualified statistician is required. Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 