The authors of the article “Intensive nutritional counseling obviates a weight gain in kidney transplant recipients with long-term graft survival in Estonia” focused their attention on important and hardly manageable complication after kidney transplantation - weight gain. The authors themselves admit that they publish a part of the study in this open access resource, therefore it's possible the aim and methods of study are not completely clear: when exactly did the dietician analyze and give his recommendations to the patients? Did he do it just twice- 18 and 36 months post-transplant? And do the authors believe that it affected patients’ weight 8, 5 and 7 years later? For how long has the follow up lasted - 10 years with half-way assessment 3 years post-transplant? Then why do they have the results of energy and nutrient content just 1,5 and 3 year post-transplant and don’t have 10 years post-transplant (table 2), but body weight data are reviewed 1,5 and 10 years post-transplant but not 3 years post-transplant? What about study cohort? There is stated in the methods that 75 patients were included, but in abstract they report only 56 patients? What happened to 19 patients? Have they gained / lost weight? The authors assessed absolute weight gain (measured in kg), but there is no information about body mass index (except table 2), body composition, lean body mass and/or fat mass. It could be possible that some of patients had malnutrition after dialysis and then they acquired normal body weight. May be all patients had normal body weight (normal nutrition status) and all of them got obese (range of weight at the first assessment was from 57.1! kg till 134.1! kg)? By merging both tables it is possible to follow that men in counseled group had mean weight 75.1 – 83.3 – 75.77 kg at anthropometrical measurement time points but women had mean weight 74.4-76.6-78.59 kg at the same time points. Authors could discuss what was a trigger for weight loss in cohort of men. There is no information about results of energy and nutrient content in standard dietary guidance group. Therefore in my opinion it is not fair to compare groups. Conclusions could not be made about graft failure, cardiovascular complications and mortality because this information wasn’t stated in the article. The article could be approved with reservations.