I, Robert Davey, promise: i) to not hide behind a screen of anonymity ii) to be open and honest with you (the authors) at all times iii) to be constructive in my criticism iv) within the rules given to me by the journal, to assist you in every way I ethically can to get your manuscript published, by providing criticism and praise that is valid and relevant --- The manuscript describes JSAV, a web-browser based multiple sequence alignment viewer that provides similar but expanded features to previous work in this domain. The tools API and documentation is relatively clear and simple, and the source code is freely available. It also uses standard libraries such as jQuery to provide a consistent experience across browsers, which is a good sign for compatibility and user experience. The authors have given a coherent summary of previous tools, including quite old and standalone solutions for completeness. The authors even go as far as to note potential confusion in similarly named tools ("Note that SnipViz should not be confused with SNPViz.") which is a welcome attention to detail. The compatibility argument is sound, but did the authors attempt to develop an HTML5 version of JSAV? What would be the benefits over pure Javascript? In a similar vein, JSAV seems to be responsive and functional with a relatively small number of sequences, and therefore could well be a very useful component for online MSA browsing, but the authors do not mention cases whereby far more complex MSA processing may hit the limits of what JSAV can provide. Tools such as JalView are able to harness "heavy lifting" aspects of the Java language. Where do JSAVs abilities end and a desktop tools features begin? How might JSAV approach these issues? Specific comments: Some sentences are a little long and unwieldy, and could benefit from some reworking, e.g. "New HTML features such as the HTML5 Canvas, and powerful JavaScript libraries such as Bootstrap, JQuery and JQuery-UI that provide an easier syntax for accessing elements of a web page together with new widgets such as sliders and drag-and-drop support, have overtaken Java as the method of choice for creating interactive web sites with complex requirements." The sentence "have started to be developed" is clumsy. Consider "are being developed", or "have been developed". The tools in question have been released. The list of display options ("Options that control the display include") produces an overly long paragraph of text. Consider changing this to an indented numbered/bullet list or a table for ease of consumption. "Bioinformatics" mid-sentence should not be capitalised. "The recent move away from Java in favor of JavaScript" - this sentence should be qualified with a context. Java is very much still used for web application backends, but as the authors previously state, Javascript has become the most popular language recently for client-side rendering and processing. 