In the abstract, the authors should change ‘reduce hearing problems’ to ‘reduce the impact of hearing problems’ The authors did not address these issues highlighted in my first review: Justification should be offered for each of the inclusion criteria listed. Justification should be offered for the limited age range of eligible participants (60-75 years old). Please state your criteria for pass/fail on the MMSE. The adaptive paradigm for the training task is not clear from the following text ‘In the designed program, the difficulty of training increases from level 1 to level 36, and the user’s task becomes more difficult requiring more precision’. Is it an adaptive staircase, with what step size across which parameter(s)? The authors failed to address any of the following issues highlighted in my first review: Similarly, will the training log user input and performance in real-time? On the local PC? How/will these data be accessed and used by the research team? Or is on-task training performance not gathered/assessed? If participants are removed from the study, how will this be dealt with (i.e. will they be replaced?) Do the authors intend to conduct per-protocol or intention-to-treat analyses? The data analysis section is limited and would benefit from the consideration of multivariate techniques aligned to this type of research (multiple outcome assessments over time). The authors should state the outcome data on which the power calculation is based, particularly given that the proposed group size is very small in comparison to other computer-based auditory training intervention studies (see e.g. Henshaw Ferguson, 2013 for a review) 1 . Notably, the sample size in Gil (which the authors use as the basis for their calculation) was 'doubled' by including participant data for right and left ears independently (not recommended). I would therefore strongly urge the authors to revisit their power calculation based on pilot data and/or a high quality published study using aligned outcome measures in a similar population. Although all points warrant action, the final point is a very important issue to address. I do not recommend publication of this manuscript in its current form. References 1. Henshaw H, Ferguson MA: Efficacy of individual computer-based auditory training for people with hearing loss: a systematic review of the evidence. PLoS One . 2013; 8 (5): e62836 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Adult aural rehabilitation, auditory training, cognitive training, health behaviour change, cognition, coproduction I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Henshaw H. Reviewer Report For: The effects of a temporal processing-based auditory training program on the auditory skills of elderly users of hearing aids: a study protocol for a randomized clinical trial [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2020, 9 :425 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.27424.r66480 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-425/v2#referee-response-66480 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 22 May 2020 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Henshaw H. Reviewer Report For: The effects of a temporal processing-based auditory training program on the auditory skills of elderly users of hearing aids: a study protocol for a randomized clinical trial [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2020, 9 :425 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.25127.r63905 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-425/v1#referee-response-63905 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 30 Jun 2020 Helen Henshaw , National Institute of Health, Nottingham, UK; Hearing Sciences, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.25127.r63905 The abstract discussion section is a little unclear and could be misinterpreted as it currently stands. Suggest rewording the sentence 'Since temporal processing is not sufficient in auditory training programs for the elderly with hearing impairments' for clarity. ... Continue reading READ ALL 