Vachon and colleagues present a structured assessment designed to assist trained lay interviewers in assessing Tourette syndrome and other tic disorders in larger population studies. This tool is a well thought out instrument that will likely help fill a void in the area of the epidemiology of tic disorders. The use of trained lay interviewers to conduct structured psychiatric interviews has been used for population studies of children, adolescents, and adults with possible mental disorders. However, merely viewing a video may not be adequate to train people to distinguish movement disorders. Interrater reliability can verify the skills of a trained rater to identify the movements. However, the publication of this article can be justified by the dearth of trained individuals to screen large populations. This article may provide a tool to advance population studies around the world. We think only minor revisions might be needed. The title is confusing as it employs an acronym which should either be defined within the title, or the title could be changed to not include the name of the instrument. Readers may be unfamiliar with the tool. Since the instrument has a long name, the title of the article could simply describe the procedure, e.g., “A strategy for conducting population studies of Tourette syndrome utilizing trained lay raters.” The abstract represents a suitable summary of the work and is adequate in its description of the study tool and design. Unlike articles presenting instruments along with psychometric properties (Goetz et al., 2008), this article presents a tool without any properties, results of use, or other such data. Thus, the abstract can be enhanced by describing the limitations of this tool (i.e. lack of reliability and validity data) while still making it clear that the instrument is being offered to the research and lay communities given the lack of adequate tools for population studies on tic disorders. Regarding the article content, please define the acronyms. In particular, under Methods in the last line of the first paragraph, “TSSG” may be unfamiliar to readers. However, the design and methods are adequately explained and are appropriate for a publication which addresses the struggles of doing epidemiological studies on tic disorders. It is less typical for a study to review the development of a tool without some preliminary data when applying the tool to the population. As F1000Research features quick and transparent publications which can then be openly reviewed and digested by the scientific community, we think it would be an optimal environment to include the unpublished preliminary reliability and validity data of the VISIT-TS (first version). This would be adequate to assist the readers of this journal to make some assessment of the suitability of this procedure for scientific research. Alternatively, the information about the unpublished reliability and validity studies conducted by the authors can be presented as a separate pilot study. The discussion could be improved by focusing a little more on the actual VISIT-TS and what is known about it, and less on the limitations of our current research methods and tools. Some of the latter information would be better incorporated into the introduction, which already reviews the current state of epidemiological research in tic disorders and makes a case for why the VISIT-TS is needed. Readers would also be very interested in the authors’ ideas regarding possible future research directions or studies that could be performed with this multimedia tool, such as: A group of lay individuals could be trained to use this strategy. Then the trained raters could be presented a series of new videotapes of people with and without tics. The findings could be compared and contrasted with the findings of expert raters. Populations from the community could be given tests about tics before and after viewing the video to assess whether the video is an effective tool to educate children, parents, teachers, and members of the general community how to identify tics. Evaluation of the reliability and validity of this procedure could be performed in multiple future studies with different populations. Both the included video and list of questions are very helpful for the readers’ understanding regarding how this tool is administered and what the experience is like for the participants. References 1. Goetz CG, Tilley BC, Shaftman SR, Stebbins GT, et al.: Movement Disorder Society-sponsored revision of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS): scale presentation and clinimetric testing results. Mov Disord . 2008; 23 (15): 2129-70 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Smyth S and Brašić JR. Reviewer Report For: VISIT-TS: A multimedia tool for population studies on tic disorders [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1518 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10427.r16869 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1518/v2#referee-response-16869 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Shprecher DR. Reviewer Report For: VISIT-TS: A multimedia tool for population studies on tic disorders [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1518 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10427.r16867 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1518/v2#referee-response-16867 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 31 Oct 2016 David R. Shprecher , Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10427.r16867 The authors carefully reviewed the epidemiology of tics and Tourette syndrome and explained the need for more sensitive, broadly applicable screening tools. To address this need, they have developed a 10-minute video that shows nearly 100 tic examples and then ... Continue reading READ ALL 