This article offers a way of thinking about the environment of career structures in science. The other two reviewers have noted a series of small issues which I concur would be good to deal with. The paper overall offers some good critical thinking and summary of issues with the way we think about career structures and job roles and provides advocacy for new ways of thinking. It is generally well written and well argued. I am going to raise two broader issues which I think should be addressed before finalising for indexing: Is the 'ecosystem' concept well defined and expressed? Is this a 'new paradigm'? There has been much criticism of ecosystem as a metaphor, primarily from ecologists who object that the term is used imprecisely. I think here there is a risk of getting muddled. Words like 'ecosystem' and 'landscape' are used in opposition to the traditional concept of a 'pipeline' but are not explicitly defined or drawn as analogies to true ecosystems. I was left wondering whether the 'ecosystem' referred to an ecology of job roles, of workers within those roles, organisations that support them or something else? Figure 2 to me does not evoke an ecosystem but a set of roles and organisations. Rather some elements seem to be drawn from Ostrom's Institutional Analysis and Design model, along with specific instances of change, then roles then knowledge (from outside to in). From a different angle it also looks like a social learning model (moving from centre outwards, Lave and Wenger, Situated Learning). In passing I note a tension between the claim the circle 'has no top' with the line above the figure that '....bottom-up changes are already being driven by early career scientists. The model/figure also does not seem to be used further in the examples below. I think this is a sign that the model and narrative is not quite right. If I understand correctly the goal is to use the ecosystem metaphor to emphasise interdependence of actors and the ability to work effectively together (adopting from commons language throughout). However the pipeline model refers to development of those actors. My suggestion would be to consider more explicitly how the pipeline model presumes hierachical institutional forms and how the new model (community/social learning in communities of practice?) would support new, networked and flexible institutional forms. This happens towards the end in 'Writing a new cultural narrative' to a certain extent but I would like to see this made much stronger. I think the relationship between rhetoric, narrative, social learning/acculturation and institutional forms could be made much earlier, ideally in 'The science ecosystem' as an answer to the deficiencies in the pipeline model that are ably described prior to this. This could draw on a range of previous work. This brings me to the second point. The claim is made that this is a new model. I am not convinced this is accurate. Elements of the ecosystem metaphor, or at least the division of labour and necessary organisation to create value, are found in Merton (many of the papers in Sociology of Science), Lave and Wenger (Situated Learning), Ravetz (Scientific Knowledge and its Social Problems), Latour (Politics of Nature) and in others discussing the broad area of Science and Technology Studies (Collins on expertise, Stilgoe on public policy development, Stirling on engagement and diversity etc etc). More directly in STEM debates around the formation and solidification of Bioinformatics as a discipline involving new technical workers and skills (and more recently Digital Humanities - I think it would be good for the application of the model to humanities and social sciences to be at least gestured at), the formation of research institutes, and massive authorship in astronomy, high energy physics, and some areas of biology have all pointed in the direction of an 'ecosystem' of interdependent roles to support modern large-scale science. My primary suggestion is that referring to this earlier literature will strengthen this paper and aid in the development of a stronger narrative, which will in turn hopefully improve the impact of the article in achieving the authors' goals. I would consider re-working Figures 1 and 2: Figure 1 emphasises that the rhetoric of a pipeline leads to a hierarchical structuring of institutions and a necessary conservatism as a result. You might consider adding an 'average age' of each transition, job titles etc to emphasise this. This can then be picked up more strongly in Box 1 as to how the presumed path and hierarchy leads to the negative results described. In Figure 2 I'd invert the sense of the diagram. Start at the outside and show many spiral paths inwards to a range of roles and organisations (can the relationship between organisations and roles be shown). This echoes Lave and Wenger's concept of learning as 'legitimate peripheral participation'. It then becomes important to emphasise that there are many such target diagrams and that various paths can encompass several of them. I think these two modifications make it easier to refer back to the figures in the examples and cases described in the numbered sections and boxes. That in turn will make the whole narrative stronger. 