This is a well-written, clearly presented manuscript describing unexpected behavioural phenotypes of two well-established rodent models which routinely lead to rats having anxiolytic or anxiogenic behaviours. In the field of behavioural neuroscience where robustness of results and reproducibility is vital, the reporting of negative or contrary outcomes remains important. This report raises substantial concern for the rodent research occurring across that time period. It is crucial that universities and research institutes be educated on the impact that infrastructure development has on researchers, and the time and financial costs it imposes on research teams/projects. In the Introduction, which is rather short, it would be useful to include one or two paragraphs referencing evidence that both Toxoplasma infection and maternal separation models are prone to environmental modification. One of the included references (Koe et al., Transl Psychiatry 2016) is an example of environmental modification of a robust maternal separation-induced adult phenotype. See also Sahafi E et al., Physiol Behav 2018 as another example of an external modifier of anxiety behaviour. This manuscript is limited in that there is no molecular data to be paired with the interesting behavioural phenotype. A comparison of monoamine-relevant genes ala Rcamier-Carballo S et al., Behav Pharmacol 2017 would have been ideal. But this can be speculated upon in the Discussion. Could also mention the involvement of environment-induced epigenetic changes, see McCoy CR et al., Eur J Neurosci 2016 : DNA methylation changes in the hippocampus. The major shortcoming of this manuscript is that I am unsure about how one would go about quantifying structural disturbances. Is it based solely on the unexpected behavioural phenotype observed? Or has the phenotypes consistently shifted during the stated period before returning to “normal”? Have there been anecdotal accounts of construction noise in the rodent facility? Is there any data about building vibrations? (Civil engineers would have the equipment to measure structural vibrations). Assuming the significant external source of variability (as compared to a new experimenter who is a inexperienced at handling rodents and conducting the behavioural tests), it would be useful to include litter sizes and M/F sex ratios. Is there body weight data in the event that feeding behaviour was also altered? It is unusual to only present EPM data as % entries in open arm. What about total time in open arms as a % of the test duration? Is it possible to include schematics of the different test arenas for Figure 1? Do the authors have habituation data (total time spent moving, distance travelled) for odor aversion tests? If the infected rats are anxious, they could be observed to display non- or lesser habituation even at baseline in the absence of a predator odor. If this was the case, it would only serve to strengthen the interpretation. 