I read the article titled: Intraocular pressure elevation precedes a phagocytosis decline in a model of pigmentary glaucoma by Dang et al. The title of the article is very stimulating but the content has several things that should be corrected. The authors state that in the conventional way of outflow the aqueous passes into Schlemm's canal by paracytosis or giant vacuoles. This is a partial view that does not correspond to the truth. I invite the authors to read Sacc et al. The Outflow Pathway: A Tissue With Morphological and Functional Unity 1 . Then the effects of the inhibitors of the Rho kinase inhibitor may have the ability to modify the metabolism of endothelial cells in the node in which the authors think it is open to question. These drugs have the ability to block TM motility by exposing more cells to aqueous humor. This is the reason why we initially witness a decline in IOP then this worsens because the exposed cells are blocked and are more exposed to apoptosis (to read Sacc et al. from DNA damage to functional changes of the trabecular meshwork in aging and glaucoma 2 ). Also the hypothesis formulated by the authors to explain the pigmentary glaucoma is partial in the Trabecolato the so-called pores have a very low meaning and above all the pigment does not obstruct anything. We do not work like sinks - I am amazed that today we can still believe that TM is a porous tissue, and above all, how it is possible to think that outflow is a passive phenomenon. In pigmentary glaucoma there are 2 fundamental pathogenic moments. The first concerns the back sheet of the iris, where the pigment comes from (a defect that involves the loss of the pigment itself) the second point concerns autophagy which is not able to ensure adequate cell homeostasis. So these cells first enter suffering and then die and hence glaucoma is why the cells do not work, not because it obstructs something. There are cells, not tubes. The cytoskeleton in all this has little to do with it: pigment granules are only a metabolic burden that in the case of pigment dispersal syndrome is absorbed by a functioning autophagy, while in pigment glaucoma, autophagy does not work. Finally, I remember that the changes in the cytoskeleton occur in all types of glaucoma. I do not believe that this article can be indexed in this form and needs a remake of both the introduction and the discussion and the results should be reviewed in the light of a more modern interpretation of the physio-pathogenical events. 