In this commentary, the authors discuss enzyme promiscuity and the difficulties inherent in predicting and experimentally validating enzymatic activity. As stated by the authors, this commentary is intended to be a discussion of their own research. As such, the authors focus primarily on experimental testing of predictions made using their CLASP algorithm. I have the following major points: By focusing only on their own research, the utility of this commentary for the greater scientific community becomes unclear. Furthermore, the authors do not provide sufficient background on their own research and methods. The authors discuss the CLASP algorithm, but provide no details about how it functions or how its output is evaluated. The authors make several unsubstantiated assumptions. One such example is their claim that inhibition is simpler to predict than catalysis. Readers are left to assume they intend that inhibition by a small molecule is a simpler computational prediction problem than identifying a specific substrate (or class of substrates) for a particular protein. Why is this? How can one predict and test the efficacy of an inhibitor for a protein with an unknown substrate profile and catalytic activity? Other sections are unclear and confusing. What is meant by " guilt by association logic "? How has this been revolutionary, and for which field? How is this modeled? It is unclear how Table 1 should be interpreted. The authors provide pairwise distances and pairwise potential distances for three crystal structures. How and why were these three structures selected? What do these values represent, how were they determined, and how should readers evaluate and interpret these values? For example, the authors do not discuss how the sequence length should be compared to the nuclephile-histidine pairwise potential difference. Is this a meaningful comparison, why or why not? Enzyme promiscuity is a well known phenomenon, and has been the subject of many comprehensive reviews. The opinion expressed by the authors in this commentary seems to be that predicting and experimentally evaluating enzyme activity is difficult. Unfortunately, by focusing only on their own research, this opinion is not sufficiently substantiated. Furthermore, this commentary lacks the breadth and background required to serve as a general discussion of the authors own work. Significant re-writing is required for this article to be of utility to the general scientific community.