A workflow to enable more people to perform differential transcript usage on their RNA-seq data set is a useful addition to the literature. Benchmarking methods and combinations of workflows are also an important part of the literature. In this manuscript, both things have been attempted, which unfortunately makes the manuscript a little blurred in its focus. We view a workflow as an instructional manuscript in which a step-by-step analysis can be reproduced with a new data set that a user wants to bring to the analysis. This is presented in the sections Quantification and data import and Statistical analysis of differential transcript usage and, in our view, should be the focus of the manuscript. These are complex analyses combining several packages with several alternative paths. It would really help the user if a flowchart for this analysis could be made that shows the common parts of the workflow (e.g. starting with a Salmon, importing into R), how the alternatives split and which packages are used for alternative parts of the workflow. For example, DRIMseq is an alternative to DEXseq, which can then be followed by stageR, and Suppa is a complete (parallel) workflow. The evaluation sections are somewhat useful and interesting in their own right, but rely on simulated data and are therefore not directly applicable to readers who are looking for workflows to guide them in their own data analysis. However, they do help users decide which workflows to choose in their own analysis. Overall we wonder if this manuscript could be two separate manuscripts: a workflow for DTU and an evaluation of methods based on simulated data? Another (preferable) alternative would be to only focus on DTU in the evaluation and keep the section Evaluation of methods for DTU as a guide to help the user to choose the workflow (with this clearly stated). We felt there were too many additional analysis introduced after this point which relied on more in-depth understanding of the DGE literature, which was not really the focus of the workflow. Minor comments: Several sections should be edited for clarity and flow of ideas. Specifically, page 6: "We recommend scaledTPM for differential transcript usage so that the estimated proportions fit by DRIMSeq in the following sections correspond to the proportions of underlying abundance." Could the authors please rewrite/break up this sentence to improve readability? page 6, section 'Import counts into R/Bioconductor': the authors should clarify whether the referenced R package is for demonstration purposes only (i.e. should the user install the rnaseqDTU to perform any of the workflow?). page 6: could the concept of using counts from abundance be introduced/explained before referring to specific package parameters and settings? page 6: "The following code chunk is not evaluated, but instead we will load a pre-constructed matrix of counts". Could the authors please clarify this sentence? We assume this means that instead of constructing a matrix of counts (as in a typical workflow), pre-constructed data is loaded. page 7 "We ran the following unevaluated code chunks": does 'unevaluated' refer to not run in a typical workflow? page 7, 'Statistic analysis of differential transcript usage', second paragraph: could the description of txdf be moved to the previous section where it is constructed? This would help improve the flow. page 12: "(2) contain a transcript with a transcript adjusted p-value less than 0.05 which does not participate in DTU, so contain a falsely confirmed transcript": could the authors please rewrite this sentence for clarity. page 13: sentence "The testing of “this” vs “others”..." could be improved for clarity, e.g.: "DEXseq in its original version requires fitting of coefficients for each exon within a gene. Running DEXseq at a transcript-level considerably improves performance as fewer features per gene require fitting of coefficients." page 14, after the line "dxr - as.data.frame(dxr[,columns]": showing head(dxr) could help in clarifying the output. page 15, in the code "paste0("suppa/group1.tpm")": the paste function is not necessary here. Section 'Evaluation of methods for DTU': could the authors offer an explanation why SUPPA2 only reported one DGE gene as DTU? Could the y and x axes on the plots on pages 17-20 and 25 be made consistent with each other? Also, very minor point, but these plots have some jpeg artefact. Could pdf or png plots be used instead? page 19 "DRIMSeq [...] performed slightly better": could a metric be referenced in how the package performed better? page 22: "We can repeat the same analysis...": 'same analysis' is misleading as this section tests only DGE. page 24: could the authors formally introduce or describe EBSeq and SAMseq packages, preferably earlier in the manuscript? page 26: could the authors use 'compute time' instead of 'timing'? We identified the following typographical errors and grammatical issues: page 5: "We recommend [constructing] a CSV file..." page 6: "We suggest for DTU analysis to generate counts from abundance..." reword to "For DTU analysis, we suggest generating counts from abundance..." page 16: "DEXSeq controlled [the FDR] except for..." page 16: "DRIMSeq had [an] observed FDR.." page 16: "...reported 2 extra genes more than..." change to "reported two more genes than" page 16: "...DEXseq were the most sensitive methods [for] recovering" page 19 "...DRIMSeq and DEXSeq[,] [in] this additional simulation" page 19: "Again, we caveat our comparative evaluation of DRIMSeq and DEXSeq by noting that we do not know..." change to "Again, a caveat of our comparative evaluation of DRIMSeq and DEXSeq is that we do not know..." page 24: "did not have [adequate] sensitivity to detect DGE" page 24: "while those two method[s] had" 