We congratulate the authors for developing this protocol for a pilot study to adapt a tested intervention with a lasting effect in education of benefit to children, teachers and families. This is especially important at a time when pseudoscience and false statements frequently confuse people. There is great potential and value in people being able to critically assess information and distinguish valid information from unreliable one. Well done. We were pleased to review this protocol and to provide recommendations to enhance it ahead of the study. Is the rationale for, and objectives of, the study clearly described? The manuscript provides a detailed description of the study previously done in Uganda 1 , 2 , 3 and needs to provide a similar level of detail of the protocol to be implemented in Barcelona. The rationale and objectives are described under "Contextualization of the Informed Health Choices project" yet the descriptions need to provide in-depth detail of how the pilot is to be prepared, implemented, analysed, reported and used to inform future developments. Although it is a pleasure to read the description they do of the above cited research conducted in Uganda, if length were an issue, the authors can summarize some details by citing the studies and instead offering more details from their own study. The objectives need to explicitly state their intent to to assess the effects of the intervention and replicability of the study in a IHC setting in a Spanish speaking country , or to prepare the IHC project for its scaling up in Barcelona, Spain . This appears to be a central objective to the study. Also describe their aims regarding the scaling-up of the intervention beyond the pilot schools. The information in the abstract needs to be matched to the key elements of the study, thus highlighting the ultimate purpose of the pilot and subsequent studies. Is the study design appropriate for the research question? Please describe the target and study population in detail elaborating on the characteristics of the school districts and system in Barcelona and provide descriptive details of the target population (children, teachers, parents) disaggregating the information where possible by gender and other relevant variables (e.g. socioeconomic stratum, ethnicity, religion, etc.) 4 , 5 , 6 . This way it will be clear if the pilot relates to the target population and/or elicit any limitations that need to be considered in the analysis or conclusions, as well as considerations for subsequent research. Elaborate on the criteria they will be using to select the participating schools in the convenience sample. The sample of teachers will be small thus it is important to illustrate any efforts to determine if these are representative of the broader population of teachers, to deal with imprecision or bias arising from the small sample, and to elaborate on considerations for their subsequent implementation research. How will they control if the selected teachers are over or under performers? We believe there are important conceptual issues to address under Ethical considerations. First, the decision to waive an ethical review falls with the Ethics Committee; apparently this was the case. However, we have some concerns with the rationale presented: Describe what review process is being undertaken to ensure that their is compliance with local laws, with the assent of children (if appropriate), and whether the informed consent process (and corresponding documents) are appropriate for each of the groups of participants so that there is an informed decision; Elaborate on the processes to protect the privacy of participants considering that this is a small sample size making feasible that identities can be exposed; The rationale for the exemption is flawed because this is research in human subjects. If there was a reason for conducting an expedited review (ideal) or waiving it would be this being a “less than minimal risk” or “minimal risk study with the prospect of direct benefit to individual subjects”. Definitions are provided and surely there is equivalent European regulation that applies. 4 , 5 . Clarify what the management will be if a student, teacher or parent decline to participate, considering the whole grade is participating. Will informed consent be managed at the individual or class level? Are sufficient details of the methods provided to allow replication by others? There are aspects that need more detail or perhaps a visual aid, such as: Specify the times when measurements will be done illustrating them with a PERT Chart complementing their timetable (or GANTT). This will make the information clear and also help to determine if the evaluations will be done at an appropriate time, avoiding for example these extending into the holiday season. Describe how the sample was chosen for the pilot and what implications this may have in the preparation of the larger implementation study. Details of the specific skills sought in the IHC-Barcelona Working Group and the Advisory Group are missing. It is of relevance to know what skills and attitudes are sought in the advisory group members to perform a proper job, and how they will be assessed. What criteria will be used in selecting the researchers and experts from the institutions listed? Will education policy makers be involved from the outset (advisable) and what positions do they have in Barcelona’s education system? Kindly describe what is the Escola Nova 21 initiative and how it relates to Barcelona’s education structure and standards. Elaborate on the implications -including bias that can result from the selection, and how this will be controlled. Describe what efforts will be made to determine the replicability and adaptations needed for the study in different settings in Barcelona and beyond. Clarify the criteria that will be used to select the convenience sample as well the the justification for the sample size. Describe the process to be followed in selecting the schools meeting criteria 1, 2 and 3, and how these schools represent the broader education district of Barcelona, and the population of students. Elaborate how you will analyse representation. Provide specific dates for data collection and their place within the school calendar. Clarify if the selected classes will be co-ed (see note on PROGRESS) and if groups turn out to have 25 students, how will this be managed. Are the data sets clearly presented in a usable and accessible format? The data analysis section would benefit from a table with the variables that will be analysed, and the analysis strategies (e.g. summary statistics, dispersion assessment, etc.) for each variable. Consider ways to minimize the variability of the assessments from teachers. Consider having double data capturing and whether and the thought process behind having one researcher identifying, codifying and summarizing feedback instead of having a duplicate data-capturing with a third person as tie breaker, or other methods to enhance precision and assess consistency (page 10.) In section “Dissemination of the results” elaborate on the engagement and appropriation by education and science authorities as a strategy to enhance implementation and sustainability in Barcelona and beyond. Elaborate on the participation (if any) of science communicators and journalists, and potential advocates for education. Elaborate on the inclusion and exclusion criteria under “User participation” and describe the characteristics and more detailed relevant information of the group. In section “Discussion” highlight any preparations to adjust to the COVID19 (and if this may provide suitable material) and if possible frame the study on relevant policies that promote critical appraisal learning and partnerships with civil society to increase the value and use of research for health. We list a couple of policy documents and surely the authors can illustrate some local and European policies that apply as well 6 , 7 We were delighted to read this study and how it will build on the success of a previous study to facilitate the implementation of an effective intervention in a different setting. Congratulations to the authors! It is important for these new studies to uphold the methodological rigour of the original studies and we have made some recommendations towards this end. A significant part of the protocol elaborates on the earlier studies referenced and some additional enhancements and details are needed to level this protocol with previous studies. We have provided actionable recommendations and we look forward to a revised version. This study has a tremendous potential to address with a key population, the current crisis that pseudo-science, false news, and misleading claims have brought upon societies, and we believe it needs to be advanced reported and developed in collaboration with education and science and technology leaders, seeking to strengthen appropriation and uptake. We also believe that equity considerations need to be reflected in every aspect of this study, and we have made some recommendations towards this. Well done, we look forward to a revised version! 