This an interesting report that addresses an important clinical problem. However, the methods and presentation potentially obscure what the key findings from these data might be. The following should be addressed. There is very little data presented describing the study subjects. They authors should present more demographic information (age) and disease characteristics (time from diagnosis, organs involved, lung function, current therapy). The rationale for using lyophilized BALF for the analyses is not presented nor are the potential challenges in interpretation addressed. For instance, the absolute numbers will not be useful for future diagnostics as it is highly unlikely that alveolar fluid would be lyophilized/concentrated before measurement. It would be helpful to know what the concentration of albumin or other background proteins might be to appreciate the relative abundance of the mediators measured. The text refers to Table 1 as having results of the cytokine analyses but this appears in Table 2. Table 2 has "unadjusted" and "adjusted" analyses without any statement of how the "adjusted" analyses were performed. Given its exploratory nature I would like to see the entirety of the dataset presented here as it has more utility to the community than a multivariate model that is not validated and is likely to be highly over-fit. The rationale for using LCN for these analyses is unclear, particularly given that LASSO appears to perform similarly and is more straightforward to interpret. Notably, there does not appear to be any comparison of LCN and LASSO presented even though it is mentioned in the discussion. Figure 4 and Figure 5 are not very useful. I would like to see more details about the outputs from the LASSO model (i.e. what were the driving mediators and model performance measures like BIC or other measures of fit/overfit). It would also be helpful to readers to see some form of correlation matrix or cluster graphic to show how the different mediators track or don't track with each other. This will allow for more insights on pathways that are differentially up/down regulated. 