The manuscript from Chakraborty et al. reports an algorithm aimed to accelerate the search in proteins active site data bases. The algorithm precompiles all the possible motifs comprising a set of n =4 amino acids. Major points: The choice of considering combination of n =4 from the set of residues within the SOAS distance is not sufficiently explained and should be discussed. The authors write: However, a 4 residue motif is sufficient to represent most active site conformations, and for a preliminary search on extensive datasets. This claim should be justified and compared with similar choices in other algorithms performing similar tasks. The part discussing the illustrative example on thioesterase should be rewritten. First, it is not clear what the authors intend to show. Secondly, the properties reported in Table 3 (potential and spatial congruence) are not introduced anywhere in the paper and no discussion is provided about them. Finally, the criteria for the selection of the best scoring motif is not explained. The authors should rewrite some sections of the discussion in order to make it less technical and accessible to a widest audience of readers. Minor points: There are some typos scattered in the text. The article language, style and clarity would benefit greatly from a good proofreading by an English native speaker, if possible. The first reference of the paper is pretty old (1977) and should be replaced with that of RCSB Protein Data Bank (Berman et al., 2000) . In general, some of the references in the introduction are quite old. The authors should replace these citations with recent reviews on the same topics. The last paragraph of the introduction should be moved at the end of the discussion. The acronym of the size of the active site parameter (SOAS) is used before its definition. Algorithm 1 should be depicted using a flow chart. In Table 2, the authors should change the caption (it is a partial repetition of the text) and mark the proteins with the serine catalytic triad. The section Runtimes and disk space should be moved in the Materials and Methods section. Given the above considerations, I suggest indexing this paper after major revisions.