The manuscript "Differentially correlated genes in co-expression networks control phenotype transitions" by Lina Thomas et al , is devoted to describing a case study of two transcriptomic datasets with the focus on characterizing pairs of differentially correlated genes, with a limited experimental validation of the conclusions of the statistical analysis. The manuscript is clear, technically sound and exploits an interesting approach for the analysis of expression data. The conclusions of the statistical analysis are sufficiently justified. I like the detailed and illustrated description of the novel methods exploited the paper. Experimental validation of several findings is a big plus. Therefore, I think the article deserves to be indexed. I have several remarks for the manuscript which I think should be addressed before approval: I am not completely comfortable with the title of the manuscript, which is quite conceptual, while the content of the paper remains descriptive and does not provide mechanistic insight on how DCG pairs can control the phenotype. I suggest to the authors to have some reflexion on how to make it more adequate. Related to 1), in Introduction the desciption of the mechanisms by which DCG pairs can "contribute to propagation of perturbation" remain very illusive. I suggest to the authors to formulate more clearly at least several hypotheses or scenario by which DCG pairs might appear and play an important role. A figure illustrating such hypotheses would clarify what the authors mean. Figures 1 and 3 are not very informative. Can authors make an effort to improve this aspect (at least, visualize some DC gene names?) The authors do not discuss a possibility that appearance of DC pairs can be a result of differential sample tissue composition from several cell types (i.e., immune cells in jejunum or in a tumor tissue). Discussing this point would be an advantage. In several places, the authors apply terms "upstream", "downstream" with respect to the network which is undirected by its nature. I suggest to underline that the nature of correlation networks does not allow distinguishing causality direction and considering genes "downstream" of the key drivers is only a hypothesis which can not be assessed from the data. Description of the transcriptomic datasets in Materials and Methods is too brief, especially for the cervix dataset which seems to be quite composite. It would be appropriate to specify more clearly the dataset's composition (not simply referring to the original publications) directly in the paper text. One thing which is confusing to me is that the correlation networks are constructed differently for two case studies (direct vs partial). I understood the reason why partial correlation was prefered for the cervical cancer study, however, the question is: can the conclusion about that DC pairs do not contain key drivers in the case of cervical cancer be affected by the difference in the methodology of correlation graph computation? It would be usefull to clarify this aspect. The section "Filtering and meta-analysis of microarray data" was not clear to me. I suggest to re-write it. Minor remarks: Page 4: "correlation lost" - "correlation loss" Description of the partial correlation method refers to a paper (30) which can not be easily accessed. Direct reference to the arXiv preprint would be more appropriate in this case