Although the authors addressed our previous comments we believe there are still some outstanding issues that were not adequately addressed. The reply to the comment concerning development and validation of the QRISK3 R package states that "There are no sequential addition of predictors in two datasets." However, the use of a sequential design is stated in the paper: "The simulated patient groups were generated by changing each risk factor sequentially covering the changes of all QRISK3 risk factors." The readers would still benefit from an explanation of the reasoning behind the use of the created dataset. For the Validated section: The comments still need addressed. The authors should include more information on how this was done. This could just consist of more detail so the reader can have a general idea without reading other papers. Some pertinent questions are: how are the statistic values defined? how was the statistic reported performed? what do the reported statistics indicate? how were the statistics compared with your study and the literature study? Is there a p-value associated with the comparison? Additionally, include the definition for CPRD. One of your new sentences now has a grammar issue. See below. Applying this QRISK3 package to a big DEFINE HERE (CPRD) cohorts with 3.6 million patients showed a good discrimination (C statistic: 0.85) and calibration similar to the original QRISK3. Usage and features concerning missing values. There are various ways to handle missing data. Is multiple imputation the only option with this package? Usually there are multiple options and imputation may not be the best option in all cases. A reference can help, but it would need to cover more than one method or that method should be one that has been chosen to be the only acceptable one for use in the package. Simply stating that standard methods should be employed would be an improvement. Discussion: This still needs to be fixed. How does your package help researchers? Maybe state that the package will allow for a consistent and convenient method of calculating QRISK for large cohort databases. The revised sentence is confusing. The original comment simply asked to remove "to better understand" as the package only calculates a number and does not provide an understanding of methodology or underlying pathology. We still believe a larger package with more than one function is needed for a published R package. For this package, at this level the vignette associated with the package should suffice rather than a publication. 