First of all I am sorry for the long delay in my getting back to this evaluation. While the authors have replied adequately to some of my comments there are some that are not. I will deal them below. Major points: Point 1. It is not enough to write the data of the dose response experiments in the reply. The results of the dose response experiments should be integrated into the main article. Point 2. Inclusion of the mouse experiment (Fig. 4) in the article is not acceptable and should be deleted completely. In addition to having relatively small number of mice per group, the use of both male and female mice in the experiments is not appropriate as the responses can vary between the sexes. This and the small numbers of mice could be the reason for non-consistent killing results. In addition, it is not clear either from the authors reply of from the text and the figure, how many mice were actually in the experiment. The figure 4 indicates that 50 % of both mouse groups died. How many mice was 50%, one or two? I have hard time to believe that two non-treated mice both died after 72 hr and two chitosan-treated both after 168 hr after infection and at the same time two mice in both groups survived. Therefore the mouse experiments in my opinion do not have any significance to one or other direction and should not be included in the present article. Point 3. While the both controls the authors used are OK, they dont control the effect of ciprofloxacin in the experiment. Chitosan could also neutralize ciprofloxacin and thereby rescue the bacterial growth. The E. coli C600 strain is very widely used strain and should be easy to get. Preferentially it should be from the same source from where the lysogenic strains were obtained. I have the strain also in my strain collection and I can send it to the authors if they dont find it elsewhere. Point 4. OK Point 5. While the response seems OK, I dont find anywhere in the article the results and the additional figure. These should be integrated to the article. Point 6. Even though the C600 strain is not invasive, bacteria may be taken up by endocytosis and thereby enter the organs. The authors should exclude this possibility. While it would be difficult to detect the bacteria from intestinal tissue, other organs should be sterile.If the authors cannot see any bacterial growth from the sterile organs, that would be a sufficient control. Point 7. See point 2 above. All previous Minor points were all addressed adequately. Please check carefully the text on page 4 right column top paragraph.