The authors developed a new tool called YODEL to identify peaks from Ago2 HITS-CLIP data using a novel approach based on the identification of the peak summit of reads cluster and estimation of the size of the peaks based on read coverage. The work is sound and interesting, however we have some concerns about the benchmarking of this new tool. Our major questions mainly refer to Bottini et al. (2017) 1 . That should be cited. Major suggestions/concerns: Benchmarking: The authors showed just for few selected targets that YODEL identifies peaks that include miRNAs seed matches, whereas Piranha did not. This should be shown at the genome-wide scale. Inclusion of seed match sequences do not assure per se a better performance. In fact, seed matches can be included just by chance due to an overestimation of the peaks size. To rule out the possibility, the authors should show the distribution of the peaks length by the two programs on both entire datasets and calculate the correlation between peak length and number of seed matches. For Ago2 CLIP-seq peak calling programs it is expected that miRNA-binding sites and cross-linked-dependent mutations position at the peak centers. How does YODEL perform compare to Piranha? The authors defined two thresholds to assess the peak boundaries, namely 25% and 50% of the coverage of the highest point: how these two threshold have been assessed? Since the peaks boundaries is a primary concern for the authors, it should be explained and supported by analysis how they chose these two percentages. Therefore, we recommend to benchmark the thresholds by adding intermediate percentages and calculate the sensitivity toward seed match identified at the genome-wide scale. Other major points: The introduction needs improvement: a brief overview of the software/pipelines available to perform CLIP-seq data analysis and cite some reviews that explain all the steps of the data analysis, including Bottini et al. (2017) 2 and Uhl et al. (2017) 3 . It should be clearly stated whether YODEL is able to find peaks enriched when comparing two conditions (differential CLIP) and/or only one condition. In the Methods section all the parameters should be clearly stated and explained in the main text and not in the Supplementary Information. Furthermore, it should be added which kind of input data (not only the file format) are needed to run YODEL (replicates, IgG, control/KO …). Finally, it should be made clear whether YODEL can be applied to analyze only Ago2 HITS-CLIP data or also other RNA-binding proteins and why. Minor points: Supplemental figure 2 is missing. About the first sentence on page 2 “A peak caller that could accurately define….” is odd. A peak caller tool is always needed to identify peaks from CLIP-seq experiments, and not just for the specific case mentioned by the authors. The sentence on page 2 “Where dipTolerance (dt) and peakDipBuffer (pbd) are input parameters…” is clumsy. Some language misspelling such as: publically - publicly. 