In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency of non-synonymous mutations across an extensive genome set derived by the MalariaGEN consortium from an extensive set of P. falciparum isolates collected mainly in Africa and SE Asia. The analyses extend the work presented recently (DOI: 10.7554/eLife.08714) where a trend was noted for a higher level of non-synonymous mutations in the SE Asian parasites a compared to that in the African parasites. Specifically, the authors have presented the analysis for the parasites from individual countries and focused on SNPs that occur at residues that are highly conserved in orthologues within a variety of Plasmodium species and across eukaryotes in general. The authors have thus provided convincing evidence for statistically significant albeit relatively subtle differences between the parasites from SE Asia and Africa (it is unclear to me why parasites from Peru and Colombia were included in the analysis, all the more as their numbers were relatively low). Whereas, the quality of the data, the analyses and the results are not into question, I have some misgivings and indeed frustrations as to the conclusions put forward in an attempt to account for the differences observed. The scenario inspired by the observations that the authors propose as an explanation for the propensity of antimalarial drug resistance to emerge and spread in P. falciparum from SE Asia first before doing so in Africa is plausible and could be supported by the data presented. However, this scenario is based on a set of assumptions whose limitations are not discussed, without any justification as to why this particular scenario is the most likely. What is the nature of the intra-host competition between the genotypes of P. falciparum that circulate in humans, and is there any evidence that this actually alters transmissibility? Immunity is the most obvious selective intra-host factor. To which extend differences in the levels of immunity among the patients that contributed the P. falciparum isolates analysed here alters the multiplicity of the infection or indeed the likelihood of genetic crosses? Is there any evidence that parasite with the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across the genome are biologically less fit? There is evidence that this is the case for drug resistant parasites in vitro , that for parasites growing in vivo is less straightforward and varies for different drugs. To what extend are the isolates collected from a limited number of febrile patients reflect the overall parasite population across a whole country. Could a bias be introduced simply because of differences in the degree of acquired immunity on admission, the time between the onset of the infection and the time treatment was sought, or the level of admission parasitaemia? Exposure to drug is clearly a strong selective constraint for those genes implicated in overcoming the effects of the drug. What can be the nature of the selective constrains that maintain the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across numerous genes spread throughout the genome? Clearly not all can be considered to provide some speculative compensatory effect to a potential reduction in fitness following drug selection. It should be pointed out that in the 1950’s resistance to chloroquine first appeared not only in SE Asia but also in Colombia. Similarly resistance to pyrimethamine did not first appear in SE Asia, but in all areas where the use of this drug became widespread and systematic (this was the case in both SE Asia and African countries in the 1950’s). The “unanswered” question as to the reason why drug resistance has repeatedly emerged in SE Asia, might have more to do with drug usage than with some special property of the parasites. Ultimately, I would suggest that the authors should present the limitations of their conclusions as well as alternative scenarios to account for their observations (and rank or discount them if they can). This will surely be welcome by readers. Advances in knowledge are seeded by diversity in speculation (conservative or less so) and genome wide analyses are a rich source for this. References 1. MalariaGEN Plasmodium falciparum Community Project: Genomic epidemiology of artemisinin resistant malaria. Elife . 2016; 5 . PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Snounou G. Reviewer Report For: South-East Asian strains of Plasmodium falciparum display higher ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous polymorphisms compared to African strains [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1964 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10094.r15909 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1964/v1#referee-response-15909 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 17 Oct 2016 Gajinder Singh , International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), New Delhi, India 17 Oct 2016 Author Response We are grateful for your valuable comments, which we believe have significantly improved our manuscript. In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency ... Continue reading We are grateful for your valuable comments, which we believe have significantly improved our manuscript. In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency of non-synonymous mutations across an extensive genome set derived by the MalariaGEN consortium from an extensive set of P. falciparum isolates collected mainly in Africa and SE Asia. The analyses extend the work presented recently (DOI: 10.7554/eLife.08714) where a trend was noted for a higher level of non-synonymous mutations in the SE Asian parasites a compared to that in the African parasites. Specifically, the authors have presented the analysis for the parasites from individual countries and focused on SNPs that occur at residues that are highly conserved in orthologues within a variety of Plasmodium species and across eukaryotes in general. The authors have thus provided convincing evidence for statistically significant albeit relatively subtle differences between the parasites from SE Asia and Africa (it is unclear to me why parasites from Peru and Colombia were included in the analysis, all the more as their numbers were relatively low). Author response: We would like to clarify that MalariaGEN authors did not write or suggest that N/S ratio of P. falciparum strains from SEA and Africa are different. We have discussed the difference between the work reported in MalariaGEN study and our manuscript in the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. We added data from Peru and Columbia in Figures 1, Figure 5 and Figure 6 only for completeness, but we have refrained from making any firm conclusions based on these samples. We have nevertheless commented upon the observations from South-American samples in the Discussion section in response to your comment. Whereas, the quality of the data, the analyses and the results are not into question, I have some misgivings and indeed frustrations as to the conclusions put forward in an attempt to account for the differences observed. The scenario inspired by the observations that the authors propose as an explanation for the propensity of antimalarial drug resistance to emerge and spread in P. falciparum from SE Asia first before doing so in Africa is plausible and could be supported by the data presented. However, this scenario is based on a set of assumptions whose limitations are not discussed, without any justification as to why this particular scenario is the most likely. What is the nature of the intra-host competition between the genotypes of P. falciparum that circulate in humans, and is there any evidence that this actually alters transmissibility? Immunity is the most obvious selective intra-host factor. To which extend differences in the levels of immunity among the patients that contributed the P. falciparum isolates analysed here alters the multiplicity of the infection or indeed the likelihood of genetic crosses? Author response: We thank the reviewer for pointing this out. There is indeed evidence of intra-host competition between genotypes of P. falciparum in humans that reduces parasite density 1 . The association between parasite density and gametocyte density in humans has also been previously shown 2 . The reasons for intra-host competition however remain unknown. Strain-transcending immunity, resource competition (e.g. RBCs), and direct interference between strains have been proposed as possible mechanisms responsible for within-host competition 3-6 . It is also possible that lower recombination rates due to lower rate of mixed infections in SEA may reduce the removal of deleterious mutations. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Is there any evidence that parasite with the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across the genome are biologically less fit? There is evidence that this is the case for drug resistant parasites in vitro, that for parasites growing in vivo is less straightforward and varies for different drugs. Author response: There is currently no evidence that P. falciparum strains from SEA are biologically less fit that strains from Africa. Indeed that is the prediction of our model. It would be fascinating to test this hypothesis. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. To what extend are the isolates collected from a limited number of febrile patients reflect the overall parasite population across a whole country. Could a bias be introduced simply because of differences in the degree of acquired immunity on admission, the time between the onset of the infection and the time treatment was sought, or the level of admission parasitaemia? Author response: It is possible that samples collected may not be representative of the whole country; however the consistent results we obtain for across countries in Africa and SEA suggest that our observations of higher N/S is SEA compared to Africa is robust to random variations introduced due to sampling. It is possible that some biases in sampling may be introduced that could lead to differences in the observed rate of polyclonal infections between Africa and SEA. We separately analysed predicted monoclonal and polyclonal samples and find results similar to those obtained using all samples (Supplementary Figure 1 in the revised manuscript). We thus currently have no hypothesis of how biased sampling could actually lead to higher genome-wide N/S in SEA. Exposure to drug is clearly a strong selective constraint for those genes implicated in overcoming the effects of the drug. What can be the nature of the selective constrains that maintain the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across numerous genes spread throughout the genome? Clearly not all can be considered to provide some speculative compensatory effect to a potential reduction in fitness following drug selection. Author response: As further explained in the Discussion section, the higher genome scale N/S in SEA is consistent with relaxed negative selection. We hypothesise that relaxed negative selection could be due to low level of polyclonal infection and thus lower within-host competition in SEA. It should be pointed out that in the 1950’s resistance to chloroquine first appeared not only in SE Asia but also in Colombia. Similarly resistance to pyrimethamine did not first appear in SE Asia, but in all areas where the use of this drug became widespread and systematic (this was the case in both SE Asia and African countries in the 1950’s). The “unanswered” question as to the reason why drug resistance has repeatedly emerged in SE Asia, might have more to do with drug usage than with some special property of the parasites. Author response: Indeed resistance to chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine also appeared independently in South-America (but not in Africa 7 ). We have very few samples from South America (27 samples from 2 countries) to make robust conclusions. However it is interesting that samples from South America do show low rate of polyclonal infections and higher N/S compared to Africa (Figure 1 and Figure 6). We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Ultimately, I would suggest that the authors should present the limitations of their conclusions as well as alternative scenarios to account for their observations (and rank or discount them if they can). This will surely be welcome by readers. Advances in knowledge are seeded by diversity in speculation (conservative or less so) and genome wide analyses are a rich source for this. Author response: We have significantly expanded the Discussion section which we hope addresses the reviewer’s concerns. We would be happy to address any further concerns that you may have in the revised version of the manuscript. Reference List 1. Bushman, M. et al. Within-host competition and drug resistance in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Proc. Biol. Sci. 283 , 20153038 (2016). 2. Ross, A., Killeen, G. Smith, T. Relationships between host infectivity to mosquitoes and asexual parasite density in Plasmodium falciparum. Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75 , 32-37 (2006). 3. Metcalf, C. J. et al. Partitioning regulatory mechanisms of within-host malaria dynamics using the effective propagation number. Science. %19;333 , 984-988 (2011). 4. Raberg, L. et al. The role of immune-mediated apparent competition in genetically diverse malaria infections. Am. Nat. 168 , 41-53 (2006). 5. Bruce, M. C. Day, K. P. Cross-species regulation of malaria parasitaemia in the human host. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 5 , 431-437 (2002). 6. Yap, G. S. Stevenson, M. M. Blood transfusion alters the course and outcome of Plasmodium chabaudi AS infection in mice. Infect. Immun. 62 , 3761-3765 (1994). 7. Roper, C. et al. Intercontinental spread of pyrimethamine-resistant malaria. Science. %20;305 , 1124 (2004). We are grateful for your valuable comments, which we believe have significantly improved our manuscript. In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency of non-synonymous mutations across an extensive genome set derived by the MalariaGEN consortium from an extensive set of P. falciparum isolates collected mainly in Africa and SE Asia. The analyses extend the work presented recently (DOI: 10.7554/eLife.08714) where a trend was noted for a higher level of non-synonymous mutations in the SE Asian parasites a compared to that in the African parasites. Specifically, the authors have presented the analysis for the parasites from individual countries and focused on SNPs that occur at residues that are highly conserved in orthologues within a variety of Plasmodium species and across eukaryotes in general. The authors have thus provided convincing evidence for statistically significant albeit relatively subtle differences between the parasites from SE Asia and Africa (it is unclear to me why parasites from Peru and Colombia were included in the analysis, all the more as their numbers were relatively low). Author response: We would like to clarify that MalariaGEN authors did not write or suggest that N/S ratio of P. falciparum strains from SEA and Africa are different. We have discussed the difference between the work reported in MalariaGEN study and our manuscript in the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. We added data from Peru and Columbia in Figures 1, Figure 5 and Figure 6 only for completeness, but we have refrained from making any firm conclusions based on these samples. We have nevertheless commented upon the observations from South-American samples in the Discussion section in response to your comment. Whereas, the quality of the data, the analyses and the results are not into question, I have some misgivings and indeed frustrations as to the conclusions put forward in an attempt to account for the differences observed. The scenario inspired by the observations that the authors propose as an explanation for the propensity of antimalarial drug resistance to emerge and spread in P. falciparum from SE Asia first before doing so in Africa is plausible and could be supported by the data presented. However, this scenario is based on a set of assumptions whose limitations are not discussed, without any justification as to why this particular scenario is the most likely. What is the nature of the intra-host competition between the genotypes of P. falciparum that circulate in humans, and is there any evidence that this actually alters transmissibility? Immunity is the most obvious selective intra-host factor. To which extend differences in the levels of immunity among the patients that contributed the P. falciparum isolates analysed here alters the multiplicity of the infection or indeed the likelihood of genetic crosses? Author response: We thank the reviewer for pointing this out. There is indeed evidence of intra-host competition between genotypes of P. falciparum in humans that reduces parasite density 1 . The association between parasite density and gametocyte density in humans has also been previously shown 2 . The reasons for intra-host competition however remain unknown. Strain-transcending immunity, resource competition (e.g. RBCs), and direct interference between strains have been proposed as possible mechanisms responsible for within-host competition 3-6 . It is also possible that lower recombination rates due to lower rate of mixed infections in SEA may reduce the removal of deleterious mutations. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Is there any evidence that parasite with the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across the genome are biologically less fit? There is evidence that this is the case for drug resistant parasites in vitro, that for parasites growing in vivo is less straightforward and varies for different drugs. Author response: There is currently no evidence that P. falciparum strains from SEA are biologically less fit that strains from Africa. Indeed that is the prediction of our model. It would be fascinating to test this hypothesis. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. To what extend are the isolates collected from a limited number of febrile patients reflect the overall parasite population across a whole country. Could a bias be introduced simply because of differences in the degree of acquired immunity on admission, the time between the onset of the infection and the time treatment was sought, or the level of admission parasitaemia? Author response: It is possible that samples collected may not be representative of the whole country; however the consistent results we obtain for across countries in Africa and SEA suggest that our observations of higher N/S is SEA compared to Africa is robust to random variations introduced due to sampling. It is possible that some biases in sampling may be introduced that could lead to differences in the observed rate of polyclonal infections between Africa and SEA. We separately analysed predicted monoclonal and polyclonal samples and find results similar to those obtained using all samples (Supplementary Figure 1 in the revised manuscript). We thus currently have no hypothesis of how biased sampling could actually lead to higher genome-wide N/S in SEA. Exposure to drug is clearly a strong selective constraint for those genes implicated in overcoming the effects of the drug. What can be the nature of the selective constrains that maintain the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across numerous genes spread throughout the genome? Clearly not all can be considered to provide some speculative compensatory effect to a potential reduction in fitness following drug selection. Author response: As further explained in the Discussion section, the higher genome scale N/S in SEA is consistent with relaxed negative selection. We hypothesise that relaxed negative selection could be due to low level of polyclonal infection and thus lower within-host competition in SEA. It should be pointed out that in the 1950’s resistance to chloroquine first appeared not only in SE Asia but also in Colombia. Similarly resistance to pyrimethamine did not first appear in SE Asia, but in all areas where the use of this drug became widespread and systematic (this was the case in both SE Asia and African countries in the 1950’s). The “unanswered” question as to the reason why drug resistance has repeatedly emerged in SE Asia, might have more to do with drug usage than with some special property of the parasites. Author response: Indeed resistance to chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine also appeared independently in South-America (but not in Africa 7 ). We have very few samples from South America (27 samples from 2 countries) to make robust conclusions. However it is interesting that samples from South America do show low rate of polyclonal infections and higher N/S compared to Africa (Figure 1 and Figure 6). We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Ultimately, I would suggest that the authors should present the limitations of their conclusions as well as alternative scenarios to account for their observations (and rank or discount them if they can). This will surely be welcome by readers. Advances in knowledge are seeded by diversity in speculation (conservative or less so) and genome wide analyses are a rich source for this. Author response: We have significantly expanded the Discussion section which we hope addresses the reviewer’s concerns. We would be happy to address any further concerns that you may have in the revised version of the manuscript. Reference List 1. Bushman, M. et al. Within-host competition and drug resistance in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Proc. Biol. Sci. 283 , 20153038 (2016). 2. Ross, A., Killeen, G. Smith, T. Relationships between host infectivity to mosquitoes and asexual parasite density in Plasmodium falciparum. Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75 , 32-37 (2006). 3. Metcalf, C. J. et al. Partitioning regulatory mechanisms of within-host malaria dynamics using the effective propagation number. Science. %19;333 , 984-988 (2011). 4. Raberg, L. et al. The role of immune-mediated apparent competition in genetically diverse malaria infections. Am. Nat. 168 , 41-53 (2006). 5. Bruce, M. C. Day, K. P. Cross-species regulation of malaria parasitaemia in the human host. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 5 , 431-437 (2002). 6. Yap, G. S. Stevenson, M. M. Blood transfusion alters the course and outcome of Plasmodium chabaudi AS infection in mice. Infect. Immun. 62 , 3761-3765 (1994). 7. Roper, C. et al. Intercontinental spread of pyrimethamine-resistant malaria. Science. %20;305 , 1124 (2004). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 17 Oct 2016 Gajinder Singh , International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), New Delhi, India 17 Oct 2016 Author Response We are grateful for your valuable comments, which we believe have significantly improved our manuscript. In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency ... Continue reading We are grateful for your valuable comments, which we believe have significantly improved our manuscript. In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency of non-synonymous mutations across an extensive genome set derived by the MalariaGEN consortium from an extensive set of P. falciparum isolates collected mainly in Africa and SE Asia. The analyses extend the work presented recently (DOI: 10.7554/eLife.08714) where a trend was noted for a higher level of non-synonymous mutations in the SE Asian parasites a compared to that in the African parasites. Specifically, the authors have presented the analysis for the parasites from individual countries and focused on SNPs that occur at residues that are highly conserved in orthologues within a variety of Plasmodium species and across eukaryotes in general. The authors have thus provided convincing evidence for statistically significant albeit relatively subtle differences between the parasites from SE Asia and Africa (it is unclear to me why parasites from Peru and Colombia were included in the analysis, all the more as their numbers were relatively low). Author response: We would like to clarify that MalariaGEN authors did not write or suggest that N/S ratio of P. falciparum strains from SEA and Africa are different. We have discussed the difference between the work reported in MalariaGEN study and our manuscript in the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. We added data from Peru and Columbia in Figures 1, Figure 5 and Figure 6 only for completeness, but we have refrained from making any firm conclusions based on these samples. We have nevertheless commented upon the observations from South-American samples in the Discussion section in response to your comment. Whereas, the quality of the data, the analyses and the results are not into question, I have some misgivings and indeed frustrations as to the conclusions put forward in an attempt to account for the differences observed. The scenario inspired by the observations that the authors propose as an explanation for the propensity of antimalarial drug resistance to emerge and spread in P. falciparum from SE Asia first before doing so in Africa is plausible and could be supported by the data presented. However, this scenario is based on a set of assumptions whose limitations are not discussed, without any justification as to why this particular scenario is the most likely. What is the nature of the intra-host competition between the genotypes of P. falciparum that circulate in humans, and is there any evidence that this actually alters transmissibility? Immunity is the most obvious selective intra-host factor. To which extend differences in the levels of immunity among the patients that contributed the P. falciparum isolates analysed here alters the multiplicity of the infection or indeed the likelihood of genetic crosses? Author response: We thank the reviewer for pointing this out. There is indeed evidence of intra-host competition between genotypes of P. falciparum in humans that reduces parasite density 1 . The association between parasite density and gametocyte density in humans has also been previously shown 2 . The reasons for intra-host competition however remain unknown. Strain-transcending immunity, resource competition (e.g. RBCs), and direct interference between strains have been proposed as possible mechanisms responsible for within-host competition 3-6 . It is also possible that lower recombination rates due to lower rate of mixed infections in SEA may reduce the removal of deleterious mutations. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Is there any evidence that parasite with the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across the genome are biologically less fit? There is evidence that this is the case for drug resistant parasites in vitro, that for parasites growing in vivo is less straightforward and varies for different drugs. Author response: There is currently no evidence that P. falciparum strains from SEA are biologically less fit that strains from Africa. Indeed that is the prediction of our model. It would be fascinating to test this hypothesis. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. To what extend are the isolates collected from a limited number of febrile patients reflect the overall parasite population across a whole country. Could a bias be introduced simply because of differences in the degree of acquired immunity on admission, the time between the onset of the infection and the time treatment was sought, or the level of admission parasitaemia? Author response: It is possible that samples collected may not be representative of the whole country; however the consistent results we obtain for across countries in Africa and SEA suggest that our observations of higher N/S is SEA compared to Africa is robust to random variations introduced due to sampling. It is possible that some biases in sampling may be introduced that could lead to differences in the observed rate of polyclonal infections between Africa and SEA. We separately analysed predicted monoclonal and polyclonal samples and find results similar to those obtained using all samples (Supplementary Figure 1 in the revised manuscript). We thus currently have no hypothesis of how biased sampling could actually lead to higher genome-wide N/S in SEA. Exposure to drug is clearly a strong selective constraint for those genes implicated in overcoming the effects of the drug. What can be the nature of the selective constrains that maintain the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across numerous genes spread throughout the genome? Clearly not all can be considered to provide some speculative compensatory effect to a potential reduction in fitness following drug selection. Author response: As further explained in the Discussion section, the higher genome scale N/S in SEA is consistent with relaxed negative selection. We hypothesise that relaxed negative selection could be due to low level of polyclonal infection and thus lower within-host competition in SEA. It should be pointed out that in the 1950’s resistance to chloroquine first appeared not only in SE Asia but also in Colombia. Similarly resistance to pyrimethamine did not first appear in SE Asia, but in all areas where the use of this drug became widespread and systematic (this was the case in both SE Asia and African countries in the 1950’s). The “unanswered” question as to the reason why drug resistance has repeatedly emerged in SE Asia, might have more to do with drug usage than with some special property of the parasites. Author response: Indeed resistance to chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine also appeared independently in South-America (but not in Africa 7 ). We have very few samples from South America (27 samples from 2 countries) to make robust conclusions. However it is interesting that samples from South America do show low rate of polyclonal infections and higher N/S compared to Africa (Figure 1 and Figure 6). We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Ultimately, I would suggest that the authors should present the limitations of their conclusions as well as alternative scenarios to account for their observations (and rank or discount them if they can). This will surely be welcome by readers. Advances in knowledge are seeded by diversity in speculation (conservative or less so) and genome wide analyses are a rich source for this. Author response: We have significantly expanded the Discussion section which we hope addresses the reviewer’s concerns. We would be happy to address any further concerns that you may have in the revised version of the manuscript. Reference List 1. Bushman, M. et al. Within-host competition and drug resistance in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Proc. Biol. Sci. 283 , 20153038 (2016). 2. Ross, A., Killeen, G. Smith, T. Relationships between host infectivity to mosquitoes and asexual parasite density in Plasmodium falciparum. Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75 , 32-37 (2006). 3. Metcalf, C. J. et al. Partitioning regulatory mechanisms of within-host malaria dynamics using the effective propagation number. Science. %19;333 , 984-988 (2011). 4. Raberg, L. et al. The role of immune-mediated apparent competition in genetically diverse malaria infections. Am. Nat. 168 , 41-53 (2006). 5. Bruce, M. C. Day, K. P. Cross-species regulation of malaria parasitaemia in the human host. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 5 , 431-437 (2002). 6. Yap, G. S. Stevenson, M. M. Blood transfusion alters the course and outcome of Plasmodium chabaudi AS infection in mice. Infect. Immun. 62 , 3761-3765 (1994). 7. Roper, C. et al. Intercontinental spread of pyrimethamine-resistant malaria. Science. %20;305 , 1124 (2004). We are grateful for your valuable comments, which we believe have significantly improved our manuscript. In this article the authors conduct a detailed analysis that focused on the frequency of non-synonymous mutations across an extensive genome set derived by the MalariaGEN consortium from an extensive set of P. falciparum isolates collected mainly in Africa and SE Asia. The analyses extend the work presented recently (DOI: 10.7554/eLife.08714) where a trend was noted for a higher level of non-synonymous mutations in the SE Asian parasites a compared to that in the African parasites. Specifically, the authors have presented the analysis for the parasites from individual countries and focused on SNPs that occur at residues that are highly conserved in orthologues within a variety of Plasmodium species and across eukaryotes in general. The authors have thus provided convincing evidence for statistically significant albeit relatively subtle differences between the parasites from SE Asia and Africa (it is unclear to me why parasites from Peru and Colombia were included in the analysis, all the more as their numbers were relatively low). Author response: We would like to clarify that MalariaGEN authors did not write or suggest that N/S ratio of P. falciparum strains from SEA and Africa are different. We have discussed the difference between the work reported in MalariaGEN study and our manuscript in the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. We added data from Peru and Columbia in Figures 1, Figure 5 and Figure 6 only for completeness, but we have refrained from making any firm conclusions based on these samples. We have nevertheless commented upon the observations from South-American samples in the Discussion section in response to your comment. Whereas, the quality of the data, the analyses and the results are not into question, I have some misgivings and indeed frustrations as to the conclusions put forward in an attempt to account for the differences observed. The scenario inspired by the observations that the authors propose as an explanation for the propensity of antimalarial drug resistance to emerge and spread in P. falciparum from SE Asia first before doing so in Africa is plausible and could be supported by the data presented. However, this scenario is based on a set of assumptions whose limitations are not discussed, without any justification as to why this particular scenario is the most likely. What is the nature of the intra-host competition between the genotypes of P. falciparum that circulate in humans, and is there any evidence that this actually alters transmissibility? Immunity is the most obvious selective intra-host factor. To which extend differences in the levels of immunity among the patients that contributed the P. falciparum isolates analysed here alters the multiplicity of the infection or indeed the likelihood of genetic crosses? Author response: We thank the reviewer for pointing this out. There is indeed evidence of intra-host competition between genotypes of P. falciparum in humans that reduces parasite density 1 . The association between parasite density and gametocyte density in humans has also been previously shown 2 . The reasons for intra-host competition however remain unknown. Strain-transcending immunity, resource competition (e.g. RBCs), and direct interference between strains have been proposed as possible mechanisms responsible for within-host competition 3-6 . It is also possible that lower recombination rates due to lower rate of mixed infections in SEA may reduce the removal of deleterious mutations. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Is there any evidence that parasite with the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across the genome are biologically less fit? There is evidence that this is the case for drug resistant parasites in vitro, that for parasites growing in vivo is less straightforward and varies for different drugs. Author response: There is currently no evidence that P. falciparum strains from SEA are biologically less fit that strains from Africa. Indeed that is the prediction of our model. It would be fascinating to test this hypothesis. We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. To what extend are the isolates collected from a limited number of febrile patients reflect the overall parasite population across a whole country. Could a bias be introduced simply because of differences in the degree of acquired immunity on admission, the time between the onset of the infection and the time treatment was sought, or the level of admission parasitaemia? Author response: It is possible that samples collected may not be representative of the whole country; however the consistent results we obtain for across countries in Africa and SEA suggest that our observations of higher N/S is SEA compared to Africa is robust to random variations introduced due to sampling. It is possible that some biases in sampling may be introduced that could lead to differences in the observed rate of polyclonal infections between Africa and SEA. We separately analysed predicted monoclonal and polyclonal samples and find results similar to those obtained using all samples (Supplementary Figure 1 in the revised manuscript). We thus currently have no hypothesis of how biased sampling could actually lead to higher genome-wide N/S in SEA. Exposure to drug is clearly a strong selective constraint for those genes implicated in overcoming the effects of the drug. What can be the nature of the selective constrains that maintain the higher levels of non-synonymous mutations across numerous genes spread throughout the genome? Clearly not all can be considered to provide some speculative compensatory effect to a potential reduction in fitness following drug selection. Author response: As further explained in the Discussion section, the higher genome scale N/S in SEA is consistent with relaxed negative selection. We hypothesise that relaxed negative selection could be due to low level of polyclonal infection and thus lower within-host competition in SEA. It should be pointed out that in the 1950’s resistance to chloroquine first appeared not only in SE Asia but also in Colombia. Similarly resistance to pyrimethamine did not first appear in SE Asia, but in all areas where the use of this drug became widespread and systematic (this was the case in both SE Asia and African countries in the 1950’s). The “unanswered” question as to the reason why drug resistance has repeatedly emerged in SE Asia, might have more to do with drug usage than with some special property of the parasites. Author response: Indeed resistance to chloroquine and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine also appeared independently in South-America (but not in Africa 7 ). We have very few samples from South America (27 samples from 2 countries) to make robust conclusions. However it is interesting that samples from South America do show low rate of polyclonal infections and higher N/S compared to Africa (Figure 1 and Figure 6). We have added these sentences to the Discussion section of the revised manuscript. Ultimately, I would suggest that the authors should present the limitations of their conclusions as well as alternative scenarios to account for their observations (and rank or discount them if they can). This will surely be welcome by readers. Advances in knowledge are seeded by diversity in speculation (conservative or less so) and genome wide analyses are a rich source for this. Author response: We have significantly expanded the Discussion section which we hope addresses the reviewer’s concerns. We would be happy to address any further concerns that you may have in the revised version of the manuscript. Reference List 1. Bushman, M. et al. Within-host competition and drug resistance in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Proc. Biol. Sci. 283 , 20153038 (2016). 2. Ross, A., Killeen, G. Smith, T. Relationships between host infectivity to mosquitoes and asexual parasite density in Plasmodium falciparum. Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75 , 32-37 (2006). 3. Metcalf, C. J. et al. Partitioning regulatory mechanisms of within-host malaria dynamics using the effective propagation number. Science. %19;333 , 984-988 (2011). 4. Raberg, L. et al. The role of immune-mediated apparent competition in genetically diverse malaria infections. Am. Nat. 168 , 41-53 (2006). 5. Bruce, M. C. Day, K. P. Cross-species regulation of malaria parasitaemia in the human host. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 5 , 431-437 (2002). 6. Yap, G. S. Stevenson, M. M. Blood transfusion alters the course and outcome of Plasmodium chabaudi AS infection in mice. Infect. Immun. 62 , 3761-3765 (1994). 7. Roper, C. et al. Intercontinental spread of pyrimethamine-resistant malaria. Science. %20;305 , 1124 (2004). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Hupalo DN. Reviewer Report For: South-East Asian strains of Plasmodium falciparum display higher ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous polymorphisms compared to African strains [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1964 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10094.r15966 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1964/v1#referee-response-15966 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 08 Sep 2016 Daniel N. Hupalo , Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Biology, New York University, New York, NY, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10094.r15966 This is a compelling manuscript from Gajinder Pal Singh and Amit Sharma, which conducts an analysis of the accrual of non-synonymous changes within Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) genes across the breadth of the MalariaGen population genomic dataset. This work builds upon ... Continue reading READ ALL 