The manuscript makes a first inventory of potential NTD reference laboratories. As indicated by the first referee, it highlights the lack of NTD networking capacity. This is not unexpected in the view of this being NEGLECTED tropical disease. A number of immediate questions that the authors in my opinion need to address are: The fact that data from the European and African regions are lacking is a major weakness of the article. I would suggest that the authors try to include at least the relevant laboratories from the African region. The authors use a list of 25 NTDs. Which NTDs these are is unclear. WHO uses a list of 20 NTDs ( https://www.who.int/neglected_diseases/diseases/en/ ). It would be good to indicate which list of NTDs the authors use. Also: NTDs are a heterogeneous lot: parasites, viruses, bacteria, fungi. How realistic is it to assume that dedicated NTD laboratories exist? In most cases it will be one or more departments or groups within bigger laboratories. With regard to accreditation: the laboratories that indicate that they have international accreditation: is the NTD testing portfolio included in their scope of accreditation? Otherwise it does not count as accredited lab. With regard to human resources: are the numbers in the table the total number of staff in the whole lab or the number of staff actually working on NTDs? The latter is the relevant number. Do the authors think that by identifying NTD labs through published literature they may have created a bias towards research-oriented laboratories? Many routine laboratory hardly publish their work (if at all). Introduction, paragraph 4: “The role of the NTD reference laboratories is to maintain their own accreditation…” That is not a role, but a requirement to fully function as a reference laboratory. Supporting others to implement a QMS is a role. Methodology paragraph 5: “Overall 60 countries were identified as being affected by and prioritizing NTDs…” The WHO website (see reference under point 2) puts this number at 149. Please explain the discrepancy. EQA programmes: I am not surprised that not many labs participate in EQA programs as I know from experience that these are often unavailable outside the big diseases. The ISO standard provides a loophole for this in the form of interlaboratory comparisons. Did the authors identify how many labs work with interlaboratory comparisons for their NTD testing? How many of the labs have direct reporting for NTDs to the national disease control programs at MoH level? I am afraid that a network of NTD laboratories is necessary, but will be very difficult to attain: most LMIC have a severe lack of lab staff and a severe lack of funding for their health system in general. NTDs will not be among their first 100 priorities. In many cases NTD testing will have to piggyback on other testing and make use of the leftover resources of the “big” diseases. Also, funding for NTD research is limited and haphazard. I think building a sustainable network will be an enormous challenge. I think that ultimately more qualitative research with multiple stakeholders (semi-structured interviews, focus group discussions) are needed to really understand how to best design and implement a sustainable laboratory network for NTDs. 