This article demonstrates the creation of a 3D printed model of the brain of a multiple sclerosis patient, allowing for enhanced visualization of white matter lesions. This technique may be useful for medical education and may provide patients with a more tangible representation of their disease pathology. By utilizing clinically relevant MRI sequences and an imaging segmentation tool designed for a clinical workflow, the authors present a method that can be implemented by clinicians at other institutions. However, the article has several weaknesses that must be addressed: The authors report that the patient provided written consent for publication of his/her images, however there is no information about whether the study was approved by the local IRB, or, instead, a waiver was received. IRB approval, or a waiver of IRB approval, is required, by law, prior to commencing a medical research study. The paper is classified as a “Research Note,” which, per the F1000Research guidelines, “include single-finding papers that can be reported with one or two illustrations (figures/tables), descriptions of unexpected observations, and lab protocols. Posters from conferences or internal meetings may be summarized as Research Notes. In many cases, some additional detail, particularly in the methods, description of the results, and/or discussion/conclusions will be required to make sure that readers (and referees) have enough information to understand the description of the work.” There is no research in this paper; rather, it is an educational demonstration, as the authors themselves report. In fact, it is not clear that this report falls under any of the F1000Reserach article categories. The patient’s diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) is not entirely clear based on the presented information. As it is noted that the patient has an unusually large lesion load (with bilateral temporal lobe symmetry, per Figures 1, 2, and Supplementary Movie 1), we would ask that the authors clarify if the patient met the 2010 McDonald criteria ( Polman et al., 2011 ), specifically dissemination in time (DIT). Further, if DIT was apparent based on the hospital visit MRI as compared to the images collected at the neurology clinic, printing a 3D model for each of these time points would strengthen the author's argument that the brain model could be used to demonstrate disease progression. But in that case, they would need to quantify the change using their approach. We also ask that the authors clarify the clinical measures used to reach the diagnosis of MS for this patient. The authors state that “Since no study had characterized a patient’s total lesion volume loss in 3D in MS, comparison of our results to any published literature is not possible.” This is clearly not the case. Indeed, the segmentation in this paper was done on 2D slices of the 3D image volumes, and that is routine in the field. The discussion of axonal transections, based on data from Trapp et al., 1998 , is bizarre. As the authors themselves note, no two MS cases are identical, and therefore precise estimates of the number of transected axons in the current patient’s brain are not justified. Moreover, the authors provide no information about how they determined whether lesions in their patient’s brain were active or chronic, which is highly relevant in this regard. This entire section should be removed. The authors should discuss a recent publication relevant to this article: Newton, Braeden D., et al. "Three‐Dimensional Shape and Surface Features Distinguish Multiple Sclerosis Lesions from Nonspecific White Matter Disease." Journal of Neuroimaging (2017). While the authors emphasize the utility of automated/computational algorithms in MRI in both the introduction and the discussion, the method presented here is based entirely on manual segmentation and thresholding. Given this emphasis, we ask that the authors explain why they chose not to use an automated method for segmentation of lesions, such as those presented in Carass et al., 2017 . The authors suggest that their work could stimulate research into cortical atrophy. We ask that the authors comment on the extent of atrophy required to notice an appreciable change in a 3D model and how that might compare with the known rate of cortical atrophy in MS literature. The authors state that they believe a 3D printed model may become mandatory as a decision-making tool in some acute neurological diseases if provided in real time. Given the assumption that segmentation would be automated, we ask that the authors provide the approximate printing time and cost of the 3D model to provide context of the practicality of this use. The references – particularly the ones that deal with segmentation of MS MRI scans – are out-of-date. As a general point, the article is written in a very non-conventional format, and there are many extraneous details and a good bit of philosophizing, which really has no place in a scientific article. 