This paper looks at expression of genes in a gene cassette array that includes a fused cassette and at the excision of cassette from this array. Polycistronic transcripts from cassette arrays and the excision of other fused cassettes have previously been noted by others, as cited in this paper. The sequences in Appendix 1 need to be annotated properly, rather than just the results of searches given, and the point illustrated by each sequence needs to be explained to make it possible to assess whether they support the conclusions drawn in the paper. Some reorganisation (moving some information in the Results and Discussion to the Introduction) would help to make the paper easier to follow and the Conclusions section is very short and could be expanded. The English could also be improved and the manuscript checked for typos etc. A few specific points also need correcting or clarifying: Abstract Line 5- fused cassettes do not always have fused orfs (e.g. aacA1 / orfG ) Abstract 6th Line from end and Results and Discussion p. 5 1st Line of 2nd paragraph – what is in the gcu14 - aacA4 circular form? Should this be bla GES-1/ aacA4 ? Materials and Methods Line 1 – this needs rewording to explain that gcu is a gene cassette of unknown function. Results and Discussion p. 4 – the fusion here is the type where part of the bla GES-14 attC site is replaced by part of the attI1 site (see ref. 14). The LH and RH domains are part of the attC site, rather than flanking it. The 5′ UTR contains 6 bp of the attC site. Results and Discussion p. 5 – most of the 1L core site and the 1R core site of the bla GES attC site are present. Results and Discussion p. 6 – the deletion of part of the attC site doesn’t bring the aacA4 gene much closer to Pc and ref. 14 makes slightly different point (that expression of the downstream cassette may be enhanced). Formatting “14” of gcu14 and “A4” of aacA4 should be in italics.Transposon, gene and species names etc are not correctly formatted in the references.