This article by Howe et al. is a generally well-written commentary on the importance of open science as well as some of the current barriers to its most effective implementation and use. This is a very timely topic that certainly deserves discussion of its value to the scientific community and of how it can be improved. I believe there are several noteworthy areas in which the article could be improved prior to it being approved for indexing. The authors should step back at the very onset of the article and define open science. It would also be helpful to provide more context on the history of open science and why/ how that history is important to the current article. While this is a well-written article in general, there are a few phrases used that should be reconsidered. For example, the use of the phrase “the whole enchilada” should be re-written in a more professional phrasing. I would argue that the most significant “costs” or “barriers” to open science are the financial costs (of which personnel labor/ time and electronic/ computer storage space issues are perhaps the biggest components). It is a missed opportunity to not mention the financial costs of open science. As part of that discussion, it would be interesting for the authors to discuss who bears the financial costs and whether there is room for improvement. For example, could funders/sponsors do more to support the costs of open science? And, are there opportunities for new policies (at the level of funders/sponsors) to be developed that could further support the wider implementation of open science? The title of the article refers to the “impact” of open science but the current content of the article falls short on convincing the reader of the current and potential impact of open science. It may be worth providing some specific examples of how open science has been used to make impactful discoveries, etc. Providing such examples could drive home the point of why it is so important to support and improve open science. In summary, this is a timely article discussing a very important topic. There are limitations of the current version of the article that dampen this reviewer’s enthusiasm at this time regarding giving a full approval. As such, I look forward to reviewing a revised version of the article. 