 This paper describes the use of the J2 monoclonal antibody to detect differences in the amount of double stranded RNA between uninfected and TSE (prion) infected brain and cell cultures. The antibody was used to detect dsRNA by immunofluorescence in control JFH1 cells and cells infected with hepatitis C, and in PK1 cells that were or were not infected with a TSE strain. In this experiment the detection of antigen in the JFH1 cells was poorly demonstrated. However the PK1 cells showed high levels of immune-reactivity whether or not they were infected. Staining was reduced by RNAase A treatment, although in this case the untreated control showed poorer staining. Crude undenatured RNA extracts from these cells were also run on gels and immunoblotted with the J2 antibody. The antibody detected bands in the hepatitis C infected cells which were absent from the uninfected cells. The banding pattern differed between the Huh 7.5 cells and the PK1 cells. Although there are minor differences between uninfected and infected PK1 cell extracts no major difference was detected or commented on by the author. In the third experiment control and TSE infected brain sections were subjected to immunohistochemistry using the J2 antibody. In this experiment some differences are observed between the control and TSE infected samples. However there are some weaknesses in presentation which compromise the assessment of these images. Firstly figure 3A is difficult to interpret because the colour of the sections from control brain are markedly different from those from the infected animal, which could be misleading. The author could consider trying to do some form of quantification of the numbers of positive cells within a defined field using a software package such as image J. Figure 3B is a better panel but again the colour balance between the negative and positive panels differs. Figure 3C is less convincing because the images are again poorly presented. It would have been helpful to present them with a similar and lighter colour balance, and with the same area in the same orientation. The use of the term “some cells” is imprecise and could be improved by conducting some quantification, e.g. by counting positive cells in a defined area (blind). Scale bars should be included throughout. In summary, the results presented in the paper show J2 binding to antigen in cells and brain sections. There are differences between uninfected and hepatitis C infected cells and some indication of differences between control and TSE infected brain. However the results are very preliminary and much work will be required to substantiate these observations and establish their relevance. 