Garca-Quintans et al. reports on the identification of an Argonaute protein coding gene from the mesophilic bacterium Clostridium butyricum strain CWBI 1009, and characterise its product as a potential genome editing tool alternative to the well known CRISPR/Cas. Authors have purified the native protein and an inactive variant as a control, and thoroughly characterise its activity in relation to a number of parameters such as different temperatures, cations and ionic strength. Altogether, the work of Garca-Quintans is a well-designed characterisation of the in vitro activity of the CbcAgo protein. A similar work has been recently published in Nucleic Acids Research 1 , by the group of John van der Oost using a similar CbAgo protein from an unspecified strain of C. butyricum , as acknowledged by the authors. It appears that both proteins have very similar characteristics. The authors claim some relevant differences between both proteins: Enzyme stability at different temperatures: In first place, none of authors assay thermostability, they assay activity at different temperatures, which is not the same. This should be changed in the Discussion, pg. 10. Based on the partial activity detected at 55C in this paper, authors claim CbcAgo might be more “stable” than CbAgo (Discussion, pg. 10). However, CbAgo activity was not assayed at 55C but at 50C (partially active) and 64C (inactive). A comparison of the activities at the same temperature, 50C, which show almost maximal activity of CbcAgo but substantially reduced activity of CbAgo (50%), would be more reliable. Anyways, since the difference is very small, it is very difficult to ascertain whether the differences are real or a consequence of slightly different assay conditions. Strict dependence on phosphorylation: Both CbAgo and CbcAgo, were unable to cut a short 45-mer target DNA if the gDNA is 5’-OH. However, Hegge et al. , 2019 1 , additionally reported partial activity of CbAgo on a longer target (120-mer), which was not tested in this manuscript. Therefore, in this regard, there is no data that supports the difference between both proteins claimed in this manuscript. Minimum size length of the gDNA: By comparing the results obtained with both proteins, it is apparent that CbcArgo requires a shorter gDNA to cleave the target. I think this is the most evident difference. However, as the authors acknowledge, these differences may be due to technical reasons rather than a difference in catalytic activity between the Argo proteins. The question of whether CbcArgo and CbArgo show any difference in activity could only be solved by making a side by side comparison of both proteins having the same tag, and using exactly the same procedure. Anyways, I really miss an alignment of CbArgo and CbcArgo proteins to know how different these proteins are at the amino acid level. Other comments: Please, properly align lanes and lanes names/numbers in Fig. 1. Requirement for 5phosphorylated gDNA is shown in Fig. 6, not 4 (Discussion, pg. 10). 