In this article, the author introduces a predictive framework for understanding the bright coloration of coral reef fishes using the criteria of need for camouflage and possibility of camouflage. These axes allow fish to be grouped into fish that (1) able to adopt flamboyant colors because they don’t have significant predation due to some defensive ability, (2) live in a very visible colourful world and camouflage isn’t really possible anyway, and (3) adopt a cryptic coloration pattern due to great predation risk. I found this framework to be thought-provoking and apt for the tropical marine coral reef system under discussion. Every environmental medium has its own physical properties that promote or disfavour both organismal coloration and visual perceptual abilities. One issue with the article in its current form is that it could do a better job of discussing life on the margins of these systems where the light environment changes with depth – reds and oranges become dark browns and blues at greater depth and a discussion of this framework in a non-binary world would be interesting. Further, can brightly coloured fish “escape” their coloration temporarily at times of greater risk by moving into darker environments? The other discussion that would improve the piece is how it might differ in other media – how do physical differences between shallow marine environments differ with terrestrial environments in a way that allows this to occur. Clearly there are terrestrial environments the environmental background changes frequently or is spatially complex and animals live in a hyper-visible world – yet we see far fewer brightly coloured species on land, save for aposematic species (carefree world) and birds advertising for sexual display (sexual selection may be so strong as to override natural selection favouring camouflage). Why are there no brightly coloured mammals? These questions are all easily addressed but would make for a more complete discussion of the hypothesis at hand and why it works in coral reef fishes. Overall, I found the paper thought provoking but additional discussion could make for a more complete, well-rounded discussion of the hypothesis and how it might even be adapted for other environmental systems.