Drs. Losasso, Bostrom, and Messinger should be applauded for their work in characterizing asparaginase activity levels in ALL patients. The results and research are clearly presented and accurately reported. The conclusions of the study are appropriate, and the limitations of this retrospective cohort study are well-described. Some specific suggestions/comments/recommendations: Abstract: I would include the n in the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions, or acknowledge that the study may not have been powered to assess this outcome. Readers who only look at the abstract may wrongly conclude pre-medication is not effective, when the analysis may have been underpowered to detect a statistically significant difference in hypersensitivity reactions in the pre-medication vs. no pre-medication group. The paper, methods, and title are focused on the impact of pre-medication on activity levels; however, the conclusion primarily talks about the low incidence of silent inactivation with two doses; thus monitoring only being necessary in patients that receive 2 doses. I would consider a sentence re: pre-medication here as well. Intro: Not essential, but could consider mentioning fibrates in the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia, which is another first line option. Would cite more recent data on the impact of pre-medication on preventing hypersensitivity reactions - Cooper SL, Young DJ, Bowen CJ, Arwood NM, Poggi SG, Brown PA. Universal premedication and therapeutic drug monitoring for asparaginase-based therapy prevents infusion-associated acute adverse events and drug substitutions. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2019 Aug;66(8):e27797. 1 and Marini BL, Brown J, Benitez L, Walling E, Hutchinson RJ, Mody R, Jasty Rao R, Slagle L, Bishop L, Pettit K, Bixby DL, Burke PW, Perissinotti AJ. A single-center multidisciplinary approach to managing the global Erwinia asparaginase shortage. Leuk Lymphoma. 2019 May 17:1-15 2 . I would be careful with stating asparaginase antibodies are always predictive of future allergic reactions, as not all antibodies inactivate asparaginase or lead to clinical hypersensitivity reactions (ex: CCG01961). Consider rewording to soften this language. In paragraph 5, the statement is made that silent inactivation is of greater concern than allergic reactions. However, one could argue that allergic reactions are more common than silent inactivation with asparaginase (~1%), and monitoring activity levels in the setting of grade 1-2 allergic reactions is essential to determine which patients with clinical hypersensitivity reactions are having true antibody mediated reactions vs. other, non-antibody mediated (possibly ammonia vs. other immune-mediated) allergic reactions that would not warrant a switch to another asparaginase preparation. Other large scale studies assessing the rate of silent inactivation and finding the rate to be 8% could also be included in this discussion (or cited). These include, AALL07P4, Schore, et al. Leuk Lymph 2019 3 , CCG1962, and Park JH, et al. Blood. 2016;128:1629 4 . Methods: While a sample size was not calculated a priori, could the authors conduct a sensitivity analysis on the data determined the detectable effect size at 80% power in the primary outcome of interest (rate of grade 3/4 allergic reactions?)? Were dose reductions in PEG ever conducted in this data set for toxicity/age/risk factors for hepatotoxicity? It is unclear how silent inactivation is defined in this data-set from the methods. It may also be clinically relevant to capture "accelerated clearance", which also may be clinically relevant. Not all anti-asparaginase antibodies lead to full inactivation of the drug, but some lead to accelerated clearance and lower than expected values at early time points. A patient with silent inactivation would have a peak level that is undetectable, whereas a patient with accelerated clearance may clear the PEG by day ~7 when an expected duration of asparagine depletion is 21-28 days with a full pediatric dose. Were any levels obtained in patients with low-grade hypersensitivity reactions? If so, did any of these patients have accelerated clearance/"loud" inactivation? Were the activity levels normally distributed? If not, perhaps medians in the box plot and a Mann Whitney U for comparison would be more accurate. Similarly, if the values in the 2x2 contingency table are small, consider a Fisher's exact test rather than chi-square for the incidence of hypersensitivity reaction comparison (although it likely won't make a significant difference). Was there a protocol to say every patient should have a level with every dose, or were levels obtained at random/provider discretion? Could there then be a selection bias in the patients who have activity levels obtained since so many were missed? I'm assuming first dose levels were "missed" because the risk of inactivation with the first dose should theoretically be zero, so they were perhaps more accurately intentionally omitted. Results: Is there any possibility that the level on day 6-8 of 2.8 was spurious? Were there any concomitant levels in this patient with this dose to make sense of such a high level? The one patient being described as having silent inactivation - I do not think I would characterize this as silent inactivation technically, since they had detectable activity levels at several time points, and no peak level is ever undetectable. I would consider this a transient accelerated clearance with dose 2 and 3. If silent inactivation was truly present, a patient should not have activity present for a full week and then have full activity with later doses. Patients with activity levels even as low as ~0.02 may still have asparagine depletion (AALL07p4). It may be interesting to graph levels over time in some of these patients with very low levels. Was there ever more than one level obtained per dose? Were repeat levels obtained to verify the low activity levels or follow the activity level trend over time (as is suggested in some guidelines?). This would help characterize the PK better in these patients. Was the choice to pre-medicate done at a strict, uniform point in time (i.e., was this a quasi-experimental design where a protocol to pre-medicate all patients was mandated?), or was pre-medication at the choice of the treating provider? If this was selected by the provider and not systematic, could there have been some slight selection bias where patients perceived to be at higher risk of hypersensitivity reactions were given pre-medication? This could have diminished the impact of pre-medication on reducing the rate of hypersensitivity reactions. Consider this in the discussion section if deemed relevant. Discussion: I would more accurately call the silent inactivation here "accelerated clearance" as the patient had asparagine depletion for at least a week, even with the low level. Consider discussing the possible value of obtaining activity levels in patients with questionable allergic reactions (grade 1/2). Could add as a limitation that it appears patients only had one activity level obtained per dose, which makes it challenging to interpret PK, especially in patients with higher or lower than expected activity levels. Overall, a very well-done paper with logical conclusions. Thank you for allowing me to review the manuscript and for your hard work in this research. 