The authors describe a very interesting case of nodular type milium colloid associated to UV radiation. It affirms the association demonstrated in several studies. The authors have made an appropriate review of the topic. I consider that after some minimum suggested changes the article should be indexed. Please make the following corrections in these sections: Abstract P.1: Please change the text “deposition of the mass…” to deposition of an amorphous, eosinophilic-cleaved, colloid material. Case Presentation P.2: The text “After local anesthesia using 2–3ml of intralesional lidocaine (2%), an excisional biopsy was obtained from forehead lesions. The specimen was put in formalin and was sent to the lab for routine hematoxylin-eosin stain and special stains (periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining, crystal-violet and Congo red staining) ” is not relevant. Please remove it. P.3: Please delete the text “of collagen fibers”. P.5: Please indicate the CO 2 laser fluences used. Figure 3: Please delete the text “The biopsy specimen from the forehead area showing”. Dear authors, it would be interesting to create a comparative table of the 12 cases reported in the literature. It should include possible causes, clinical features, histopathology, treatments performed and evolution of the cases. Please include the PAS staining photograph. It could be done in the figure 3 or adding a new figure. Please include the following two current references on this topic: Dguez J, Aguilar K, Garca L. Colloid milium, an expression of excessive sun exposure in Ecuadorian patients. Int J Dermatol. 2019: 58 (4); e80-e82. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijd.14384 1 Ghanadan A, Kamyab K, Daneshpajouh M, et al. Nodular colloid degeneration of the skin: report of three cases with review and update. Int Dermatol J. 2014; 5: 36. https://doi.org/10.4103/2229-5178.144527 2 With these references please try to broaden the knowledge about the pathophysiology of the disease, for example "UV exposure could cause degeneration of keratinocytes and elastic and collagen fibers with secondary accumulation of protein products and fibroblast secretions". 