Nelson and Congdon provide an analysis of historical crop yield evolution across the globe. The analysis is conceptually straightforward and provides a useful, high-level perspective. Overall, I think the analysis is a useful contribution to the literature on global crop production trends. One of the strengths of the analysis is the fact that the authors focus on production across many crops, which allows the authors to talk about macro-level trends. However, this lumping together of many crops leads their findings to be heavily dependent upon crop mix trends. This is partly alleviated by putting crops on a ‘common currency’ using kcals. However, I would like to see more discussion about crop weight, water content of harvested products, and calorie content of various crops and how these characteristics drive some of the results. I am thinking specifically how sugarcane and roots and tubers fall out as very important in the decision-tree analysis. I find the current format of the paper somewhat disorienting. Although the Results section contains information about the analytical methods, data sources are not described in much detail, nor are they very well-described in the “Dataset” boxes later on Page 4. And why should the analytical methods sections be contained within the Results? The Materials and Methods section at the end provides extensive documentation of the equations and statistical approach, but still little information about the data. Nowhere did I see the source of climate data described, the growing season definitions, the soils dataset, kcal conversions, etc … these are essential details to evaluate the quality of the research. The authors will have to decide what re-organization makes sense in the context of F1000 formatting guidelines, but the current orientation and missing details makes the manuscript hard to read front-to-back. The authors should be more explicit that they are mixing together variables that directly influence plant growth (e.g. weather, nutrient availability, and fertilizers) and those that proxy for unobserved factors that may influence plant growth (e.g. time and machinery investment). I take issue with the authors’ statement on Page 13: “Several suggested paths to greater food production are not supported by our analysis. Cropland extensification contributed little to yield gains in the immediate past and are not likely to do so in the future.” This statement about cropland extensification is true, but cropland extensification doesn’t need to boost yields to increase food production … more food production is simply achieved due to greater harvested area. Extensification has many negative environmental impacts, which could be discussed. The “Low” and “High” columns in the Table 1 legend and elsewhere are poorly described. You only have one yield observation per country and year, so how are you using an interquartile range of yields? What information should the reader be getting here? It would be most interesting to present a confidence interval on the size of the area between the expected yield curve and the counterfactual’s yield curve, through utilizing your distribution of coefficient estimates from the bootstrap. Based on what I think is the relevant Methods text on Page 15, it seems like the authors have done something slightly different. It’s unclear what information we are supposed to be gleaning from their calculation, and there is no consistent directionality to the Low vs High estimates (nor do they usually bracket the mean value). I suggest the authors use their distribution of coefficient estimates to provide a straightforward-to-interpret confidence interval on the counterfactual area calculation itself. Calculate the counterfactual area for each combination of coefficients across all countries, then report percentiles of that counterfactual area distribution. I agree with the previous reviewer that attempting to use both daytime and nighttime temperatures is likely pushing the data too hard. The strange coefficient estimates certainly seem to imply that to be the case. Page 2, Introduction, paragraph 1: References 1–3 do not support the statement in the first sentence, as they do not actually analyze the impacts of historical climate trends on historical crop yields. Reference 4 does support the statement. Page 2, Introduction, paragraph 2: If you introduce the term “cropped footprint” here it needs to be differentiated from “land”. Page 3: It might be easier for readers to call the two versions of the analysis “with fertilizer” and “without fertilizer” instead of “wide” and “long”. Page 4: The time trend also captures the diffusion of modern crop varieties (see, for example, Evenson and Gollin 2003 1 ). Page 12: It seems appropriate to reiterate the very high productivity (and weight) of sugarcane, root and tuber crops here, given their strong predictive power in the decision tree analysis. References 1. Evenson RE, Gollin D: Assessing the impact of the green revolution, 1960 to 2000. Science . 2003; 300 (5620): 758-62 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Mueller ND. Reviewer Report For: Measuring the relative importance of different agricultural inputs to global and regional crop yield growth since 1975 [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2930 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11227.r20596 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2930/v1#referee-response-20596 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Thomas TS. Reviewer Report For: Measuring the relative importance of different agricultural inputs to global and regional crop yield growth since 1975 [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2930 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11227.r19369 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2930/v1#referee-response-19369 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 08 Feb 2017 Timothy S Thomas , Environment and Production Technology Division, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), Washington, DC, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11227.r19369 I found the article by Nelson and Congdon to be quite interesting in what they attempt to do, how they approach the problem, and in the results that they get. Essentially, aggregating FAO production figures for each country from 1975 ... Continue reading READ ALL 