The authors submitted a clinical case report about a full mouth rehabilitation of a young male patient exhibiting moderate to severe enamel defects and staining resulting in an unfavorable aesthetic appearance. The patient’s chief complaint was to enhance anterior teeth aesthetics and overall appearance. The hidden message was a negative self-image and restricted self-confidence mainly due to discoloration. The treatment plan consisted of a hygiene phase, in-office tooth whitening, micro-abrasion, resin infiltration and minor aesthetic corrections using composite restorations. On a different note, an endodontic re-treatment as well as the extraction of a so called un-restorable molar were performed. The manuscript is well organized and the case is really worth to be reported because it shows, in an outstanding manner, that minimal interventions can result in excellent clinical results even from an aesthetic point of view and concomitantly enhance oral health and self-esteem. Unfortunately, the manuscript also contains numerous errors and suffers from shortcomings that are worth being addressed and revised accordingly. In the following, I’d like to itemize my suggestions for improvement: I would like to read more about the patient’s expectations. What exactly did he want to achieve, what would he be able to invest, were there any no-goes? Are there any anomalies regarding his anamnesis or family history? I have the feeling that there was something overlooked. Does the patient smoke or regularly consume any discoloring foods or beverages? Why is it important to mention that the patient is single? Please explain in detail or just leave it. To me it sounds slightly discriminating. Figure 2 A and B are inverted which is quite confusing. I would love to read more about the decision-making process. What alternatives were presented, why did the patient go for this option? Was he informed about risks and side-effects, if yes, which ones? Was the decision-making participatory or was it just a recommendation. To me one, if not the, major success was the absence of gingivitis after treatment. Apparently, the full mouth debridement has been beneficial. However, and this should be taken into consideration as well, the patient was seemingly motivated to intensify his oral hygiene substantially. Was this effect stable over the observation period? The resolution was not high enough to comment on this from my side. In the discussion part compliance should be replaced by willingness (second paragraph). The literature falls short of the actual state of art. Please see Schoppmeier et al. 2018, da Cunha Coelho et al. 2019, di Giovanni et al. 2018 for more recent citations. 1 , 2 , 3 The discussion is mostly oriented towards materials and methods used for operative care. This is fine; however, as I mentioned before the most precious aspect of this case to me is the cost-benefit analysis relative to Oral Health related Quality of Life. I would appreciate to see a focus also on that patient-centered outcome as well. I like the patient’s perspective part a bit more detailed. Finally, the manuscript needs linguistic revisions, it contains too many errors. In summary, I encourage the authors to consider my thoughts in order to make this good case an excellent one depicting that modern dentistry can affect a great deal without sacrificing too much time, money and, first and foremost, tooth substance. 