The presented interesting case study deals with a 15-year-old Caucasian boy, with triplegic cerebral palsy. Athetosis is not mentioned. From my personal experience of nearly 40 years I favour THA for the treatment of painful hips with subluxation or dislocation with spasticity, combined with the necessary soft tissues and muscles release; a procedure which has long term acceptable outcomes. The survivorship for THA, in cerebral palsy patients, is referred to be 85% for 10 years with relief from preoperative pain and improved function. Nevertheless, because of the difficulty of preoperative assessment and of selecting the right surgical indications, orthopaedic surgeons have been reluctant to recommend THA in these patients. In the present case study the authors attempted to treat an adolescent boy with a resurfacing hip artroplasty, combined with the necessary soft tissue and muscles release, a surgical procedure which has not been used previously for such a case. So far, according to the present authors, the proposed surgical procedure is successful. Since the long term results for cerebral palsied patients treated with THA, cemented or not, are acceptable, I cannot see why a resurfacing arthroplasty would not be successful even in an adolescent patient of this group. Further studies are definitely needed as well as confirmation of long term successful results. I have the following additional comments: There is a lack of information about the preoperative status of the spinal column, the extent of spinal fusion and any benefits its correction had for the patient. Also, the x-ray of the pelvis shows a degree of obliquity, which might allow greater than average forces to act upon the hip. One of the most important things to evaluate is the functional situation of a patient suffering from spasticity, which can lead to subluxation or dislocation and also to exclude athetosis, which complicates treatment or makes it impossible. Although it is not mentioned in this report I assume that the previous operative procedures have improved the muscle balance of the patient, a very important element, hopefully towards the right direction. Hip subluxation or dislocation in the cerebral palsy population is a problem for these patients and the reported incidence is from 18% to 59%. For painful hip subluxation or dislocation with arthrosis in the adolescent or adult, procedures such as hip arthrodesis, valgus osteotomy, proximal femoral resection, or total hip arthroplasty have all been done to relieve pain and improve function. 