Well written paper on an important and largely ignored subject: ‘health workers perspectives for guidelines’; Also on top global health issue ‘Ebola virus disease’. Study process was speedy and appropriate for the urgency needed for guidelines to be developed making this a good learning experience. However, there are a few points of attention listed below. I have also highlighted the sections relevant to my comments here . Methods AQ1: ‘The 2014–2016 EVD outbreak in West Africa was initially declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern in early August 2014, coinciding with the decision to develop a WHO rapid advice guideline on the selection and use of PPE for EVD care in outbreaks.’ This statement will fit more within the background section, consider moving into background. AQ2: ‘We electronically surveyed international frontline physicians and nurses who participated in foreign medical teams deployed to the affected countries in early stages of the EVD outbreak.’ Clearly stating time frame in the methods section within which survey was done will also be helpful for readers, although a time frame is given later under participants, it is not clear if this was for survey or the sampling. this time frame is also very early in the outbreak AQ3: Settings is not well described, consider discussing setting in more detail under a separate title. Results AQ4: Clinicians express discomfort and safety, it may be interesting to know if at some point in the interviews they weighed in on safety versus comfort e.g. will the feeling of safety make them cope with discomfort? Or does discomfort make safety inconsequential? I have answered ‘Partly’ to the question “Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature?” as a small part of the methods may benefit clarity if texts are moved around. I have answered ‘Partly’ to the question “Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results?” as it will be important to discuss discomfort versus safety of risk or clearly state if this was not evaluated by the study. Miriam N. Nkangu comments This is an interesting piece and important in the context of infectious diseases. I will like to appreciate the authors for taking the initiative during such an emergency to collect such data. I will recommend the paper to be considered for indexing especially as it contributes towards developing guidelines for PPE which was more of a challenge to health workers during the outbreak. Understanding their challenges and experiences especially in very humid temperatures is important. Most importantly, the 2014 outbreak was a remarkable and most catastrophic outbreak. Thus, using the outbreak as a point of focus adds value to the work considering that it pulled health workers from various countries. Methods, Background/limitation Why only physicians and nurses perspectives regarding PPE? I understand the relative risk for physicians and nurses as frontline workers is high, but other health workers are involved, and have recorded fatality rates, their experiences with PPE may also add value especially in the context of developing guidelines. Maybe the authors should consider adding this to limitations. Methods Four or five Likert is not explicit; it does not tell which questions were measured using scales of four and which used five and how they way categorize for-example., 1 indicating low or high? Agree or somewhat agree? Understand the sample size was small and is actually mentioned as a limitation, however, any data on number of nurses and physicians that were deployed by WHO and MSF during the period of data collection for background purposes and to justify the limitation? The sentence under data analysis is not clear to me, maybe rephrasing to better explain to the audience “For the purpose of statistical analysis, we considered each participant’s experience with a PPE item unique and independent.” The survey assumes that all the participants speak and write English? Language characteristic not mentioned considering that these affected countries some are French countries. If all participants were not English speaking how was it translated? Especially as the authors mentioned that respondents could not comprehend some questions due to time constraint. The literature highlights some gender differences for PPE amongst physicians and nurses especially in African context-assuming nurses are mostly women and physicians men- -it would have been good to explore differences between nurses and physicians with regards to the specific PPE used. Were physicians exposed to more sophisticated PPE than nurses? Other comments that may be of interest to the authors: I understand the limitation of the paper is focused on participants in Ebola treatment centers and only foreign deployed. However, guidelines should take into consideration local reality in terms of culture? Based on previous outbreaks, most families prefer to care for patient at home and given the limited resources in this context; Local materials were used at home in 2014 as PPE http://www.cnn.com/2014/09/25/health/ebola-Fatu-family/index.html . Given the reality of limited resources, and the fact that most families prefer to care for patient at home it would add more value also to consider experiences of those who cared for patient at home, the type of PPE used and opportunities in incorporating local reality into evidence-based guidelines for PPE. 