In Staphylococcus aureus, transcription of the lrgAB operon is positively regulated by the LytSR two component system. Previous studies demonstrated that LytS, the sensor histidine kinase, is activated by two different kinds of signals: the loss of membrane potential and glucose/acetic acid. In this paper, using purified proteins, the authors assessed the enzymatic activities of LytS and phosphorylation of LytR by LytS and acetyl phosphate. The autophosphorylation of LytS was rather slow, and the LytS-P was stable. The phosphotransfer from LytS-P to LytR was very slow while the LytR phosphorylation by acetyl phosphate was very efficient. When phosphorylated, the receptor domain of LytR formed a dimer. The phosphatase activity of LytS was also demonstrated. Based on these results, the authors concluded that acetyl phosphate is the signal transducer from the glucose signal. This manuscript is well-written and, overall, experiments are properly conducted. However, I have concerns on the interpretation of the experiment results. Those concerns are listed below. Abstract “Herein, we show that LytS has autokinase activity and can catalyze a fast phosphotransfer reaction, with 50% of its phosphoryl group lost within 1 minute of incubation with LytR.” : Indeed, in Fig. 3, the His-LytS-P signal at 1 min was significantly reduced as compared with that at 0 min. However, the reduction was not accompanied by increase of GST-LytR-P, indicating that the disappeared phosphoryl group was not transferred to GST-LytR. In addition, from 0.5 min to 90 min, the decrease of His-LytS-P signal was very slow. Therefore, the phosphotransfer reaction appears very slow in the condition employed. Introduction 3rd paragraph: The references 20 and 21 do NOT say that CidR is activated by acetyl phosphate. Ref 20 shows that the acetate (glucose) activates the transcription of cidABC operon through CidR. Ref 21 reports that CidC is a pyruvate oxidase. The last paragraph: The in vitro phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate does not guarantee that acetyl phosphate phosphorylates LytR in vivo. To my understanding, acetyl phosphate can phosphorylate many response regulators whose phosphorylation is not affected by carbohydrate metabolism. Materials and methods 2nd paragraph, 4th line from bottom: … for Sick Kids, Toronto, Canada. - ..for Sick Kids, Toronto, Canada). Page 5, 1st paragraph, 2nd line from bottom: delete “for” after 25C. Results Page 7, 1st sentence: “cognate” might be a better word than “conjugated”. Page 8, Figure 3: The results, in particular GST-LytR-P signals, are not clear. Nonetheless, the phosphotransfer from LytS-P to LytR is very slow: even at 90 min, a significant amount of His-LytS-P still remains. The authors reported that the observed rate constant for the reaction is 0.3 min -1 . Although I am not an expert in biochemistry, the rate constant seems too high for the slow reaction. In addition, I wonder how the rate constant was calculated: was it based on the phosphorylation of GST-LytR or dephosphorylation of His-LytS-P? Page 8, the last sentence: (Figure 4B) - (Figure 4C D). Page 8 Figure 4: The observed phosphorylation rate constant for LytR was 0.6 min -1 while it was 0.9 min -1 for LytRN. However, Fig. 4A shows that a majority of LytR was phosphorylated at 1 min while less than half of LytRN was phosphorylated at the time point (Fig. 4C). I understand that two different concentrations (10 uM for LytR and 20 uM for LytRN) were used. But still, to me, the LytR seems to be phosphorylated faster than LytRN. Page 9, last sentence and Page 10, the first sentence: The authors say “the phosphatase activity of LytS was more prominent in the presence of ATP..” . However, to me, the dephosphorylation rates are very similar, regardless of ATP (Fig. 6A). I wonder whether the difference shown in Fig. 6C at 5 min is statistically significant. Discussion Page 10 (right column), top sentence: The authors say “The fast phosphotransfer process that we observed between LytS and LytR (0.3 min -1 ) suggests that any alteration in the cell membrane electrical potential sensed by LytS is efficiently transduced intracellularly.” In my view, the phosphotransfer process is rather slow, and the rate constant (0.3 min -1 ) might be miscalculated. If I understand the rate constant correctly, 30% of LytR would be phosphorylated within 1 min (or 30% of LytS-P will be dephosphorylated within 1 min?). Nonetheless, Fig. 3A shows that either reaction does not proceed that fast. Page 10 (right column), the second paragraph from bottom: The authors say “The rapid phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate observed in our study (about 2-fold faster than phosphorylation by LytS) strongly suggests that this pathway is important in vivo.” Although I also think it is likely, the in vitro phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate cannot serve as a definitive evidence for the in vivo phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate. To provide direct evidence, the authors can grow wild type and the mutants of pta (phosphate acetyltransferase) and ackA (acetate kinase) in the presence of glucose; then they can compare the transcript levels of the lrgAB operon. Since Pta synthesizes acetyl phosphate, no acetyl phosphate will be present in the pta mutant. On the other hand, ackA is converting acetyl phosphate into ATP; therefore, in the ackA mutant, the level of acetyl phosphate will be higher than that in wild type. If acetyl phosphate is indeed the in vivo mediator of the glucose signal, the transcript level of lrgAB will be lower in the pta mutant while higher in the ackA mutant,as compared with wild type cells. Page 10 (right column), the second paragraph from bottom: The authors used the reference 20 to introduce two different regulation mechanism of the lrgAB operon. However, the reference 20 is about the regulation of cidABC operon by CidR. I think the reference 1 is more appropriate. Fig. 7. The model. To me, the following model fits better to the data presented in the paper. 1. No glucose (nor acetate), full membrane potential : In this condition, LytS will have a net phosphatase activity due to slow autokinase activity (Fig. 2A), very inefficient phosphotransferase activity (Fig. 3A), and relatively higher phosphatase activity (Fig. 6), resulting in a low expression of lrgAB. 2. No glucose, loss of membrane potential (e.g., gramicidin, CCCP etc) : The loss of membrane potential will activate the kinase activity of LytS, converting LytS from a phosphatase to kinase. The level of LytR-P will increase, resulting in higher expression of lrgAB. 3. Glucose, full membrane potential : The efficient phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate will overcome the phosphatase activity of LytS, resulting in higher expression of lrgAB. 4. Glucose, loss of membrane potential (e.g., gramicidin, CCCP etc) : LytR will be phosphorylated by both LytS and acetyl phosphate, resulting in maximal expression of lrgAB.