Thanks for the author for a very insightful article. Open access in the Global South is very important issues as it may alleviate the digital divide that is preponderant in today’s publishing world .On the other hand, NGOs (especially those that are local) represent a viable and unavoidable partner for a fruitful cooperation between the Global North and the Global South. This article has adequately presented the issue at stake and has pinpointed the inadequacies the system holds. Being from the Global South, I can relate to the issues the author is investigating especially those pertaining to the APCs. In our countries, the sums asked simply represents well over one month of salary which make them not only expensive but simply impossible. However, I think that the author could have added some references that have investigated the issues and I think these two are really at the heart of the subject at hand. They are: Dahdouh-Faridet et al. , (2003), Neo colonial science by the most industrialized upon the least developed countries in peer reviewed publication, Scientometrics , 56(3), 329-343 1 . Benjamin Acosta-Cazares et al. (2000).Scientific Colonialism and Safari Research. Available here 2 . They show how much scientific publishing has not earned its independence from outdated and inefficient ways to publish and that have made publishing some kind of “old boys’ network” only that the network relates not to people individually but groups that are simply eliminated from publishing not intrinsically but on a personal base. That’s where the author could have made the case (she did but not strongly enough) that the exclusion they (we?) suffer is embedded in the system that do not take account large chunks of potential contributors to knowledge building. I commend the author last sentences “ Their exclusion is an example of how knowledge access inequalities are embedded in the research production cycle. To redress this, a step forward would be to actively include these important research organisations from the Global South in OA discussions and implementation plans” . It perfectly summarises an inequitable system that exclude on non logical and rather biased criteria. One last remark: the keywords include Nepal, Bangladesh, China, Pakistan, Swaziland, Ghana but only Nepal’s example is cited inside the text. Is this an omission or these countries were studied but not namely in the article? 