Technical Review: Use of the K factor from the Universal Soil Loss Equation can show arable land in Palau by Oda et al. General Comments: The investigators report the results of measured and estimated soil erosion in the Micronesia region of the western Pacific Ocean. To compare how plantings and micro-tilling affects soil detachment and transport to field edges, they established eight plots within a single field, following as closely as possible (presumably) the original protocol of the USLE. Although the title indicates a focus on soil erodibility (K), the study design is more relevant to understanding practice effects on erosion. Given the importance of subsistence agriculture and the lack of studies specific to promoting sustainable practices in this region, this work calls attention to a critical information gap. The manuscript requires extensive revisions to clarify and substantiate its contributions. It lacks a “story arc” that enables the reader to readily understand why this work is important, how the researchers tackled this knowledge gap, and how their results compare or contribute to the existing body of research. For example, the authors might consider highlighting the importance of subsistence farming to the region and the challenge of soil erosion to sustainable agriculture, but the lack of technical guidance specific to the region. The USLE, which is based on a phenomenal US dataset, is a widely accepted tool to evaluate erosion potential based on landscape setting and management, but the empirical model ideally requires local testing and refinements for application to areas outside of its original US study area. The research objectives and methods also require clarification. Finally, the limited number of plots (8) and fields (1) raises concerns about the power of the study to detect differences among field practices. Given the difficulty and expense of field studies and the realities of scant data, however, the publication may be valuable. Specific Comments: A large portion of the introduction includes study site information, which should go in the Methods section. Use the international the international system for classification of soils to describe site conditions. Define “T factor”. In the site description, add information about the landscape setting, outside of the study site boundaries. A study site topographic map would be helpful. Information about the distribution of croplands on the study island, as well as a brief description of how the island compares to others in the region, would be helpful to thinking about the value of information beyond the study site. In the methods section, add a paragraph describing how and where rainfall data were collected. Include this location on the study area map. It is not clear how tilling, even if by hand, does not mix soils. Elaborate on how soil erosion was measured. Reference methods to the extent possible. Elaborate on USLE application and parameterization. Use previous publications as examples. In the “Estimated erosion” section, define “That” in the last sentence on page 3. Consolidate Figure 6 into one panel. In the Discussion and Conclusions section, paragraph 1, reference to site conditions seem contradictory: “experiment was under sever conditions, with a slope of … 15” vs “risk of soil erosion was low for the experimental soil”. Convert Table 2 to graphical form. For example, plot A vs EI, observed vs predicted, grouped by practice. The pictures are difficult to interpret. The discussion needs to follow the same “story arc” presented in the introduction and used to organize the methods and results sections.The discussion also needs to compare the study results with the existing body of literature to assess whether findings to reinforce or challenge existing paradigms.The authors also need to acknowledge the limitations of their study design and ideally, discuss the relevance of their findings to management recommendations. 