 Motivation: Authors have previously shown for various Drosophila species, that the relative timing of events within embryogenesis is temperature indifferent (ref 1 in manuscript). To test if this uniform scaling with varying temperature is an intrinsic property of developing embryos, or rather a specific response to thermal fluctuations, authors soughed a temperature-independent manner to manipulate the embryogenesis development rate. Proposed study: Authors studied the development scale of embryos grown at different oxygen concentrations and its interaction with varying temperatures. Main result found: In contrast to the uniform scaling of development with temperature variation, authors found heterochrony of the developmental events with changes in oxygen levels. There was an interaction between temperature and oxygen. Conclusions: These data reveal that the uniform scaling seen with changes in temperature is not a trivial consequence of adjusting developmental rate. Authors inaccurately raise conclusions on the behaviour of developing embryos with fluctuating temperature (referred as to the previous study), based on experiments performed with varying oxygen in the present study . Instead, the data presented in this study supports the hypothesis that a uniform scaling of development is not an intrinsic property of developing embryos. Rather, embryos adjust their developmental program in different ways depending on variable ambient conditions. Relevance of the study: Considering the importance of studies on tissue and cellular responses to hypoxia, for human health (i.e.: tumour growth and cardiovascular disease, among others) this study could potentially become of great impact. Control aspects that should be addressed: Authors assume that O 2 is delivered uniformly through the embryo, as most probably temperature does. Are the results here obtained simply a consequence of a differential diffusion of O 2 through the embryonic tissues? Does temperature affect O 2 diffusion, explaining the interaction between both variables here shown? Is there an effect of nitrogen changing concentration in the hypoxia treatments? Derived biological questions suggestions: Is the oxygen dependency of developmental rate conserved in the different Drosophila species? The non-uniform scaling of development in hypoxia might indicate that oxygen plays a signalling role during the developmental process (see Jarecki et al., 1999 ). Might mild physiological hypoxia in embryonic deep tissues explain the differential reluctance to oxygen deprivation of different tissues? Is the embryonic developmental program a coordinated hierarchical chain of events, being the chronological appearance of each one dependent on the occurrence of the previous event? Or, rather, is the embryonic developmental program a sum of independent events each following an autonomous synchrony and/or independent scaling that adjusts to the ambient conditions? Or a combination of both? These aspects could actually be addressed in the manuscript based on the results obtained with varying temperature (previous study) and varying oxygen (results shown here). Authors could put their results into an ecological context, comparing species with different habitats and ovipositon sites. These studies were done on de-chorionated embryos. Authors could address the fact that chorion might serve as a physiological barrier to fluctuating oxygen concentrations, which would prevent desynchronising the embryonic development with varying ambient conditions. Proposed experiments: To reinforce the evidence of the role of oxygen/hypoxia on the development scale, authors could use mutants of the oxygen cellular sensing machinery (i.e.: Hph (CG31543), sima (CG7951); see Centanin et al., 2005 ) in time-lapse imaging experiments. Such experiments could serve to rule out a mere physic-chemical effect of hypoxia on the embryonic development scale and at the same time test if oxygen has an active signalling role during embryogenesis. Authors could follow with fluorescent markers the dividing cells (e.g.: bromouridine) and or apoptotic cells (e.g.: TUNEL) during development at varying oxygen levels to get an insight on the cellular/molecular mechanisms sustaining the adjustment of the development to varying oxygen or temperature fluctuations. Authors could try to address the embryonic internal oxygen concentrations by indirect labelling of populations of synchronized embryos (30 min egg-laying) fixed after the relevant oxygen/temperature treatments (e.g.: lac-Z/GFP staining using hypoxia reporter genes, NADPH diaphorase staining). To test if the presence of chorion affects the response to varying oxygen, authors could repeat the experiments with synchronized chorioned eggs (30 min egg-laying) immediately dechorionated + fixed after treatment. This would test if indeed the ambient variation in oxygen affects development in nature. Having overcome the challenge of obtaining developmental staged-matched samples for different species in their previous study (ref 1 in manuscript), authors could include different species to complement this study. Minor comments: Introduction paragraph-5 line-6: simalar should read ‘similar’. Methods: Egg-lays were performed in medium cages on 10 cm molasses plates for 1.5 hours at the temperature at which the lines were maintained after pre-clearing. This phrase is not clear. Were adult flies maintained at the same temperature as eggs? Does this affect the stage at which eggs are laid? With 1.5 hours collection eggs have an error of 45 minutes, which at the beginning of embryogenesis might have huge effects on development. How was the proportion of development calculated? Data quantification methods should be clearly detailed in methods section. Figure 1: Y axis is not in scale. Authors should also indicate in the figure legend the number of eggs ( n ) for each experiment. Results paragraph-3 line-5: Syncytial development, as measured by the time between the appearance of the pole bud and the end of cellularization , takes proportionally less time as oxygen concentrations decrease, indicating that this stage is not slowed as much by decreasing oxygen. The event ‘end of cellularization’ is not shown on figure 1C legend. Authors might want to re-phrase the passive voice in ‘indicating that this stage is not slowed as much by decreasing oxygen’ for ‘ indicating that decreasing oxygen does not slow this stage ’. I don’t see the dependence of one argument with the other. Authors might want to rephrase the entire argument. Results paragraph-3: The events mentioned in the text do not correspond to those shown in the figure legend. Authors might want to make it easier for the reader to follow their descriptions by choosing a uniform way of representing the data and referring to it in the text. Figure 2: Legend reference does not correspond to the events described in the figure legend, making difficult for the reader to follow the arguments. Table S1: legend missing; it might aid clarification to provide a legend to this table. Figure S1: Title is not clear: Changes in stages react differently as temperature changes. What do they react to? Figure S1: No reference legend is provided! Discussion pagraph-2 line-6: A checkpoint at this stage that hypoxic embryos fail to pass may explain this phenotype . Phrase not clear. Discussion: pagraph-5 line-3: Authors might suggest experiments to grasp this aspect. Discussion: final conclusion does not correspond to the aim stated at the beginning of the manuscript. Final comment: This study addresses an important topic relevant to biological and medical fields. Despite the fact that the conclusions raised are rather superficial, and regrettably inadequate to the objective aimed in the first place after major revision (!) , this manuscript could make an important contribution to Drosophila embryogenesis and, more general, to homeostasis of animal development.