 When Results Seem Implausible, It Is Wise to Take a Second Look Jesse Cohen and his colleagues present their analysis of the relationship between premiums on the exchange and the number of insurers in a market area, and conclude that premiums rise $5.71 for each additional insurer on the exchange. Their analysis is based on data from 34 states on the Federally Facilitated Marketplaces (FFMs) in 2014. Cohen and his colleagues conclude that in the early stages, there is a lack of price competition on the exchanges among insurers. There is a lengthy history in the health economics profession debating counter-intuitive findings. In the late 1970s and 1980s, many economists, including myself, pointed to the higher physician fees in areas with more physicians per capita, and argued this was consistent with physician-induced demand. Similarly, during the 70s and 80s, there was wide acceptance of the proposition that if a hospital could add additional beds, the beds would be filled. But times have changed, and the fee-for-service and indemnity insurance world of the 70s and 80s is long gone. Activist employers and managed care have helped put many of the older controversies to rest, and a strategy of competition is now embraced by both parties. To build a price competitive Marketplaces, the Affordable Care Act borrowed from the playbook of conservative economists such as Alain Enthoven and Mark Pauly 1 , 2 . Subsidies are pegged to the second lowest silver plan, so that the cost of a higher cost plan is borne entirely by the purchasing household. Essential benefits, metal tiers based on actuarial values and transparency offered through state websites promote price sensitive buying. Rather than illustrating a lack of competition among insurers, current evidence suggests that the exchanges are bringing price competition into the non-group market not witnessed in many years. Premiums cost 16 percent less than those predicted by the Congressional Office in 2014 3 . Sixty-four percent of 2014 Marketplace enrollment was for the lowest or second lowest cost plan on the metal tier in the rating area 4 . There was a 25 percent increase in the number of carriers in 2015 competing on the Marketplaces and in some states new entrants gained not just a plurality of enrollment, but a majority 5 . The number of plans offered rose by 25 percent. Some new entrants gaining the largest market share in 2014 went bankrupt or exited the market in 2014-2015 6 . This occurred in Iowa, Nebraska, and Minnesota for two co-op plans and a hospital-based plan. Between 2014 and 2015 the average cost of Marketplace plans did not increase. Deductibles also remained essentially unchanged. Pricing of plans followed a regression toward the mean pattern, with low cost 2014 plans increasing and high cost plans reducing their premiums. So connecting the dots, it appears the Marketplaces were built to be and are price competitive 5 . Analysis of Cohen and Colleagues The authors conducted two sets of analyses. In the first, using ordinary least squares regression, they estimated the relationship between the number of insurers in a rating area and the average premium. In the second, they use a variable slope, variable intercept model which the authors describe as equivalent to estimate separate regression for each plan offered in multiple areas within a state. It is from these second analyses that the authors reach their conclusion that as the number of insurers within a market area increases, premiums likewise increase. I thought it was insightful that the authors examined premiums for the same plan in different market areas within a state. Cohen and colleagues themselves point out that there may be intervening variables that explain these unexpected findings that areas with more insurers have higher premiums. Large states have more insurers participating on the exchanges and small rural states may have but one insurer participating. Within a state, rural areas tend to have fewer insurers participating compared to urban and suburban areas. Medical expenses, particularly hospital expenses, are higher in urban and suburban areas. Physician practice expenses such as rent and labor are greater in urban/suburban areas. However, in some rural areas local hospitals have de facto monopolies, and in some of these areas such as southern rural Georgia, premiums are very high. Before we accept the authors conclusions, I suggest that they control for the many intervening variables. These include; (1) area per capita income (2) some measure of average hospital costs in the rating area (3) percent of the population that is uninsured in the rating area (4) some measure of (5) type of insurer (Blue Cross Blue Shield, major commercial carrier, co-op, provider-based, Medicaid base etc. One other concern I have is that certain states may have undue weight. For example, in Florida, Governor Rick Scott and the Republican controlled legislature, to thwart the implementation of the ACA, divided the state into 58 regions. So Florida would have undue influence on findings. I suggest weighting each area by the uninsured population or total population. In fairness to Cohen and his colleagues, the authors note that the results may reflect the early stages of competition on the Marketplaces. Now that 2015 data are available for FFS states, I invite the authors to pool two years of data and determine if there initial observations still hold, with a fully specified model. References 1. Enthoven A, Kronick R: A consumer-choice health plan for the 1990s: Universal Health Insurance in a System Designed to Promote Quality and Economy (first of two parts). N Engl J Med . 1989; 320 : 29-37 Publisher Full Text 2. Pauly MV, Danzon P, Feldstein P, Hoff J: A plan for 'responsible national health insurance'. Health Aff (Millwood). 1991; 10 (1): 5-25 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Luhby T: The Obamacare Premiums Will Cost Less than Predicted, according to Data Released Wednesday by the Obama administration. CNN Money . September 25, 2013 . Reference Source 4. Health Plan Choice and Premiums in The 2015 Health Insurance Marketplace. ASPE Research Brief . January 8, 2015 . Reference Source 5. Gabel JR, Whitmore H, Stromberg S, Green M, et al.: Analysis Finds No Nationwide Increase in Health Insurance Marketplace Premiums. The Commonwealth Fund . December 22, 2014 . Reference Source 6. Mangan D: Obamacare Co-ops Try to Swim—Not Sink—As Red Ink Persists. CNBC . January 26, 2015 . Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Gabel J. Reviewer Report For: Do Insurers Compete on the Federal Health Insurance Exchange? [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :25 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6465.r8034 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-25/v1#referee-response-8034 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Cox C. Reviewer Report For: Do Insurers Compete on the Federal Health Insurance Exchange? [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :25 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6465.r7477 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-25/v1#referee-response-7477 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 16 Feb 2015 Cynthia Cox , Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, CA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6465.r7477 This study analyzes the relationship between Federally Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) premiums and the number of insurers participating in the region. The authors present a good overview of the dataset used, existing literature, and limitations in the availability of data (particularly ... Continue reading READ ALL 