The authors describe in detail a new information on antioxidant profile of 11 Sumatran wild mangoes ( Mangifera spp), including flavonoid and phenolic content as well as gallic acid and quercetin of its leaves and barks. The paper is well written. A few suggestions are made, however: Introduction : Need information why antioxidant activity is determined on leaves and barks instead of mango’s peel, pulp and seed kernel. Method : There is no information about quercetin and gallic acid standard for HPLC analysis. Need to specify the origin of quercetin and gallic acid standards. No information of HPLC column, please specify the column used. Results and discussion : The last sentence of paragraph 6 stated “Ailla and Prasada 46 stated that quercetin is the major flavonoid type in the peel of mango”, since this paragraph talk about gallic acid not quercetin, so discussion about quercetin should be moved in the paragraph 8. On paragraph 8 stated the lowest quercetin was found in M foetida (var Limus), actually as we can see from Table 3, it should be M foetida 2 (var. manis) and M foetida 3 (var. batu). Total phenolic is represented by gallic acid content. Increasing phenolic content should increase the gallic acid, but the study didn’t show this. Why this condition can appear? Does any others phenolic compound instead of gallic acid influence the total phenolic in mango barks and leaves? Flavonoid content is represented by quercetin. Increasing flavonoid content should increase the quercetin, but the study didn’t show this. Why this condition can appear? Does any others flavonoid compound instead of quercetin influence the flavonoid compound in mango barks and leaves? IC 50 values indicate the antioxidant activity, the lower IC 50 value the higher antioxidant activity. In this study the antioxidant activity is represented by total phenolic and flavonoid content. Lowering IC 50 should increase total phenolic and flavonoid content, but the study didn’t show this. Please discuss this phenomena. 