The manuscript submitted by Rodrguez Morales et al. represents a bibliometric evaluation on Babesia, in order to contribute to understanding this neglected zoonosis and addressing future research and control strategies. Bibliometric evaluation is an excellent tool to obtain objective information about specific areas of research and support the adoption of strategic decisions. In detail, this study provides and summaries data on the research activity on Babesia worldwide. It shows that the main country involved in the research on Babesia is USA, where babesiosis is a notifiable disease since 2011 (CDC) and most human cases have been reported. Of interest the strong research activity of institutions and countries as Japan and UK, in which Babesia represents a new emerging problem both in animals and humans. This study highlights the increased research activity on this neglected zoonosis, considered of growing importance in several countries and the need of further studies addressed to preventive and therapeutic aspects. The manuscript, proposed as a research note, is well structured, the statistical analysis and its interpretation is sufficient, results and discussion appropriate. To fulfil F1000Research criteria (“Research note … can be reported with one or two illustrations (figures/tables)”), authors could reduce the number of figures/graphs. I suggest the following minor revisions in the text: In the Introduction: I suggest to add Ixodes spp as tick genera involved in the transmission of Babesia to humans. Indeed in USA most reported human cases are attributed to B. microti transmitted to people by Ixodes scapularis. Moreover, most European human cases are caused by B. divergens and B. venatorum , primarly transmitted by Ixodes ricinus 1 . The authors should specify that the first case described in Croatia in 1957 by Skaraballo, refers to a “human” case. Moreover I suggest adding a sentence regarding the role of animal reservoirs and their distribution that contributes (as the presence of vectors) in the maintenance of the transmission cycle. In the Methods: You could clarify which and/or how many countries have been used as keyword for the search pipeline Figure 6: In the caption: the citation trends is from Web of Science (as reported in the results), not Scopus. 