General comments On reading this again, I still think it is very long and overly repetitive (for example the various types of open peer review are discussed in a number of sections) and the paper would benefit from substantial consolidation of key topics. I recognize, however, that the authors are unlikely to be able to substantially change it now, given the large and diverse authorship. I note that a number of changes were made, though as far I can see the authors didn’t respond specifically to all the points I made, hence a number of my previous comments still stand. I'll leave it up to the authors if they respond to these comments. 1.0.1 Methods Thanks for clarifying that there was not a systematic review process here. I think it would be helped if the limitation of the approach taken was noted within the methodology (for example that there was no formal search strategy undertaken with specific keywords). It is clearer that the paper does express a multitude of perspectives, rather than being definitive. The authors argue against considering peer review as a “gold standard” but again on re-reading it I think the overall tone of the article may actually risk perpetuating the myth that peer review is some sort of panacea, rather than essentially a QC process. Anything that helps in demystification of the process would be helpful in encouraging a healthy debate in this area. I agree with this statement in the conclusions “Now, the research community has the opportunity to help create an efficient and socially-responsible system of peer review.” , though I think it is more likely there will be a multitude of systems that we should be looking to support. Specific comments There are a number of typos and sentences that need clarification - I have noted those I found. Italics are used when quoting from the paper Introduction However, peer review is still often perceived as a “gold standard” (e.g., D’Andrea O’Dwyer (2017) ; Mayden (2012) ), despite the inherent diversity of the process and never intended to be used as such. There seems to be text missing from this sentence By allowing the process of peer review to become managed by a hyper-competitive industry, developments in scholarly publishing have become strongly coupled to the transforming nature of academic research institutes. I am not sure what this sentence means. 1.3 In response to this, initiatives like the EQUATOR network ( equator-network.org ) have been important to improve the reporting of research and its peer review according to standardised criteria. Another response has been COPE, the Committee on Publication Ethics ( publicationethics.org ), was established in 1997 to address potential cases of abuse and misconduct during the publication process. (specifically regarding author misconduct), and later created specific guidelines for peer review. I don’t think that EQUATOR was set up as a result of specific criticisms about peer review – it was set up to address poor reporting of papers, and COPE certainly wasn’t set up to address peer review. COPE did later produce guidelines and other resources for peer reviewers, which have been recently updated – see https://publicationethics.org/peerreview A popular editorial in The BMJ stated that made some quiter serious (typo “quiter”) 2.2.1 Most statistical reviewers are paid. This is not mentioned in the text 2.4.2 The Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) could be used as the basis for developing formal mechanisms adapted to innovative models of peer review, including those outlined in this paper. COPE does advise on new peer review models as appropriate to ethics cases so I am not sure what is meant here. 2.5.1 Papers on digital repositories are cited on a daily basis and much research builds upon them, although they may suffer from a stigma of not having the scientific stamp of approval of peer review Should specify that this section is for preprint repositories 2.5.2 It’s a shame that clinical trial registration is not discussed more, though I appreciate it being added. It’s an interesting example of how innovations in one specialty often are not fully appreciated in another (until that specialty reinvents it for itself!).