Miller et al. present a long-read based assembly of the ISE6 tick cell line. Although mostly in the background/discussion sections of this paper, the Ixodes genome has been hard to assemble given a large number of repeats and heterogeneity between individuals. Similar to other recent long read efforts of mosquitoes, continuity / completeness has been improved by at the cost of residual haplotypes; only ~66% of the genome is single copy. On the one hand this does not impact the main use case of this effort, namely an improved reference for host extraction. As a nice twist the authors included an Illumina experiment, for example, and showed more host (tick) DNA aligned to their reference. Given this cell line is most used for pathogen-related work this is a valuable contribution even though the assembly itself contains haplotypes. On the other hand, this paper in of itself does not really provide any new solutions or even discussion on how to improve assembly or a reference tick genome, which makes it more of a data note (and fine for F1000Research). For example, getting DNA from a single individual is sometimes hard so other projects have resorted to using full sibs. Given that the cell line was derived from ticks (plural) is it even feasible to dilute the cell line to get what amounts to clonal flasks and try and sequence that? That would not help the repeat issue but may reduce the amount of heterogeneity. I have a few remaining specific questions/comments listed below: 1. On page 3 you mention because 6.7% more pairs are concurrent you state "This result indicates that the ISE6 assembly is more representative of ISE6 genome structure than the Ixodes reference." This is not wrong, but I have two followup questions. First, in the next section you observe that there is over 5% divergence between your line and the Ixodes reference (which makes sense). Could this affect your short-read alignment parameters and cause less pairs to map? Second, what if your contigs are 2X bigger that map these additional pairs but they are repeated in your assembly but not the genome (residual heterogyosity). I guess my issue is using "structure" vs. a more generic "contents" given the issues reported in the build. 2. Similarly, you state on page 3 that the 25% of reads that map to multiple sites are repeats, but couldn't they map to un merged alleles given the later results in the manuscript? I realize repeats is ambiguous and the haplotype issue is discussed later but maybe generalize to "repeated sequences present in the assembly" (or similar) to allow for assembly artifacts and "real" repetitive sequences present in tick 3. I was curious as to the BUSCO results of the old assembly ... the Ixodes reference was done long enough ago I am not sure they would have used it and a reader shouldn't have to look it up. In short, if we ignore the allele duplication issue are genes assembled better? The answer was yes for Aedes and I assume so here but it is unclear. 