The authors presented a study aiming to evaluate the most frequent diseases concomitant with AD, analyze the interactions between medications and these diseases, and suggest a potentially safer alternative treatment for concomitant diseases. The topic is indeed very interesting, and of a crucial importance for the geriatric population. The work presented is potentially interesting, but unfortunately there are several major points to take into consideration. In the definition of AD, I would include the tau deposition and the cortical atrophy as hallmark of the disease, together with the deposition of Amyloid β (Aβ). Moreover, I would mention about the amyloid deposition distribution pattern, which is more represented into the neocortex. The use of the CDR scale should be better specified; if the score utilized to stratify the impairment is the “global” CDR or the sum of boxes and, should be referenced accordingly. (I assume it has been used the global, therefore I would suggest to reference Hughes et al. (1982) 1 . In the session “data collection” the MMSE is explained as follows “The maximum score for MMSE is 30, and this indicates cognitive impairment”; considering that 30 in the MMSE is indicative of better performance, I would suggest to rephrase the sentence correctly. “Memantine must only be used during mild and moderate stages of AD” is not in agreement with the guidelines of using Memantine, which should be rather used in “moderate to severe dementia in Alzheimer’s Disease” “Therefore, knowing which medications interact with these drugs is fundamental to indicate the correct treatment for secondary diseases and, even, predict drug-interactions” I wouldn’t use the word “secondary” since the disease the authors are evaluating are concomitant and not “secondary” to AD. In the discussion, when the authors write “AD patients and caregivers are not aware of the interaction between drugs and enzymes. These enzymes may trigger inductive or inhibitory responses or serve as a substrate to other reactions” it would be advisable to mention which enzymes/isoenzyme are they talking about (i.e Cytochrome P450) In Table 5, I think it would be clearer if what the authors mean for “Drug opposite effect may worsen cognitive impairment, decreasing AChEI activity” will be more clearly specified. In Table 6, some medications are suggested as “not interacting with Ache-I or NMDAR antagonists”. Considering that we are talking about a geriatric population, I don’t particularly agree with the definition of “safe”. For example, BDZ are considered safe for treating anxiety, according to the table. However, it is known that the CNS sensitivity to BDZs in increased, determining sedation at lower concentration. I would strongly recommend to carefully review this information, in light of the population taken into consideration in this paper, constituted not only by elderly, but demented. 