In this paper, authors present PRESa2i, a computation prediction tool for identification of A-to-I RNA editing sites in given RNA sequences. PRESa2i uses a simple, yet effective set of sequence based features generated from RNA sequences and a novel feature selection technique. It uses an incremental decision tree algorithm as the classification algorithm. Below are my comments and suggestions: Authors should specify which method the proposed method outperforms "significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods" is a very general statement. In near future there will be another method that would outperform this method. I did not find any example RNA sequence when I clicked on "click here" link on the authors webserver. The webserver is not working. I tried to run the webserver with an example RNA Sequence. But I got "Login Failed" message. Does authors method achieves 86.48% accuracy and 90.67% sensitivity on benchmark or independent test data set? This is not clear from the sentence below from the abstract: "On a standard benchmark data set and independent set, it achieves 86.48% accuracy and 90.67% sensitivity and significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods." Use 'respectively' would help. In sentence "Another method was presented by 10 for prediction of C-to-U editing sites using biochemical and evolutionary information." does '10' refer to a reference? I found similar issues at other locations in the manuscript. Please review the entire manuscript for reference style. Correct sentence grammar "The datasets that we have used is first used in 11 based on the work in 12.". Replace 'is' with 'was'. Is there a specific reason why independent test dataset does not contain negative samples? Authors should to clearly specify what kind of features were extracted from the distribution of A, C, G, and U. Also how did they obtain the distribution of the A, C, G, and U. Please check the grammar and remove the redundant words from this sentence: "Our feature hybrid feature selection method is a multi- step step method where the first step is a wrapper method followed by consecutive filter methods." It will be better if authors put some more light on feature selection approach. For example, how add or delete of one feature at a time works? Also, this sentence "In the last step, we used ensemble of random decision trees and added most significant features found by the randomly generated features which were left in the previous step to get the final set of features." is difficult to read and understand. This will be helpful in replication of this work. How many features were finally selected after the Hybrid feature selection? Authors need to include this information in the Hybrid Feature Selection section of the manuscript. What were the value of parameters for the incremental decision tree algorithm? Please specify the values of all the parameters that were used. Authors are comparing their work with PAI and PAI-SAE which were published in year 2016 and year 2018. Doing a quick google search, I found a method EPAI-NC which was published in year 2019 that utilizes Locally Deep Support Vector Machines and same benchmark and independent test datasets. Compared to EPAI-NC the proposed PRESa2i shows poor performance. Authors need to compare their method with EPAI-NC as this is a method published in the recent past. Authors should also compare their method with PAI-SAE and EPAI-NC on the independent test dataset as PAI-SAE and EPAI-NC are more recently published method compared to PAI. 