Review of manuscript “Breathe Easy EDA: A MATLAB toolbox for psychophysiology data management, cleaning, and analysis” The presented manuscript describes a newly developed Matlab toolbox named BEEDA, which was mainly designed to improve the way that researchers deal with artifacts due to respiration when working with EDA data. This is relevant as EDA is a widely used physiological measure, often in conjunction with other methods such as neuroimaging or pain stimuli, and because respiration has been shown to alter EDA-derived data in a way that can lead to false interpretations. The authors describe the relationship between respiratory artifacts and genuine EDA signal, including the fact the two have a non-linear interrelationship and that due to their nature, respiratory artifacts are harder to identify than, for example, artifacts caused by movement. They then describe the procedure and workflow of the toolbox that they have developed to address respiration-related issues with the analysis of EDA signals. Examples are given for how the toolbox will display respiration that is unusual in its frequency or intensity (irregular breathing and sudden deep breath, respectively) and how the system allows to judge the temporal instance of these events in comparison to EDA responses of interest. The user can then run trial-by-trial analysis and flag or delete suspicious events. The described toolbox was clearly designed to integrate all necessary parts of an EDA analysis into one package: apart from artifact identification and correction, it includes all standard EDA analysis procedures, so that the normal user should be able to rely on this toolbox alone. Further, it includes algorithms to calculate inter-rater reliability. While these additions are not strictly required for artifact cleaning software (as there are other software packages available that can be used to perform these tasks), I would expect them to increase convenience for the user, as this integrated system reduces the clutter caused by combining different toolboxes to work on the same data set. Further, the fact that the software package is free and includes a graphical user interface will facilitate its use by researchers within the scientific community. In summary, the described toolbox provides a convenient way to run a data quality assessment and subsequent data analysis for EDA studies, with a special focus on correcting for respiratory effects. The manuscript is written clearly and succinctly and provides all necessary information for a user to understand and use the toolbox. After a thorough review of the text, I have no recommended edits. 