The research presented by Dalton aims to investigate mechanisms that control the expression of vomeronasal receptors in mice. The paper is very clear, well written and analyzes a relevant question in the field. Moreover, the author nicely discusses how his findings could be relevant for the study of different types of neurons. Selective expression of olfactory neuron receptors (OR), in the main olfactory epithelium, relies on a complex mechanism that include epigenetic DNA modification and interaction of different transcriptional regulators. Olfactory receptor expression activates the ER-resident kinase PERK, which controls phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eif2α, and increase in expression of the transcription factor ATF5. ATF5 expression controls Adenylate cyclase 3 expression. In the main olfactory epithelium, it has been proposed that the OR selective choice depends on removal of silencing chromatin modifications by the demethylase Lsd1 and that the adenylate cyclase 3 expression blocks LSD1 activity. Previous work (Nakano et al 2015 1 ) has shown that ATF5 is important for maturation and survival of basal vomeronasal sensory neurons. Based on these premises Dalton proposes that vomeronasal receptors share a similar expression feedback mechanism, to the one described in the MOE, based on ER-resident kinase PERK activation, EIF2α phosphorylation and ATF5 translation. To understand if a similar regulatory network, to the one described in olfactory neurons, exist in the VNO Dalton analyzed ATF5 expression in Foxg1Cre;Lsd1 flox/flox , Foxg1Cre;PERK flox/flox conditional mutants and in mice carrying a mutated form of eIF2α (eIF2α S51A/S51A ) that prevents its phosphorylation and therefore AFT5 expression. Major points: -In line with the hypothesis ATF5 expression is lost in the vomeronasal epithelium of Lsd1, PERK and eIF2α S51A/S51A mutants suggesting that ATF5 is under control of PERK, Lsd1 and EIF2a. However, while the PERK mutants appear to have a relatively normal vomeronasal epithelium in Lsd1 and eIF2α mutants the VNO appears to be almost vestigial suggesting that these genetic manipulations affect much more than ATF5 expression alone. The phenotypes of Lsd1 and eIF2α mutants do not overlap with the one described in the ATF5 conventional KO (see Nakano et al. 2015 1 ). In fact in the ATF5 KOs a reduction has been described in basal vomeronasal neurons only, in the Lsd1 flox/flox and eIF2α S51A/S51A mutants all the vomeronasal neurons seem to be affected. Are there vomeronasal genes that are not affected after Lsd1 and eIF2α S51A/S51A mutations? Is proliferation altered? Are the neurons dying? All mutants should be presented including at least GAP43 and OMP, Ki67 and activated Caspase-3 immunostaining. Though the lack of ATF5 expression is in line with the main hypothesis more internal controls are needed to support the conclusion. - Dalton nicely shows that ATF5 is expressed in mature vomeronasal neurons. Is ATF expression still controlled by Lsd1, PERK and eIF2α in mature (OMP+) vomeronasal sensory neurons? Characterizing ATF5 expression after OMPCre drive deletion of Lsd1 and PERK would strengthen the quality of the paper and its relevance. -The number of analyzed animals is not clearly indicated. - Heterozygous Foxg1-cre mice can have developmental phenotypes (Eagleson et al. 2007 2 ) ATF5 expression should be also analyzed in FoxG1Cre +/- controls. 