In this paper Suntharalingham and coworkers investigate the involvement of CDKN1C, a negative regulator of cell proliferation and growth, in fetal growth restriction (FGR)/intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) human conditions, pregnancy loss or recurrent miscarriage. While many loss-of-function variants have been reported associated with the overgrowth condition Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and affecting all the domains of the protein, only few variants predicted to be “gain of function”, have been found associated with syndromic growth restriction conditions (IMAGe and SRS). The authors review the latter cases and find that all reported variants, associated with growth restriction, are localized in the same region inside the PCNA-binding domain, and affect evolutionary conserved amino acids. By studying RNA-seq data available on the Human Protein Atlas website, the authors consider the high expression level of CDKN1C in placenta to hypothesize its involvement in pregnancy loss and miscarriage as a consequence of placenta restriction. Following a DNA targeted sequencing analysis restricted to the “hot spot” PCNA-binding domain in isolated cases of SRS (n=58), IUGR/FGR (n=26), loss of pregnancy (n=21) and women with recurrent miscarriage (n=71), they do not find any pathogenic variant, concluding that pathogenic variants of this analysed region are not a common cause of these pathological conditions. The paper is interesting and easy to read. The potential role of CDKN1C in pregnancy maintenance and its putative involvement in pregnancy loss is interesting, and an aspect that in future could be better investigated by extending the number of the cases to analyze. It would be interesting if the authors could report the analysis of the variants extended to the CDKN1C domains other than the region corresponding to the “hot spot” PCNA-binding domain (at least for cases analysed by NGS). Minor comments: The authors should clarify why they have analyzed CDKN1C variants only in the isolated SRS cases, excluding the familial cases. Most of information reported in Table 2 are already present in Figure 1, therefore Table 2 could be removed or reported as Supplementary Table. 