The systematic review by Kesterman et al. is both timely and important. Measuring effectiveness of health interventions is important and increasingly done. Malaria control is fortunate to have many such studies done, especially with the strong development of secondary data analysis since the year 2000. But as shown very well by this review, the studies differ widely in their study designs, settings, age groups, and a myriad of other parameters. When reading publications on such studies it is often difficult to see the significance or generalizability of an individual study. With the present review, Kesterman et al. contribute greatly to show the range of studies and their results, and put some order in that vast body of information. By and large this is an excellent paper, well designed, researched and written up. The figures in particular are excellent. I have only one major issue, which is that their literature search stopped in 2015. For a paper submitted in November 2017, this is not really acceptable. Given that the analysis of the data is limited, an additional search and addition of the newest studies to the paper should not represent an enormous investment in time, and I would strongly suggest that this be done. Further, I have a number of small points, relating largely to the interpretation of the data and they are listed below: 1. One more general reference on the difference between efficacy and effectiveness would be useful in the Introduction, at the end of para 2.This would help to clarify the difference for readers less familiar with these concepts. I have listed a few possible references below. JP Habicht et al. 1999. Evaluation designs for adequacy, plausibility and probability of public health programme performance and impact. International Journal of epidemiology 28; 10-18. CG Victora et al. 2004. Evidence-based public health: moving beyond randomized trials. American Journal of Public Health 94 (3), 400-405. Tanner M, Lengeler C, Lorenz N. Case studies from the biomedical and health systems research activities of the Swiss Tropical Institute in Africa. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1993 Sep-Oct;87(5):518-23. 2. Discussion para 1: The number of studies on effectiveness is stable since 2010, but at a high level. Malaria control interventions are really very well documented in comparison to many other health interventions. So the rather negative formulation that this could “hinder progress” is not really justified. 3. Discussion para 3: a little more discussion on the risk of bias, which is substantial in the reviewed studies, would be useful.Certainly, the fact that some studies show a significantly increased risk (for which it is hard to find plausibility) is a good indication of how strong the bias can be. 4. Discussion para 3: I agree in principle that these studies should guide local control activities. But given the risk of bias mentioned above, this should be really careful and guided by circumstances. 5. Finally, in the discussion it would be good to re-visit briefly the point made in the introduction (3 rd para) that surveillance and ecological studies also provide data on the effect of malaria control. While it is to some extent correct that these tools look at the overall effect of different interventions and attribution is difficult, in practice in many settings only one preventive tool is applied with a high coverage - usually LLINs or IRS. IPTp, case management and other interventions contribute probably little to impacting transmission, so surveillance can actually be a useful way to triangulate the results from specific studies. 