The paper is a quite detailed description of the research foci and training activities carried out at service centres belonging to the German Network for Bioinformatics Infrastructure (de.NBI). General comments: 1) As the paper is presented as a description of the "de.NBI / ELIXIR-DE training platform", the relationship between de.NBI and ELIXIR-DE should be clearly described at the beginning of the paper (instead of being a sub-section of the Cloud section at the end of the paper). Indeed, except for a vague statement in the abstract ("The de.NBI members also run the German node (ELIXIR-DE) within the European ELIXIR network". Who are de.NBI members? What does it mean that they run ELIXIR-DE?), the reader becomes aware of the nature of this relationship only immediately before the conclusions. Confusion also arises from the following sentence in the Introduction: "The following topics are currently in the focus of SIG 3: [...] Integration into the ELIXIR training platform and TeSS Coordination of training events and standards with ELIXIR. Both "topics" are rather obscure: What does it mean "Integration (of what?) into the ELIXIR training platform and TeSS"? and "Coordination of training events and standards (which standards?) with ELIXIR"? Results are presented as de.NBI activities and the role of ELIXIR-DE is not made explicit throughout the paper. In particular, Germany has become an ELIXR member in 2016, but data presented also include 2015, which further increases reader's confusion about the relationship between de.NBI and ELIXIR-DE. 2) Currently, the article is a quite detailed description of research focus and training activities carried out at each service centre belonging to de.NBI and NOT of a "Training Platform". Therefore, it is not clear what the authors mean by "de.NBI / ELIXIR-DE training platform". Ideally, in a Training Platform (TP): Courses/events are presented as part of a coherent programme run at different locations/centres, not as an aggregation of courses that each individual centre/institution runs with (apparently) no coordination with other centres/institutions; The structure of the TP (including the role of ELIXIR-DE) is described, including who coordinates it and how; who is actively involved in training activities; how many people are involved; what are their roles; how decisions are taken; etc. Vision, pedagogical model(s), teaching approaches, goals, future plans should be discussed/explained, as well as how trainers are recruited/selected and how course planning and dissemination is managed; etc... Based on these considerations, if the authors really mean to present a de.NBI / ELIXIR-DE TP, they should adopt a different perspective, which means try to display courses in a more structured way. For example, grouped by topic and by providing summary information about each type of course. Our suggestion is to use a table with, e.g., the following columns: Type of course/course category (e.g. sequencing data analysis). Example courses of each category (e.g. microbial sequence data analysis, RNA-Seq and Bisulfite sequencing data analysis in cancer research). Brief overview of the content (better if written in the form of general learning outcomes). Average number of courses of each type run yearly/monthly/etc. Location(s) (service centres/institutes) where courses are delivered. Average number of participants. Delivery mode (F2F, e-learning, hackathon, mentoring). Etc... Narrative could be used to describe key features of the platform (as listed above) and of courses. e-learning model(s) also could be better described (synchronous?asynchronous? Blended? etc). A description of service centres and their research foci could be provided very succinctly in Figure 1 or in a separate table (listing, for each centre, the research focus and member institutes) and then leave further details to the literature reference. 3) Figure 1 could be made way more informative and clear: What is the meaning of the circle's size? How should the reader interpret two adjacent circles of the same colour? The title of the figure reads: "Training topics and locations of the eight de.NBI service centres in Germany and their connections with existing German and European communities", but: Training topics do not appear in the figure. For clarity, location of main German cities should be shown. The figure shows existing communities and event types but not their connection with service centres. Specific comments/questions: What do you mean by "Big Data Problem"? Could you add a reference and explain what characterises it as a "problem"? In the abstract, we suggest that you replace "European ELIXIR network" with "European ELIXIR infrastructure". What do you mean by "standardisation of training course monitoring"? A sentence on what is TeSS should be written before mentioning it in the Introduction. p. 4: Re: "Qualification of more trainers." How do you qualify trainers? What is a "qualified trainer"? As SIG3 is for "Training Education", do you also have programs for undergraduates and high school students? In the abstract, the overall number of participants is updated to October 2019 ("since 2015, more than 250 training courses were carried out with more than 5,200 participants"), whereas in the paper it is updated to July 2019 ([...] more than 4800 participants (Status July 2019)). This data should be made consistent. Regarding performance, authors claim that de.NBI and ELIXIR-DE guarantee standards [...] above ELIXIR average. This statement should be supported by quantitative data. p.11: re the sentence: "ELIXIR Germany training coordinators", does Germany have more than one ELIXIR TrC? p.11: what is the "general ELIXIR training feedback"? Do you mean Impact study? If so, you should cite the paper on impact currently under revision at PLoS Computational Biology. p.11: Re: "new e-learning working group and of the FAIR training working group". You should provide a reference/link to ELIXIR working groups. For example, FAIR training WG: https://github.com/elixir-europe/FAIR-Training. 