 Scope of this review and its intended readership The proteasome is a big and complex protein machine. This review centers on questions of its subcellular localization and where various steps in its assembly process happen. The basic question is inescapable and interesting: Proteins are made in the cytoplasm, but many or most proteasomes are found in the nucleus. How do large proteasome assemblies or subassemblies cross the nuclear membrane and where do they get put together (or sometimes taken apart)? Presenting these matters requires background in two areas: 1. The structure and assembly of proteasomes and 2. Nuclear pore trafficking. Both are well-explored subjects, and some background on these matters needs to be presented. However, most readers of this review will bring some knowledge of these subjects, and wish to learn here about the specifics of the core subject, proteasome intracellular trafficking. I and perhaps other readers would prefer more on this and less (if space limitations require) of general background information. Additionally, how about comparing proteasome nuclear traffic and that of ribosomes? Ribosomes and proteasomes are the big machines found ubiquitously in eukaryotes. What common or distinct themes govern their subcellular movement and assembly? A Technical Question Much of the primary data supporting the conclusions described here depend on using various proteasome proteins fused to GFP in budding yeast. In interpreting these data it is critical to know whether or not such fusions alter kinetics or invoke alternate pathways compared to native controls. The paragraph headed Localization of the proteasome provides insufficient information related to this question. Minor considerations In the second paragraph of the Introduction it is said that long-lived proteins are degraded within the lysosome short-lived proteins are degraded by proteasomes This seems too broad a claim- see Fuertes et al. (2003)[ref 1] for example- and should be modified or justified. In the third paragraph of the Introduction: Natively-disordered proteins also qualify as proteasome substrates and are cleaved without post-translational ubiquitin modification., the reference which follows is about something quite different and another more relevant reference should be used. In the first paragraph under Discussion/analysis of the literature it is said that At least four ubiquitin molecules are required for a poly-ubiquitin chain to be recognized by the proteasome. No longer regarded as so categorically true, but in any case reference should be made to Thrower et al. (2000) 2 for this specific claim. Figure 3 conveys no information and can be dropped. Page 3, first full paragraph, right column: Change in compliance with our finding to consistent with our finding. In that same paragraph, perhaps the last sentence, Third, when CP maturation is delayed by UMP1 deletion, all CP reporter proteins accumulate in the nucleus, although half of the CP is not fully matured and most likely exists as pre-holo-CP. could be rewritten to clarify the intended meaning and how this supports the model of nuclear import of CP precursor complexes. Page 5, left column, second full paragraph: where proteasomes are relocated in the nucleus. change to : and proteasomes are relocated to the nucleus. Page 5 same paragraph: and to be eliminated by autophagocytosis change to and elimination by autophagocytosis. References 1. Fuertes G, Villarroya A, Knecht E: Role of proteasomes in the degradation of short-lived proteins in human fibroblasts under various growth conditions. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2003; 35 (5): 651-664 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 2. Thrower JS, Hoffman L, Rechsteiner M, Pickart CM: Recognition of the polyubiquitin proteolytic signal. Embo J . 2000; 19 (1): 94-102 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Coffino P. Reviewer Report For: Intracellular Dynamics of the Ubiquitin-Proteasome-System [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :367 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7349.r9988 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-367/v1#referee-response-9988 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 28 Sep 2015 Cordula Enenkel , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada 28 Sep 2015 Author Response Thanks for your constructive criticism of our review which addressed the intracellular dynamics of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We reduced some background information, though nuclear transport of proteasomes will not be ... Continue reading Thanks for your constructive criticism of our review which addressed the intracellular dynamics of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We reduced some background information, though nuclear transport of proteasomes will not be intelligible without profound knowledge of proteasome structure and assembly. We also omitted detailed informations about technical approaches, which were addressed in related reviews ( Burcoglu et al. , 2015 ). We answered your question with regard to direct and indirect localization studies using GFP technologies in living cells and antibodies in fixed cells. In yeast, the studies are highly consistent, while the data in mammalian cells are still difficult to reconcile. We also appreciate your idea to compare nuclear transport and assembly of ribosomes and proteasomes. A chapter was added to address this point. However, we apologize that we can only refer to reviews about ribosome assembly and transport, because the citation of the original work would be beyond the scope of our review. Your minor considerations were easily addressed. Thanks for your constructive criticism of our review which addressed the intracellular dynamics of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We reduced some background information, though nuclear transport of proteasomes will not be intelligible without profound knowledge of proteasome structure and assembly. We also omitted detailed informations about technical approaches, which were addressed in related reviews ( Burcoglu et al. , 2015 ). We answered your question with regard to direct and indirect localization studies using GFP technologies in living cells and antibodies in fixed cells. In yeast, the studies are highly consistent, while the data in mammalian cells are still difficult to reconcile. We also appreciate your idea to compare nuclear transport and assembly of ribosomes and proteasomes. A chapter was added to address this point. However, we apologize that we can only refer to reviews about ribosome assembly and transport, because the citation of the original work would be beyond the scope of our review. Your minor considerations were easily addressed. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 28 Sep 2015 Cordula Enenkel , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada 28 Sep 2015 Author Response Thanks for your constructive criticism of our review which addressed the intracellular dynamics of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We reduced some background information, though nuclear transport of proteasomes will not be ... Continue reading Thanks for your constructive criticism of our review which addressed the intracellular dynamics of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We reduced some background information, though nuclear transport of proteasomes will not be intelligible without profound knowledge of proteasome structure and assembly. We also omitted detailed informations about technical approaches, which were addressed in related reviews ( Burcoglu et al. , 2015 ). We answered your question with regard to direct and indirect localization studies using GFP technologies in living cells and antibodies in fixed cells. In yeast, the studies are highly consistent, while the data in mammalian cells are still difficult to reconcile. We also appreciate your idea to compare nuclear transport and assembly of ribosomes and proteasomes. A chapter was added to address this point. However, we apologize that we can only refer to reviews about ribosome assembly and transport, because the citation of the original work would be beyond the scope of our review. Your minor considerations were easily addressed. Thanks for your constructive criticism of our review which addressed the intracellular dynamics of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. We reduced some background information, though nuclear transport of proteasomes will not be intelligible without profound knowledge of proteasome structure and assembly. We also omitted detailed informations about technical approaches, which were addressed in related reviews ( Burcoglu et al. , 2015 ). We answered your question with regard to direct and indirect localization studies using GFP technologies in living cells and antibodies in fixed cells. In yeast, the studies are highly consistent, while the data in mammalian cells are still difficult to reconcile. We also appreciate your idea to compare nuclear transport and assembly of ribosomes and proteasomes. A chapter was added to address this point. However, we apologize that we can only refer to reviews about ribosome assembly and transport, because the citation of the original work would be beyond the scope of our review. Your minor considerations were easily addressed. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Wendler P. Reviewer Report For: Intracellular Dynamics of the Ubiquitin-Proteasome-System [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :367 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7349.r9632 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-367/v1#referee-response-9632 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 31 Jul 2015 Petra Wendler , Gene Center Munich, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Munich, Germany Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7349.r9632 This Review by Chowdhury and Enenkel nicely summarizes the current knowledge on the trafficking of proteasomes between cyto- and nucleoplasm. Its a very well written manuscript that gives a balanced and comprehensive view on localization studies on both, yeast and ... Continue reading READ ALL 