This is an important article, worthy of publication in F1000Research. There are some places in the article where the writing could be tidied up (e.g. references 1 and 10 are the same) but my main comments relate to questions that prompted in my mind, which the authors might wish to address if they revise it: Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Is the reported study a "proof of concept" for the use in a real trial, or simply a demonstration that blockchain can be used for a series of sequential "signings"? If the latter, had that not been shown previously? Are there any plans to test this in a real trial, perhaps as a SWAT[1] and to include it in Trial Forge[2]? How would this system be used if patients cannot get online personally? How would the system cope if someone's email addresses changes? (I raise this because I am currently locked out of my Twitter account because the email I used to set it up is no longer active following my move away from that institution.) Can you reflect more on the challenges of doing online trials? Do you believe that this system will be applicable to all trials, a majority or a minority? You seem very enthusiastic about the use of this system and the article might benefit from the addition of more caution about its general applicability. For example, you write "we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate, by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase." but say little of the possible negatives (such as concerns about security of the data (see below); fear or discomfort with technology; and whether empowerment might come more from the ability to talk to a human being about the trial and the consent process). Who will ensure that blockchain is future proof? Might people need to print or export a copy of the electronic record for long-term storage? Does blockchain allow for "workarounds" (e.g. to move to the next step without completing the previous one if for some reason this is necessary)? What do you mean by "transparency" in relation to the new system? If a potential participant thinks this means that others can see that they gave their consent, might this discourage them from joining the study? Consent in general How would this system cope with differences between the process for obtaining consent to take part in prospective research in different countries and cultures? For example, what if someone other than the patient might need to give consent? Would patients be able to request that their ongoing consent is presumed without needing to be contacted again when there is a change in the trial? It might discourage patients from joining a trial if they are told that they will have to be contacted each time there is a change (especially if that change does not affect them personally). What protocol changes should lead to new consent (e.g. should it only be those that directly affect the patient, or should it be those that might have influenced their decision to join?) Would a patient need to be asked for their renewed consent if the change can no longer affect them? For example, if they have already completed treatment and are now on follow-up, do they need to be informed about changes in the evidence base about a side effect if they can no longer suffer that side effect? Should patients be asked to consent again, or be asked if they want to withdraw? What assumption would be made if they do not reply? Might it be worth discussing this new system in the context of other research into recruitment and retention (for example, as brought together in Cochrane Reviews [3,4,5,6]). Is a lack of informed consent a source of bias (or might it be closer to the "truth" if patients don't realise that they are being studied) or bad ethical practice? Might it be worth discussing the double standards of needing written consent for someone to receive a treatment in a trial but not needing it if they are given the treatment as part of "routine practice"? How important is "written consent"? Is this unfair on difficult to reach populations who struggle to read or write? Electronic consent How would you ensure that the appropriate person "signed" the consent form if you do not see them do so? Is it easier to submit someone's electronic key, than to forge their signature? Security Might patients' concerns over the security of their data and the importance of confidentiality make them cautious about joining a trial if they had to use this system? How worried might they be because of news stories about data from banks and other supposedly secure systems being hacked and leaked? Might it be worth writing something about how patients may think that paper consent forms locked in a filing cabinet are more difficult to access and make available to everyone online, than documents that are already available to the research team from anywhere on the internet. Language The words "subject" and "participant" are used to refer to people who take part in trials. I prefer to avoid "subject". References 1. Clarke M, Savage G, Maguire L, McAneney H: The SWAT (study within a trial) programme; embedding trials to improve the methodological design and conduct of future research. Trials . 2015; 16 (S2). Publisher Full Text 2. Treweek S, Altman D, Bower P, Campbell M, et al.: Making randomised trials more efficient: report of the first meeting to discuss the Trial Forge platform. Trials . 2015; 16 (1). Publisher Full Text 3. Treweek S, Lockhart P, Pitkethly M, Cook JA, et al.: Methods to improve recruitment to randomised controlled trials: Cochrane systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ Open . 2013; 3 (2). PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Brueton VC, Tierney J, Stenning S, Harding S, et al.: Strategies to improve retention in randomised trials. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2013. MR000032 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Synnot A, Ryan R, Prictor M, Fetherstonhaugh D, et al.: Audio-visual presentation of information for informed consent for participation in clinical trials. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2014. CD003717 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Gillies K, Cotton SC, Brehaut JC, Politi MC, et al.: Decision aids for people considering taking part in clinical trials. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2015. CD009736 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: I am involved in several initiatives to improve the quality and conduct of clinical trials. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Clarke MJ. Reviewer Report For: Blockchain protocols in clinical trials: Transparency and traceability of consent [version 5; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :66 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11349.r19560 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-66/v1#referee-response-19560 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 27 Apr 2017 mehdi benchoufi , Hôpital Hôtel Dieu, Paris, France 27 Apr 2017 Author Response Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Dear reviewer, Here are some responses to the questions that were raised. Besides, thank you for your remark related to ... Continue reading Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Dear reviewer, Here are some responses to the questions that were raised. Besides, thank you for your remark related to the bibliography and the reference duplicate. 1. Is the reported study a "proof of concept" for the use in a real trial, or simply a demonstration that blockchain can be used for a series of sequential "signings"? If the latter, had that not been shown previously? In the idea of establishing all the consent process in real conditions, we claim it is a proof of concept. We developed a complete and realistic set of interactions between fake patients and stakeholders, and we paired consent status and protocol revision through blockchain held by a single master document accounting for the whole process. 2. Are there any plans to test this in a real trial, perhaps as a SWAT[1] and to include it in Trial Forge[2]? For the moment, we have no specific plan to implement in a real trial but our POC is precisely a preparation to go further to a real setting. We have no expertise in SWAT or in using Trail Forge platform, but it should comply with no difficulty with our implementation. 3. How would this system be used if patients cannot get online personally? This is more a problem related to online consent than a blockchain related question. In situations where patients cannot get online personally, then the medical doctor should provide the consent form to the subjects by hand. Besides, let's indicate that in most countries, the written consent is legally mandatory. There are other situations where the online access is not possible, related for example to disabilities, then either the legal representative should be given access to the online consent form, or written consent should be sought. 4. How would the system cope if someone's email addresses changes? (I raise this because I am currently locked out of my Twitter account because the email I used to set it up is no longer active following my move away from that institution.) In a real clinical trial, we would set multiple ways to reach a patient : digitally, phone number, postal mail. For sure, email is not sufficient, and we would use a stronger identifying system than email, i.e. material objects storing cryptographic keys, such as a USB key. We could also build a Smart Contract triggered by a destination email error callback. Then, when this condition is met, Smart Contract would cause the other reaching methods to be proceeded. Since Smart Contract are pieces of code, this automatized processed can be customized at will. However, although this is not the situation you are pointing to, this procedure may find a limit: there is no way to distinguish between the situation where an email has been sent without response, and the one where the email is still maintained by the institution with no access anymore for the previous account holder. But, we think this very case looks quite exceptional. 5. Can you reflect more on the challenges of doing online trials? There are some challenges regarding online trials: - people that are not in a condition to access an online platform: severe conditions, lack of consciousness, learning disability, no access to internet or people not friendly to online tools - the current state of technologies do not allow interventional trials. However, the explosion of IoT, miniaturization could lead to imagine some specific interventional trials to be conducted online. In this respect, we mention the existence of blockchain systems specifically dedicated to connected objects. - ensuring that the person consenting is effectively the one pretending to be: this should lead to use a strong identifier, and at minimum use KYC process (Know Your Customer) implemented to bind digital identities to physical entities in the case of sensitive data. Fiscal administration, Banks makes use of that. It is worth noting that from a blockchain point of view, the email is by no mean a method to identify. In our settings, we generate identifiers for each patient which consists in complex cryptographic strings. It would be possible in addition of these informations stored in the local machine of the subject, to duplicate this information on a USB key or identifier cards on the model of KYC procedure. Let's state that there are some companies providing material supports to keep the blockchain id's. 6. Do you believe that this system will be applicable to all trials, a majority or a minority? You seem very enthusiastic about the use of this system and the article might benefit from the addition of more caution about its general applicability. For example, you write "we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate, by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase." but say little of the possible negatives (such as concerns about security of the data (see below); fear or discomfort with technology; and whether empowerment might come more from the ability to talk to a human being about the trial and the consent process). Indeed, blockchain is not without carrying some issues. Our point was to put in a perspective a trend. Every new technological gap raises some fears, as the internet at its very beginning, but the overall trend is that usages have imposed. It is worth noting that users shape also technologies and their fear pushes the improvement of technologies conducting these to take more account of their needs and apprehensions. Besides, our idea is not to rely on a technology by itself but to complete the blockchain network ability to ensure data consistency by a strong human support at any step of the clinical trial, first and foremost the consent process. Besides, from the data security point of view, we positively think that it is much better ensured by blockchain-like technologies than the one currently used : first, because of the strong crypto-oriented transaction validation, second the distributed nature of the network prevent from the "single point of failure" problem related to centralized data collection. By the way, we can take the Bitcoin network as an example, which carries sensitive money data and which is proving to be resistant for almost ten years. 7. Who will ensure that blockchain is future proof? Might people need to print or export a copy of the electronic record for long-term storage? Blockchain consist of a network of peers, anybody involved in the network storing in his computer the archive of all the history of transactions, i.e. the public ledger. So that, even if the network had to fail for one or other reason, any single node can restore the last state of the network. Moreover, if necessary, depending on the design of the blockchain implementation, we might enable the only stakeholders or if we want any participant, to export and print the copy of electronic transactions. We may have in mind that data stored are "proof of data" that can be checked to match the true data on any dedicated public website. 8. Does blockchain allow for "workarounds" (e.g. to move to the next step without completing the previous one if for some reason this is necessary)? Yes, one core functionality of blockchain technologies, is Smart Contract. They allow to write algorithmically any set of conditions that modules the execution of some instructions. But, we stress the fact the system can be "fault-tolerant" but there are no "roll-back" possibility. So, suppose that someone stores some informations but has mistaken, then he'll be able to add the new corrected information (that's what we can call a "fork"), but the first errored information is still accessible in the blockchain. 9. What do you mean by "transparency" in relation to the new system? If a potential participant thinks this means that others can see that they gave their consent, might this discourage them from joining the study? We mean by transparency that the rules are clear for anybody taking part in the process. This is the very role of the Smart Contract we already mentioned. Besides, the perimeter of the people sharing the data can be controlled : we can decide that data can be shared by the only stakeholders, or decide that participants will be able to share access to their data with persons of trust. All this fine-grained control can be powered on the top of blockchain. Consent in general 10. How would this system cope with differences between the process for obtaining consent to take part in prospective research in different countries and cultures? For example, what if someone other than the patient might need to give consent? Differences between cultures, countries need to be tackled one by one. So that we need true implementation of clinical trials to face with those kinds of issues. I don’t think there is a one general answer. Online tools can help orienting the participant regarding to their specific situation. Moreover, we believe chat support should be provided in order to take account of specific situations 11. Would patients be able to request that their ongoing consent is presumed without needing to be contacted again when there is a change in the trial? It might discourage patients from joining a trial if they are told that they will have to be contacted each time there is a change (especially if that change does not affect them personally). Indeed, there is no need to overwhelm patients with a flood of informations. However, from a general point of view, patients association often complain about lack of informations regarding the clinical trial progress, so that some calibrated informations can be delivered conveniently to the patients. Moreover, in case of a major change in the protocol, they should be specifically targeted to get an email asking to consent again. 12. What protocol changes should lead to new consent (e.g. should it only be those that directly affect the patient, or should it be those that might have influenced their decision to join?) There is heavy litterature about this. We refer it in the article: [10,11,12] in our bibliograhy and we mentionned these links detailing the protocol changes that should lead to renew the consent: http://www.irb.pitt.edu/sites/default/files/reconsent guidance.pdf; http://www.mayo.edu/research/documents/29-re-consent-or-notification-of-significant-new-findingspdf/doc-10027714; http://www.yale.edu/hrpp/policies/documents/Reconsentingguidance.pdf) 13. Would a patient need to be asked for their renewed consent if the change can no longer affect them? For example, if they have already completed treatment and are now on follow-up, do they need to be informed about changes in the evidence base about a side effect if they can no longer suffer that side effect? Yes, these kind of new informations should be given to patients and require to ask for a renewed consent again, even if they are not supposed to suffer this side effect thereafter. 14. Should patients be asked to consent again, or be asked if they want to withdraw? What assumption would be made if they do not reply? If patients want to withdraw, they should not be asked again. When patients do not reply, and after ensuring by other means (emails, mail, phone call if available) that they do not provide an answer, then they should be considered has consenting because they already gave their consent. Besides, this kind of situation can be advantageously scheduled in a Blockchain Smart Contract, that can be adapted to local legal contexts. 15. Might it be worth discussing this new system in the context of other research into recruitment and retention (for example, as brought together in Cochrane Reviews [3,4,5,6]). Indeed, we might implement some Smart Contracts, checking the recruitment and retention process. So Cochrane reviewers could have an insight about whether this process was done conformally to standard procedures. However, we notice that the code of the Smart Contract should also be reviewed, so that an experienced developer should be required. 16. Is a lack of informed consent a source of bias (or might it be closer to the "truth" if patients don't realise that they are being studied) or bad ethical practice? Lack of informed consent is for sure a bad ethical practice, in a strict contradiction to Helsinki declaration, Nuremberg declaration and good clinical practices. Regarding the matter of generalisability bias, the latter is more related to the setting of inclusive criteriae than related to consent. 17. Might it be worth discussing the double standards of needing written consent for someone to receive a treatment in a trial but not needing it if they are given the treatment as part of "routine practice"? In any case, the participant to a clinical trial must to sign the consent form, even he is already taking the medication for which the consent form is seeking his/her consent. At this occasion, the patients may be informed of actual informations related to the treatment, for example new side effects of a drug. 18. How important is "written consent"? Is this unfair on difficult to reach populations who struggle to read or write? The written status of the consent by opposition of the electronic has not by itself more credit. However, depending on the local legal context, “written consent” is mandatory. Besides, collecting consent of people with reading, writing or learning disabilities needs care. The person collecting the consent must assess the ability of the person to understand correctly the informations and to make a decision. The information must be given orally and to the legal representative if any. Some ethics committees allow the mediation of families or other supports at this stage. Electronic consent 19. How would you ensure that the appropriate person "signed" the consent form if you do not see them do so? Is it easier to submit someone's electronic key, than to forge their signature? In this POC, we generated cryptographic keys for each patient. So, in this design indeed, we can't ensure that the person consenting is the person he or she pretends to be. This can be improved in different manner. At least, using KYC standard procedures, i.e. doubling the electronic identification by one related to a physical object holding some number code. One step further would be to provide patients with an objects storing USB key storing the cryptographic signature and unlocked by a easy-to-remember id. Security 20. Might patients' concerns over the security of their data and the importance of confidentiality make them cautious about joining a trial if they had to use this system? How worried might they be because of news stories about data from banks and other supposedly secure systems being hacked and leaked? We refer to the question 6 on the notion of “single point of failure”, which answers at some level the raised issue. In any case, patients are very sensitive to the security and the privacy of their data and this system addresses precisely this issue. Indeed, the decentralized structure of the blockchain, the involvement of anyone as a peer on the network, the ability to finegrain the data sharing perimeter, allows more control of the patients over the data workflow. However, we are conscious that this system is very new and needs some pedagogical support. Anyway, Bitcoin is now a widespread, trusted electronic currency, available on payment platform of a wide range of websites such as Amazon, Apple’s App Store. An implementation of such processes in a real clinical trial should be the occasion to add different media support : documents, videos in order to inform patient of the benefit of using such technologies . For the second part of the question, see the response to question 6. of the present reviewing question list. 21. Might it be worth writing something about how patients may think that paper consent forms locked in a filing cabinet are more difficult to access and make available to everyone online, than documents that are already available to the research team from anywhere on the internet. Absolutely it might be very interesting. Language 22. The words "subject" and "participant" are used to refer to people who take part in trials. I prefer to avoid "subject". We substituted the usage of "subjects" by "participants" in the revised document. Best regards, Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Dear reviewer, Here are some responses to the questions that were raised. Besides, thank you for your remark related to the bibliography and the reference duplicate. 1. Is the reported study a "proof of concept" for the use in a real trial, or simply a demonstration that blockchain can be used for a series of sequential "signings"? If the latter, had that not been shown previously? In the idea of establishing all the consent process in real conditions, we claim it is a proof of concept. We developed a complete and realistic set of interactions between fake patients and stakeholders, and we paired consent status and protocol revision through blockchain held by a single master document accounting for the whole process. 2. Are there any plans to test this in a real trial, perhaps as a SWAT[1] and to include it in Trial Forge[2]? For the moment, we have no specific plan to implement in a real trial but our POC is precisely a preparation to go further to a real setting. We have no expertise in SWAT or in using Trail Forge platform, but it should comply with no difficulty with our implementation. 3. How would this system be used if patients cannot get online personally? This is more a problem related to online consent than a blockchain related question. In situations where patients cannot get online personally, then the medical doctor should provide the consent form to the subjects by hand. Besides, let's indicate that in most countries, the written consent is legally mandatory. There are other situations where the online access is not possible, related for example to disabilities, then either the legal representative should be given access to the online consent form, or written consent should be sought. 4. How would the system cope if someone's email addresses changes? (I raise this because I am currently locked out of my Twitter account because the email I used to set it up is no longer active following my move away from that institution.) In a real clinical trial, we would set multiple ways to reach a patient : digitally, phone number, postal mail. For sure, email is not sufficient, and we would use a stronger identifying system than email, i.e. material objects storing cryptographic keys, such as a USB key. We could also build a Smart Contract triggered by a destination email error callback. Then, when this condition is met, Smart Contract would cause the other reaching methods to be proceeded. Since Smart Contract are pieces of code, this automatized processed can be customized at will. However, although this is not the situation you are pointing to, this procedure may find a limit: there is no way to distinguish between the situation where an email has been sent without response, and the one where the email is still maintained by the institution with no access anymore for the previous account holder. But, we think this very case looks quite exceptional. 5. Can you reflect more on the challenges of doing online trials? There are some challenges regarding online trials: - people that are not in a condition to access an online platform: severe conditions, lack of consciousness, learning disability, no access to internet or people not friendly to online tools - the current state of technologies do not allow interventional trials. However, the explosion of IoT, miniaturization could lead to imagine some specific interventional trials to be conducted online. In this respect, we mention the existence of blockchain systems specifically dedicated to connected objects. - ensuring that the person consenting is effectively the one pretending to be: this should lead to use a strong identifier, and at minimum use KYC process (Know Your Customer) implemented to bind digital identities to physical entities in the case of sensitive data. Fiscal administration, Banks makes use of that. It is worth noting that from a blockchain point of view, the email is by no mean a method to identify. In our settings, we generate identifiers for each patient which consists in complex cryptographic strings. It would be possible in addition of these informations stored in the local machine of the subject, to duplicate this information on a USB key or identifier cards on the model of KYC procedure. Let's state that there are some companies providing material supports to keep the blockchain id's. 6. Do you believe that this system will be applicable to all trials, a majority or a minority? You seem very enthusiastic about the use of this system and the article might benefit from the addition of more caution about its general applicability. For example, you write "we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate, by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase." but say little of the possible negatives (such as concerns about security of the data (see below); fear or discomfort with technology; and whether empowerment might come more from the ability to talk to a human being about the trial and the consent process). Indeed, blockchain is not without carrying some issues. Our point was to put in a perspective a trend. Every new technological gap raises some fears, as the internet at its very beginning, but the overall trend is that usages have imposed. It is worth noting that users shape also technologies and their fear pushes the improvement of technologies conducting these to take more account of their needs and apprehensions. Besides, our idea is not to rely on a technology by itself but to complete the blockchain network ability to ensure data consistency by a strong human support at any step of the clinical trial, first and foremost the consent process. Besides, from the data security point of view, we positively think that it is much better ensured by blockchain-like technologies than the one currently used : first, because of the strong crypto-oriented transaction validation, second the distributed nature of the network prevent from the "single point of failure" problem related to centralized data collection. By the way, we can take the Bitcoin network as an example, which carries sensitive money data and which is proving to be resistant for almost ten years. 7. Who will ensure that blockchain is future proof? Might people need to print or export a copy of the electronic record for long-term storage? Blockchain consist of a network of peers, anybody involved in the network storing in his computer the archive of all the history of transactions, i.e. the public ledger. So that, even if the network had to fail for one or other reason, any single node can restore the last state of the network. Moreover, if necessary, depending on the design of the blockchain implementation, we might enable the only stakeholders or if we want any participant, to export and print the copy of electronic transactions. We may have in mind that data stored are "proof of data" that can be checked to match the true data on any dedicated public website. 8. Does blockchain allow for "workarounds" (e.g. to move to the next step without completing the previous one if for some reason this is necessary)? Yes, one core functionality of blockchain technologies, is Smart Contract. They allow to write algorithmically any set of conditions that modules the execution of some instructions. But, we stress the fact the system can be "fault-tolerant" but there are no "roll-back" possibility. So, suppose that someone stores some informations but has mistaken, then he'll be able to add the new corrected information (that's what we can call a "fork"), but the first errored information is still accessible in the blockchain. 9. What do you mean by "transparency" in relation to the new system? If a potential participant thinks this means that others can see that they gave their consent, might this discourage them from joining the study? We mean by transparency that the rules are clear for anybody taking part in the process. This is the very role of the Smart Contract we already mentioned. Besides, the perimeter of the people sharing the data can be controlled : we can decide that data can be shared by the only stakeholders, or decide that participants will be able to share access to their data with persons of trust. All this fine-grained control can be powered on the top of blockchain. Consent in general 10. How would this system cope with differences between the process for obtaining consent to take part in prospective research in different countries and cultures? For example, what if someone other than the patient might need to give consent? Differences between cultures, countries need to be tackled one by one. So that we need true implementation of clinical trials to face with those kinds of issues. I don’t think there is a one general answer. Online tools can help orienting the participant regarding to their specific situation. Moreover, we believe chat support should be provided in order to take account of specific situations 11. Would patients be able to request that their ongoing consent is presumed without needing to be contacted again when there is a change in the trial? It might discourage patients from joining a trial if they are told that they will have to be contacted each time there is a change (especially if that change does not affect them personally). Indeed, there is no need to overwhelm patients with a flood of informations. However, from a general point of view, patients association often complain about lack of informations regarding the clinical trial progress, so that some calibrated informations can be delivered conveniently to the patients. Moreover, in case of a major change in the protocol, they should be specifically targeted to get an email asking to consent again. 12. What protocol changes should lead to new consent (e.g. should it only be those that directly affect the patient, or should it be those that might have influenced their decision to join?) There is heavy litterature about this. We refer it in the article: [10,11,12] in our bibliograhy and we mentionned these links detailing the protocol changes that should lead to renew the consent: http://www.irb.pitt.edu/sites/default/files/reconsent guidance.pdf; http://www.mayo.edu/research/documents/29-re-consent-or-notification-of-significant-new-findingspdf/doc-10027714; http://www.yale.edu/hrpp/policies/documents/Reconsentingguidance.pdf) 13. Would a patient need to be asked for their renewed consent if the change can no longer affect them? For example, if they have already completed treatment and are now on follow-up, do they need to be informed about changes in the evidence base about a side effect if they can no longer suffer that side effect? Yes, these kind of new informations should be given to patients and require to ask for a renewed consent again, even if they are not supposed to suffer this side effect thereafter. 14. Should patients be asked to consent again, or be asked if they want to withdraw? What assumption would be made if they do not reply? If patients want to withdraw, they should not be asked again. When patients do not reply, and after ensuring by other means (emails, mail, phone call if available) that they do not provide an answer, then they should be considered has consenting because they already gave their consent. Besides, this kind of situation can be advantageously scheduled in a Blockchain Smart Contract, that can be adapted to local legal contexts. 15. Might it be worth discussing this new system in the context of other research into recruitment and retention (for example, as brought together in Cochrane Reviews [3,4,5,6]). Indeed, we might implement some Smart Contracts, checking the recruitment and retention process. So Cochrane reviewers could have an insight about whether this process was done conformally to standard procedures. However, we notice that the code of the Smart Contract should also be reviewed, so that an experienced developer should be required. 16. Is a lack of informed consent a source of bias (or might it be closer to the "truth" if patients don't realise that they are being studied) or bad ethical practice? Lack of informed consent is for sure a bad ethical practice, in a strict contradiction to Helsinki declaration, Nuremberg declaration and good clinical practices. Regarding the matter of generalisability bias, the latter is more related to the setting of inclusive criteriae than related to consent. 17. Might it be worth discussing the double standards of needing written consent for someone to receive a treatment in a trial but not needing it if they are given the treatment as part of "routine practice"? In any case, the participant to a clinical trial must to sign the consent form, even he is already taking the medication for which the consent form is seeking his/her consent. At this occasion, the patients may be informed of actual informations related to the treatment, for example new side effects of a drug. 18. How important is "written consent"? Is this unfair on difficult to reach populations who struggle to read or write? The written status of the consent by opposition of the electronic has not by itself more credit. However, depending on the local legal context, “written consent” is mandatory. Besides, collecting consent of people with reading, writing or learning disabilities needs care. The person collecting the consent must assess the ability of the person to understand correctly the informations and to make a decision. The information must be given orally and to the legal representative if any. Some ethics committees allow the mediation of families or other supports at this stage. Electronic consent 19. How would you ensure that the appropriate person "signed" the consent form if you do not see them do so? Is it easier to submit someone's electronic key, than to forge their signature? In this POC, we generated cryptographic keys for each patient. So, in this design indeed, we can't ensure that the person consenting is the person he or she pretends to be. This can be improved in different manner. At least, using KYC standard procedures, i.e. doubling the electronic identification by one related to a physical object holding some number code. One step further would be to provide patients with an objects storing USB key storing the cryptographic signature and unlocked by a easy-to-remember id. Security 20. Might patients' concerns over the security of their data and the importance of confidentiality make them cautious about joining a trial if they had to use this system? How worried might they be because of news stories about data from banks and other supposedly secure systems being hacked and leaked? We refer to the question 6 on the notion of “single point of failure”, which answers at some level the raised issue. In any case, patients are very sensitive to the security and the privacy of their data and this system addresses precisely this issue. Indeed, the decentralized structure of the blockchain, the involvement of anyone as a peer on the network, the ability to finegrain the data sharing perimeter, allows more control of the patients over the data workflow. However, we are conscious that this system is very new and needs some pedagogical support. Anyway, Bitcoin is now a widespread, trusted electronic currency, available on payment platform of a wide range of websites such as Amazon, Apple’s App Store. An implementation of such processes in a real clinical trial should be the occasion to add different media support : documents, videos in order to inform patient of the benefit of using such technologies . For the second part of the question, see the response to question 6. of the present reviewing question list. 21. Might it be worth writing something about how patients may think that paper consent forms locked in a filing cabinet are more difficult to access and make available to everyone online, than documents that are already available to the research team from anywhere on the internet. Absolutely it might be very interesting. Language 22. The words "subject" and "participant" are used to refer to people who take part in trials. I prefer to avoid "subject". We substituted the usage of "subjects" by "participants" in the revised document. Best regards, Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 27 Apr 2017 mehdi benchoufi , Hôpital Hôtel Dieu, Paris, France 27 Apr 2017 Author Response Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Dear reviewer, Here are some responses to the questions that were raised. Besides, thank you for your remark related to ... Continue reading Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Dear reviewer, Here are some responses to the questions that were raised. Besides, thank you for your remark related to the bibliography and the reference duplicate. 1. Is the reported study a "proof of concept" for the use in a real trial, or simply a demonstration that blockchain can be used for a series of sequential "signings"? If the latter, had that not been shown previously? In the idea of establishing all the consent process in real conditions, we claim it is a proof of concept. We developed a complete and realistic set of interactions between fake patients and stakeholders, and we paired consent status and protocol revision through blockchain held by a single master document accounting for the whole process. 2. Are there any plans to test this in a real trial, perhaps as a SWAT[1] and to include it in Trial Forge[2]? For the moment, we have no specific plan to implement in a real trial but our POC is precisely a preparation to go further to a real setting. We have no expertise in SWAT or in using Trail Forge platform, but it should comply with no difficulty with our implementation. 3. How would this system be used if patients cannot get online personally? This is more a problem related to online consent than a blockchain related question. In situations where patients cannot get online personally, then the medical doctor should provide the consent form to the subjects by hand. Besides, let's indicate that in most countries, the written consent is legally mandatory. There are other situations where the online access is not possible, related for example to disabilities, then either the legal representative should be given access to the online consent form, or written consent should be sought. 4. How would the system cope if someone's email addresses changes? (I raise this because I am currently locked out of my Twitter account because the email I used to set it up is no longer active following my move away from that institution.) In a real clinical trial, we would set multiple ways to reach a patient : digitally, phone number, postal mail. For sure, email is not sufficient, and we would use a stronger identifying system than email, i.e. material objects storing cryptographic keys, such as a USB key. We could also build a Smart Contract triggered by a destination email error callback. Then, when this condition is met, Smart Contract would cause the other reaching methods to be proceeded. Since Smart Contract are pieces of code, this automatized processed can be customized at will. However, although this is not the situation you are pointing to, this procedure may find a limit: there is no way to distinguish between the situation where an email has been sent without response, and the one where the email is still maintained by the institution with no access anymore for the previous account holder. But, we think this very case looks quite exceptional. 5. Can you reflect more on the challenges of doing online trials? There are some challenges regarding online trials: - people that are not in a condition to access an online platform: severe conditions, lack of consciousness, learning disability, no access to internet or people not friendly to online tools - the current state of technologies do not allow interventional trials. However, the explosion of IoT, miniaturization could lead to imagine some specific interventional trials to be conducted online. In this respect, we mention the existence of blockchain systems specifically dedicated to connected objects. - ensuring that the person consenting is effectively the one pretending to be: this should lead to use a strong identifier, and at minimum use KYC process (Know Your Customer) implemented to bind digital identities to physical entities in the case of sensitive data. Fiscal administration, Banks makes use of that. It is worth noting that from a blockchain point of view, the email is by no mean a method to identify. In our settings, we generate identifiers for each patient which consists in complex cryptographic strings. It would be possible in addition of these informations stored in the local machine of the subject, to duplicate this information on a USB key or identifier cards on the model of KYC procedure. Let's state that there are some companies providing material supports to keep the blockchain id's. 6. Do you believe that this system will be applicable to all trials, a majority or a minority? You seem very enthusiastic about the use of this system and the article might benefit from the addition of more caution about its general applicability. For example, you write "we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate, by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase." but say little of the possible negatives (such as concerns about security of the data (see below); fear or discomfort with technology; and whether empowerment might come more from the ability to talk to a human being about the trial and the consent process). Indeed, blockchain is not without carrying some issues. Our point was to put in a perspective a trend. Every new technological gap raises some fears, as the internet at its very beginning, but the overall trend is that usages have imposed. It is worth noting that users shape also technologies and their fear pushes the improvement of technologies conducting these to take more account of their needs and apprehensions. Besides, our idea is not to rely on a technology by itself but to complete the blockchain network ability to ensure data consistency by a strong human support at any step of the clinical trial, first and foremost the consent process. Besides, from the data security point of view, we positively think that it is much better ensured by blockchain-like technologies than the one currently used : first, because of the strong crypto-oriented transaction validation, second the distributed nature of the network prevent from the "single point of failure" problem related to centralized data collection. By the way, we can take the Bitcoin network as an example, which carries sensitive money data and which is proving to be resistant for almost ten years. 7. Who will ensure that blockchain is future proof? Might people need to print or export a copy of the electronic record for long-term storage? Blockchain consist of a network of peers, anybody involved in the network storing in his computer the archive of all the history of transactions, i.e. the public ledger. So that, even if the network had to fail for one or other reason, any single node can restore the last state of the network. Moreover, if necessary, depending on the design of the blockchain implementation, we might enable the only stakeholders or if we want any participant, to export and print the copy of electronic transactions. We may have in mind that data stored are "proof of data" that can be checked to match the true data on any dedicated public website. 8. Does blockchain allow for "workarounds" (e.g. to move to the next step without completing the previous one if for some reason this is necessary)? Yes, one core functionality of blockchain technologies, is Smart Contract. They allow to write algorithmically any set of conditions that modules the execution of some instructions. But, we stress the fact the system can be "fault-tolerant" but there are no "roll-back" possibility. So, suppose that someone stores some informations but has mistaken, then he'll be able to add the new corrected information (that's what we can call a "fork"), but the first errored information is still accessible in the blockchain. 9. What do you mean by "transparency" in relation to the new system? If a potential participant thinks this means that others can see that they gave their consent, might this discourage them from joining the study? We mean by transparency that the rules are clear for anybody taking part in the process. This is the very role of the Smart Contract we already mentioned. Besides, the perimeter of the people sharing the data can be controlled : we can decide that data can be shared by the only stakeholders, or decide that participants will be able to share access to their data with persons of trust. All this fine-grained control can be powered on the top of blockchain. Consent in general 10. How would this system cope with differences between the process for obtaining consent to take part in prospective research in different countries and cultures? For example, what if someone other than the patient might need to give consent? Differences between cultures, countries need to be tackled one by one. So that we need true implementation of clinical trials to face with those kinds of issues. I don’t think there is a one general answer. Online tools can help orienting the participant regarding to their specific situation. Moreover, we believe chat support should be provided in order to take account of specific situations 11. Would patients be able to request that their ongoing consent is presumed without needing to be contacted again when there is a change in the trial? It might discourage patients from joining a trial if they are told that they will have to be contacted each time there is a change (especially if that change does not affect them personally). Indeed, there is no need to overwhelm patients with a flood of informations. However, from a general point of view, patients association often complain about lack of informations regarding the clinical trial progress, so that some calibrated informations can be delivered conveniently to the patients. Moreover, in case of a major change in the protocol, they should be specifically targeted to get an email asking to consent again. 12. What protocol changes should lead to new consent (e.g. should it only be those that directly affect the patient, or should it be those that might have influenced their decision to join?) There is heavy litterature about this. We refer it in the article: [10,11,12] in our bibliograhy and we mentionned these links detailing the protocol changes that should lead to renew the consent: http://www.irb.pitt.edu/sites/default/files/reconsent guidance.pdf; http://www.mayo.edu/research/documents/29-re-consent-or-notification-of-significant-new-findingspdf/doc-10027714; http://www.yale.edu/hrpp/policies/documents/Reconsentingguidance.pdf) 13. Would a patient need to be asked for their renewed consent if the change can no longer affect them? For example, if they have already completed treatment and are now on follow-up, do they need to be informed about changes in the evidence base about a side effect if they can no longer suffer that side effect? Yes, these kind of new informations should be given to patients and require to ask for a renewed consent again, even if they are not supposed to suffer this side effect thereafter. 14. Should patients be asked to consent again, or be asked if they want to withdraw? What assumption would be made if they do not reply? If patients want to withdraw, they should not be asked again. When patients do not reply, and after ensuring by other means (emails, mail, phone call if available) that they do not provide an answer, then they should be considered has consenting because they already gave their consent. Besides, this kind of situation can be advantageously scheduled in a Blockchain Smart Contract, that can be adapted to local legal contexts. 15. Might it be worth discussing this new system in the context of other research into recruitment and retention (for example, as brought together in Cochrane Reviews [3,4,5,6]). Indeed, we might implement some Smart Contracts, checking the recruitment and retention process. So Cochrane reviewers could have an insight about whether this process was done conformally to standard procedures. However, we notice that the code of the Smart Contract should also be reviewed, so that an experienced developer should be required. 16. Is a lack of informed consent a source of bias (or might it be closer to the "truth" if patients don't realise that they are being studied) or bad ethical practice? Lack of informed consent is for sure a bad ethical practice, in a strict contradiction to Helsinki declaration, Nuremberg declaration and good clinical practices. Regarding the matter of generalisability bias, the latter is more related to the setting of inclusive criteriae than related to consent. 17. Might it be worth discussing the double standards of needing written consent for someone to receive a treatment in a trial but not needing it if they are given the treatment as part of "routine practice"? In any case, the participant to a clinical trial must to sign the consent form, even he is already taking the medication for which the consent form is seeking his/her consent. At this occasion, the patients may be informed of actual informations related to the treatment, for example new side effects of a drug. 18. How important is "written consent"? Is this unfair on difficult to reach populations who struggle to read or write? The written status of the consent by opposition of the electronic has not by itself more credit. However, depending on the local legal context, “written consent” is mandatory. Besides, collecting consent of people with reading, writing or learning disabilities needs care. The person collecting the consent must assess the ability of the person to understand correctly the informations and to make a decision. The information must be given orally and to the legal representative if any. Some ethics committees allow the mediation of families or other supports at this stage. Electronic consent 19. How would you ensure that the appropriate person "signed" the consent form if you do not see them do so? Is it easier to submit someone's electronic key, than to forge their signature? In this POC, we generated cryptographic keys for each patient. So, in this design indeed, we can't ensure that the person consenting is the person he or she pretends to be. This can be improved in different manner. At least, using KYC standard procedures, i.e. doubling the electronic identification by one related to a physical object holding some number code. One step further would be to provide patients with an objects storing USB key storing the cryptographic signature and unlocked by a easy-to-remember id. Security 20. Might patients' concerns over the security of their data and the importance of confidentiality make them cautious about joining a trial if they had to use this system? How worried might they be because of news stories about data from banks and other supposedly secure systems being hacked and leaked? We refer to the question 6 on the notion of “single point of failure”, which answers at some level the raised issue. In any case, patients are very sensitive to the security and the privacy of their data and this system addresses precisely this issue. Indeed, the decentralized structure of the blockchain, the involvement of anyone as a peer on the network, the ability to finegrain the data sharing perimeter, allows more control of the patients over the data workflow. However, we are conscious that this system is very new and needs some pedagogical support. Anyway, Bitcoin is now a widespread, trusted electronic currency, available on payment platform of a wide range of websites such as Amazon, Apple’s App Store. An implementation of such processes in a real clinical trial should be the occasion to add different media support : documents, videos in order to inform patient of the benefit of using such technologies . For the second part of the question, see the response to question 6. of the present reviewing question list. 21. Might it be worth writing something about how patients may think that paper consent forms locked in a filing cabinet are more difficult to access and make available to everyone online, than documents that are already available to the research team from anywhere on the internet. Absolutely it might be very interesting. Language 22. The words "subject" and "participant" are used to refer to people who take part in trials. I prefer to avoid "subject". We substituted the usage of "subjects" by "participants" in the revised document. Best regards, Proof of concept, blockchain and the study generally Dear reviewer, Here are some responses to the questions that were raised. Besides, thank you for your remark related to the bibliography and the reference duplicate. 1. Is the reported study a "proof of concept" for the use in a real trial, or simply a demonstration that blockchain can be used for a series of sequential "signings"? If the latter, had that not been shown previously? In the idea of establishing all the consent process in real conditions, we claim it is a proof of concept. We developed a complete and realistic set of interactions between fake patients and stakeholders, and we paired consent status and protocol revision through blockchain held by a single master document accounting for the whole process. 2. Are there any plans to test this in a real trial, perhaps as a SWAT[1] and to include it in Trial Forge[2]? For the moment, we have no specific plan to implement in a real trial but our POC is precisely a preparation to go further to a real setting. We have no expertise in SWAT or in using Trail Forge platform, but it should comply with no difficulty with our implementation. 3. How would this system be used if patients cannot get online personally? This is more a problem related to online consent than a blockchain related question. In situations where patients cannot get online personally, then the medical doctor should provide the consent form to the subjects by hand. Besides, let's indicate that in most countries, the written consent is legally mandatory. There are other situations where the online access is not possible, related for example to disabilities, then either the legal representative should be given access to the online consent form, or written consent should be sought. 4. How would the system cope if someone's email addresses changes? (I raise this because I am currently locked out of my Twitter account because the email I used to set it up is no longer active following my move away from that institution.) In a real clinical trial, we would set multiple ways to reach a patient : digitally, phone number, postal mail. For sure, email is not sufficient, and we would use a stronger identifying system than email, i.e. material objects storing cryptographic keys, such as a USB key. We could also build a Smart Contract triggered by a destination email error callback. Then, when this condition is met, Smart Contract would cause the other reaching methods to be proceeded. Since Smart Contract are pieces of code, this automatized processed can be customized at will. However, although this is not the situation you are pointing to, this procedure may find a limit: there is no way to distinguish between the situation where an email has been sent without response, and the one where the email is still maintained by the institution with no access anymore for the previous account holder. But, we think this very case looks quite exceptional. 5. Can you reflect more on the challenges of doing online trials? There are some challenges regarding online trials: - people that are not in a condition to access an online platform: severe conditions, lack of consciousness, learning disability, no access to internet or people not friendly to online tools - the current state of technologies do not allow interventional trials. However, the explosion of IoT, miniaturization could lead to imagine some specific interventional trials to be conducted online. In this respect, we mention the existence of blockchain systems specifically dedicated to connected objects. - ensuring that the person consenting is effectively the one pretending to be: this should lead to use a strong identifier, and at minimum use KYC process (Know Your Customer) implemented to bind digital identities to physical entities in the case of sensitive data. Fiscal administration, Banks makes use of that. It is worth noting that from a blockchain point of view, the email is by no mean a method to identify. In our settings, we generate identifiers for each patient which consists in complex cryptographic strings. It would be possible in addition of these informations stored in the local machine of the subject, to duplicate this information on a USB key or identifier cards on the model of KYC procedure. Let's state that there are some companies providing material supports to keep the blockchain id's. 6. Do you believe that this system will be applicable to all trials, a majority or a minority? You seem very enthusiastic about the use of this system and the article might benefit from the addition of more caution about its general applicability. For example, you write "we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate, by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase." but say little of the possible negatives (such as concerns about security of the data (see below); fear or discomfort with technology; and whether empowerment might come more from the ability to talk to a human being about the trial and the consent process). Indeed, blockchain is not without carrying some issues. Our point was to put in a perspective a trend. Every new technological gap raises some fears, as the internet at its very beginning, but the overall trend is that usages have imposed. It is worth noting that users shape also technologies and their fear pushes the improvement of technologies conducting these to take more account of their needs and apprehensions. Besides, our idea is not to rely on a technology by itself but to complete the blockchain network ability to ensure data consistency by a strong human support at any step of the clinical trial, first and foremost the consent process. Besides, from the data security point of view, we positively think that it is much better ensured by blockchain-like technologies than the one currently used : first, because of the strong crypto-oriented transaction validation, second the distributed nature of the network prevent from the "single point of failure" problem related to centralized data collection. By the way, we can take the Bitcoin network as an example, which carries sensitive money data and which is proving to be resistant for almost ten years. 7. Who will ensure that blockchain is future proof? Might people need to print or export a copy of the electronic record for long-term storage? Blockchain consist of a network of peers, anybody involved in the network storing in his computer the archive of all the history of transactions, i.e. the public ledger. So that, even if the network had to fail for one or other reason, any single node can restore the last state of the network. Moreover, if necessary, depending on the design of the blockchain implementation, we might enable the only stakeholders or if we want any participant, to export and print the copy of electronic transactions. We may have in mind that data stored are "proof of data" that can be checked to match the true data on any dedicated public website. 8. Does blockchain allow for "workarounds" (e.g. to move to the next step without completing the previous one if for some reason this is necessary)? Yes, one core functionality of blockchain technologies, is Smart Contract. They allow to write algorithmically any set of conditions that modules the execution of some instructions. But, we stress the fact the system can be "fault-tolerant" but there are no "roll-back" possibility. So, suppose that someone stores some informations but has mistaken, then he'll be able to add the new corrected information (that's what we can call a "fork"), but the first errored information is still accessible in the blockchain. 9. What do you mean by "transparency" in relation to the new system? If a potential participant thinks this means that others can see that they gave their consent, might this discourage them from joining the study? We mean by transparency that the rules are clear for anybody taking part in the process. This is the very role of the Smart Contract we already mentioned. Besides, the perimeter of the people sharing the data can be controlled : we can decide that data can be shared by the only stakeholders, or decide that participants will be able to share access to their data with persons of trust. All this fine-grained control can be powered on the top of blockchain. Consent in general 10. How would this system cope with differences between the process for obtaining consent to take part in prospective research in different countries and cultures? For example, what if someone other than the patient might need to give consent? Differences between cultures, countries need to be tackled one by one. So that we need true implementation of clinical trials to face with those kinds of issues. I don’t think there is a one general answer. Online tools can help orienting the participant regarding to their specific situation. Moreover, we believe chat support should be provided in order to take account of specific situations 11. Would patients be able to request that their ongoing consent is presumed without needing to be contacted again when there is a change in the trial? It might discourage patients from joining a trial if they are told that they will have to be contacted each time there is a change (especially if that change does not affect them personally). Indeed, there is no need to overwhelm patients with a flood of informations. However, from a general point of view, patients association often complain about lack of informations regarding the clinical trial progress, so that some calibrated informations can be delivered conveniently to the patients. Moreover, in case of a major change in the protocol, they should be specifically targeted to get an email asking to consent again. 12. What protocol changes should lead to new consent (e.g. should it only be those that directly affect the patient, or should it be those that might have influenced their decision to join?) There is heavy litterature about this. We refer it in the article: [10,11,12] in our bibliograhy and we mentionned these links detailing the protocol changes that should lead to renew the consent: http://www.irb.pitt.edu/sites/default/files/reconsent guidance.pdf; http://www.mayo.edu/research/documents/29-re-consent-or-notification-of-significant-new-findingspdf/doc-10027714; http://www.yale.edu/hrpp/policies/documents/Reconsentingguidance.pdf) 13. Would a patient need to be asked for their renewed consent if the change can no longer affect them? For example, if they have already completed treatment and are now on follow-up, do they need to be informed about changes in the evidence base about a side effect if they can no longer suffer that side effect? Yes, these kind of new informations should be given to patients and require to ask for a renewed consent again, even if they are not supposed to suffer this side effect thereafter. 14. Should patients be asked to consent again, or be asked if they want to withdraw? What assumption would be made if they do not reply? If patients want to withdraw, they should not be asked again. When patients do not reply, and after ensuring by other means (emails, mail, phone call if available) that they do not provide an answer, then they should be considered has consenting because they already gave their consent. Besides, this kind of situation can be advantageously scheduled in a Blockchain Smart Contract, that can be adapted to local legal contexts. 15. Might it be worth discussing this new system in the context of other research into recruitment and retention (for example, as brought together in Cochrane Reviews [3,4,5,6]). Indeed, we might implement some Smart Contracts, checking the recruitment and retention process. So Cochrane reviewers could have an insight about whether this process was done conformally to standard procedures. However, we notice that the code of the Smart Contract should also be reviewed, so that an experienced developer should be required. 16. Is a lack of informed consent a source of bias (or might it be closer to the "truth" if patients don't realise that they are being studied) or bad ethical practice? Lack of informed consent is for sure a bad ethical practice, in a strict contradiction to Helsinki declaration, Nuremberg declaration and good clinical practices. Regarding the matter of generalisability bias, the latter is more related to the setting of inclusive criteriae than related to consent. 17. Might it be worth discussing the double standards of needing written consent for someone to receive a treatment in a trial but not needing it if they are given the treatment as part of "routine practice"? In any case, the participant to a clinical trial must to sign the consent form, even he is already taking the medication for which the consent form is seeking his/her consent. At this occasion, the patients may be informed of actual informations related to the treatment, for example new side effects of a drug. 18. How important is "written consent"? Is this unfair on difficult to reach populations who struggle to read or write? The written status of the consent by opposition of the electronic has not by itself more credit. However, depending on the local legal context, “written consent” is mandatory. Besides, collecting consent of people with reading, writing or learning disabilities needs care. The person collecting the consent must assess the ability of the person to understand correctly the informations and to make a decision. The information must be given orally and to the legal representative if any. Some ethics committees allow the mediation of families or other supports at this stage. Electronic consent 19. How would you ensure that the appropriate person "signed" the consent form if you do not see them do so? Is it easier to submit someone's electronic key, than to forge their signature? In this POC, we generated cryptographic keys for each patient. So, in this design indeed, we can't ensure that the person consenting is the person he or she pretends to be. This can be improved in different manner. At least, using KYC standard procedures, i.e. doubling the electronic identification by one related to a physical object holding some number code. One step further would be to provide patients with an objects storing USB key storing the cryptographic signature and unlocked by a easy-to-remember id. Security 20. Might patients' concerns over the security of their data and the importance of confidentiality make them cautious about joining a trial if they had to use this system? How worried might they be because of news stories about data from banks and other supposedly secure systems being hacked and leaked? We refer to the question 6 on the notion of “single point of failure”, which answers at some level the raised issue. In any case, patients are very sensitive to the security and the privacy of their data and this system addresses precisely this issue. Indeed, the decentralized structure of the blockchain, the involvement of anyone as a peer on the network, the ability to finegrain the data sharing perimeter, allows more control of the patients over the data workflow. However, we are conscious that this system is very new and needs some pedagogical support. Anyway, Bitcoin is now a widespread, trusted electronic currency, available on payment platform of a wide range of websites such as Amazon, Apple’s App Store. An implementation of such processes in a real clinical trial should be the occasion to add different media support : documents, videos in order to inform patient of the benefit of using such technologies . For the second part of the question, see the response to question 6. of the present reviewing question list. 21. Might it be worth writing something about how patients may think that paper consent forms locked in a filing cabinet are more difficult to access and make available to everyone online, than documents that are already available to the research team from anywhere on the internet. Absolutely it might be very interesting. Language 22. The words "subject" and "participant" are used to refer to people who take part in trials. I prefer to avoid "subject". We substituted the usage of "subjects" by "participants" in the revised document. Best regards, Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (1) Version 5 VERSION 5 PUBLISHED 01 Feb 2018 Revised Comment ADD YOUR COMMENT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 23 Jan 2017 Discussion is closed on this version, please comment on the latest version above. Reader Comment ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 08 Feb 2017 Pierre-Marie Lledo , Perception and Memory Laboratory, Institut Pasteur, France 08 Feb 2017 Reader Comment F1000Research Advisory Board Member As clinical research has to face an ongoing lack of trust, this article comes at a right moment to address key issues such as transparency, reproductibility and eventually a more ... Continue reading As clinical research has to face an ongoing lack of trust, this article comes at a right moment to address key issues such as transparency, reproductibility and eventually a more reliable methodology. Blockchain technology provides interesting proof of data and therefore a trustworthy environment in order to exchange clinical data. It can lead to a substantial breakthrough which will help to set up health communities with common ethics and patients empowerment. As clinical research has to face an ongoing lack of trust, this article comes at a right moment to address key issues such as transparency, reproductibility and eventually a more reliable methodology. Blockchain technology provides interesting proof of data and therefore a trustworthy environment in order to exchange clinical data. It can lead to a substantial breakthrough which will help to set up health communities with common ethics and patients empowerment. Competing Interests: No conflict of interest. Close Report a concern Discussion is closed on this version, please comment on the latest version above. keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 4 5 Version 5 (revision) 01 Feb 18 Version 4 (revision) 08 Dec 17 read Version 3 (revision) 04 Jul 17 read read read read Version 2 (revision) 27 Apr 17 read Version 1 23 Jan 17 read read Mike J. Clarke , Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, Ireland Daniel S. Himmelstein , University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA Jonathan C. Craig , University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia Suveen Angraal , Yale New Haven Hospital (YNHH), New Haven, USA Wade Schulz , Yale New Haven Hospital (YNHH), New Haven, USA; Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, USA Timothy Nugent , Thomson Reuters, London, UK Comments on this article All Comments (1) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2018 Angraal S. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 08 Jan 2018 | for Version 4 Suveen Angraal , Center for Outcomes Research and Evaluation, Yale New Haven Hospital (YNHH), New Haven, CT, USA 0 Views copyright © 2018 Angraal S. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In the current version, the authors have made improvements to the manuscript from the previous version; the idea entails the use of blockchain in the consent processing in a clinical trial. However, I still have some pending concerns which, if authors agree to work on, can further the manuscript’s message to readers. In the first report, I pointed to identity verification, where the consent can be verified but the patient him/herself cannot be verified. Although the authors have explained how the keys can be stored in the browser itself for verification. This approach has a lot caveats in implementation. I would encourage the authors to address this as a limitation, rather than delving further into the incomplete annotations. Secondly, authors address that even if malicious investigator consented in behalf of the subject, this very subject will have to show up for the participation. This indeed is true, but doesn’t address the falsification of the data. With last few months of 2017, price of bitcoin token has skyrocketed. Given that authors have used bitcoin blockchain, how do authors envision the cost of transactions when consenting, with changing value of bitcoin token? Would a private blockchain be better suited for actual implementation in a clinical trial? Furthermore, if a private blockchain is used, is sybil attack more probable? I had previously raised the importance of explaining the meaning of ‘public’ in a blockchain and what data will be available ‘publicly’. Although authors have explained this in the response letter, they can still add a few lines about chainscript and its role in transparency. Further, authors state that “implementing a ‘privacy by design’ technology, and archiving securely and transparently any dataset that needs to be stored, is a game changer toward improving enrolment phase methodology”. First, authors overstate the implication of how archiving securely is a game changer. Secondly, a secure and transparent archiving can be achieved without blockchain as well. The manuscript will improve further if authors circumspect such statements. Additionally, statements like “we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate in clinical trials by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase” seems overselling the underlying message. The patient empowerment is still not clear enough in the manuscript. In the current logistics of a clinical trial where consent is taken on the paper, the patients are empowered to control their participation in the enrolment phase, and see who has the access to their data (which includes consent). It would further improve the manuscript if authors highlight what additional benefit blockchain brings in empowering the patients. Otherwise, I would encourage authors to refrain from making such assertions. The reference for Namecoin just directs to the Wikipedia homepage (https:// en.wikipedia.org/wiki). The authors should careful when citing the references. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 01 Feb 2018 mehdi benchoufi, Hôpital Hôtel Dieu, Paris, France Dear reviewer, Thank you for giving us the opportunity to make the text more clear and by so improving its overall quality “In the first report, I pointed to identity verification, where the consent can be verified but the patient him/herself cannot be verified. Although the authors have explained how the keys can be stored in the browser itself for verification. This approach has a lot caveats in implementation. I would encourage the authors to address this as a limitation, rather than delving further into the incomplete annotations.” In our last answer where we asked to the “physical identity crisis”, we stressed the fact that a decentralized way to manage the key is not a solution to ascertaining the identity of the user. However, we indicated that there are ways to bind public key generation to an email, consisting in attaching some token in the email sent to the patient so that the public key generated can hold this information and so that the stakeholders can infer to which email a public key is bound. But of course, email is not a strong and satisfactory solution. A good solution should be based on providing patients with material devices such as USB device to hold the keys and ideally to implement some KYC solutions modeled on the bank sector standards for instance. In the manuscript, we indicated in "In a production application (…) implementing a Know Your Customer (KYC)-like solution" that we should rely on KYC standard solution rather than binding public key with email, which is a quite poor way to ensure identity. So, we updated the manuscript, synthesized briefly the part related to the process of binding key pairs and email, deleted the mention of the Namecoin blockchain which can be misleading, and stress the fact that binding email and key pair generation in some way does not provide some consistent way to tackle the identity issue. Secondly, authors address that even if malicious investigator consented in behalf of the subject, this very subject will have to show up for the participation. This indeed is true, but doesn’t address the falsification of the data. Thank you for this remark. If indeed a key forgery happened and that a malicious investigator consents in behalf of a subject, then indeed a patient won’t show up and the data would be definitely falsified. According to the incorruptible nature of the data stored in the Blockchain, there is no way back, and we are going to make this point clearer in the manuscript. However, to monitor the eventuality of data falsification, we can send back, whether a patient consented or not, an email to him with this very information, which is a supplementary lock in the process and which was indeed done in our POC. (This lock could be even improved if the email was sent after a Smart Contract has been hit by a transaction happening when the user chooses consenting or not). If some user then complains, we can ignore the related Blockchain transaction. Thereafter, we should underline that data invention do not fall into the scope of misconducts directly avoidable with Blockchain, even it seems to be harder than frauding manually: creating pair of keys, hacking around the timestamping of every event, hiding the IP of web requests. From a more general point of view, we are aware of the limitation the reviewer emphasizes and in the actual state of this implementation, our main hypothesis here is that there are stakeholders who have the admin-permissions to create key pairs are to be trusted. By the current times, clinical trials heavily relies on the existence of such stakeholders such as investigators, sponsors, regulatory agencies, FDA or EMA or IRBs. So there is some trust to attach to the stakeholder that we trust the most, and devote to him the generation of pair keys. For example, if there is a mistrust towards the investigator, then keys could be generated by the sponsor or any other external party under the supervision of the sponsor, a regulatory agency or the IRB. The advantage of our current solution is that it can be directly implemented for clinical trials in the way they are conducted today. In any case, the development of our approach should lead us quickly to implement key management on the user side to control this kind of forgery from a malicious investigator. We updated the text to mention this issue and to stress the fact that there is indeed no way to undo a falsified data. Remark: We should mention that KYC adapted in the context of Blockchain is an active area of development. Many startups and even public institutions begin to propose some solutions enabling consensus-driven identity for personal entities, helping avoid redundancy and high costs of traditional KYC processes. Companies such as KYC-Chain (1) or Norbloc (2) provide proof-of-identity solutions, recently Singapour government, with regards to the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) requirements and considering the costs of the KYC usual implementation in the finance industry, proposed a POC which is announced as the most advanced one in this field to companies (3). We are regularly watching to advances in this field since it will help for us designing better and flexible solutions where user control, manage their digital identity and most importantly would allow a generic approach of KYC, reusable from one platform to an other, and so could enable flexible usage while guaranteeing security and sincerity of the process. (1) https://kyc-chain.com/ (2) https://norbloc.com/ (3) https://cointelegraph.com/news/first-blockchain-kyc-prototype-hits-singapore-banking-sphere/ With last few months of 2017, price of bitcoin token has skyrocketed. Given that authors have used bitcoin blockchain, how do authors envision the cost of transactions when consenting, with changing value of bitcoin token? Would a private blockchain be better suited for actual implementation in a clinical trial? Furthermore, if a private blockchain is used, is sybil attack more probable? Indeed the price of the bitcoin currency has grown rapidly, passing from around 1000$ at the beginning of 2017 to 15.000€ at the moment of the writing (09.01.18). Fluctuations of the currency is quite a structural fact that led developers to worry about designing transactions, when using Bitcoin as an API (Application Program Interface), that can be as resilient as possible to these fluctuations. That’s the reason why we took care to make use of a data-structure that can absorb by design the volatility of the currency rate. However, even if we have a large flexibility to group transactions and so validate an important amount of data in one single transactions and even if we have room to maneuver by playing on the lever of raising the number of data we attach to the data-structure for a single transaction balanced by the longer delay of triggering a transaction, we have some dependency to the Bitcoin currency through the fees we have to pay for a transaction. We can group up to several ten thousands of proof-of-data in a single transaction and the fee we would pay in that case would be around 20$ (at the moment of the writing 22.01.18). We will report this issue in the manuscript. We won’t go into too much technical details, but the following matters to get an understanding of the level of resilience, although still sensible, of the data-structure we used to the fluctuating evolution of the Bitcoin currency. Indeed, we choose to use a Merckle tree to hold the data from which we want to memorize a proof-of-existence. As explained in our previous responses, the data are stored in a binary tree, and successively hashed by pair of leaves by pair of leaves. More precisely, the integrity of the data-structure relies on the hashing of pair of leaves nodes which outputs the hash of the parent node of these very leaves. This process bubbles up until the root of the Mercke tree is reached. This root stores a hash and the point is that we only need to store in the Blockchain the hash of the so-called Merckle root. Technically, this piece of data is put in a so-called OP_RETURN field that is now widely used as a hack for storing lightweight data into the blockchain. Now, when we want to prove the existence of a set of data, we have to compute their hash again pair of leaves by pair of leaves up to the root and compare this one against the OP_RETURN hash. In case the hashes are identical then we conclude the integrity of the data we want to check. If in the tree, one single unity of data is corrupted then the entire data-structure breaks down and we can conclude that these were corrupted. Now, when grouping transactions by batch, we can store proof of huge amount of data. Indeed, we can group transaction by slices of 1000, 10.000 or even more batches of data, each hash corresponding to a possibly large document. This way, we can adapt to the high variance behaviour of the Bitcoin currency by raising up the number of transactions we want to throw in the Blockchain, we could even multiply by an other factor of 10 the number of batches of hashes of data to reach 100.000, but we would have to wait to get this volume of data before triggering the Blockchain transaction and be pejorated by the delay between the data we get and the data of which we store the proof. Besides, with regard to the remark about private Blockchain and sensitivity to a Sibyl attack, we would argue somehow the contrary, private Blockchain in that they may control the identity of who is allowed to participate to the network, makes it quite unlikely for an attacker flow the network with one identity and act as a multiple one detaining multiple keys, and so sybil attack the system. On the other side, public Blockchain is not totally damp-proof to Sybil Attack though it is made very difficult, because of the proof-of-work being increasingly difficult when the number of nodes the attacker creates and hides behind increases (1), and because of the randomness of outbound connections of a user connecting to others. However, if private Blockchain may grant a certain level of control on the process occuring in the network, we think, as mentioned above in one of our responses, that private Blockchain may be a way to re-centralize the network and take less advantage of distributed the trust in an open network. The choice of this kind of structure can be relevant in some situation but needs strong motivations and understanding of the technological background when one gives certain of its advantages to the Blockchain. We updated the manuscript to make this point clearer and say of few words about the evolution of the currency that was not that volatile the first time we submitted to the F1000 review. Remark 1 : There are lots of debate to tackle the issue of a better control of the Bitcoin fees, some developers advocate the solution of a bigger size of Block. This gave rise to a forked Bitcoin Blockchain, called Bitcoin Cash, which leveled up to 8mb the data that can be fit to a block, versus 1mb in the core Bitcoin implementation. Remark 2 : Bitcoin core developers are testing an off-chain payment channel system called “Lightning” and is supposed to increase the number of transactions per unit of time and to decrease the transaction fees. Remark 3 : There are current Blockchain implementation based on indexing crypto-currency value to other assets, such as dollars. Stabl is such as an example with the promise to give more stability to the currency value. (1) https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.00916.pdf (2) https://hyperledger.org/ (3) https://blog.variabl.io/stabl-bringing-stable-tokens-and-derivative-products-to-the-ethereum-blockchain-df4d5eba89d9 I had previously raised the importance of explaining the meaning of ‘public’ in a blockchain and what data will be available ‘publicly’. Although authors have explained this in the response letter, they can still add a few lines about chainscript and its role in transparency. In our previous response, we explained what we meant by “publicly verifiable”. To summarize, the interactions that happens throughout the consent process are tracked on the Blockchain, restituted in a Chainscript document, the hashes of which can be checked against the Bitcoin Blockchain either manually or public website offering such services. The ChainScript document can be described as a JSON standard for proof-of-process (1). It is a standard to expose all the steps of the verifiable process one want to design and that leads to the Blockchain transactions. The different steps are attached meta-data and these meta-data are organized with respect to the historicity of the sequence of transactions that were grouped, hashed and then stored in the Blockchain. Technically, the process is broken down into steps, the process corresponds to a so-called Chain Map and a step correspond to a Chain Segment, each of which holds a reference to a previous Chain Segment which stands for the (n-1) step. The ChainScript is built up all along the history of the process with the help of so-called Chainscript Agents, which are responsible to execute scripts enabling “state transitions” (in the computer language of state machines), corresponding to move from one step to an other one in the process we want to check. This way, the Chainscript is a full, transparent, checkable history of the life of the data we stored in the Merckle tree. ChainScript is an open standard. We updated the manuscript to precise this point and explain how the Chainscript improves transparency in reporting point by point and through an homogeneous document the event history of a process. (1) http://chainscript.io/ Further, authors state that “implementing a ‘privacy by design’ technology, and archiving securely and transparently any dataset that needs to be stored, is a game changer toward improving enrolment phase methodology”. First, authors overstate the implication of how archiving securely is a game changer. Secondly, a secure and transparent archiving can be achieved without blockchain as well. The manuscript will improve further if authors circumspect such statements. When we enunciate that archiving functionality is a game changer, we had in mind all the issues related to the consent phase main of which are: failure to obtain written informed consent, failure to provide copies of the document to subjects, consent document not signed or not dated, missing pages in consent document provided to subjects, failure to re-consent when new information becomes available, use of wrong forms, use of expired, non-validated or unapproved forms, the only document last page kept in study files. We see from there that implementing a technical pipeline to connect consent process events and Blockchain in order to record consistently timestamped facts helps tackle these issues. The concern about consent process is regularly raised by the FDA, and in the manuscript we referred to articles that treats of this matter. However, we updated our manuscript to propose a softer expression and precise that the archiving is an incorruptible history-oriented timestamped process. Besides, thank you for pointing out this problematics and indeed archiving can be done without Blockchain. Before Blockchain was built, computer science researchers and game theorists conceived some ways to achieve security and transparency, especially DLT, Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT), this allowed archiving consistently data and of which Blockchain is an improvement, but in these systems there are no “proof-of-work”, i.e. validation by random users who proves in some way, by providing CPU intensive power in the case of Bitcoin Blockchain, that they are substantially engaged in the transaction validation. Here, when we claim for a better security and transparency, we allude to the distributed nature of the protocol and critically to its openness, everyone being part of the proof-of-work system, no authentication to join the network being required (we mention that there are of course some recent proof-of-stake or other processes to make network participants engaged in the transaction validation which do not consist in providing CPU power). So, Blockchain is a community consensus driven technology. The “proof-of-work” system integrates the community of peers in the validation process. It happens to say Blockchain supports a trustless system, in fact we could say more appropriately that each node if the network detains part of the trust. So, in this way, we estimate Blockchain is more robust, secure, in the sense that a distributed network circumvents the issue of “single node point of failure”, and transparent. The wide adoption of Bitcoin, Ethereum or other community consensus driven technologies, is related to their open or so to say the so-called “permissionless” nature, which ensures that communities of peer users are not selected a priori by any central authority so that the validation of transactions through an open and inclusive proof-of-work process is robust. On a more broader view, what is commonly said about the core specificity with regards to the attributes that can be appended to the Bitcoin Blockchain technology, is that this distributed database helps achieve in the same time three goals that were not met altogether by precedent technologies: consensus about rules, consensus about history, consensus that coins are valuable. With this strong consensus guardrails, we think that our choice of public blockchain, here the Bitcoin network - but we could have made the choice of ethereum - helps us reach a satisfactory level of transparency and security. Remark : DLT technologies, among which we rank private Blockchain, are more prone to corruption of the informations if inclusion gatekeeping to the network led to go to an illicit agreement. Of course, we don’t claim that Bitcoin’s Blockchain is the absolute standard but it brings quite good guarantees for security and transparency since corruption of the network would suppose a majority of the nodes - this is the famous 51% attack which is yet a theoretical attack at least on the Bitcoin network - and there are currently great efforts to improve these technologies. A recent technology hitting the headlines is HashGraph, it especially provides an improvement, not on the security and transparency side, but on the matter of “proof-of-work” which requires a lot of computing power, so that more transactions could happen per unit of time. We updated the document we might indicate that there are other ways to achieve some level of security and transparency in archiving data, though Blockchain gives a substantial improvement. Additionally, statements like “we evoked a possible improvement in the enrolment rate in clinical trials by empowering patients and granting them information and control over the enrolment phase” seems overselling the underlying message. The patient empowerment is still not clear enough in the manuscript. In the current logistics of a clinical trial where consent is taken on the paper, the patients are empowered to control their participation in the enrolment phase, and see who has the access to their data (which includes consent). It would further improve the manuscript if authors highlight what additional benefit blockchain brings in empowering the patients. Otherwise, I would encourage authors to refrain from making such assertions. Indeed our formulation is not clear and can be misleading in some sense. But let us give some elements that led to us to choose this formulation. Blockchain leads to a community driven consensus to validate proof-of-events whose digital representation is encoded as a block in the public ledger. The level of improvement we envision is not at the level of control of the participation itself but rather at the level of trust in the consent process as a whole, which is an important issue with regards to ongoing debates on patients rights, privacy at the time of mistrust in public authorities or private institutions, especially in the pharmaceutical area. Since Blockchain brings together elements of technology that garantee a strong level of consistency of the process it monitores, and given that each user of the network detains a piece of trust, we think that patients can be more confident in the consent process as a whole and have a supplementary level of control on the integrity and the lifetime of the data whose proof is stored in the Blockchain. However, since in the current implementation, the user are not in a situation to manage directly their keys, the level of control on the Blockchained consent collection steps is not plainly satisfactory and so user empowerment that we claim has to be improved and we updated the manuscript in order to take into account your remark. The reference for Namecoin just directs to the Wikipedia homepage (https:// en.wikipedia.org/wiki). The authors should careful when citing the references. Thank you for your vigilance, we deleted this reference when taking into account one of your preceding remarks. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Angraal S. Peer Review Report For: Blockchain protocols in clinical trials: Transparency and traceability of consent [version 5; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :66 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14293.r28834) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/6-66/v4#referee-response-28834 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Nugent T. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 14 Nov 2017 | for Version 3 Timothy Nugent , Corporate Research and Development, Thomson Reuters, London, UK 0 Views copyright © 2017 Nugent T. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Not Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This article describes a proof of concept system which leverages the Bitcoin blockchain and Chainscript proof of process in order to enforce patients' informed consent during clinical trials. The method relies on the timestamping characteristic of blockchain transactions to ensure that consent was given by the patient in light of modifications to the trial protocol. While it is possible to follow the description of the method, there are many typographic and grammatical errors. The manuscript needs to be improved and these numerous errors corrected. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed. Bitcoin here seems inappropriate for the task at hand. The authors discuss Ethereum but choose Bitcoin as it is perceived to be more stable and immutable. Both chains have experienced hard forks, and both are susceptible to 51% attacks. Ethereum's flexible smart contracts would seem entirely appropriate to use for data storage here, given that any tampering of the chain would be much more likely to seek economic gain than attempt to modify the trial record. In any case, even on Ethereum the cost of such an attack is essentially prohibitive. If using a public chain of any sort, the cost in terms of transactions fees and confirmation times should be discussed. For large scale trials, these costs are likely to be substantial. Authors state that subjects are assigned a key - assigned by who? Surely this introduces a security risk as there exists no mechanism to ensure that these keys are deleted by whoever creates and assigns them. There are various mechanism that allow key pairs to be created by end users (e.g. in a web browser using client-side Javascript) How are public keys associated with subject identities (or their email addresses)? Linking these is non-trivial (assuming the keys are not generated by a central entity). Services exists to link e.g. OAuth 2 tokens with blockchain addresses - the manuscript should at the very least cover some of the identity solutions that may be appropriate here. 