Boykin and co-authors present results from a pilot study exploring the use of MinION technology to detect a plant viral pathogen in real-time. Their data shows a huge advantage of using this hand-held sequence technology over the standard PCR methods. The authors propose implementing a MinION quality-control step on the plants before they are distributed, so that CMD-infected plants can be removed from the supply chain before they reach local farmers. This report is short, but its impact appears to be far-reaching. Most of my comments are minor editorial suggestions, but overall the writing and readability is excellent. Minor revisions: Public availability of the DNA sequence data. While the authors technically made the sequence files public by posting to FigShare, the standard repository for DNA sequence data is the INSDC (NCBI/EBI/DDBJ). I highly urge the authors to create a BioProject at NCBI or EBI that houses the raw and assembled sequences (fasta files) for this effort so that other researchers in this area can easily build off this important work. Editorial comments: Results and Discussion “We utilized the MinION to test infected material and farmers were informed within 48 hours of the specific strain of the virus that was infecting their cassava, and a resistant cassava variety was deployed.” Consider converting to two sentences. One about using the MinION and the second to cover the response. Were resistant cassava plants really deployed within 48 hrs? wow. “MinION sequencing is superior to traditional methods of PCR identification, given its generation of whole genome sequences which enable the identification of the plant virus strain even if it becomes mutated or divergent, as it is not biased using primers that rely on known virus sequences.” Consider a minor re-write: “In general MinION sequencing is superior to traditional PCR methods of identification because the virus can be detected even when the PCR primers don’t work, and 2) entire viral genome sequence is generated enabling the identification of the specific viral strain, along with other molecular information, which allows for a much higher resolution of surveillance. “In addition, we could detect virus in a plant before it showed symptoms (Table 1).” Change to present tense to match the rest of the paragraph? “Utilizing traditional PCR methods, three samples collected from farmer 1’s field in Tanzania tested positive for EACMVs and none were positive for ACMV.” Define EACMV and ACMV before abbreviation. Methods : “In Tanzania, three cassava mosaic disease (CMD) symptomatic cassava leaf samples (Figure 1, Table 1) were collected from the smallholder cassava farmer 1’s field in Bagamoyo.” CMD already defined in Intro. “In Tanzania and Kenya, two primer pairs: EAB 555F/EAB 555F12 and JSP001/JSP00213, which amplify 556 bp and 774 bp, respectively, were used to detect East African CMVs (EACMVs) and African CMVs (ACMVs), respectively.” Use the abbreviations here after adding the full names to the Results. 