The overall topic of this paper is important: Blinding facilitates unbiased trial results, but blinding is less used in surgical trials (and less frequently discussed) than in trials of pharmacological interventions. A prevalent preconception is that blinding is not possible, or not relevant, in surgical trials. The main strength of the paper is that it illustrates well this to be ill founded. However, we wondered whether the manuscript could be further improved. First, we were in doubt what the specific aim of the paper was. We assumed that the authors aimed to discuss the methodological role of binding in surgical trials (and not primarily to present and reflect on their previous review of surgical placebo trials)? If so, it would have strengthened the paper if it had provided some reflections on the barriers to the use of blinding in surgical trials, the ethical issues involved (and how we can best balance the need for reliable evidence for effects of surgery against the risks or discomforts patients may be exposed to in blinded surgical trials), as wells as discuss what measures could be taken to remedy the current situation where blinding is used infrequently in surgical trials. In general, the reader would be better prepared if the paper clearly stated whether the topic it addresses is blinding in surgical trials or use of placebo in surgical trials and whether the main focus is providing practical examples or providing a general overview of the topic. It would be helpful if the paper defined central terms used. For example, what is meant by “interventional procedures”? Does that include acupuncture, radiotherapy, and physiotherapy? Also, how do the authors conceptualize “subjective outcomes vs. objective outcomes” [1]. The central section Bias specific to surgical trials appears compressed. It would help the reader if the section could more clearly show how the example provided introduces bias, and in what way this bias is specific too surgery (rather than just more frequently encountered). Of minor importance was that we were puzzled by some of the references used. For instance, in the Introduction , there is a reference to a study by Wood et al [2], but several more recent studies have looked at this issue [3]. Also, in the section Blinding of outcome assessors the authors refer to a study by one of the undersigned, to the effect that the study documents a “Pygmalion effect” in un-blinded studies [4]. The term, however, was not used in the original publication. It would possibly help the reader if the authors referred to publications that provide a general overview of blinding in trials (and not only surgical trials). 