With certain limitations, this is an interesting and well-written manuscript focusing on the health of cooks in different types of kitchen in Thailand. The main limitation is of course the cross-sectional design, the description of the selection of participants, and to some extent also the local approach (see below). The introduction is very good and covers most of the adequate knowledge in the field. If the author want to seem entirely up to date, they could also have included this very recent reference: Sindre Rabben Svedahl, Bjrn Hilt, Kristin Svendsen. Work environment factors and respiratory complaints in Norwegian Cooks. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 2019 Sep 17. doi: 10.1007/s00420-019-01473-w. [Epub ahead of print]. As is common, the author use operational criteria in the description of the objectives of the study. The research question is not whether cooks differ in PEFR, but if they have impaired lung function related to work-exposures. A better and a more conceptual way to state the objectives would in my view be: “To investigate if cooks working in different types of kitchen have impaired lung function and an increased occurrence of respiratory symptoms”. Then to use PEFR as a measure for lung function is legitimate and purely operational. The description of the selection of study participants is not absolutely crystal-clear (last para on p3 and first on p4). Somehow, it does not quite make sense. In the very first sentence there seems to be a misprint in “… by first diveded…” which in my eyes should be “…by first dividing…”. Please forgive my ignorance, but what is a “consecutive sampling technique”? Then the reader (at least this one) gets confused about who was selected from which restaurants. Was it one worker from each restaurant fulfilling certain criteria employees was interviewed? And, it should preferably be a chef. This does not quite make sense to me. Does it mean that they visited 321 restaurants and interviewed one person in each? This needs to be made clearer so that even this reader can understand it easily. Another thing with the selection of subjects is that it might have led to a selection of respiratory healthy cooks free from asthma, COPD and emphysema which again has strengthened the so called “healthy worker effect” that the author come back to in the discussion. Some other (mostly minor) points as they occur: Introduction last para: Was it for statistical reasons that the previous study failed to demonstrate a significant difference? I would rather say that it was due to small numbers that the study failed to unveil a statistically significant difference. P4, 2 nd para: When we do power assessments we do not calculate the “optimal” sample size, but the “necessary” sample size. What does the last sentence of the para mean? Please clarify. In the introduction the author use both “cooking oil fumes (COF)” and “cooking smoke”. Is there a difference between them? For my part I am used to the term “cooking fume”. Were the PEFR measurements done at random times of the day? I mean, if all measurements from one type of restaurants were done in the morning and the measurement from another in the evening, it could possibly have biased the results due to circadian differences in lung function. Do the author have a literature reference for the expected lung function values for the Thai people? Instead of a dichotomized ( 80 %) variable for PEFR they could also have given us the actual percentages. In table 2 they give the actual mean values without any adjustments. For those figures with three main figures, I think it is unnecessary to put it with two decimals. For table 1 and 2 the reader needs to know the meaning of the column with p-values. For what comparision? Table text for table 2 needs to be more comprehensive and explanatory. Since table 3 is divided in two, it needs to be stated that it will be continued at the bottom of the first part. For table 3 it is not necessary to explain in a footnote for the reader that a 95% confidence interval that not includes the value 1 is statistically significant on a 5% level. I see tears while cooking more at another effect that a real predictor/determinant of the other effects. In the same time it is of course correct to say that if the exposure is so strong that you have the symptom TWC, you can also have other, and worse effects. A better reference and explanation of the tables should be given in the text. In the first para of the discussion the so called healthy worker effect is noting but selection bias and no phenomenon on its own. Selection bias may well have been introduced since the participants apparently should be free from respiratory diseases. The paras on study limitations are insightful and well written. The fact that the study is quite local and that the external validity (generalizability) is limited could also have been included. Even so, it is worthwhile to report on deleterious health effects from professional and domestic cooking from different parts of the world with different cooking methods. For the conclusion I believe that the term Thai restaurants is a term for all the four types of restaurants included, while it was in “tamsang” restaurants that the effects were found. Perhaps the first sentence of the conclusion could be omitted and that they only start with “This study shows that employees in “tamsang” restaurants in Thailand have…..” The consequences of the results are not worth the attention for “regulatory organizations” only, but for everyone concerned with the health and welfare of restaurant workers. 