This manuscript reports a very useful study that extends our knowledge of peptide-MHC recognition by CD8+ T cells during emerging virus infections such as SARS-CoV-2. Detailed in silico analysis showed the presence of potential epitopes shared between new types of betacoronavirus: SARS-CoV-2 and common human alphacoronaviruses: OC43, HKU1, 229E and NL63. Due to the high prevalence of the common coronaviruses authors suggest that the large part of the human population has already some degree of specific memory T cell response before having been infected with the virus. As authors already mentioned in their manuscript the similar study by Nguyen A. et al (JVI, 2020 1 ) demonstrated the HLA binding affinity of all possible 8- to 12-mers from SARS-CoV-2 proteome. This group found that HLA-B15:03 type has the greatest capacity to present highly conserved peptides which are shared among coronaviruses suggesting a cross-protective T cell immune response. In current manuscript using different prediction software authors identified and showed the sequence of epitopes which bind well to similar HLA type, HLA-B15:01. Interestingly, one of the epitopes (YLRKHFSM) can be bound by 4 different HLA types. The obvious strength of this study is the demonstration that certain epitopes, which are identical between SARS-CoV-2 and the common human coronaviruses are being predicted as high affinity binders in multiple HLA-A and B types. Overall, the work reports important new details about SARS-CoV-2 epitopes theoretically being recognized by human CD8+ T cells. Undeniably, future experiments can prove if generated memory immune responses are specific to the proposed epitopes. There are some suggestions: The analysis of p/MHCI binding for HLA-C type (if available) would certainly complete the list of presented epitopes The introduction part subtitled: ”The possibility of matching linear epitopes…” has missing information about previously published reports regarding T cell response in individuals infected with coronaviruses, either common or SARS-CoV. In the discussion part readers may wonder why the authors did not discuss their findings with those already published (although they may not have been out at the time of submission) but should be included in the revision. 