Overall the presented study is very complete and it will provide meaningful information about how bilingualism alters brain connectivity in early brain development. The presented analysis plan is appropriate to answer the questions they are addressing. The scripts (already uploaded to GitHub) will be an important resource for anyone interested to work with these (or similar) datasets, and the availability of the datasets would be an important contribution to the community, as it will be useful for other researchers investigating the mechanisms that change with bilingualism during early brain development. The study is very well designed, however, I have some questions/suggestions regarding the processing of the data and the statistical analysis. The FA is generally a good biomarker for brain development, however, it is very difficult to interpret. 1 As the acquired multi-shell diffusion data permits it, did the authors consider calculating also NODDI maps? 2 In addition, did the authors consider adding some preprocessing steps like denoising or removal of Gibbs rings artifacts to the diffusion pipeline? 3 , 4 Finally, the authors could provide more details on how they plan to control for confounding effects. One important confounder to take into account is gestational age at birth: in fact, some of the children were born between 33 and 37 weeks, and are therefore late preterm. It is well known that preterm babies have small differences in brain structure compared with term-born babies at term equivalent age, and this should be accounted for. 5 Then they mention that socioeconomic status will be measured on the basis of maternal education, but they don’t specify how this variable will be used in their statistical models. Another potential confounder worth considering is brain size, as it correlates to general intelligence 6 and it has a known effect on functional connectivity estimates (see e.g. Hnggi et al. 7 ). Finally, there is a large literature on sex differences in language proficiency in childhood and brain development (see Etchell et al. 8 for a systematic review). Although the authors report that there were no significant sex differences measured in normative samples for some of the scores they adopt, it would be worth clarifying the reasons for excluding this factor from the analysis. 