The article "The IMPDH inhibitor merimepodib provided in combination with the adenosine analogue remdesivir reduces SARS-CoV-2 replication to undetectable levels in vitro " is a timely study on the effects of remdesivir and merimepomid against SARS CoV-2. The anti SARS CoV-2 effects of Remdesivir is not new, and neither is the antiviral a ctivity of mereimepomid, but the effect of merimepomid against SARS CoV-2 has not been shown in other studies and is a new observation, along with the observation on additive effects of remdesivir and merimepomid in combination. The authors demonstrate robust antiviral activity of the two substances in the low micromolar concentration and a robust antiviral activity when both substances are administered in combination at a concentration of 1,25 M. The major shortcoming of the study is that all results were generated on VeroE6, a green monkey cell line that is not necessarily representative of the natural sites of infection. This issue is particularly important because merimepodib acts by inhibiting inosine-5’-monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH), a cellular enzyme, and potential polymorphisms between this gene in non-human primates and humans may result in a different efficacy of the drug in clinical settings. Therefore, the study would be strengthened by expanding the assay to human epithelial cells, ideally of lung origin. Another smaller shortcoming of the study is that all statistical analysis was performed by t-tests, but the data are for the most part much more complex and require ANOVA analysis, and due to the low n in the experimental groups should be performed by Kruskal-Wallis. This in itself is not a major point of contention in my eyes. Reproducibility in experimental settings trumps statistical analysis by definition, the results in this study are clear already by eyeballing them, and the core results have been reproduced in several experiments shown in the two figures. Nevertheless, if statistical significance is used as an argument to validate the results, then one should use statistical methods that fit the experimental design and the group sizes. In sum, despite these shortcomings, this is an important set of data that brings us closer to the development of antiviral strategies against the COVID19 pandemics and a substantial contribution to the field. 