Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting study on the impact of disorder comorbidity on resting state functional MRI. This is an important and under-studied area of research. I have a number of comments that may help to improve the manuscript. Abstract: The abstract is disappointing, dense and requires development. At present it is mostly comprised of statements relating to the findings obtained, rather than providing an interpretation of findings. Are all the findings reported key to the bottom-lines of the article? The authors need to add a brief interpretation after each of the KEY findings. What is the take home message; what are the bottom-lines? While the findings may indeed be “ important for treatment development ”, it is unclear how. Please elaborate. Introduction: The first paragraph would benefit from a little more context on why comorbidity is important. For instance, studies have demonstrated that comorbidity between the mood and anxiety disorders increases risk for CVD and mortality ( Philips et al., 2009 ). I would recommend the authors integrate this information to help build study rationale. While the rationale for focusing on subgenual ACC as a seed region in connectivity analysis is well-founded, I thought the rationale for focusing on the insula to be much weaker. I would have thought that the amygdala region would have been a more appropriate second choice, especially given the many past studies that have focused on the amygdala as a region of interest in patients with PTSD. Methods: re Participants section: who administered the psychiatric evaluation; were they psychiatrists or research assistants? How many people conducted the evaluations? How was the reliability and validity of this measurement across assessors determined? If research assistants, how much training did they receive? What was the value of the financial compensation received by participants? re Data Acquisition: To what extent could this (incentivisation) have impacted on findings (i.e. group interaction) especially given the unrestricted participant instructions (i.e. relax and let the mind wander)? Was any questionnaire administered to assess mental state of participants during the resting state scan? Results: I recommend the authors to review the article by Miller Chapman (2001) on the problems associated with ANCOVA when participants are not randomly allocated to a group, as in the present study. The use of total CAPS scores as a covariate in post-hoc analysis of covariance is problematic. One potential solution to this problem that the authors could consider is post-hoc correlational analysis. Although the authors ran a series of correlational analyses, these need to be conducted on all participants regardless of group, rather than by each group individually. The authors would need to determine the unique activations associated with the PTSD, with versus without depression, a contrast that is not associated with confounding variables (i.e. CAPS, positive affect). Another issue the authors need to consider is the impact of medication on their findings. While the authors note in their limitations that “ future studies should investigate the effect of medication on the neurobiology of PTSD with or without MDD ”, the authors have a sufficient sample of medication naive participants on which sub-analysis could be run. Error bars need to be added to Figure 3. Discussion: The authors link increases in subgenual-perigenual ACC connectivity in the PTSD+MDD group versus the PTSD-MDD group to differences in self-referential processing. This is an interesting point which I feel could be further elaborated (after of course confirming that these findings are still present after adjusting for confounds -see points I made regarding this issue under the results section). The same could be said for the discussion on the relationship between the disorders and the default mode network. I also feel the discussion section needs to be further developed. Currently, much of the discussion restates the findings without more detail on what the differences might mean (especially in the first paragraph of the discussion). This makes the discussion section a little underwhelming. 