In the review, Dr. Wang has significantly expanded discussion on associative memory cells in the brain from the molecular and cellular levels to functional outcomes. The proposed model for learning and memory was supported by work from the author’s own laboratory, as well as from accumulated literature. This is a timely update that will help reveal novel mechanisms in learning and memory formation and loss, which may help to advance understanding of memory deficits in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease. In addition to general comments above, the following some suggestions that the author may consider for the future studies. The author has simply discussed the possible relationship between associative memory cells and affective disorders such as anxiety and major depression. It sounds interesting but lacks experimental support. I would suggest the author to give more literature view or conduct some proof-and-concept experiments on this aspect the future. Although the author intends to establish that basic units of memory traces, or engrams, are associative memory cells named by author’s laboratory. It would be more supportive if the author makes the systemic and comprehensive comparisons between cell assemblies in memory traces and associative memory cells. It seems to me that associative memory cells encode the storage of multiple signals, which has not been emphasized by the studies of engrams. As the author states that almost all of learning activities are associative learning, the units to memorize particular associative signals are called as associative memory cells is straight forward. Has the author thought to make a mutual agreement in that associative memory cells and engrams are presenting the same cell ensemble in relevance to memory formation? The theory of associative memory cells may apply in psychology, although numerous terms and theoretical models about learning and memory have been suggested in this field. Hopefully the author and the team would provide more evidence and information to support this theory. 