The authors have conducted a systematic review of the cost of provision of peritoneal dialysis versus hemodialysis. They have considered a more recent era than previous reviews, evaluating studies published between 2004 and 2012. Using a well described search strategy and inclusion and exclusion criteria, they provided a narrative review of the 24 cost and cost-effectiveness studies. In tabular format they provided a brief description of each study, and for costing studies provided a ratio of the costs of hemodialysis versus PD. The results of each country were categorized by national income status. The results of the 24 studies are congruent with previous reviews suggesting that compared to in center hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis is less costly to provide. The limitations of the studies including differences in perspective, cost categories, and quality are well described. This is a generally well-written and well conducted study and is an important addition to the literature as healthcare systems strive for economic sustainability. There is a conflict of interest as Baxter is a major supplier of PD equipment and supplies, and many of the author are or were employees / stockholders. This however is clearly outlined in the competing interests section. There does not appear to be any major discernible bias imparted by this. I have some suggestions to improve clarity and organization of the paper: Major comments In several places including the abstract and final conclusion it is stated that increase in the use of clinically appropriate PD would reduce healthcare costs. More precise language should be used to indicate that PD should be used instead of hemodialysis (technical efficiency). This is simply to highlight the fact that some health care systems may not provide dialysis therapy at all, or provide dialysis for only a small proportion of the population. This analysis does not compare the cost cost-effectiveness of PD versus conservative management. It might be prudent to make this explicit at some point in the paper, perhaps the discussion. There are several sentences or paragraphs in the results section which I think would be better suited to the methods section. First is the discussion of how income status of each of the countries included in the review were determined. This is in the first paragraph of the results section. The first paragraph of column 2 on page 4 discusses how the ratio of HD to PD costs are determined and I would suggest they should also be in the method section. There are also several sections in the results paragraphs that are more of an interpretation of the results than simply stating the results of their systematic review. For example page 4 first column third paragraph describe the challenges of cross-country comparison but these first few sentences do not describe any results. This would be better suited to the discussion section. I would suggest that the authors go through the results section and move interpretive statements to the discussion. Further, statements around limitations would also be better suited to the discussion. While I agree with the conclusion that increasing the proportion of patients treated with dialysis therapy to PD would lower health care costs, the feasible proportion of patients suitable for peritoneal analysis is controversial. However it is clear that at least in several jurisdictions such as Canada and United States, there are segments of the patient population that would not be suitable for PD, recognizing that PD is generally thought to be significantly underutilized. Exploration of this in the discussion would be useful to place the results in context. Other comments Page 3 column 2 methods section: The prior literature synthesis from 1996 to 2006 should be referenced. Page 7 column 1 discusses “reimbursement incentives”. Reimbursement implies payment for delivery of a service versus actual cost. These are two different concepts. As this article is looking at cost rather than the effect of reimbursement practices or incentives, I would suggest that this terminology be removed. A recent paper has been published that attempts to look at reasons why PD costs may be higher in some low or middle income countries. This paper suggested that lack of local manufacturing of PD supplies, a low number of PD patients, and high import tariffs may make PD less attractive compared to hemodialysis. It may be worthwhile to incorporate this into the discussion ( Karopadi et al ., 2013 ). 