The authors presented their meta-analyses comparing prone versus supine PCNL for the management of renal stones 2 cm. They reported a higher SFR with prone technique but a better safety profile with supine technique. However, there are many points that require more details especially in the results and discussion section. The authors did not comment on studies heterogenousities or quality. Many points were not presented in each study (detailed in the comments on the results and discussion section). The authors did not discuss previous meta-analyses on the same issue nor clarifying the addition or difference in the current study. Introduction: The authors reported that: [While PCNL has higher free stone rates with a similar recurrence and complication rate compared with ESWL,...]. This should be cited. Additionally, the complication rates are different between both procedures. Similarly, the recurrence rate is different. Method: The authors should clarify the age of patients and the design of the study (RCT or cohort) in the inclusion criteria. Results: The authors did not comment on the quality of included studies as well as their heterogenicity. Figure 1: The authors should clarify why 103 studies were excluded out of 131. The authors should perform a separate analysis (or at least a separate comment) for blood transfusion, sepsis, pleural effusion or visceral injury complications. Table 2: the authors should add many points to describe each study adequately including: Number and shape of stone SFR for each study. The method and timing for evaluation of SFR. If SFR was calculated after first session or after 2nd look PCNL. The complications for each technique (and its rate). If any procedure was Mini-PCNL and the caliber of used renal track (sheath). If there were congenital renal anomalies. Lithotripsy technique. Operative imaging modality. Discussion: The authors should give more details of the included studies. The authors should discuss previous meta-analyses comparing both procedures. Additionally, the authors should compare the results of the present study to previous meta-analyses clarifying any difference and any addition. 