Thank you for the opportunity to review the manuscript Finger stick blood collection for gene expression profiling and storage of tempus blood RNA tubes by Rinchai D, Anguiano E, Nguyen P and Chaussabel D. In this paper, the authors are proposing an SOP for finger stick blood collection for RNA profiling. While the objective of this manuscript is worthwhile for the scientific world in proposing standardized lab methods, the paper would benefit from some improvement. There is a disconnect between the title and the objective of the paper. Is the focus on the finger stick collection or on the tempus tube storage? This should be revised, especially considering that the authors intend to publish the RNA extraction in a separate paper. Introduction: First sentence is unclear. The introduction could be shortened considerably. A more concise and to the point argument on why we need this method, advantages and disadvantages can be made. Also, the authors should add supporting reasons for why their method should be published and how it is different from the others. The authors mention that the method will be used in the future. Is this to understand they have no experience with the proposed method? Why is mentioning where/what study this method will be used important? Do authors have any experience with non-pregnant patients? Does pregnancy bear any weight in sample collection and transportation? Narrative of the procedure: The figure is very useful for following the procedure step-by-step. Considering that a follow up paper proposed by the authors will discuss RNA extraction, all the practical points shared under 'General Remarks' could be moved to the respective manuscript. Since this paper proposes to discuss only the finger stick procedure, the discussion about the volumes of blood drawn is exhaustive and unwarranted for this particular manuscript. However, it is not clear if the tubes for the blood collection are the same as the tubes pre-prepared with the volume of RNA stabiliser for 50 μL of blood. Please provide some practical explanation on the procedure when the capillary straw is not filled (i.e. how to measure the blood volume). What type of capillary is to be used? Precautions: There is no mention of the possibility of sample contamination. For point 3 and 5, I suggest they add the reasoning for the selected choices in addition to the drawbacks of the other possibilities. Eliminate repetitions about blood flow and the ratio blood to solution. Point 16 is quite vague. As the matter is essential for the RNA quality, I invite the authors to expand the topic and share their experience, with numbers rather than “as soon as possible”. How much of those samples could be kept during transportation? Some information on authors’ experience with the bio-repository would be very welcome. The authors mention somewhere about using the method as in home self collection. Have they experimented that? It would be particularly interesting if they would provide details about how they plan quality assurance for these samples. Also, any particularities of this method of collection should be explained. 