The opinion article by Poulomi Acharya and colleagues is an interesting commentary on three important areas that relate to antibody use, how to select, validate and report antibody use. I think it provides a valuable contribution to discussion in this field and makes many valuable points on the topic. I would like to suggest a number of minor changes/corrections that should be considered if/when the article is revised. The authors state in the abstract that “in addition, several studies have called into question the reliability of published data as the primary metric for assessing antibody quality”. I think if the authors are going to make this statement in the abstract they should specifically return to it in the article and discuss it more widely. Which studies are they and what were the conclusions. What other metrics are available and do the authors believe these should these be used instead or with published data? My own opinion is that there are clear cases where peer reviewed published antibody results have turned out not to be reliable and the authors are right to raise them and warn researchers. I also believe that supplier validation is in many cases a very good source of information, reviews can also provide value, but I would argue that peer reviewed published results, when available and looked at critically, are still the best source of information on antibody quality, short of validating the antibody in your own laboratory. I would of course agree with the authors that researchers should use search engines to help identify possible candidate antibodies (Page 2). The validation data for these antibodies can then be investigated and a final choice made. However, the search engines proposed omit several well used ones such as CiteAb (I am obviously biased), but also Antibodypedia and PabMabs and others. The three sites mentioned rank by citations or reviews and complement Biocompare and Select Science which I believe rank on a financial basis. I am also not aware of how UniProt and NCBI can be used as antibody search engines so some explanation might be helpful. It is not true that all monoclonal antibodies are highly specific (Page 2), a recent study showed this for antibodies against the oestrogen receptor 1 . Recombinant monoclonals can potentially show batch-to-batch variability caused by changes in the manufacturing process, so I think it is more accurate to say that they should have the least batch-to-batch variability, rather than saying “removing any batch to batch variability” (Page 3). I think the authors are right to the stress the need to select antibodies, where possible, that have been validated for the application of interest (Page 3; final paragraph). I wonder if the authors could also make more of the need to try and find antibodies validated for the tissue and cell type of interest? They are also right to point out that comparing antibodies from different vendors can add further value to the validation (page 4), but it might be worth stressing that due to cross selling researchers need to be careful to make sure that the antibodies are actually different. In section III, number 1. The authors have omitted the catalogue code as part of the information that should be listed. They do put this in Table 1. I think this should be added and would also suggest the clone number and any conjugate can also provide valuable information and should in an ideal world be included. Two of the authors work for an antibody supplier and this should be declared. 