The authors provide a tutorial on how to derive some important temporospatial gait parameters from a single waist-worn triaxial acceleromter. The tutorial is mostly pitched at a very basic level for someone with any signal processing expertise, but I think this is overall a strength given the target audience. However, in places it is not so clear and wanders into descriptions of signal processing methods without sufficient intuitive explanation of what these methods are trying to achieve - I will draw attention to this later in detailed comments. On the whole, I think the focus of the paper is quite narrow and largely ignores a rapidly growing literature on the use of inertial monitoring units (IMUs,containing accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, and barometer) which are in all modern smartphones, or appearing as small wearables for foot tracking and joint angle estimation, etc. It is OK not to include this in the tutorial, but for full disclosure I think it is important to tell how many more parameters could be estimated using these tools. Most of my comments below are minor and aim to help improve readability. There are, however, some technical errors which must be fixed before I would endorse the paper as correct. Abstract: The language here is trying very hard to be more prosaic than it needs to be. I would consider edits parts of this. I disagree with the comment that MATLAB is an "open platform" - this should be deleted. There are MATLAB specific functions, like findpeaks, which would not be available elsewhere. Introduction: "for multitudinous gait cycles" I tend to disagree with the statement "their use has been limited to academic studies". What is the difference anyway between an academic study and an epidemiological study? "This can be attributed to...". I don't think you have yet provided enough context for the reader to comprehend these issues that are bemoaned here. Materials and methods: "a triaxial (medio-lateral, anterior-posterior, longitudinal) accelerometer". It is wrong and confusing to chose a body-centric coordinate frame for the sensor as this assumes a particular orientation on the body. "static conditions... where gravity has a pronounced effect on one axis". If one of the sensors axes are not aligned with vertical, gravity will have an effect on all axes. "[various commercial devices]... may not offer high sampling rates". Please say which do and don't, and what is your definition of "high". "all positives and negatives depending on the research question...". What do you mean by this statement? I don't understand. Typo: "constrained" not "constraint". As mentioned above, IMUs are completely overlooked here. What is motivation for selecting 100 Hz? Tradition? The appendix states 15-20 Hz is the bandwidth of human movement, so about 50-60 Hz sampling rate should be ample. p4: "healthy and pathological studies". Grammar problem. The studies are not healthy. Define what is meant by "slippage". "misalignment due to correct orientation". Do you mean incorrect orientation? You propose a lab-based test over a 25 m loop, but this is at odds with the introduction which motivates this tutorial as a method for "deployment in any setting". Intro should be changed. "doesn't". Write "does not". Do not use contractions in formal articles. "utilises" rather than "utilizes" as this appears to be UK English. p5: Grammar. "Its support network... comprehensive toolboxes". "Attachment error and gravity can be easily overcome". This is a naive comment. Without an gyroscope it is very much not an easy task. Reword to say "approximately" or "crudely". "The average/mean values of the values captured...". In general you have not discussed the important issue of calibration properly. The offsets, sensitivities and non-orthogonality of the axes should be fixed before experiments start. See following references for more information 1 , 2 , 3 . I'm sticking my neck out here, but I'm very sure the method proposed to resolve accelerations in the world frame is wrong. This is a concern since the original source is 18 years old 4 . I've gone through the maths and I'm fairly certain it's incorrect, but would be happy to be corrected. The correct method would involve two rotations to get the correct rotation matrix. The first is a rotation about the AP axis (same as x-axis in world at the start), then tip the frame back by rotation around the y-axis of the world. The final rotation matrix gives same equations when inclination is only in xz-plane or yz-plane, as per Moe-Nilssen paper, but do not match when there is both pitch and roll simultaneously. It is also obvious this is wrong as Eq. (1) (p5) in this paper does not use the a_m accelerometer reading, and it would definitely contribute to the x-axis acceleration in the world frame if there is both pitch and roll. Typo in Eq (2): \theta_v should be a_v. p5. For the equations on this page, need to be clear what units you are working in. Units of g = 9.8 m/s^2. Typo: "detailed descriptions is beyond". Description of CWT and DWT is confusing. DWT is just CWT with carefully chosen scale factors. The description of detecting IC and FC using the method by McCalmey et al. 5 would not be particularly clear to a novice reader. I looked up this paper. It was tested on only 18 young volunteers and seems to be heuristic. I think it's worth mentioning such limitations of the methods you've chosen to implement. Also, to anybody reading this section the signal processing feels a bit like black magic. Could some description of the motivation for each derived signal, or what it physically represents, be provided? I am struggling to follow the logic behind the processing myself and I have signal processing experience in this field. The use of the Wavelet Toolbox and findpeaks function in MATLAB are a limiting factor in the implementation. Also, it is not clear in the text or code what the scale factor is. It seems to be 10 samples at a sample rate of 100 Hz, so 0.1 s. Why this scale? Also, your code should be configurable with respect to variable sampling rates. If it is to be used by those unskilled in the art, they should not be expected to understand the importance of such hyperparameters. Figure 2: You have not discussed the importance of DC offsets when using cumtrapz to integrate the acceleration signal. Have you removed the DC offset first? What will happen if this is not done? (it will accumulate linearly). Figure 2: The h for height seems incorrect to me with regards to the h used in the inverted pendulum model. I thought the inverted pendulum h is for total vertical distance travelled by COM on the arc of the circle? Figure 2: Need time axes scale, labels, and units. p6: "wearable-height" should be "wearable height". p7: Need to define terms in Eqs. (7b) and (8). What is "SD"? What is "Steps"? What is "average"? p7: Dataset 1: "if vertical is oriented at +1g, this can be inverted by multiplying by -1." Acceleration due gravity is vertically up, and so should read +1g, assuming the positive sense of the sensors z-axis also points up. There is also a typo here: "format mat be converted". p7: spelling. "alternation" to "alternative". Appendix: Units for Wn should be stated written in code as fn/(fs/2) with terms defined in comments. Code should be publicly available on a code repository (sorry if it is, but I cannot see the link). Notation is sloppy here, with "Aa = AccData(:,2)" and "am = AccData(:,3)". "av" variable is used but never defined. Does this code run, or is it just excerpts? Not clear to me. "aaMean" variable never created. References: With 13/41 references involving self-citation. Cited literature could be more balanced. References 1. Jurman D, Jankovec M, Kamnik R, Topič M: Calibration and data fusion solution for the miniature attitude and heading reference system. Sensors and Actuators A: Physical . 2007; 138 (2): 411-420 Publisher Full Text 2. Skog I, Handel P: Calibration of a mems inertial measurement unit. XVII IMEKO World Congress . 2006. 3. Včelák J, Ripka P, Kubík J, Platil A, et al.: AMR navigation systems and methods of their calibration. Sensors and Actuators A: Physical . 2005; 123-124 : 122-128 Publisher Full Text 4. Moe-Nilssen R: A new method for evaluating motor control in gait under real-life environmental conditions. Part 2: Gait analysis. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon) . 1998; 13 (4-5): 328-335 PubMed Abstract 5. McCamley J, Donati M, Grimpampi E, Mazzà C: An enhanced estimate of initial contact and final contact instants of time using lower trunk inertial sensor data. Gait Posture . 2012; 36 (2): 316-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Redmond SJ. Reviewer Report For: Instrumented gait assessment with a single wearable: an introductory tutorial [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2323 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10330.r16658 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2323/v1#referee-response-16658 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: McGrath D and O'Reilly M. Reviewer Report For: Instrumented gait assessment with a single wearable: an introductory tutorial [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2323 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10330.r17045 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2323/v1#referee-response-17045 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 18 Oct 2016 Denise McGrath , University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland Martin O'Reilly , The Insight Centre for Data Analytics, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Sports Science, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10330.r17045 This paper is a tutorial type presentation on how to capture a number of gait characteristics for use in a variety of study types using a single, lumbar-worn accelerometer. The paper does not present new data capture or analysis methods ... Continue reading READ ALL 