This case report reports on a 12 year old child with PXE. I have the following comments: Some references used are outdated and even contains a non-English paper. Please update and replace. The male-female ratio is not correct. PXE is 2-3 times more prevalent in women. The diagnostic criteria used are from 1994. I would recommend using the updated criteria from Plomp et al. ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20358627 ), published in 2010. 1 The authors state that PXE ‘has a favourable prognosis with appropriate follow-up by multidisciplinary teams’. What is meant by favourable? Although recommended, it is not proven that multidisciplinary teams improve any outcome in PXE. I disagree with the decision of the pathology specialist that there was no need to perform a genetic analysis for mutations in ABCC6, or other genes like ENPP1 and GCCX. A genetic analysis always should be done. This obviously cannot be changed in the manuscript, but maybe the authors can make a statement on this. Eyeballs are not affected in PXE. Please change into Bruch’s membrane of the eye or retina. I would prefer to use vascular manifestations instead of cardiovascular as the heart is usually not more affected compared with healthy controls. Also, hypertension is probably not more prevalent in PXE. It is stated that there is a ‘higher incidence of acute myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accident in PXE’. The reference (Hosen et al. ) used for this statement is a histopathology paper and does not even discuss this. Cerebrovascular accidents, but not myocardial infarctions, are indeed increased in PXE. Please use an appropriate reference. It is stated that ‘Patients with PXE may also develop early atherosclerosis due to the mineralization of the internal elastic lamina of the blood vessels and lipid alteration with high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels reduction in blood plasma and hypertriglyceridemia.’ Atherosclerosis is not more common in PXE, as this is an intimal disease with accumulation of cholesterol in the intima. The appropriate vascular manifestation in PXE is arteriosclerosis, with calcification of the internal elastic layer and media of the vessel wall. The lipid alterations described are pathophysiological not correct and should be deleted. Recent developments on potential treatments in PXE are lacking, e.g. etidronate (Kranenburg et al. 2018) and oral pyrophosphate (Vki et al. 2019). 1 , 2 I would recommend adding this to the discussion. 