This paper by Gitton et al. re-examines the Hinge and Caps model posited by Michael Depew and adds a new piece of evidence supporting this theory. This model argues that changes to mandibular and maxillary skeletal elements in mice mutant for various Dlx gene mutations, reflect a transformation of the upper and lower jaws due to a loss of signals from the at the ends of the jaws to the . Detailed descriptions of the phenotypes of the various Dlx mutants have previously been published by the Depew lab and others and in this study the authors show a similar phenotype as has previously been shown for the Dlx5/6 mutant mice. The authors display 3D reconstructions emphasising the symmetry of the transformed skeletal elements, but do not elaborate beyond the characterisations of these mutants that haven previously been performed. The authors then describe the expression of an inducible Dlx5 transgene in the maxillary arch and show that Dlx5 expressing cells are restricted to ectoderm, although I could not determine how many animals were examined to determine this. The authors further state that these cells no longer express Dlx5 when they arrive at this point, but again this is not shown, but rather referenced by other work. The authors argue that this ectodermal positioning of the Dlx5 -lineage cells in the maxillary arch, in conjunction with the phenotype of the Dlx5/6 double mutant, argues that the signal is an ectoderm signal. The authors then cite unpublished data for a CNCC-specific knockout of Dlx5/6 and state this has no phenotype in the maxillary arch, but fail to show this. This paper is interesting and posits an attractive idea that a discrete population of cells located at a point in the ectoderm can act as a positional signal to pattern forming skeletal elements. The lineage tracing experiments are elegant and could be elaborated on to show if the restriction of the Dlx5 lineage cells are restricted to the ectoderm throughout the maxillary arch, as only one plane is shown in Figure 3. One thing that I was not able to glean from this work, is whether there is any Dlx6 expression or Dlx6 -derived cells in the maxillary arch and if so, is this in ectoderm-derived or CNCC-derived cells? This is critical to ascertain as the premise of the work is that a Dlx5 expressing cell lineage in the ectoderm is controlling patterning of the maxillary arch, yet the mutant being examined is a compound Dlx5/6 mutant. Is there redundancy between these genes in patterning the maxillary arch? Can the authors reference work describing the phenotype of the maxillary arch elements in Dlx6 and Dlx5 single mutant animals? Beverdam et al. (2002) , highlighted the combinatorial consequences of Dlx5 and Dlx6 loss of function, leading to a graded alteration in morphology, indicative of skeletal transformations. This point needs to be clarified in the text. Major points: How many animals were examined for lacZ reporter gene expression in the maxillary arch by paraffin wax sectioning? Another example and an indication of the number of animals examined is required. The authors should show that the expression of Dlx5 is absent from the maxillary arch at comparable stages to the lacZ staining (this is referenced, but not shown at comparable stages to the lacZ stained animals in ) I would like to see what expression of Dlx6 is in the maxillary arch at comparable stages to those examined by the Dlx5-lacZ transgene. I would like to see the data for the mice in which Dlx5 is knocked out in CNCC (unpublished data cited in the Discussion). The central premise of the paper is that the Dlx5 lineage cells in the epithelial of the maxillary arch are acting as the caps, in which case it is crucial to show that a knockout of Dlx5/6 in the CNCC does not affect the morphology of the maxillary skeleton. Please reference descriptions of maxillary arches in Dlx5 and Dlx6 single mutants, describe the expression of both genes in the maxilla and highlight the redundancy between these genes in arch patterning. These should be incorporated into the Discussion. 