In this manuscript, the authors evaluate a newly developed immunochromatography (IC) kit for detecting norovirus and rotavirus by comparing the results with Reverse transcription PCR method as gold standard. They conducted comprehensive analysis of the sensitivity and specificity of the IC kit and concluded that the kit could be performed for rapid detection of norovirus and rotavirus with low cost and recommended the kits for routine use in low-income countries like Bangladesh. Major comments: 1. Lack of information about sample quality: Authors claimed that the samples were collected from January to June 2015 and stored in -20⁰C, but did not mention the duration of storage in the freezer before testing, which could affect the evaluation. The reviewer suggests to use freshly collected samples for this type of comprehensive analysis. 2. Selection of inappropriate gold-standard for comparison: Authors selected Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) for comparison. This PCR depends on primers which were designed more than 15 years ago (published in 2003); however, according to recent data and considering high diversity of the viruses, these primers may fail to detect the viruses correctly in many samples. Thus, this assay cannot be used as gold standard. Using more reliable and latest detection methods such as real time RT-PCR can be used as a gold standard. 3. Miscalculation: Analysis for sensitivity and specificity was incorrectly performed. For example, specificity of the kit for rotavirus detection (in Table 2) should be 89.6%. 4. Concluding remarks: The statement “Our findings clearly indicate that rotavirus and norovirus are the most important enteropathogen responsible for acute viral gastroenteritis among infants and children in Bangladesh, where 74% of the cases were caused by rotavirus only.” cannot be made from the data presented in this paper. This study was particularly designed to evaluate a kit; not for describing rotavirus and norovirus prevalence. The authors strongly recommended to use the IC kit as an alternative method for rapid and low-cost diagnosis without the cost analysis by comparing with other available detection kits. Mentioning the unit cost for this IC test could be helpful to support this statement. One of the major limitations of this study is the lack of information on the capability of the IC kit to detect different genotypes of viruses by this IC kit. All norovirus strains detected in this study belonged to norovirus genogroup II and other norovirus genogroups were ignored. For example, in Bangladesh, about 15-30% of noroviruses belong to genogroups other than genogroup II 1 , 2 . Similarly, the author did not mention genetic variation of rotaviruses detected in this study except G1P 3 . A well-designed study by including different genotypes with appropriate sample size is recommended for this type of kit evaluation. 