I found this to be an interesting field-based study. It is limited by all the typical factors that one finds in a field-based study (i.e., replication, no controls, etc), but that is to be expected and okay so long as the analysis and interpretation are consistent with theses limitations. I feel the authors largely stayed true to their experimental design and offered some useful insights into the processes of an ecological WWTP. I only have a few trivial suggestions to for (potentially) improving some elements of the paper, although it reads well and could largely remain as it stands. Specific suggestions: Would it be appropriate to denote "ecological wastewater treatment plants" as eWWTP, as they are clearly different from WWTPs in this context. The aim of the study does not immediately follow from the sentence in the abstract: "To determine whether the removal of micropollutants in ecological wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) is promoted by the plant-microbe interactions..." You are assessing the correlation between wastewater input, treatment stage, PPCP removal, bacterial family and gene prevalence in plant and sand biofilms, planktonic cells and enrichment cultures. Granted there's no easy way to summarize this, but it is a more accurate description of the paper . You may wish to adjust the abstract to better reflect what was done. Sampling: It's not clear how samples were collected from the eWWTP, the replication or pooling that was done, the transportation conditions and storage. Clarify when sampling was of water and/or biofilm and depth of sample acquisition and whether roots were removed or scraped for the biofilm (and the sand filter?). The environmental conditions in the eWWTP need to be provided (temp, pH, atmosphere, etc). The observation that biodegradation/metabolism is dominated by benzoate degradation is quite interesting and leads to some useful insight into what might be going on in the eWWTP. It might be an option to make this a focus of the paper, i.e., in the title. If you choose to do this you might then rearrange the results to put this first as the sequence information really just supports this one result. 