This article is an interesting descriptive study that details student characteristics and learning preferences in three self-selected versions of the same introductory biostatistics class: live, in class sections, synchronous online viewings of the live-streaming live class, or asynchronous viewings of recorded live class lectures. This reviewer appreciates the efforts the instructors made to accommodate anticipated differences in students scheduling needs to potentially offer the class to a wider pool of enrollees. With regard to the study itself, however, it is purely descriptive in nature. It was not designed to test any formal hypotheses regarding differences between the three sections, despite the power computations, and the reference to a comparison group of students in a hybrid-style epidemiology course. (Curiously, this comparison group was never mentioned again after the "Course Survey" section.) The authors should emphasize the descriptive nature of this work up-front (The first sentence of the final paragraph of the introductions section does this well : perhaps just removing the bit about the epidemiology course comparison group will help emphasize this) From a scientific standpoint, the response rate of 55% is problematic, although the norm for survey studies. If there is other, non-survey result information on both the responders and non-responders, it would be interesting to se even a basic comparison of the two groups. The biggest area of confusion for this reviewer is the distinction between "Course Format Preference" and "Retake Course Format Preference" as these were assessed a the same time points. Clearly the response distributions of both items differ, but it is not clear what the implications are. Is it because , for example, some persons prefer the in person option ideally, but for practical reasons (commuting, work schedules etc..) it would be more convenient to take it in a hybrid format if offered again? The distribution of reasons for preference given are ostensibly for the "Course Format Preference" and not the "Retake Course Format Preference", and as such gives little insight as to why preferences would change. As such, though the samples are small, it would be interesting to see the conditional distributions of for both items, separately for students enrolled in each of the three course versions. Additionally, from a qualitative standpoint, knowing why people would choose a different format from their preference when (hypothetically) retaking the class would be informative. As it stands, it is not possible to conclude that students prefer the hybrid approach despite the majority percentage that would retake the course in this format. If the authors can provide some clarity about the distinction between "Course Format Preference" and" Retake Course Format Preference", and which is driving their understanding of student preferences this would be helpful. In closing, the study provides interesting descriptive data, and some insights on how to (relatively) easily allow for a hybridization of a course that is originally an on-campus only offering. This is not to say that it's not a lot or work to pull this off, but the resources (youtube etc..) are relatively accessible. The study, however, does not add any scientific insights regarding hybrid courses as compared to traditional, on-campus or offerings or completely online offerings. 