 General comments: This systematic review comparing SIAs to SBVs in Africa has been well designed and conducted, and the conclusions reached are well-founded. The manuscript can however be improved, with some minor editing. This includes deleting the repetition of phrases / words within a sentence / paragraph, as these make some sentences / paragraphs clumsy and increase the word count unnecessarily. Also, abbreviations must (a) only be introduced if they will be used again; (b) be introduced the first time the term is used and used only thereafter; and (c) never reintroduced. An edited version of the PDF has been sent to the supervisor to assist with improving and shortening the manuscript. Specific comments: Introduction: Page 3, paragraph 3: The third point does not adequately explain the issue. The shift in age at infection has occurred because of the introduction of the MMR into the infant vaccination schedule followed by low coverage. Is this a problem in Africa? Surely not, since the MMR is not widely used. The third point here should thus be about vaccines needed before girls become sexually active, and should include both HPV and rubella. Page 3, paragraph 3, last sentence: School-based vaccinations are offered through structured vaccination delivery programs, but this sentence makes it sound as if they are not. Page 3, paragraph 5, 2 nd sentence: This suggests that in other regions, SBVs preceded SIAs, which is not the case. Page 3, paragraph 5, 3 rd sentence: Reference? Page 3, paragraph 6: The aim should be unpacked into objectives to clarify exactly what aspects of effectiveness are being measured. Methods: Page 3, last part of study selection: The last 2 sentences are not unique to (4), so should start on a new line. Page 4, end of paragraph 1: Because the objectives have not been clearly stated, the last sentence is not clear. Results: In general, what is clearly presented in the tables and figures should not be repeated in the text, as this makes the results section repetitive and too long. Also, be consistent in the way the 95% CI is reported. Conventionally it is xx-xx%, but whichever format is used, use it consistently throughout. Page 5, 1 st sentence under “risk of bias”: This sentence is part of the methods, not the results. Page 5, end of 3 rd sentence in paragraph under risk of bias: Figure 2b is mentioned in the text before Figure 2a. Page 5, Table 1 and Table 2: The country where the study was conducted should be included in these tables. Page 6, Table 3: The country where the study was conducted should be included in this table. Page 6, Table 3: Vergeut et al, column on major expenses: Does the word “Personnel” include more than salaries? If not, then this should be “salaries” to be consistent. Page 6, Table 3: Legros et al, column on major expenses: Transport is mentioned as a minor cost in the text, but vaccine transport is listed as a major cost here. Or is the transport being referred to in the text, transport of personnel? Clarity is needed. Page 6, Table 3: Uzicanin et al, column on major expenses: In the text, vaccine administration is summarised as salaries. Page 6, Table 3: Schaetti et al, column on major expenses: The salary detail for international staff is given here, which immediately raises a question about whether or not staff are local or international in the other studies. Page 7, Figures 2a and 2b: More details in the captions would add clarity, eg: number of studies, followed by reference numbers. Page 11 paragraph 2: Can be summarised as personnel salaries being the second major cost driver. Also, transport of vaccines is listed in table 3 in the column on major costs. Or is this transport of personnel? Page 11 paragraph 3: In the text, vaccine administration is summarised as salaries. See comment about this in table 3. Terms need to be used consistently for clarity. Page 11, 1 st paragraph under SIAs: Very clear in the table, thus unnecessary Page 11, 1 st sentence under “low attendance”: Again, this is clear both from the table and the text below this sentence. Page 11, 2 nd sentence under “redeployment of health staff”: Not stated in the table, and not clear if this was for both studies. 