In the first part of the manuscript the author describes the voltage dependent sensitivity of the VI curves of the different ion channels as a function of neuromodulation. This result follows directly from the fact that different ion channels are active at different voltages. Next, the author shows that a plasticity rule can be realised by changing the conductance of different ion channels. The author provides a nice simple demonstration of this interesting idea. But the manuscript needs a major revision to clarify several issues. Below are my comments, and I have tried not to repeat the first reviewer. I do not think it is correct to refer to the VI curve as the activation function of a neuron. In general it is not correct to use the word ‘variability’ to refer to the modulation of the VI curve due to μ. I think ‘sensitivity’ better captures the observation. In Figure 1 the author shows that modulation of the VI curve is maximal around specific voltages. But it seems that this modulation in the VI curve depends on the value of current at that voltage. Obviously, e.g. when I_{Kir} is zero for μ=1 , it does not matter how much you change μ, there will not be any change in the VI curve at that voltage. To make a claim about the sensitivity of the VI curves in different voltage ranges, it should scaled for the VI curve for μ=1. The claim that the VI curves can act as basis functions is made in a loose sense and should be strengthened, else remove it from the text. Figure 4: Is there a range of μ values for which correlations fail to induce reliable spiking response. In general 0.9 is a very high correlation. How do the neurons behave for more acceptable correlations values e.g. 0.1-0.2? Induction and maintenance of plasticity: The author wrote “Neural activation is largely determined by intracellular calcium but here we estimate…”. What is the meaning of ‘Neural activation’? Why is it determined by calcium? If it is spike output, then it is mainly determined by the kind of its input. The learning rule is formulated in such a way that for every input to these neurons, there will be increased response (positive learning) and other way around in the negative learning. So this learning will increase the noise level in the networks. The learning rule is unstable, because one neuronal activity is above the threshold θ its firing can only increase. Authors argue that adaption could be a way to stabilise the firing rates, however is not clear whether the model will converge, because if the firing rate drops below θ, then neuron response can only decrease. Finally, there is another implementation related problem with the learning rule. An external agent is assumed which checks the firing rate of the neuron above or below a baseline firing rate and then updates the ion channel parameters. If we compare it to synaptic plasticity do not require such an agent, because every spike can causes a weight update. An important question is how the learning rule could switch between negative and positive learning regimes. In general, the methods are poorly described. See minor comments for more details. Minor points: Page 1: left col. last para, II line: The sentence does not link with the previous and next sentences. Moreover, it needs to be rephrased; the reference nos. are in superscript, that's why the sentence does not read correctly. I do not understand what the author means by “Thus, intrinsic plasticity is conceptualized as fundamentally different from synaptic plasticity which does not encompass such a state change”. It is obvious that synaptic plasticity can cause state changes. The difference in Eq. 2 and Eq. 3 is not clear with regard to the implementation of the ion channel conductances. What does g_s refer to in Eq. 3? Equation 4: In the expression [NM]K, it is not clear if ‘K’ is a multiplier to [NM] or subscript. The notations in the Eq. and in the corresponding text do not match. Page 4: EPSP’s should be expressed in the units of voltage and not in terms of the current. As far as I understand this is a point neurone implementation of the MSN, so why should the synaptic strengths be expressed in units of area? The method to calibrate the synapses is not clear. What is the meaning of “ …0.6nA, which corresponds to the experimentally measured average value for the rheobase in". At -40mV MSN is already close to its spiking threshold? And rehobase is measured from resting membrane potential? How were the correlations in input generated? Figure 1: Please state which variable is plotted on the x- and y-axis. Providing just units is confusing. Also it is not clear which line refers to which μ value? And therefore it is not possible to know in which direct μ affects the v-i curves. I assume that all of the three VI curves are modulated in the same direction. None of the axis measures ‘variability’ in this figure. What is plotted is the change in the VI curve for different values of μ. So you want to refer to this effect as sensitivity of the VI curve. Figure 2: Once again I am not sure which axis shows the variability? And axis on the insets are missing. Figure 3: Render the different lines in colours which reflect the voltage. In its current form it's not easy to read these figures. Figure 4: the o/p is shown for only one value of i/p firing rate (couldn't find any mention of what value it is). Hence, in addition to the present figure 4, a figure showing i/p firing rate Vs o/p firing rate for more than one data point of i/p firing rate could be included. This can be plotted for all the three values of μ. This on the other hand could be drawn for few values of i/p correlations. Figure 8: It is not clear if the traces are drawn for +ve or -ve learning. The labels of neuron numbers (No. 4,8) are right if it's for negative learning, but should be in reverse order if it's for positive learning. Page 9, first paragraph: Update the reference to figures after the changing the figure captions of Fig. 7,8. 