General Comments: The authors present a very interesting retrospective report of the peripartum anesthetic management of 8 obstetric patients who had been receiving buprenorphine treatment during pregnancy. The issue is very topical and of great current concern for clinicians. The case reports are a valuable contribution to the medical literature. As the authors raise in the discussion, evidence-based protocols to direct care in this clinical scenario are warranted. The unique challenges of managing obstetric patients taking buprenorphine is not well described, however, citing more recent references e.g. Jones et al. 1 or the recent case series by Leighton and Crock 2 would be recommended. Although the management of the individual cases were outlined clearly, a description of the reasons for the challenges to analgesia management presented by buprenorphine maintenance in general, and specifically for the obstetric patient could have been better described. For example, it would have been useful to explain the potential for reduced efficacy of additional opioids where buprenorphine is continued, because of the high-affinity mu-receptor binding of buprenorphine, as well as opioid antagonism by naloxone in suboxone users. While there is limited evidence about best practices for management, a few sentences discussing the known pros and cons of discontinuing vs. continuing the drug(s), including risk of withdrawal, but potentially improved analgesia could have been more clearly laid out. Most cases were patients who presented unexpectedly, but patients with anticipated admissions, may have been managed differently, and that issue might have been mentioned. The authors are advised to adhere to precise medical terminology. There were several instances of imprecise medical language/colloquialisms throughout the text. There is repeated reference to a negative or positive “Allis test”, presumably meant to refer the obstetric surgeon’s verification of the adequacy of sensory blockade by clamping the skin with Allis tissue forceps. The authors are advised to use universally understood medical terminology. The term could be confused with the “Allis sign” or “Galeazzi test” used by orthopedic surgeons. There were several references to a “catheter” or “patient” being converted to a type of anesthetic, where more precisely, the epidural catheter in place was successfully used to provide a surgical anesthetic, or a decision was made to induce general anesthesia. Finally, the plethora of abbreviations were often difficult to follow, sometimes inconsistently used, and mostly unnecessary with respect to readability. Specific Comments: Introduction - The authors mention that it is “not uncommon” at their institution for parturients to present for delivery while currently taking buprenorphine. It would be useful to provide an estimate of what proportion of women do present with this issue, or with what frequency this issue is encountered in their practice. Methods - Some additional details of the methodology of chart review would be useful. The reader could be informed, for example, whether there are electronic records at that institution and if so, which search terms were used, and so on. Results - The authors mention the number of deliveries and mention that the “deliveries” received neonatal morphine, which is incorrect grammatically. Discussion - A clearer summary statement outlining a prudent approach to the opioid dependent patient, in the absence of an established protocol would be helpful information. This could include a multimodal approach utilizing neuraxial/regional blockade, use of non-opioid analgesic agents, and so on. Consultation with acute pain experts could have been considered in the most difficult cases, and the ideal follow-up care could have been mentioned. Some of these issues were indeed raised, but in a less organized fashion. Tables - The units of measure for elements such as the base excess and base deficit should be included. The term “Apgar” is a name and the term should not be in all capital letters. The labels would benefit from revisions in multiple areas. For example, “Indication” in Table 3, would be clearer if the label were “Indication for cesarean delivery”. 