As pointed out by the authors themselves and by the first reviewer, the study by Romaniuk and colleagues has some serious methodological limitations, such as omitted variable bias, residual confounding, ecological fallacy, and reverse causation. In addition, it is not entirely clear whether the data clustering (within povyats over three consecutive elections) was properly adjusted for in the regression models. As the authors state in the Discussion, the geographical areas of the country differ substantially; therefore, it could have been sensible to include a wider geographical area (such as industrialized north-west vs. agricultural south-east) in the analytical models. It might also be advisable to have a closer look at cause-specific mortality – as, for example, tobacco- and alcohol-related mortality could be stronger associated with political affiliations. The authors might also wish to strengthen the conclusive section on research and policy implications and emphasize that their findings, despite methodological issues, are relevant to a wider audience Personally, my main take-home messages from the present paper were as follows. First, “conservative” and “liberal” mean different things to different people in different countries over different historical periods – a seemingly simple, but often forgotten point. Second, while the voters’ preference may somehow reflect their health, the actual policy of the political party they voted into power could affect health to a much greater extent. For example, conservative values have been demonstrated to be “pro-health” in the West – but would one wholeheartedly claim that Conservative Party policy in the UK is “pro-health” for everybody who voted for Conservatives? Therefore, in an ideal world, the measures of population health would be an ultimate litmus test for the political party in power. Third, while the world is not ideal, it makes sense to invest in education and its economic pay-offs – which is hardly surprising, but highly relevant.