This is a retrospective study of kidney biopsies from 43 patients over a 10-year interval. The authors retrieved native biopsies from patients with a primary histological diagnosis of FSGS in two tertiary hospitals. They determined the number of biopsies that had both histological evidence of FSGS and accompanying ultrastructural analysis with electron microscopy (EM). 13/43 biopsies did not have evaluation by EM. In 2 biopsies that had both histology and EM, abnormalities of the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) were identified. The authors advocate an increase in the use of EM with a diagnosis of FSGS to identify a subset of patients with an underlying genetic disorder affecting type IV collagen. Overall the study is a simple, retrospective review design and it is well presented. It highlights the important observation and increasing recognition that pathogenic variants in COL4A genes are present in a high proportion of families with familial FSGS and also in individuals with sporadic FSGS. There is a pressing clinical need to identify these patients and, as such, this study comes at an opportune time. We have the following questions and suggestions for improvement: The authors could present a stronger argument for EM being the investigation of choice for identifying patients with COL4A mutations. Although the authors discuss the variable EM findings in patients with Alport syndrome or TBMN, this could be expanded. How sensitive are the GBM findings for COL4 mutations? Not all patients with COL4A variants have typical EM findings, and furthermore suggestive GBM abnormalities may be found in other genetic disorders including mutations in MYH9 and LMX1B . There would be additional value if the authors could propose a pros/cons comparison of EM versus genetic screening with for example an NGS gene panel to identify these patients. This could be presented as a proposed workflow for investigation. The authors identify 2 patients with EM findings suggestive of a COL4A disorder. However, there are no data detailing whether these patients did in fact harbour a COL4A variant (notably neither of them had haematuria at presentation). Are any data available, for example, on clinical response to immunosuppression, or any sequencing data? Minor comments The title described the study as an 'audit' but the text repeatedly refers to a 'retrospective cohort analysis.' As there are no defined standards against which clinical practice is being measured here, perhaps remove 'audit' from the title? The Y-axis in Figure 1 should be labelled. Which FSGS variant did the 2 patients with EM abnormalities fall into? Improve consistency with nomenclature—use of conventional gene ( COL4A ) or protein names (type IV collagen). 