In the present review, Wang and Cui have summarized their previous works about associative memory cells and made a hypothesis of how it works. Specifically, they named the cells that process exogenous associated signals as associative memory cells which could be classified as primary (located in sensory cortices) and secondary (located in cognition-, emotion-related brain areas). The authors also discussed the molecular changes and plasticity of the associative memory cells and raised an interesting hypothesis about working principles of these cells. Overall, this review is compelling, well-written, and timely needed for the field. However, there are some points that are not clear: The authors raised several interesting questions in the manuscript. But it would be helpful for the authors to provide a perspective section to elucidate how these questions should be addressed at the end of the manuscript. Figure 1 and the related paragraph. The authors’ claim that mutual innervation is the major pattern of primary and secondary associative memory cells connection. This model is quite simple and easy to understand. However, are there any other patterns exist in the associative memory cells? For example, the neocortex is hypothesized to function as cortical column. Does the column model fit in the associative memory cells connection as well? The authors described the functional plasticity in associative memory cells. Do these cells also exhibit morphological changes? For example, what about the spine density or spine shape changes during the memory acquisition or storage? Page 3, In terms of molecular mechanisms, there are many molecular changes during the process. It is not clear why the authors point out microRNA, which is non-coding RNA. Page 6, the authors stated that individual neurons in the prefrontal cortex and motor cortex receive synaptic innervations from barrel cortices……This might be the case for motor cortex. To our knowledge, prefrontal cortex does not receive innervations from the barrel cortex directly. Page 6, reference 26 is not related to the prefrontal cortex. 