The article "Birds of primary and secondary forest and shrub habitats in the peat swamp of Berbak National Park, Sumatra" by Darras et al. summarizes a survey of birds via autonomous recording units in this poorly understood ecosystem. Any information on systems such as these is valuable and providing the type of data given is useful for providing baseline information that give us an idea of what species are present and thus at risk. Thus, the data as shared is very valuable for the scientific and conservation community. The introduction is fairly generic in my opinion and focuses on issues that are not the central tenet of the results that are shown. It seems that the theoretical concepts of resilience/ resistance are the actual working concepts behind this paper that would make the results better contextualized. The three habitats sampled make a nice gradient for assessing how much things are the same/ different in this system. Rather than focus on issues that you did not measure (i.e. hunting, flooding, etc) keep the introduction more centralized on the things you did measure and it would be a clearer paper. In the methods there are number of very large assumptions made of the reader. I previously have read your work on measuring distance to birds from ARUs. While I find the logic of doing this reasonable, I do not remember you having this level of accuracy in distance estimation (i.e. to the metre). It seems like given the novelty of your approach that you need to provide an appendix highlighting how you do this and where this level of accuracy comes from. At a minimum I think you must let the reader know that this is an estimate and recognize there is error because I find it very unlikely that you can do this to a metre for every species. Thus, some of your birds within the sampling radius were probably past 50 metres and some birds outside 50 were likely excluded. It is likely that such error is random between habitats but you have to make this an explicit assumption. The use of 20 minute point counts from the same day is very reasonable for richness and calling rates etc. But I have significant concerns about double counting of the same individual over that duration. Birds move and how a listener can track the number of individuals that occur over that interval is likely very problematic. You need to justify that this did not occur for people to believe this numerical estimates. How you analyzed abundance is unclear regardless (see below). In the methods you never use the terms alpha, beta or gamma when describing richness. Yet the figures do. You need to clarify the equations used to calculate beta in particular. How beta is computed needs to be described and the results described given the figure that includes it. No measurement of beta diversity that I have read would have the range you shown in figure 2 so clarification of how is essential. I am somewhat confused as to the amount of replication you have. I understand there to be 12 sites. At each site you have 48 hours of data. From that you picked 20 minutes at a set time. You then repeatedly sampled one morning from each month, I think. As such you have repeated measures throughout your design. As it reads, I think your analyses using models with random effects are reasonable. What I am not clear is whether or not the ADONIS test incorporates this repeated measure component. The other issue in analyses that is unclear is you say you use the sum of the maximum number of individuals vocalizing simultaneously. Does this mean you modelled the sum of the max for all repeated surveys? If so then is this a mixed model or are you using the maximum from each count with a random effect for site? Would you not then need to control for month of the year? Nowhere do I see rationale for using an 83% confidence interval. It is rather atypical so should be justified. The discussion fails to recognize the significant limitation of this study which is replication. You only have 4 replicates for each treatment so the ability to find differences, particularly in alpha is limited. Since most of the other variables build from alpha richness it is not particularly surprising that the null models fit the best. So making a really strong statement that there is no difference is not really a solid argument. There is not a huge effect size clearly, but with 100 replicates in each habitat then I suspect you would support far more complex models and be able to draw stronger conclusions. The discussion also goes into talking about issues of this park that are not presented with the actual results. While these things maybe happening their role in what is described as the question of concern seem like filler rather than important context from the research that was conducted. 