The paper “ Validation of predicted mRNA splicing mutations using high-throughput transcriptome data ” by Viner et al . presents Veridical, a new software for the interpretation and validation of genetic variants identified by DNA sequencing that alter mRNA splicing, leveraging RNA-seq data. The method is based on statistical comparisons of the normalized read counts of abnormally-spliced RNA species in mutant versus non-mutant tissues. Actually, the interpretation of genetic variants is a difficult and key issue in current research. The integration of genomic and transcriptomic data, namely the use of RNA-seq-based transcriptome characterization as a “molecular phenotype” of cells is useful and meaningful. The software is standalone (not a web-tool) and it is completed by perl scripts, facilitating data management. The manuscript declare that “Veridical and its associated software programs are available at: www.veridical.org”. Actually, Veridical is commercially available to the scientific community. A trial version lasting 30 days can be downloaded by the website, but in order to obtain binaries, the website requests a registration with an institutional email address - they reserve the right to deny access to users who register with third-party mail servers (Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, etc.). No pricing information is included in the manuscript and, more importantly, in the webpages accessible to download the software, either before or after registration. After downloading the software, I was not able to find R scripts that can be useful to generate some plots, as indicated in the manuscript. Saying that, the paper is written in a clear language and it is quite complete. I propose a few revisions that in my opinion can improve the manuscript readability and clarity. Introduction Line 13 (minor): indicate which hereditary disease (colon cancer?). Methods 2 nd Par, Line 5 (minor): “Maximising” is used, but probably the meaning is “increasing” (the number of). Figure 1 (major): I feel that the info provided by points C and D is trivial, whilst point A's images, sentences and legends can be improved. Figure 1 C and D shows simply examples of reads that are mapped continuously and discontinuously to the reference genome. I think that every potential user of this type of software known well this concept. On the other hand, regarding A and B (upper part of the figure) there is not clear correspondence between the text in the legend and the image, and between the image and the text below (the arch overlap the point A in the figure B, whereas the text says "reads between A and B"). In general, in many cases in the manuscript, the correspondence between legend and figure can be improved, by indicating more clearly the points specific sentences in the legend refer to. Regarding this issue, for instance in Figure 4 I can see indicated neither the “exon 12” nor the “14 reads” mentioned in the legend. Please indicate (using colors, boxes, arrows or overlapping text) key elements in the figure, and revise all figures using the same criterion. Page 5 (minor): Consider revising the sentence “Furthermore, this transformation allowed us to avoid the use of non-parametric testing, which has its own pitfalls regarding assumptions of the underlying data distribution”, since normally it is assumed that parametric tests ground on assumptions on data distributions, but non-parametric tests by definition can be used without information about data distribution. End of the next paragraph (major): “It is important to realize, therefore, that the p-values given by Veridical are much more robust when the program is provided with a large number of samples.” This is a pretty clear concept. Please, indicate a general rule to the user/reader: How many samples are required? Setting a reasonable minimum can be more useful for experimental design than saying the larger the sample size the most robust the result. Results I have two important criticisms about the Results section: The section is not organized in paragraphs, and mixes performance info (run time using different number of samples and variants) with example results. Not clearly saying how these results were obtained. This is important to guarantee repeatability. (Major) I propose to reorganize the results (considering skipping less important examples; retain surely Fig. 4 and 6) and insert a first paragraph providing information about the dataset used for variants validation (how many samples, how many controls) and about the variant calling (BAM files can be obtained with different settings and criteria and the same apply to calling and filtering of variants). Moreover, please explain how RNA-seq data are treated, and particularly how they are normalized to guarantee cross-samples comparability. (Major) Also, a brief discussion about the impact of disease samples not carrying the given mutation can be useful, as well as regarding the possibility that a tumour sample not carrying the considered variant can present altered transcriptome since other variants (or factors) impact on the “molecular phenotype”. Figure 4 (minor): Please comment about the possible existence of intronic transcripts (totally unknown or also annotated in Ensemble, but not displayed in the more conservative RefSeq annotations). Figure 5 (minor): Please define better the measure “Read−Abundance Total Intron Inclusion”. 