With a view to preventing disability by optimising treatment decisions, there has been growing interest in the concept of ‘no evidence of disease activity’ (NEDA) outcomes. In their opinion article Londoo and Moro consider the complexities of NEDA definitions and the role of such scores in clinical practice. They authors remind us that the definition of NEDA as a marker of treatment failure and predictor of future clinical outcomes is subject to debate. While considering definitions of NEDA, it is perhaps also worth mentioning the work of Rio and colleagues (Multiple Sclerosis. 2009 Jul;15(7):848–53.), which suggests that radiological evidence of disease activity does not necessarily translate into a significantly increased short-term risk of clinical disease activity. The authors consider the limitations of using EDSS scores as a marker of clinical progression, to which could perhaps be added the difficulties determining if an episode of symptoms is due to inflammation (Tallantyre et al. 2015 1 ) They also highlight that MRI measures of lesion accrual or brain atrophy may still overlook clinically relevant disease activity, and that fluid biomarkers may also provide relevant indicators of evolving pathology. On reviewing the work of Rotstein et al. (2015) 2 the authors note that ‘loss of NEDA status due to changes in expanded disability status scale (EDSS), which is a method of rating impairment in neurological functions excluding cognition, was infrequent.’ While less frequent than relapses, the figures for people with established MS shown in Table 2 (if I have read these correctly) suggest that by 7 years about 20% of those with evidence of clinical activity had progression without relapses (74% had evidence of either progression or relapse, 59% had had a relapse, implying that 15% had progression without a relapse). The authors ‘support the concept that the methodology used to determine the stage of disease should be based on the measuring of the level of biomarkers involved in the inflammatory and neurodegenerative events of disease’. This touches on an interesting line of thought on differentiating MS subtypes, which clinically can be difficult (and I am not aware of any biomarkers that substantially improve on this on a person-by-person basis), and how this relates to definitions of NEDA or ongoing clinically relevant disease activity. With regard to clinical outcomes, while NEDA definitions include both relapses and disability progression, the two may not be closely linked (Vukusic and Confavreux 2007 3 ). As such, predictors of the risk of future relapses and risk of non-relapse associated progression may differ, and similarly composite scores designed to predict these outcomes may not necessarily be the same, or applicable to all MS subtypes equally. It would be interesting to hear more of the authors’ thoughts on this. In the abstract, the authors state that ‘A protocol of evaluation based on the use of validated biomarkers that is conducted at an early stage of disease would permit the capture of abnormal neuroimmunological phenomena and lead towards intervention with modifying therapy before tissue damage has been reached.’ However, there are perhaps some qualifications to this if a biomarker protocol is going to be useful in clinical practice, for example that the biomarkers used need to be (alone or in combination) reliable markers of disease activity at the level of individual people with MS, and that the pathological processes they reflect can be effectively targeted by treatments. 