The manuscript by Atila and Luo presents a helpful, descriptive mass spectrometric analysis of the aminoacylated phospholipids in Bacillus subtilis . The authors acquired product ion scans of lysyl and alanyl phosphatidylglycerol, as well as precursor ion scans and neutral loss scans for different aminoacyl phosphatidylglycerols and aminoacyl phosphatidylethanolamine. They found 17 different aminoacyl phosphatidylglecerols but no aminoacyl phosphatidylethanolamine in the lipid extracts. Furthermore, D- and L- alanine were quantified after alkaline hydrolysis of the lipid extracts, and only the D enantiomer was found. The authors conclude that D-alanyl phosphatidylglycerol is present, which is a D-alanine carrier from the cytosol to lipoteichoic acid. As already mentioned by the referee 1, the most interesting finding of this study is that alanyl phosphatidylglecerol is composed solely of the D enantiomer. However additional control measurements which support this finding are highly recommended. I support the suggestion of referee 1 to test if alanyl-PG is formed in MprF deficient mutants, other controls with chemical standards are possible as well. In Figure 8, the ion count of D-alanine in the cell lysate seems much larger as in the lipid lysate; it is difficult to understand how this leads to the same concentration estimate (0.05 mM). In general the assumption that “the cell has ~10 fold denser d-alanine than membrane” appears speculative and is based on several assumptions (linear response of the instrument, quantitative hydrolysis and extraction). I suggest to remove this part or to make a more elaborate analysis. Have the authors analysed alanyl PGs in the chloroform rich phase after hydrolysis to check the efficiency of the hydrolysis? Furthermore the authors could measure the concentrations of free alanine by applying the same protocols without adding NH 4 OH to check the efficiency of the hydrolysis step. The authors reported an irreproducible measurement of aminoacyl PE, potentially caused by the drying process. How long did this 30C drying procedure take? The formation of aminoacyl PEs due to chemical reactions of PE and aminoacyl PGs would indicate an instability of the aminoacyl PGs. Therefore, how reproducible are the measurements of the aminoacyl PGs (variation in ion count)? Are these also influenced by the drying process? The authors used collision energies of +45 and -65eV with the QTRAP MS and -40 and +50 eV with the Q-Tof system. Potential caveats resulting from the differently chosen fragmentation settings should be discussed. What is the m/z of the precursor ion for the tandem MS measurements of deprotonated lysyl and alanyl PG (Figure 2)? m/z 821.5 and 792.5? We suggest to remove figure 10, as it provides no relevant information in the context of the findings reported in this study.