The manuscript entitled " Pre-surgery status determines inflammation levels post-elective surgery " presents a single center prospective observational study that evaluates the impact of systemic inflammation prior to elective surgery and its correlation with outcomes post-surgery. General remarks: The research article is well written and demonstrates a clear hypothesis and sound methodology to approach the results. However, the very small patient sample size used in this study represents a major drawback making it difficult to discern any meaningful conclusions. Moreover, the study fails to deliver how these observations can change the patient clinical course for better outcomes and improve standards of care. Major Concerns: 1- Although this was a prospective study conducted over a one year period, surprisingly, only 19 patients undergoing elective surgery were enrolled. Since the authors did not outline a flow chart of patient recruitment in a surgery department that is expected to receive greater number of patients during a one-year period. Was there an additional exclusion criteria that has not been mentioned in the methods? Did the authors perform an a priori power analysis to justify the sample size? 2- It would have been more appropriate to show all the 19 patients’ demographics and characteristics in Table 1 (prior to dichotomizing into either hypo- or hyper-responsive) compared to the healthy controls (HC). Although the authors suggest the impact of age as a confounding factor, the statistically significant difference in age between the HC and the hypo-responsive group warrants cautious interpretation of any downstream findings. It would have been more appropriate to case control match the HC group for age with the hypo- and hyper- responsive groups to avoid the confounding impact of age. In addition, the table does not show if the 19 patient had any pre-existing comorbidities and whether these patients where on medications for a chronic disease condition which also might impact their inflammatory status. Moreover, the type of elective surgery was not mentioned in Table 1 although the operation time was comparable. 3- The authors choose to classify patients based on the absolute cytokine/chemokine values post-surgery relative to the pre-surgery values. Out of the 27 inflammatory mediators, 6 inflammatory mediators where either low or high at 6 hours post-surgery in the hypo- and hyper-responsive groups respectively. However, there is no mention of the remaining 21 inflammatory mediators in the results section. Did they have comparable levels or did they oscillate? Another concern that could have been avoided is the intention to plot the inflammatory mediators’ values in percentage (Figure 1) rather than actual values. The authors might have wanted to “show case” their point of hypo vs. hyper but by doing this they lost the opportunity to present their findings to illustrate the inflammatory mediator trajectories in a more dynamic fashion. Although they attempt to do so in Figure 4A (pre-surgery values), adding the post-surgery values would have been more comprehensive and easily comparable for the reader. 4- Another concern revolves around the sample size used to carry out the flow cytometry and in vitro experiments. The authors do not justify the downscale of the hypo-responsive group from 15 patients to only 7 patients and HC from 23 to only 16 healthy volunteers. Why the remaining 8 hypo-responsive patients excluded from either analysis? Did the 7 hypo-responsive patients’ demos and characteristic differ from their parent cohort i.e. the 15 hypo-responsive patients mentioned in Table 1? These are very critical points to the validity of the flow cytometry and in vitro results. 5- Based on the critiques mentioned above, any conclusions should be interpreted very cautiously. In the discussion section, the authors conclude “ Our observations of bimodal response in patients post-surgery also provides us a model to categorize patients undergoing elective surgery as ‘immune paralysis’ prone vs ‘hyper-Inflammation’ prone .” and “ that pre-existing inflammation status before surgery could play a critical role in determining the clinical outcome .” On what basis where these conclusions made? If the hypo-responsive group reflected the immune paralysis phenotype (according to the authors) would not they exhibit differential primary outcomes as end points? For example, a longer hospital stay or more incidence of post-surgery infections? Given that the total hospital length of stay in both hypo- and hyper- responsive groups was comparable (average of 4 days each) such conclusions cannot be discerned. How these inflammatory perturbations post-surgery affect long term outcomes? Overall the study is of an observational nature that characterizes a differential systemic inflammation profile in a relatively small post-surgery patient’s cohort which warrants a larger external validation cohort.