In an interesting perspective on immune system-based strategies to combat COVID-19 and its accompanying cytokine storm, Potter et al. discuss the relationship of this disease—and particularly, the hyperinflammatory syndrome manifest in the most severe cases—to other disorders. While it may not be surprising to SARS-CoV-2 infections placed vis--vis with other viral infections such as West Nile Virus (WNV), some readers may be shocked to see the comparison extended to Alzheimer’s disease (AD). But this is not an unreasonable stretch. The inflammatory hypothesis of AD has been around since the late 1980s, when we and others began to report the elevation of immune-system markers such as interleukin-1 and complement proteins 1 ' 2 ' 3 ' 4 . We were reluctant to refer to these changes as “inflammation” at the time, as the brain’s partial privilege from immune sequelae 5 puts a damper on the calor, dolor, and rubor classically associated with peripheral inflammation. Nevertheless, the cytokines most closely associated with inflammation now appear to drive every element of AD pathology, as we proposed in the “cytokine cycle” 6 (which a more poetic turn of phrase might have rendered “cytokine cyclone” and thus provided the first such “storm”). The elaboration of cytokines during neurodegeneration must be presumed to arise from some program that would be otherwise appropriate and adaptive, and several findings indicate that it is modulation rather than wholesale suppression of immune mediators that will be beneficial in AD. Potter et al. touch on this in reference to the effects of lipopolysaccharide in mouse models of AD, though they could have helped their case by including the intriguing finding that such stimuli can attenuate amyloid pathology 7 . Many current therapeutic attempts are aimed at manipulating inflammatory pathways in AD, including the application of GM-CSF (or a clinical preparation known as “sargramostim”) by Potter’s group. The strange career of COVID-19 and the varied effects it has on multiple organ systems suggests a similar need for targeted manipulation of immune responses. Evidence clearly indicates that SARS-CoV-2 promotes inflammation by augmenting actions of the innate immune system. In addition to the cytokine storm, the life-threatening form COVID-19 sometimes takes is associated with other inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein, ferritin, and D-dimers, as well as elevation of the neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio 8 . It is possible that this reflects attempts by the innate immune system to pick up the slack left by virus’s targeted suppression of acquired immunity via an exquisite ability to suppress interferon-dependent responses 9 . This provides one more similarity to AD via the changes in immune systems brought about by advanced age, which invariably results in lymphocyte decline and the elevation of inflammatory cytokines as a component of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype. Potter et al. acknowledge this evidence of an overactive innate response in their criticism of treatments that would suppress the entire immune system, such as steroids and NSAIDS. This latter is also cited in relation to the ADAPT trial of naproxen or celecoxib in AD, halted due to untoward side effects of celecoxcib. However, it is interesting to note, as the authors do, that nondemented subjects who took naproxen for two or three years of the trial had reduced rates of developing AD. Such findings fit well with a VA database retrospective study of ibuprofen and naproxen use among almost 50,000 clinically and neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer patients and 200,000 non-AD patients. The odds of being in the AD group was reduced from 1.03 to 0.56—i.e., more than 40 percent—among those who took ibuprofen for 5 years or longer 10 . Less compelling are the prospects for effectively guiding the immune system through a SARS-CoV-2 attack with GM-CSF. Potter et al. suggest that the success of sargramostim to treating some forms of leukopenia means it will boost lymphocyte actions leukopenia. However, the difference in CD4+ lymphocytes produced by sargramostim treatment was just 22 percent, and this was only after 6 months of treatment 11 . The vast majority of leukocytes that accumulate after GM-CSF/sargramostim administration are neutrophils, with a considerable number of eosinophils, monocytes, and macrophages; this would seem to be precisely contraindicated in COVID-19. Indeed, Zhou et al. (2020), cited by Potter et al., suggest suppression of GM-CSF among other strategies to restrain the innate immune system. Thus, the logical argument for GM-CSF in SARS or COVID-19 is one that should raise red flags; there is a chance that it could worsen outcomes. Improved outcomes with GM-CSF in the WNV model is encouraging. However, it should be noted that WNV is in an entirely different phylum from coronaviruses. Thus, the WNV data may serve best as justification for conducting preclinical studies with a relevant coronavirus model. In the end, it is imperative that no stone is left unturned in the quest for effective treatments for COVID-19 while we suffer without a vaccine. For regardless of how different that acute disease might be from AD and related disorders, there is every reason to believe that the inflammatory ravages triggered by SARS-CoV-2 will set in motion cyclones and cycles that will increase the rates of chronic neurodegeneration. 