This is a well-done study of fMRI-neurofeedback, which is gaining considerable attention as a potential new method for clinical intervention and increasing mental functions. The study is commended for its rigorous sampling and other procedures for the randomized controlled trial. The reviewer is particularly impressed by rigid applications of statistical tests and all the information necessary for assessing the effect of neurofeedback was clearly presented, including effect size and 95%CI. Overall, the study provides significant information for researchers who are interested in the application of fMRI-neurofeedback for various purposes. The reviewer would like to raise some concerns in the hope of improving the clarity of the study even more as follows: Although other parts of the study designs are well written, I feel that the procedures of neurofeedback are less satisfactory. Particularly, the reviewer would like to ask the following points: The authors seemed to have identified ROI in the individual brain using a contrast map of incongruent congruent. How was the statistical threshold determined? How different were identified ROIs between individuals? Probably mean and SD of the cluster sizes should be described. How were ACC and IC combined? Subjects were instructed to apply one of the 4 mental strategies that were given to them before the study. What were they actually? The author stated that each subject selected the best one that worked for him/herself (page 5 left column), how was the "best" one determined? The reviewer would like to know whether and how the 4 mental strategies are expected to change ACC and IC activation. The reviewer could not locate the description of the length of each fMRI run, including functional localizer, NF only, resting-state, NF+Stroop, and Stroop-only. In page 5, it says that "We instructed them to modulate the activity of the ROIs ..." . Does "modulate" include both increase and decrease activation, or only decrease activation? In page 9 (left column), it says "trying to reduce the activity in these brain regions". Sham condition. In page 5, it says "sham feedback for the control condition was the recording of the feedback signal from another participant". How was "another participant" selected? Was it selected from the control group or from experiment group or both? Were subjects in the experiment group able to increase scores significantly at the end of the day 1. Was there any relationship between changes in NF scores and psychological scores between individuals? Probably related to (5) and (6), were the degrees of score changes controlled between the experiment and control groups? Can the authors exclude the possibility that the psychological scores related to stress responses are associated with the NF scores? Minor points The reviewer understands that the participants were Korean university students. On the other hand, the authors used the English version of the MDMQ. Application of the psychological test in a foreign language might affect the subjects' responses depending on the proficiency of English. The reviewer feels that the study will become more significant analyzing the data of the second fMRI experiment after the mental training rather than focusing on the first fMRI experiment. Do we expect the report of the second fMRI experiment come up in the future? 