INTRODUCTION The aim of this study was to assess monitoring capabilities of portable respiratory polygraph device in detecting respiratory depression due to intrathecal morphine in parturients for lower segment caesarean section. Although the number of factors causing respiratory depression is not just limited to intrathecal morphine, obesity, residual effect of anaesthesia, immobilisation and abdominal surgery itself are contributors for respiratory depression. The device used for the study seems good for diagnosing respiratory depression in community for patients with OSA, but its usefulness in peri-operative setting is still to be proved. Comments: This study done on exploring the optimal monitoring device to diagnose respiratory depression with intrathecal morphine for LSCS in high BMI parturients, does not rule out undiagnosed OSA patients before abdominal surgery esp. when the patients were enrolled during the first antenatal visit and since that time till surgery patient had undergone changes in their BMI and usual respiratory physiological changes. The device respirator is not adequately described esp. it’s functioning as well it’s methodology to diagnose respiratory depression is seriously questionable as it fails to show basic correlation between AHI and ODI. The study design is prospective and observational, but would be of more use if it has compared with routine monitoring in subset of patients with intrathecal morphine for LSCS, to give idea of usefulness of the device. Mean bedtime during which monitoring was done was never described as whether patient was asleep or was merely resting, which could seriously alter the results. There was no mention of type of breakthrough analgesia (opioid or non opioid) used postoperatively which could alter the results. The sample size to comment on correlation between AHI and ODI seems quite small to be conclusive and reproducible. The results showed comparison with routine monitoring but data in support of routine monitoring was not provided. Again high AHI and non reproducible ODI raises serious concerns about sensitivity of portable respirator. As far as studies statistical significance I have limited knowledge for which input from statistician would be highly recommended. I agree with the conclusion by authors that device is cumbersome with no reproducible results until proven otherwise by studying with large sample size in patients with preoperative screening in obese parturients (with already decreased respiratory reserve ) at risk of OSA and comparing with routine monitoring. Discussion: This study has some minor limitations in view of enrollments during first antenatal visit It would be better if more clarity with data was shown for duration of sleep rather than rest. Post operative analgesia for breakthrough pain needs to be explained. Any study to quote for the efficacy of device would be of great value before using it in peri-operative setting. Any comorbidity like PIH or chest infections before surgery or any major fluid shift with any major blood losswas not ruled out or if it was then not declared in the study design which may easily alter the results. Post operative analgesia for breakthrough pain needs to be explained. Any study to quote for the efficacy of device would be of great value before using it in peri-opera- tive setting. 