This paper describes an analysis of the BIOFACQUIM database of natural products derived from Mexico. The paper is well written and provides a useful overview of a resource that will be of use to medicinal and computational chemists, as well as those involved in research on natural products. The authors should be commended for making their database and associated code available as Open Source. While the paper is well written, there are a few areas where changes in the text may make the presentation a bit more clear: The second sentence in the abstract could be changed to read: “An analysis of its structural content, as well as functional group occurrence, provides a useful overview, as well as a means of comparison with related databases." In the first sentence of the “Methods” section, the authors may want to consider changing “done” to “performed”. In the Introduction, the sentence “As part of that work, it was reported an initial scaffold content, and chemical space diversity, and coverage” could be changed to “As part of that work, scaffold content and chemical space diversity were examined”. In the first paragraph of the “Results and discussion” section, “place of recollection” would be better stated as “place of collection”. In the methods section, the authors detail their procedure for “cleaning” the databases. It would be useful to others if the source code for these procedures was made available as part of the GitHub repository associated with this paper. The authors used canonical SMILES to identify exact matches between compounds in different databases. While this is a reasonable approach, canonical SMILES do not standardize tautomers and may miss some duplicates. An alternate approach would be to use InChI keys, which canonicalize tautomeric forms. The description of the “Consensus Diversity (CD) Plot” in the “Global diversity” section is a bit vague. An additional paragraph describing this method would be useful. The density of points in Figure 3 obscures many of the points in the plot. The authors may want to consider using a plotting technique like hexagon binning which enables the plotting of large datasets without obscuring points. For example, see these links: https://datavizproject.com/data-type/hexagonal-binning/ https://rdrr.io/cran/som.nn/man/hexbinpie.html I’m not convinced that plotting molecular weight vs LogP is the best way to represent the diversity and overlap of datasets. An alternative might be to use a technique like t-SNE to project a set of fingerprints into a lower dimensional space: https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.manifold.TSNE.html . It might also be interesting to provide another plot which only shows the molecules from the three datasets studied that are in “drug-like” chemical space rather than the very large range shown in Figure 3. In summary, this paper provides a valuable resource to researchers working in a number of different areas. Hopefully, these suggestions will provide minor enhancements to the work. 