TicTrainer is developed to support exposure and response prevention (ERP) in the behavioral treatment of tics. ERP is considered a firstline intervention for tic disorders according to European Guidelines (Roessner et al; Verdellen et al, ESSTS, 2011). Patients are encouraged to suppress tics for prolonged periods of time allowing them to get used to unpleasant premonitory urges that often accompany tics. TicTrainer is a very valuable, nice and simple tool that supports the patient in practicing ERP at home, also in the absence of a therapist. It is also based on the finding that tic suppression is enhanced by reinforcement of tic-free periods. TicTrainer stores anonymous information to assess use patterns and information about efficacy and safety. This makes TicTrainer a promising software tool for both clinical and research ends. Unfortunately, I was unable to evaluate the website itself because after creating an account I did not manage to make it work (‘Input Error: improper ID’). Therefore, my review is based only on the manuscript. I recommend the authors to pay attention to these ‘’technical problems’’, and also to get it supported by Microsoft browsers, as this may be a major limitation for usage. TicTrainer can be used to enhance tic suppression ability (response prevention of tics), but in its present form, it does not include the element of exposure to premonitory urges. Since exposure is an important part of ERP (learning to tolerate the urge, not give in to it by performing tics), it is highly recommended to integrate this element, for example by adding a measure of sensations/urges. More literature demonstrating the effect of direct reinforcement on tic suppression should be included in the introduction as it supports the rational for this tool in enhancing tic suppression ability. It is described in this manuscript that ‘’preferably’’ two devices are needed; one for the patient and one for the trainer, who can be a parent/partner. It doesn’t say if it also works on one device (do you see 2 windows?). A disadvantage of two devices may be that a patient always needs another person to practice with, which is not always possible. It is suggested to consider integrating both tic detection and suppression/reinforcement in one tool/device (like the app BT-Coach, see bt-tics.com/bt-coach). For what age is this tool applicable? Is it right that a patient doesn’t see his tic suppression (record) times on the window, only ‘’levels’’ and ‘’earned coins’’? It may be encouraging and reinforcing to also receive feedback on the exact tic suppression (record) times (as described in the protocol of ERP). Since the tool is based on receiving rewards for tic suppression, perhaps more details can be given about what kind of rewards can be used; an example of a rewarding system could be useful. Perhaps ‘’mini’’ games can be integrated in the tool that can be done directly after practicing, depending on the number of coins that are earned/levels achieved? Overall I think this is a very promising tic suppression tool! 