The authors, who are the inventors of the FcMBL capture assay, have undertaken rigorous experimental work to produce a clinically oriented paper that extends the range and numbers of microbes tested in prior publications. The current publication describes the detection of bacteria, fungi, parasites and viral antigens by the enzyme-linked lectin sorbent assay (ELLecSA). Microbiologically relevant quantities of these microbes were tested in vitro and high rates of detection by ELLecSA are reported. As before, fragmentation of bacteria using antibiotics and physical fragmentation increased the numbers of bacteria detected. The mechanisms of this increased sensitivity of detection were explored by the quantification of FcMBL-binding to the major virulence determinants of gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. Greater sensitivity of binding to LPS was shown compared with LTA. This result provides some explanation for FcMBL's failure to detect E. faecalis. The current publication does not include any further investigation of patients with the sepsis syndrome relying on the author's prior work to imply that a broader range of bacterial causes of sepsis will be detected. This is a reasonable assumption. Further work using the same in vitro techniques could incorporate assessment of FcMBL's detection of rickettsia, leptospires and treponemes. These bacteria all cause diseases that are predominantly diagnosed by serology. Expedited diagnosis of blood stream or central nervous system infection would be clinically beneficial and direct appropriate antimicrobial treatment in patients with appropriate epidemiological characteristics. This could be particularly relevant to use of FcMBL technology as part of biodefence. As the authors emphasise, the use of FcMBL can only indicate the presence of a microbial pathogen in the bloodstream due to the non-specific characteristics of binding to PAMPs. A positive ELLecSA may provide clinicians confidence that a patient presenting with the sepsis-syndrome has an infectious cause. Further testing in such patients will give additional information on the validity of the test and may provide additional encouragement for its incorporation in a microbiological testing algorithm. 