The original article written by Kundu and Singh focuses on the study of the effects of cardiovascular drugs of the heart rate of Daphnia. In this study the authors have used an interesting heart model of Daphnia. The article represents the synergistic effect of dopamine and caffeine to increase the heart rate in Daphnia, the tiny water fleas. Though, neither this model can be compare with mammals nor their organ function. The authors have tried to show some effects without mentioning the mechanism of effects. I think they should clarify the followings points: 1. Authors have analyzed the data with a simple t test. Why they didn’t they approach with ANOVA test? Moreover, statistical analysis with only two observations is not sufficient. Observations should be made of at least four times for significance test. 2. In Figures, the vertical line given on top of each bar represents what? - SEM or SD? 3. Table 1 shows the lowest concentration of dopamine as 0.4mg/ml which is missing in the entire manuscript. Where is the result of 0.4 mg/ml? 4. Why did the authors choose 40g or 120g/ml instead of mg/ml that they have tested and represented in Figure 1. What is the reason of this sudden switch over? Nothing is clear to me! 5. In Figure 3 Why the authors have used the combination of lower concentration of caffeine (40g/ml) with higher concentration of dopamine (1.6mg/ml) and higher concentration of caffeine (120 g/ml) with lower concentration of dopamine (0.8mg/ml)? This needs clarification. 6. Figure 5 have the same queries like Figure 3 and it should be better in both the cases of combinations, keep one constant and vary the other one. 7. The Daphnia model does not directly resemble the mammalian system. The conclusion they have made in the manuscript requires rethinking and should be presented accordingly. 8. In the manuscript the authors didn’t mention about the treatment procedure. How have they administered the dopamine, caffeine or alcohol? What is the route of administration of these compounds? Are those administered or given in the culture medium? Depending on the route of administration for this particular model, the author should discuss about the mechanism of action of these agents on Daphnia heart rate or cardiovascular system. Suggestions: I think for indexing following works are needed to improve the manuscript: 1. Redesign the experiments as I suggested. 2. More observations (at least 4) for each experiment are needed. 3. Proper statistical analysis is essential. Simple t test is not enough as the experiment are in combination of different agents. 