 Introduction The last paragraph: ………..acid tolerance response and pH adaptation of E. faecalis when it interacts with lime extract. Reviewer’s comment: please change the bold word with: when the bacterium grows as biofilm in the presence of lime extract with difference concentration. Method - “Both materials were made in vitro to analyze”. Reviewer’s comment: please change with: The material and bacterium were prepared - In lime extract, typo……………………………………into a glass - Culture of E. faecalis bacteria; please discard; “bacteria” - E. faecalis ATCC 29212 taken from glycerol ……………………………………………………………………………………………..and incubator (Memmert, Germany). Reviewer’s suggestion: discard this part, and please replace with: One colony of E. faecalis bacteria was subsequently re-cultured in 5 ml of Mueller-Hinton Broth (MHB) medium (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc, Paisley, UK) in anaerobic conditions at a temperature of 37C for 48 hours. Afterward, the E. faecalis grown on the liquid medium was synchronized further with McFarland 0.5 (1 x 108 CFU/ml) (TM50, Dalynn Biological Inc., Calgary, Canada). The Accurate of the density of McFarland standart (typo: it should be standard) can be checked using a spectrophotuometer with an absorbance reading of 0.08 to 0.1 at 625 nm11. Adaptation to pH assay A total of 50 ml of lime extracts in several different concentrations (100%, 75%, 50%, 25%, 12.5%, and 6.25%) was placed into different beaker glasses. Then, 5 ml containing 1 X 108 CFU/mL of E. faecalis in MHB (1:10) were added to each of the beakers. The initial pH Reviewer’s suggestion: please indicate the initial pH that was measured at the zero h., before incubation. Reviewer’s suggestion: Next, bacterium-containing beaker was put into incubator (37C) for 6 hours, 12, hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, and 72 hours in an anaerobic atmosphere using Anaerogen TM GasPack (Oxoid, Basing stoke UK), at each of these times, the beakers’ pH was measured using a pH meter (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc, Paisley, UK). Various changes in pH from 0 hours to the specified time can be used as an indicator of whether E. faecalis has a tolerance response to the acidic environment and can adapt to changing pH. Acid tolerance assay - “Here, 96 wells of the triple microplate series were coated with 50 μl of MHB”. Reviewer suggestion: Please change to: Here, 50 ul of MHB was put into microplate in triplicate. - “the test materials (E. faecalis + lime extract) derived……. Reviewer suggestion: please change to: material tested and E. faecalis……………………………………………”Each well” change to the microplate was put into incubator for 15 min. - “Then bio-tolerant activity was measured using the Elisa Reader (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA) at a wavelength of 595 nm”. I suggest to discard this part, as it does not has a clear meaning, ….activity was measure by ELISA reader…….. Adhesion assay - “The standard protein concentration of the E. faecalis and the active component concentration of the lime extract were measured via the Bradford method” It is not clear, why the authors need to analyze (by measuring) the E. faecalis’s proteins (I assume the whole cell proteins). Thus, what does the authors would like to say with "the standard protein concentration of E. faecalis and the concentration of active component of the lime extract”?. My suggestion is please discard this part. - “Spectrophotometry detected the interaction of E. faecalis with lime extract at a wavelength of 595 nm” It is rather confusing. Spectrophotometry was used to detect the interaction between the bacterium and the lime extract. Did you use this method to determine the bacterium growth rate? I suggest to discard this spectrometric method. Otherwise, please focus the methods (adaptation to pH, acid tolerance, and adhesion assay) used only to address your hypothesis; "that biofilm formation or bacterial adherence ability contributes to E. faecalis survival in biofilm-related environment in the presence of lime extract." - The principle of incubation time-based interaction activity on the microplate 96 wells series used in this research based on Gamble’s working principle. I think you only tested the bacterial adherence capability, not interaction activity between E. faecalis and……….? - It was modified using violet crystalline and safranin staining. First, 96 wells of the triple microplate series were coated with……….. Suggestion: Please change this part: “First, microplate in triplicate wells. ...................Second, 50 uL of E. faecalis in ( ADD IN WHAT MEDIUM USED) ...........Third, 100 uL of different concentration of LE was added and incubated for.......... - “A total of 100 μL of Lugol solution was added for 1 minute and then washed with PBS. The rest of the cell metabolism that was not bacterial cells was dissolved in 96% alcohol for 20 seconds until the dye completely removed. 50 μL of safranin solution was added for 2 minutes and then washed again with PBS18. The interaction activity between the lime extract and the E. faecalis bacteria in the microplate wells was assessed via an Elisa reader using a spectrophotometer (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA) at a wavelength of 595 nm” Suggestion: As you only tested mono-species biofilm (E. faecalis is a Gram (+) ve bacterium), please add an explanation, why you used both crystal violet and safranin solution?, and you did it similar to the procedure for Gram staining method. Please discard the word: “The interaction activity between the lime extract and the E. faecalis Bacteria”. It would better to say: the bacterial adherence was assessed using crystal violet and measured using ELISA reader with optical density of 595 nm. Observation of adhesion mass. This method is not necessary for this study, as you have used crystal violet (CV) assay to measure biofilm mass. CV provides a good measure of biofilm mass, although it cannot measure biofilm viability. This means, CV stains both bacteria cells and the polymer substance (carbohydrate) as part of the extra cellular matrix. Statistical analysis ………..standard deviations for each concentration. Reviewer comment: why there are no SD displayed in each graph shown in the figures Results - The experiment was conducted in three replicates Reviewer suggestion: Please changed: the experiment was performed in triplicate wells This study showed that the presence of lime extracts decreased pH, but reduction of low pH did not have a significant effect on the ability of E. faecalis to adhere and form biofilm, compared to the control (fosfomycin). All result (crystal violet, adaptation to pH, and acid tolerance assays) are shown in Fig .1-3). Interestingly, the tolerance effect was not influenced by exposure time and the concentration of LE set in this study (Fig. 3), and the correlation between time exposure and LE concentration was positive (However, the authors need to show the regression graph as they said r2 = 0.98). Otherwise, please exclude this part. “the results showed that the interaction activities of E. faecalis in Lime extract will decrease from 6, 12, 24, and 72 hours. Reviewer‘s comment: I am wondering what the authors mean with the interaction activity. I suggest to discard this part. The mass profile also indicated interaction activity between lime extract and E. faecalis. Antibiotics are capable of forming a covalent bond to activate the cysteine residue of a bacterial cell, triggering UDP-N-acetylglucosamine to form hydrogen bonds. It inhibits the synthesis of peptidoglycan as an antibacterial defense. Reviewer’s comment: Please discard this part, as 1. I cannot see the data (mass profile). 2. Antibiotic are capable........this is not the result of this study. When necessary please put the sentence in the discussion section. Discussion Reviewer’s comment: please focus the results you got. Especially, please do not repeat the result, and exclude: “The interaction activity between lime extract and E. faecalis can be assumed to be the antibacterial activity, because there was a decrease in the interaction activity between E. faecalis and the biological components of lime extract within 6–24 hours and again within 48–72 hours. The interaction activity is related to the activity of the active ingredients contained in the lime extract, such as flavonoids (polyethoxylated flavones and flavanones), coumarin, and terpenoids, all of which act as antibacterials”. I suggest to rewrite this part ……….The survival of E. faecalis in the presence of LE……….. Conclusion E. faecalis can adapt to environments with a pH of 2.9–4.3 generated by lime extracts. In addition E. faecalis also expressed a tolerance response to the acidic environment. The interaction activity between E. faecalis and lime extract become stable within 6–12 hours at a temperature of 37C. Therefore, the lime extract can be used to inhibit the E. faecalis growth. Reviewer’s comment: Your conclusion should succinctly describe the overall result of the experiment. Please delete: 1. The interaction activity between E. faecalis and lime extract become stable within 6–12 hours at a temperature of 37C. 2/. Therefore, the lime extract can be used to inhibit the E. faecalis growth. Please refer your conclusion to the title that reflects the result. 