Article provides a potential analysis of the efficacy of various types of agreements among parties to protect species that could have been listed as endangered by the US Fish Wildlife Service. A comparison between the pattern of permits issued by New Mexico or Texas within and outside habitat of the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard before and after the agreements were finalized appears to suggest that New Mexico's agreements have a greater effect that those of Texas. That conclusion may be supported, but additional analyses could clarify the actual situation. Basically, previous research has shown that the effects of oil and gas development on populations of the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard (DSL) vary with the density of wells and their associated infrastructure. However, the current analyses compare total numbers permits for wells and not the densities that would result from those wells if constructed. This may lead to some confusion. Both states permit considerably fewer wells within DSL habitat than outside - both before and after the agreements were finalized. However, without knowing the relative amounts of habitat it is hard to interpret the pattern. Texas appears to permit fewer wells after the agreements - both within and outside DSL habitat, while New Mexico appears to increase permitting outside of DSL habitat after the permits and reduce permitting within. Adjusting the permitting data for area could clarify if differences between the states' patterns exist and, perhaps more importantly, are the apparent differences likely to impact populations of the lizard. The use of explicit hypotheses and predictions is clear. However, it might appear directed to demonstrate less efficacy in Texas than in New Mexico due to the "one-tailed" nature of the directional predictions. Perhaps broadening the hypotheses and predictions into a "two-tailed" format could increase objectivity. Basically "The agreements of the two states differ. We tested whether or not those differences translate into lower or higher densities of wells in the future". Finally, if the permit data were adjusted to densities, it should be densities of existing wells and future permitted wells. That could then be compared to the threshold densities proposed by Sias Snell 1998 1 . 