As a practitioner who conducts costs and cost-effectiveness analysis in low and middle-income countries, this was a useful paper and reminder to consider context and include stakeholder input early in the process as best practice. I appreciated the history of perspective and the clear conclusions simply stated. I have replied partly to two of reviewer questions because I read this opinion paper through the lens of a practitioner working only in a global health context, with familiarity of the published papers across a number of global health conditions. As I read the paper, I wondered who the audience is for this paper? Is it researchers in high-income countries? Is it intended for researchers in global health economics? Is the purpose of the paper to counter recent recommendations of the second panel on cost-effectiveness or the second “Washington Panel”? I wasn’t quite sure what the problem being addressed is and who the intended audience for this paper was, since it combined a mix of practical points, theory and recommendations. Recommendation: In the introduction, can the authors add a problem statement? And then explicitly indicate if these recommendations are for researchers in high-income countries or global health settings or both. Also, as a practitioner, my experience is that analysts, conducting global health economic evaluations, more often than not, use common sense and already use a provider or (provider and societal perspective) in the majority of published economic evaluations in global health (whether for evaluating health technology, vaccines, diagnostics, medicines, delivery strategies). For instance, I selected two annexes available through the Disease Control Priorities Project for Reproductive Maternal and Child Health CEA studies and for Cardiovascular CEA studies and found that out of 295 articles, 22% were conducted from a societal perspective and 52% were from a provider perspective and 15% were from both. For CVD prevention or treatment CEA studies, 27% were from a societal perspective and 68% from a provider perspective. This may not be the same as more deliberately using context specific perspective. So this either means that researchers conducting global health economic evaluations are already pragmatic, engaging stakeholders to select a context specific perspective, or that they are not following recommended guidelines. The authors note that only a third of the guidelines from both HIC and LMIC recommend a societal perspective. That certainly makes sense to me, for LMIC where economic evaluations are often conducted to introduce a new health technology or delivery strategy, where the status quo is nothing (or very low coverage of existing technologies or services). As the authors nicely present, EE was method first developed for use in high-income countries, with a very specific objective in mind. They were not developed with global health interventions and strained governance and health systems in mind. However, as interest and capacity grows in LMIC to conduct EE, guidelines are extremely useful for researchers at nascent stages of learning a new method. And these guidelines typically get adapted initially and over time to better suit applications in global health, through disease specific recommendations/guidance/guidelines promoted by WHO or other multi-lateral or global health organizations. On page 4, the authors note that there can be no presumption that one size fits all, and states we should not encourage a similar intensity to enter an ‘authoritative methodological guide to best practice in EE’. I’m not sure that analysts DO presume a one size fits all. This is very clear from any review of a set of CEA studies that look at exactly the same two alternative strategies to address the same health condition. Comparability across many studies is difficult. I’m also not sure whom the authors are referring to and if there is a problem among researchers conducting global health EE with respect following authoritative guidelines ( There are many problems in standard methods and reporting across studies—and these do cause a problem for using resulting study results—suggesting that guidelines are important to improve quality and comparability of studies—even when appearing authoritative—not sure what is wrong with that when talking about methods) . When the guidance is not feasible or even does not make sense (i.e. using a societal perspective), it does seem that these recommendations are simply not followed. This may explain why provider perspective is used more often than provider perspective in EEs in LMIC. Recommendation: Is it possible to take into consideration what is done in practice and acknowledge that practice already is very different from the guidance—certainly in LMIC? Recommendation: On page 3, column 1, par 2, suggest indicating that guides to best practice can be traced back at least as far as 1980 developed for use in high income countries to inform government allocation of resources (or something to this effect). Very important to note these guidelines were NOT initially developed for LMIC, but adapted more recently for that purpose. Quality and comparability in economic evaluations is challenging. In the introduction, the authors recognize the need to set international quality standards, but I take some issue in calling those that follow the standards falling into a “trap of small-town thinking”. Perhaps this is not what the authors meant, but I’m not sure that it is parochialism at work, but rather a desire to generate comparable results, using economic theory as a foundation for the recommendation. Perhaps it is this underlying theory that the authors take issue with. The authors understand the history and economic theory underlying the recommendation of a societal perspective much better than I, but it is unclear to me what the economic debate is and between who? They allocate a section in the paper to a theoretical discussion on the issue of individual expressions of value and collective ones. While I found this interesting, it seemed somewhat out of place to me, if this paper’s audience is practitioners in low and middle-income countries, doing their best to figure out the best way to conduct economic evaluations. Recommendation: What is the consequence of wrongly using a societal perspective? Can the authors more simply explain this to readers in the introduction or somewhere in the paper why a societal perspective may not allocate resource efficiently and equitably? This gets me to my final comment on the paper, which it is a mix of a thought paper and a recommendation or guidance paper. I found myself wondering about the ‘how’ on page 9 when authors suggest engaging a long list of stakeholders in determining the perspective of the EE analysis. I agree with this, but can the authors refer the reader or add information on how to do this? This becomes particularly important for academics that are conducting EE in LMIC without direct access to stakeholders. This is often the case for researchers conducting EE for a specific health technology (vaccines, drugs, diagnostic, mhealth application,) that is under development. In addition, even when new services or technologies are funded and ready for introduction in LMIC, demand comes from the donor, researcher or NGO, not the in-country stakeholders that will ultimately introduce and fund the health intervention. However, I fully agree, when stakeholders are involved, identifying who will USE the information, and engaging them early makes it much easier to determine the objective and perspective of the study. Minor comment Abstract 1. Suggest that the authors provide a main recommendation in the abstract. Or end the abstract with a more positive statement stating that economic evaluation becomes more relevant when the perspective is sensitive to context and appropriate for the objective of the analysis. 