The allelic variant of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene, APOE -e4, is the strongest genetic risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease (AD), with a clearly greater female than male predisposition (reviewed in Belloy et al., 2019 1 ). Despite the prominence and significance of this APOE -by-sex interaction, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. To tackle this critical issue in a comprehensive fashion, Hsu et al. mined the rich data sets of The Aging, Dementia and Traumatic Brain Injury Study, which comprise structured information including transcriptomics, clinical and pathological findings based on 107 aged brains ( http://aging.brain-map.org/ ). Their functional analyses of genes correlating to APOE expression support our current understanding of ApoE's pleiotropy in multiple brain functions and, of note, reveal the female-specific pathways presumably driven by a sex-dependent, transcriptional role of ApoE. While their results are informative and very interesting to the AD research community, we would like to suggest the authors to clarify or elaborate a few points, which, in our view, will complement this solid manuscript and better inspire future studies for this underappreciated matter of gender-associated AD risk: The fundamental approach here is to analyze APOE gene correlates – genes whose expression correlated with that of APOE – by a built-in function of the aforementioned database online platform, followed by Gene Ontology characterization and pathway enrichment (DAVID). By this approach, the correlation was first computed with normalization to APOE transcript level change (=1.0). We recommend that the APOE expression pattern to be examined in different groups, including ApoE genotypes, genders, ages and clinico-pathological stages. To further exploit this valuable database for better insight on the reported results, the information regarding the disease severity - CERAD score and Braak stage – can be used to investigate whether the striking ApoE4 -positive female pathways operate at an early stage (more likely to be proactive), at a mid-to-late stage (more likely to be reactive) or along the disease progression (like a disease marker). The authors listed a number of APOE -correlated genes that are most differentially expressed in comparison of genders (Figure 3), and most of them represent a well-known cellular function that is important but not conventionally considered to contribute to AD pathogenesis. In the same context of gender-specific ApoE4 effect, do authors mind providing their observation on the expression pattern of other top AD genes (e.g. APP, PSEN1/2, TREM2, etc.) as well as some of risk genes identified in recent GWAS (e.g. Jensen et al., 2019 2 )? The results may not be of significant difference but will be of great benefit for understanding how ApoE4 contributes to AD pathogenesis in women. 