I enjoyed reading the article, Trends and factors associated with long-acting reversible contraception in Kenya, by Dr. Kungu and colleagues. The article is well written and provides useful information for researchers and clinicians interested in providing comprehensive contraception care globally. The study is a secondary analysis of 3 waves of the Kenya Demographic Health Survey. I am not an expert in large survey design and analysis; thus, my review will focus on the usefulness of the information provided. It was encouraging to read that LARC use is “picking up rapidly” in Kenya. The authors group LARC together (IUDs and implants) and separate out implants and IUDs in the text, but they do not cover IUD types (copper and hormonal). This would be useful information to the reader. I believe hormonal IUDs are not as available as copper in Kenya. Is this true? Has it changed over time? There are some sections of the manuscript that lack balance (advantages/disadvantages of LARC). For example, 4 th paragraph of the INTRO: the authors highlight the many advantages of LARC, but make no mention of the disadvantages (e.g. irregular bleeding with the implant and heavier bleeding with the copper IUD). The Discussion provided some interesting information. I had no idea that the uptake of the implant in Kenya was “the highest in the world.” In the third paragraph of the Discussion, the authors mention the “rumors and misconceptions.” What are the most common misconceptions? Do women believe the IUD is linked to infertility? Looks like this is mentioned in paragraph 5; is this misconception limited to younger women? There is some discussion of these myths in paragraph 9 (e.g. mention of cancer). In the discussion of age and LARC, it may be helpful to stratify. In many populations, the implant is more popular in young women, and the IUD is more accepted in older women. The authors also comment on the decline in condom use. Has there been an epidemic of STIs as a result? Is there any evidence of a detrimental effect on the population? I do agree with a renewed emphasis on dual-use (barrier plus effective method) for STI and pregnancy prevention. Overall, I found the Discussion a bit long, wordy, and somewhat disorganized. Avoid one-sentence paragraphs. Group topics (age) together. It would benefit from consolidation and being more concise. Specific comments: ABSTRACT: Background: I do not think you can say there is NO risk of incorrect use. Unrecognized expulsion of an IUD is an example. Methods: You might provide the percentage of the population that are “currently using modern contraceptive methods” here. Results: It would be helpful to provide some data, effect estimates, and some confidence intervals. Which factors have the biggest effect estimate on the association with LARC use? INTRO: 4 th paragraph, last sentence: I did not understand “they arrive at costs of _____.” Is this cost savings? I assume the cost of the methods are estimates of the true cost. Please explain more clearly. METHODS: Please state the type of regression used (logistic regression) in the text How did you assess confounding? Did you look for interactions? RESULTS: I would prefer an adjusted analysis that shows the OR and 95% CI. I do not think we need the B, SE in Table 2. A simplified table showing the effect estimates and confidence intervals would be better. DISCUSSION: Comments above. There’s LOTS of information, tables, and Figures. I trust the editor will decide if all of these are needed. Overall, a well done report. 