The investigators determined the effect of ADHD subtype on the prevalence of substance use disorders (SUDs) in a large (413 patients) sample of (medicated?) adult ADHD. In line with expectations, the overall sample evinced high rates of lifetime substance abuse or dependence (26%) and occasional use (57%). The inattentive subtype was significantly less likely to abuse or be dependent on cocaine than the combined subtype. As indicated by the Bordelais reviewers, while not a major advance, this study is a perfect example of normal science in the sense of Kuhn and represents a worthwhile gain in our knowledge of ADHD. The authors list multiple clinical scales used to assess ADHD and state that SUD was assessed based on ICD-10 criteria. Like the Freiburger reviewers, the first question that occurred to me was whether any standardized instrument was administered to assess SUDs? Again, as asked by other reviewers, were the patients in the sample undergoing current pharmacological treatment? Presumably, many were on methylphenidate or other agents. It would be a good idea to cite some statistics for prevalence substance abuse and dependence in the general population around Zrich. Then the reader would have an idea how much higher prevalence is in the adult ADHD clinical sample. The investigators were commendably conservative in claiming significant results, restricting themselves to p -values ≤ 0.002, based on Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. It might be informative to discuss some of the other results that would have been significant under a less stringent cut-off. For example, nicotine abuse/dependence is twice as frequent and alcohol abuse/dependence is nearly ten times as frequent in the Combined as in the Inattentive subgroup. These may be worth commenting on. But I wouldn’t discuss any comparisons involving the Hyperactive-Impulsive subgroup, since they are too few (only 24 subjects). In the Introduction, the authors retell the diagnosis and subtyping of ADHD in DSM-III-R, ICD-10, and DSM-IV. They should add a line or two about DSM5, just to round out their brief historical review. 