Without changing the main findings of the article “CXCR3 Chemokine Receptor Enables Local CD8+ T cell Migration for the Destruction of Virus-Infected Cells” (Hickman et al. Immunity 2015), the author wishes to clarify some discussion points. Firstly, the author claims the Hickman et al ., “exaggerated the effect of CXCR3 knockout on viral clearance”. The data being referred by the author is Figure 3E,F, which demonstrates an increase in infected inflammatory monocytes/ear at days 5-7 in CXCR3-/- OT-I transferred animals and ear viral titres respectively. Indeed there is a disconnected in the Day 5 data, where the CXCR3-/- OT-I transferred animals have a lower titer, but higher infected monocytes compared to WT animals. This data should be re-evaluated by Hickman et al. , for this discrepancy. However, the author fails to recognise or mention any data provided in Figure 6 E-J, which revisits the reduced viral titre in CXCR3-/- OT-I transferred animals. This data provides significant evidence of reduced clearance of infected monocytes and viral titer. All this data, appears to be generated on Day 5 of infection, thus conclusions of Hickman et al. are valid. The author should comment on the data presented in Figure 6 prior to acceptance of this critique. The second, and major area of clarification refers to the discussion of whether CXCR3-/- is required for entry into areas of high infection or the binding of infected cells. The images and supplementary movies, show the clear accumulation of CXCR3-/- OT-I cells at the perimeter of highly infected tissues, which has led Hickman et al. to highlight the role for CXCR3-dependent migration into these areas. One issue complicating the interpretation of this data is the phenotype in the CXCR3-/- animals that have large, high density regions of infected cells. These areas are missing in WT or co-transferred (both genotypes) OT-I animals, due to the clearance of viral infected monocytes. Therefore, the accumulation of OT-I cells at the periphery of these heavily infected areas of tissue can not be equally assessed, and the data presented using co-transferred genotypes is somewhat less compelling. Experiments that transfer WT OT-I cells into animals following establishment of infection could help answer this question, but as the data stands, there is not a clear indication that the accumulation of CXCR3-/- OT-I cells is due to the infection or CXCR3-dependent migration. Hickman et al., observe that although reduced, CXCR3-/- OT-I cells do areas of high infection and have compelling data (Figure5 E-I) indicating that once there, these cells are more mobile, and have reduced contacts with infected issue. These experiments indicate a mechanism for CXCR3 beyond entering the site of high infection. Hickman et al., conclude that “these data show that relative to WT cells CXCR3-/- CD8+ T cells exhibit decreased presence in virus-infected regions and shorter contacts with infected cells”, however the author is not satisfied with the discussion of the major phenotype within infected tissue – the reduced binding of CXCR3-/- OT-I cells to infected monocytes. This critique highlights the need for following studies that primarily focus on the mechanism of CXCR3 within infected viral tissues; migration and penetration into high viral areas verses the binding of infected cells – or both. The study from Hickman et al. , describes data where both mechanisms are likely to play a role and they present this data openly. Hickman et al., have published an exhaustive study investigating the role for CXCR3 in the clearance of skin Vaccinia Virus infection by CD8+ cells. Overall this author provides an evaluation of the Hickman et al ., paper that may enrich discussions on the mechanism of CXCR3, but does not alter the results or interpretation of the manuscript.